Victory that we sing, but we're supposed to be paying attention as we sing. Beautiful words written here. Talks about with joyful grief I lift my praise. Joyful grief. How can those two be put together in the same sentence? The fact is that many times as we reflect on Christ and what he went through, There is a grief and a sorrow in that because it was our sin that crucified him. But it's joy in the fact that he was willing to go through the and pay the ultimate price. Is it not, folks? And so we grieve, as we grieve over our sin, but we joy in what Christ has done. Those next two phrases, abhorring all my sin, adoring only Him. What does that point to? He is the only one worthy of our praise. We deserve none of that praise. We abhor taking on any glory or any praise for ourselves. But it all goes to Jesus Christ, right? And that should be beautiful to us. Well. We're going to be looking at a couple different passages. I'll just give those to you now. Just two. Turn to Psalm 100. But be ready to turn the New Testament in Colossians as well. We're getting much more practical at this point in this series, and we are going to address the different elements within our own service. And why they're important to God. And somebody has a problem with their car alarm. Hopefully it's not mine. Well, maybe we can have a security guard going and see what that is. I'll try to speak a little louder. Turn up the mic a little more. Maybe the devil doesn't want us to hear this message this morning. But Psalm 100 in Colossians 3. 16 addressed the issue of music. Music this morning. And folks, music is a vital part of our worship that we offer to the Lord Jesus and to God. You may notice that we're singing a few more songs than we have in the past. That is to exalt and to magnify this truth that we are commanded in God's Word to sing. And we ought to have joyful, grateful hearts in this. We're going to look at music today. We're going to look at prayer and then giving. And then listening to the preaching even, and these different aspects of our worship service, because, as I have stated many times, Worship is one of God's central commands to his people. And if you haven't seen that through scripture right now, it's not just my opinion, but God's word is clear, folks. That worship is God's primary expectation from us, and it must be obeyed. But at the same time, because of that, God is very serious about this. He's much more serious about the worship environment of his people than we ever could be. And many times we're not as concerned. And so we talked about the need to prepare our hearts. Even as we come to a service like this, we saw in Revelation in our Sunday school study this morning that the Lord Jesus walks through the churches with literally eyes Well, not literally eyes of fire, but that is a picture of Jesus knowing all of our hearts. Did you know Folks, from that passage, we can ascertain that Jesus is with us right now, walking among us, and he knows our hearts. He knows the hearts of everyone here and whether you're prepared for worship or not, and what our sin issues are within this church, and what our strengths are. He knows them all. And so as we go to these different aspects, we need to be clear in our hearts and as in our consciences as a church body that we are pleasing Christ who is with us even now. And certainly that would involve the area of music. I don't think that's a surprise. But it is kind of contrary to some maybe contemporary church worship standards That many times you you may hear, well, I don't know if you hear as much as as I used to, but you had believers that would say music is amoral. That means really it's not neither right nor wrong. It's what you make of it, it's the words that you add to it, and it really doesn't matter to God Well folks, we're going to see this morning that our music does matter to God. And I believe he does have principles and expectations regarding the music that we use and sing in the worship service. But I'm going to say up front, they're probably going to be things that many times we don't think about. God actually has expectations for us in the music that we use and in our singing corporately that we many times miss, and that I'm going to highlight for you this morning. If I can sum it all up, we're going to see this morning that it is our responsibility to sing with the right attitude And in a manner prescribed by God. And we're going to see music in worship this morning. I'm just going to read the first couple verses in Psalm 100. I'm using the King James Version this morning for Psalm 100, as I've told some of you before. As you've noticed, I like to use the ESV. But there are some passages that I'm just going to, even as I go through it, I'm going to keep reverting back to the King James because I know it so well. So in this instance, it's like, let's just read it from the King James and make it easier on us. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture Father, even as we in this well-known psalm see the command, the imperative, that we must worship you, and that we must sing before you, let us do that with hearts that are prepared to do so. And in a way that you have prescribed, give us understanding. And Lord, also give us reasonableness, as this is a very sensitive topic And that we need to be able to understand the truths of this, but also come together in unity as a local church body as we consider what we should sing. That we first of all consider what is pleasing to you. And then work together To be able to sing together in unity, not merely our own preferences, but music that glorifies and lifts up your Son and what he has done for us. Let that be our focus as we study this word this morning, Father. For it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Well, first of all, as we focus on this music and worship issue, certainly the attitude that we have in our singing matters to God. And Psalm 100 brings that out. And those first three verses that I just read to you, really I could sum them up by saying, God expects us to sing, and he expects us to sing with joy and gladness, folks. How did you do in that today? Did you, did the person next to you know that you were joyful, that you were excited? Now we express that in different ways. You don't have to hop around and smile around everybody as you're singing. But did we express the fact that praise the Lord, we're thankful for all that Jesus has done for us? our Heavenly Father has done for us. Psalm 100 and many other psalms make it clear, folks, that joy and gladness must be the hallmark of the praise of God's people. It must be the attitude of our hearts as we sing. God leaves no room for mediocrity on this point. So verse 1, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Some translations say the earth. And it's basically a command. for God's people, but also an expectation that the whole earth uh that God is deserving of the praise of the whole earth. And I think it's also prophetic in one saying that one day God will receive the singing and the praise from the whole world that he is worthy of. But God's people need to be doing that now. Well, they have this word noise. Well, what does that mean? Is that you know some of us uh can sing well God has gifted us, and other people uh you may think that you just sound noisy Pastor Brock, I have no desire to be in the choir or special music, that's just not my gift. Folks, this um verse then will encourage you. That you don't have to have the world's best voice. That even if you're just making a noise as you're singing, trying to sing the words That God expects it to be joyful, but that he accepts your noise. Well, let's get a little more in-depth here. That Hebrew word actually describes loud, joyous shouting and welcoming, a fanfare for an approaching king. It's as if we know and we we see and we note that God as the King is with us, that He is our King, and that makes us joyful and excited. And as you read in Scripture of the excitement of the Jews as the king would come, and as Jesus approached Jerusalem on the donkey and the fanfare there, many times in history and in Old Testament times. There was an excitement when the king would return from war or return from a journey and come back in, and the people would joyfully exclaim and shout And be thankful that the king had returned. And so here the expectation is for us to have that same sort of attitude in our hearts. Now we're not much for shouting out here and screaming at the top of our voices at upper crossroads, and we don't have to do that to obey this verse. Let's be clear. But we ought to have a sense of energy and anticipation that, man, if I could, I might shout or exclaim something. Because God is in our midst. And I'm thankful for that. And joyful for that. And that also tells me something else that some uh people I've noted that uh when when I've sung out in groups um And I tend to be a little bit louder when I have a full voice. There are others, and even in our congregation and churches that just love to sing so much, let's just have it out there. They're a little louder than the rest of us Well, you know what, folks? This passage, this verse gives full credit to that. If somebody is sitting next to you that's singing a little louder than you are, don't get irritated with that. They're just obeying God's word. They're just filled with excitement. For all the things that God has done for them, and they're singing out with a full voice. That will be the attitude that we will all have for all eternity one day When we see our Lord Jesus Christ, why not get an early start on that together? Sing out with joy Joy and excitement anticipation of God being in our midst. And all the peoples are invited to join in this singing. God's people ought to say A broken, evil world. You come, you need to hear, you need to accept Christ and join us in this wonderful opportunity to praise the God of heaven. Come join us. At the same time, with that joyful heart, that anticipates that there has been preparation of heart as we sing. Verse 2, serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. All of us that are taking part in worship, need to be prepared with a heart of service. Actually, I really believe the direct application of this is when it says serve the Lord, that it's talking about that we serve God as we're worshiping here. That we literally are serving God as we're singing, that we're serving God as we're listening and we're praying together. That we're offering service to Him as we hear the missions report. And as you listen and ask for understanding as the pastor preaches, all of this is actually service to God. And the psalmist is saying here, it should be full effort of service. In other words, participating in the worship service, in the singing in particular, in this, making that joyful noise. Should be a full effort service toward God. And the gladness that God's people have with an attitude they should have whole-hearted joy in their singing and jubilation. They delight, we delight together in our hearts, that we have the opportunity to sing in his very presence as Jesus is in our presence. What a wonderful privilege we have to do that. And the psalmist says here, that must be done with our whole heart. One commentary said this, the frequent employment of the term singing within Scripture indicates decisively that the highest mood of Old Testament worship was joy. These people in the Old Testament, God's people, did not enter into worship half-heartedly or in a mediocre fashion, folks. They were all in. It's kind of convicting, isn't it? But I still have to ask the question: are we all in when we're worshiping God together? Is he getting the best service that we can offer him? that we can give him. Even if it's a little noisy, even if your voice doesn't match, you know, you would never be chosen for a choir. We all have a responsibility to give our all as we're singing together. And I hope that's actually an encouragement for some of you that may not get asked to be in the choir. But you can sing out with joy at any time, praising God. Well, verse 3 continues to give us further information about this idea of singing with gladness. Verse 3, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves Some translations say, and we are his. And I think that's probably a little better because what it's pointing out is that God has made us and he has the authority over us to tell us what to do. We are his so that he has the full authority. We are his creation. He gets to call the shots. He gets to tell us what to do. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Now go back to the beginning of that verse that says that word know ye That word know ye is so important in the Psalm because that is a word of intimate relationship. That is a word that describes the fact that we know God well. And because we know him well, we are submitted to what he wants us to do, and we are submitted to the worship that he wants us to give. Well then take that forward into the New Testament. What is the only way that we can truly know God in a personal, real relationship, folks? I believe this psalm is pointing us to our need for a relationship with Jesus Christ. We can't know God in this way to praise him in the right way unless we put faith and trust in Jesus and have a personal relationship with him. So if there's someone here today who doesn't know Jesus as their Savior, who's not depending upon him, who's not called upon his name for salvation, You will never be able to understand these concepts of worship. We can only worship God in the way that He wants us to do, folks, if we have a relationship with Jesus Christ. That's the first um that is the first expectation before we can do anything else. And worship as well. We must be true followers of God to acknowledge that He is creator and that He has all the rights to our lives. To recognize his authority and care as their shepherd and rejoice in that, the first thing that must happen is we must have a relationship with Jesus Christ. And then we can give him true worship as he deserves. We can worship him with gladness, but also in verses 4 through 5, as we finish this psalm, not just gladness, but gratefulness. Thankfulness. We ought to have come this morning, folks, with a list of things that we're thankful. Lord Jesus, thank you for what you've done for me this week. God of heaven, thank you for what you've allowed into my life and the blessings that you've brought and the lessons that you've taught me. I'm thankful and I want to worship you with all my heart. We must come to this service with a heart of gratitude as we enter and worship together. Because it says verse 4, enter into his gates with thanksgiving. And into his courts with praise, be thankful unto him, and bless his name Interesting these words for praise. This is a description of the people of God entering the temple where they were allowed to be, praising him. That first word for praise entering his courts with praise is having a testimony of praise of who God is on our lips. Being thankful, the next part of that verse means to have a testimony of thanks ready as we come to worship him. And then it says, and bless his name. Really, that song, Bow the Knee, is a good interpretation of that word blessed, because it has the idea of we are ready to bow the knee and humble ourselves before God. because we're thankful and we have praise for him. And praise, proper praise, folks, must be humble praise as well. It has to be. You must come before him with that attitude. Well, how can I do that? Well, you need to think about all the things that God has done for you. Well, I have a little trouble sometimes, Pastor Brock, remembering all those things. Well, I that's not an excuse We should know. But the psalmist here helps us and gives us a list. So if you're wondering, if you're having a hard time thinking of some things to thank the Lord for this morning, verse 5 gives us a list, not an extensive list. There are many more things we could praise and thank the Lord for, but this is a good start. Okay? God is good. Verse 5, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. It continues on for all eternity. His truth or his faithfulness. Or I would put it, his trustworthiness endureth to all generations. Folks, whatever we're facing this morning, whatever troubles, whatever deep hurts Whatever deep difficulties that we're going through, we can still look at God and know that He's allowing those things into our lives and we can still, no matter how hard it is, say, God is good. Because in everything He allows into our lives, even the things that we don't understand, He does all of those things for our benefit We can trust God. Are you hardened? Are you cynical? Have you had things into your life that have really hardened you toward other people? I really don't trust anybody anymore. Everybody's out for their own thing. Everybody's got an agenda. Folks, that's not true about your God. Well, your God does have an agenda. That is to do what's best for you, for his glory. And he will always do what's best for you. Because he loves you, and because we're his children. And that alone is enough to thank him for and be thankful, even in a service today, as we sing to him. He is good. But also his mercy, which is a wonderful Old Testament word for God's loyal love. It is everlasting. As God's children, folks, we can't participate and do enough sin to lose God's love for us. It's eternal. He's loyal when we're not. We're tepid. We're back and forth in our relationship with Him, but God is always loyal to us. And he will always show us his kindness, and he will show us that throughout all eternity. What a wonderful blessing in truth that is. And that's just two things out of an uh infit infinitesimal. Hope I didn't just make that up. List of things that we could praise God for. We have one more here. His truth, his trustworthiness endureth. To all generations. That means all mankind in all of world history, God is trustworthy when they trust Him. Folks, you don't ever have to doubt God's goodness and plan for your life. We get frustrated. We think, God, why are you allowing these things into my life? I don't understand. I want more information. Before Before I worship you and serve you more, I want to know more about why you're doing this in my life. That doesn't reflect our faith and his trustworthiness. I may not have all the answers, folks, to everything going on in life. I can't. But I can tell you that regardless of what you face, our God is trustworthy. He is faithful. And we ought to sing with that acknowledgement in mind Well, are you convinced already just from that one song that our attitude needs to be right in singing? I hope so. There's many more that we could look at, but we don't have time for that this morning So turn with me to Colossians three sixteen, the New Testament. Colossians 3. 16. Can I say one more thing about that as really as we think about, and we sang this morning, My Jesus Fair, complete in thee. What Jesus has done for us. Folks, if we're not singing praises to God with hearts that are filled with joy and thankfulness, Then we're really we're not experiencing worship in the way that God intended, and we're not being obedient to him But when we reflect on all that Jesus has done, it should fill us. It should fill us with joy and thankfulness. And if it doesn't, you need to ask yourself the question Why, when I reflect on what Jesus has done for me, am I not immediately joyful and thankful? Something's broken in me, Lord. Please fix it. Help me Well, the attitude that we have, but also the music that we use in our singing matters to God. And first of all, in Colossians 3. 16, the first part of verse 16, we're going to see the words itself. The words should reflect Scripture accurately. Everybody there at Colossians 3. 16? And it says here, now we're back to the ESV, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And the word of Christ here refers to the teachings of Jesus to the apostles, and then they're carrying that forward in teaching as a writings of Christ that the Spirit imparted to them And that we have today in God's Word, so we can say, in a general sense, we can say that all of God's Word And perhaps Paul has more in mind here, the New Testament, but that it is the word of Christ. And so we must know God's word well. That picture of dwelling in you richly has the idea of God's word being our fortune. That we are rich in the ability to access God's word and that we know it well. We are rich Privileged people, because we have God's word available to us, folks. And we can read it and we can take it in and we can memorize it. And so we should love God's Word. It should be As it's described here, really an intrinsic part in our lives. Dwell in you has the idea of residing, of living within you. It's one thing to read God's word, but folks, does God's word dwell within you? Is it intrinsic? Could you say that the Puritans of old would describe this sometimes as if you cut yourself, it would believe God's word. Now it's a little dramatic. But does God's word dwell in us so that we're ready to sing of his praises? It is our treasure that we should value above all else as the word of Christ is God's word. Really, even the idea of stockpiling it, saving it up. There are probably some here that if you were forced on it, you would say, well, I like to hoard things. I have a basement that's full of things, I have an attic that's full of things. We just moved from New Hampshire and had a wake-up call about how much stuff that we have. And we're working through that right now. People hoard a lot of different things. Here's what Paul is saying, though, is that we ought to be hoarding God's word, stockpiling it in our lives, and then of course sharing it with others It's okay to be a wharder when we're talking about the Word of God. But then, as it's talking about the Word of God, then he says one aspect of that Is that we must teach and admonish each other in God's word and its application to our lives. Not just teaching each other God's word. But teaching us how to apply God's word in all aspects of our life. Isn't that what that next phrase says? Teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. Teaching each other God's word , admonishing each other on how to live it out in our lives. Isn't it interesting? That's not just the job of the pastor. Hmm. That's also your job. As we're worshiping together. Well, you might say, well, Pastor Bach, wouldn't that get a little chaotic? If we're here in the worship service together and we're trying to teach each other and we're talking to each other, I'm not sure that would work out very well. Well, there is a vehicle that it works out very well, folks. Do you see what Paul says here? How do we accomplish that, especially during a worship service? We accomplish it through singing together. We don't think of this many times, but as we sing together, it should be more of a crop my mind that I am encouraging the people around me. We are literally involved in teaching and admonish, the word there can literally mean counseling. We can literally teach and counsel each other as we're singing together That's remarkable to think about. But in context, that is the expectation Paul is giving here. Our singing then is we're singing as a congregation is the purpose of teaching, of counseling each other. So what does that mean? That means that it is incumbent upon the leaders of worship to make sure the songs we're singing are biblically accurate, first of all. And I can testify to you as much as is possible, that is what we try to do. The worship service, especially. It is a time when Land and I go over the music. I talk about the music with my wife and with others. And we are especially in the worship service. We are trying to pick a mixture of old and new songs that help focus people on the message that they are about to receive and that is biblically accurate because God expects that our singing will accomplish that. That we are singing, and so it's so important. Folks, there's some old songs that we've sung for a long time that quite honestly don't do a very good job of being accurate towards God's word. And there's a lot of contemporary songs that don't do that well either. And so it is incumbent upon us as a church family to make sure that above all, that what we're singing matches the truth of God's word. Otherwise we're teaching we're we're almost involved in false teaching and and bad counseling. And we don't want that There's one other real real practical aspect of this as we're talking about teaching and admonishing one another. Can you think of what that is? If we are around each other teaching each other, doesn't that mean that we have to hear each other? So another thing that we really that is many times missed in the worship service , as the worship leaders, we have to be careful that the instruments that are playing up here and what's going on up here aren't so loud. That they overwhelm and drown out what's supposed to be going on, and that is all of us teaching each other in the music. I'm convinced that that is an aspect of this that Paul is meaning to emphasize And so as we continue to have these conversations about music and about what we should do, and they're important ones, and there's different sensitivities, one of the things that is most important to me folks is that whatever we do up here, that you're able to hear each other because you're supposed to be teaching and counseling each other. as we sing together. There are a lot of ways to accomplish that that we'll continue to talk about, but it is that important. The accompaniment must not drown out the teaching ministry that the words are supposed to have among us. The congregation singing should be heard by the congregation. Now don't let that intimidate you. We're all supposed to be singing. Okay? So it's not all in one person. But it's biblical. So the words must be scripture. They must match scripture. Psalms, hymns, it gives us a list here, real quick. Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. These are general terms, but I think they each have their own their own dynamic. Psalms prompt primarily, the word for psalms in the Greek, primarily focuses on the songs of Scripture. Actual Scripture. That's why we have a book called The Psalms. That God 's people would use to sing from and worship Him from. And we still today, in many of our songs, I love songs that actually just incorporate the Scripture. As you sing together, we're actually singing God's word. We recognize that. That's an important part of singing together, and we must do that. But also then the hymns. Now this word for hymns doesn't mean quite what we think of the word hymns today. Although in a general sense I still think it applies. But hymns in the Greek meant an established recognized songs that were used to proclaim truth about God. And that's pretty true about the hymns, the traditional hymns that we sing today, the hymns that we sing today, is that they are filled with the truth and they point us to God, and that's why we love them so much. Let me just be clear to our congregation that we have no interest in getting rid of the old hymns that you love so much as long as they are actively presenting the Word of God. I read on one of my parody sites that I like to go to many times. It was parodying a contemporary church that had gotten rid of all the hymns and um the wonder and the excitement they had when what the worship leader actually slipped in one of the old hymns And how there was almost a revival in the church, because they were reacquainted again with that song that they had sung so often. Well, may that never be the case here That we're having to slip in the old hymns. We love the old hymns and will continue to include because they have a lot of value. But folks, not just the old hymns that we love, but there are modern-day contemporary songs that are written that also emphasize the truth of God's word, and they would fit under that hymn category as well. What are those songs? We just sang two of them this morning. Complete an E. My Jesus, Jesus Fair. You can't argue as you were singing that, you were singing the truths of God's word about what Jesus has done for us, and that's why we chose those. And those weren't written that long ago. So it's incumbent upon us to have a mixture of both. And we're doing the best that we can in that. But we want God proclaim. There's one more word here, spiritual songs. And that word for songs is actually a more general term for songs that really uh as a term can encapsulate all music genres, all music, which when you hear then you might say, Whoa Well, that means I can listen to whatever I want then. Because that word's a more general word, right, Pastor Brock? Well that word is. But what does it say before that word? Spiritual. That means songs that are approved by the Holy Spirit. Folks, we all have different loves and different standards and different perspectives on the music that we listen to. And we're going to disagree and differ, and I'm talking about in our own personal listening habits We're all each of us if I were to look and I don't worry I'm not going to ask to do this, but if I were to look at your list on your phone or whatever of your music likes that you like to listen to, Amazon music, whatever It would be a little bit different from mine and from everybody else's because we all like different songs. What is the main focus that Paul is saying here that needs to happen in our songs? Regardless of the fact that we've liked different songs and that we come down to different places on this, first and foremost is that we have checked with the Holy Spirit to make sure that what we like is submitted to Him. And then if we can say that, then as far as our own personal listening habits, that as long as it's submitted to the Spirit, We're all going to come down a little bit differently, but we all must say, I have submitted my likes and my songs to the Holy Spirit, and I know that he approves. And then the question is, well, why doesn't the Holy Spirit just give us the same listening list? Wouldn't that be easy? Well, trust me, as a pastor, it would be. That would be a lot easier. Here is the list that you should have on Spotify or Amazon Music, straight from the Holy Spirit, and none of you better stray from this list. Well, I think the reason why God doesn't do that and why he leads us through the Spirit in different ways is because He wants us to be unified in the midst of variety and differences. And this, by the way, if I can make a side note, is why our study on Sunday evenings is so important. Because we're talking about how can we have conscience differences, even in music, and still be together in unity. That's a good question. We're going to answer that more detail on Sunday evenings. But here's my answer to that. First and foremost, as a quick answer. First and foremost, as a church body, our singing and what we do must be submitted to God and to make sure that He's pleased. And then after that, it really does kind of fall because there's so many different differences in music. It follows on the leadership then and the music theme of things to talk through things and make sure that we are using music. That represents where we're at, as far as our concerns, at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. And we need to be then unified in coming together on that. It's a lot of responsibility on the leadership, I understand that. But all of us must be submitted to the Holy Spirit, and He will guide us in that. Well, I had a number of illustrations I wanted to use this morning, but time's getting away from us, and I want to keep going. Um With the rest of this. It says, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your heart to God. Above all, as we sing these songs, folks, we ought to have thankfulness to God and a gratitude for all that He has done for us. As we sing together. What does verse 17 say? Whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. That word whatever means really whatever. Whatever we do, whatever we're involved in, whether it's listening to music or other things, all of it must please. We must do all of it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him, offering up our thanks with him, to him in worship. Now let me add one more thing. I know we're going a little late here, but I'm going to go ahead and add this illustration because I think it's important as far as how we decide music as a church body and what we've seen together. Because with that conscious sensitivity, folks, you get a lot of good people that are on a lot of different spectrums with this issue. Why it's so important that we submit our likes to the Holy Spirit. I have a good friend in ministry who is a senior saint. who has been involved, he and his wife, in leading music and being a music director for over 40 years. I mean, it's his life And he does a wonderful job of it. He's a wonderful choir director. Uh he he pulls things as far as being a uh I as out of directing the choir and different things that I would have never thought of. He's very gifted in that way. Well he's also very conservative in his music stance. In fact, he's actually partnered and written, helped write a book on music. And it is his, I'm not going to read that or explain all of that to you. But this man is so concerned about the quality of music that he actually goes right to the notes, the very notes that are played, and says, we can't sing some of these songs. Because even as these notes are put together, these triplets, and the way that these notes are combined, sometimes that is a sensual sound that isn't appropriate for worship. And he can give you all of those chords and he can describe all these things. This man is very serious about music. And he's very well known. Not well known, I'm saying he's very well versed in what he knows. And uh I don't I don't argue with him Uh I respect the fact he's he's a good friend. I love to talk to him about a lot of things. But he has a position on music that's very conservative. Now I have another friend Who I've known for many years, at least a couple decades. He and I were actually in a Bob Jones choir together in a in a in a fine arts choir. We got to know him really well. He is a professor of music up in Connecticut. And he writes music. He's involved in a fine arts men's chorus He writes music for our circles and for churches and things. And he very sincerely believes on the total other end of the spectrum, he's told me before, Brock, I don't believe that any combination of notes can be sensual. He says, I just don't see that. And as a musician, I don't see where combinations of notes can be worldly. He has his own categories. He says there's folk music, there's pop, contemporary music, and there's classical music. And the church just has to be agreed about how they best use these things. Here you have two good men who love the Lord, who teach their families to memorize and to know God's word well, folks that are on entirely two different ends of the spectrum on it. What do you do as a church family then? We have to pray. We ask the Holy Spirit, we ask God what He wants us to do in this church. And then you also have to trust the leadership and talk with the leadership that we are putting together a mix of good biblical songs. That is appropriate for our own upper crossroads, our own church venue. That takes a lot of prayer, that takes a lot of thought. And you pray for us as we continue to do that. And you give us input as to the type of music. That's one of the reasons I said that. I'd be going around and talking with many of you and finding out where your preferences are and where you're at on music. So I can have a better idea as your pastor where we're at as we worship the Lord together. And let the Spirit guide us in that way. It's important. So in conclusion, singing is an incredible tool that God has given to us that should be used to teach and train each other in truth and godliness. And it should be entered into singing together with joy and thankfulness, reflecting on who God is and his worthiness of our praise as we worship him together. And music is powerful, folks. Nobody's denying that. The power of music must be subjected to our submitted guidance to the Holy Spirit to make sure that we are pleasing God in our individual choices on music, which may differ. But also using it in the manner that he expects corporately in the local body together We must rely more on the Holy Spirit and on God than we tend to do. And He will show us. And He will give us unity and beauty and joy in our experience of singing together. These are some things that we normally don't think about when it comes to music. But I pray that we continue to meditate on these things. Thanks for letting me go a little bit longer today. I think these things are important. Let's pray about them together Father, music is such a sensitive topic. And yet what we see here is that it is used in a mighty way By you for us to teach and counsel each other as we sing in the worship service together. And also, Lord, that there are a lot of different opinions about what constitutes bright music. And good people on either side come to different conclusions. Lord, I pray that first and foremost the people here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church would be unified, would have their worship, music, preferences submitted to the Holy Spirit. Help us all to do that. And then Lord, as we work through differences of opinion on things, that you would still bring unity together. Guide us as leadership as well, that you would guide us into singing hymns during this worship service that would honor and glorify you and bring us together in unity. Lord, we need your help for that. It is a daunting task that cannot be accomplished without your help. So we ask for that this morning.