He is the sovereign ruler of our lives. He is fully worthy of our obedience. I think that's clear. I hope that's clear this morning. No, we will not see the children heading downstairs, skipping merrily downstairs. They're with us this morning as we cover this wonderful passage from Ephesians. Ephesians chapter six you can turn there. Now because of the weather last week we Skipped ahead to the passage on bondservants. Now we're going back because I see we have a few more children here, and that's good because young people, kids, this passage is for you. This was written especially for children. Now that doesn't mean the rest of the Bible wasn't written for children. It was But especially this part has a message for kids. That is so important. So, kids, thanks for joining us today. Now, your parents probably already remember because they're good at paying attention and they remember all of the background to this chapter, chapter 6, verse 1. But just so you're aware, okay, there is some background that you need to understand to this passage too. And that is this. That recently, this is the book of Ephesians. And kids, do you know who wrote the book of Ephesians? The Apostle Paul, that's right. And He has recently encouraged us to walk worthy of God's calling. That means walk in a way that pleases God. Does that make sense? And he's also calling for families within the church to walk worthy of the Lord. He's also said something really interesting. This is Paul. He says, now that you have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you don't need to wear the dirty, yucky garments of someone who's not saved and in sin. Now, how many of you kids love to walk around wearing really dirty, yucky, muddy clothes all the time? No, good. I'm seeing some of you shake your heads. No. Maybe some of you were not. nodding okay but this is Paul the apostle paul is telling us that we shouldn't wear the yucky trash um infested clothing of our sin but we shouldn't wear We should put that off, and we should study God's word, and we should put on the things that God tells us to put on, like loving your brothers and sisters. Like being careful in what you say, being gentle, being patient, all those good things. We put those things on On. And so God is, or Paul, through the work of God, is continuing to tell us there are things in families that need Need to happen. Good things that need to happen in families that love the Lord and want to honor the Lord. And so we must deny ourselves And we must be willing to obey God as families. And so then I'm still talking to the kids because I know the parents remember all of this. God had, or Paul has a specific message for families, and in chapter 5, verse 22 through 24, he talked to the moms, to the wives. And then in verses 25, all the way through 33, boy, Paul had a lot to say to the dads, to the husbands. And now he has something to say to the kids. And you children, you get one verse. Well, technically, three verses. But especially those of you that are children, Paul has something that you need to put on. How can children not be practicing sin, but doing what's right in their families? How can kids be pleasing to God? Kids, do you think that you can live a life every day that's pleasing? To God? Well, first of all, again for our kids, you need to have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Or you can't do what's pleasing to God. And that's That basically means, kids, that you have put your faith and trust in Jesus and that He forgives you of your sins so that you don't have to spend eternity Apart from God and a place of punishment, but you get to be in heaven with Jesus forever by trusting in Him as your Savior. Believe in the Lord Jesus. Christ and thou shalt be saved. Kids, do you understand that this morning? There's a lot more I could say about that. But I want to make it simple. So if you are trusting in Jesus, To save you from going to eternal punishment and being in heaven and having your sins forgiven and being a child of God, if you're trusting in Jesus, then you can do what's right. You can, because Jesus helps you. And so chapter 6, verse 1, it says, children, notice. This is the children's verse. Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. This is what is pleasing to God. God, obeying your parents. And this is directed to children who still live at home from infants to babies as soon as as they can understand to at least the late teen years in our culture today. Paul is addressing kids, children directly. Paul is saying, God's word is saying, boys and girls, that in the family, what are kids supposed to do? Their responsibility before God is to obey The authorities. Now, kids, you've probably never heard that before. So now that you have, now I'm kidding, I'm sure you've heard, I'm sure for those of you that um have Been in Christian homes for a while. I'm sure you've heard that verse frequently. But I'm being a little silly. But now that you've heard it, kids, you can just go home And start obeying your parents. You have permission to do that. How easy is that? Just go home and be obedient. Is it going to be that easy, kids? Well, in one sense it should be, but it's still Heart, right? And so God helps us. That word for obedience, by the way, it's a very strong word. There was a word that was used earlier for For moms, for for wives, and their role in the family, submit was a word that meant choosing to place oneself under the authority. But this for children is much stronger. And this means that children will follow the rules, the dictates, and the expectations of what their parents give them. That you will be obedient in all things. Now that's not so hard, is it? Actually, you know what? It's impossible. To obey our parents if Jesus doesn't help us. And that's why, young people, it's so important. Do you have a relationship? Do you have a faith relationship? Is Jesus your Son? Savior, have you trusted in him? He can help you to do this. This is right. He can help you to do what is right. But that's not easy. How does this work? Well, parents are responsible. What's the responsibility of your mom and dad? They're responsible by going to God's Word and applying God's Word to your family. And coming up with guidelines and parameters and expectations that make the family work and make the family able to be most useful to God Your parents are to set up those guidelines and to teach you God's word and to teach you what God's word says. Later on, we're going to see that Command with fathers in verse 4. That's the command of the parents. Set guidelines, parameters, direct, and it's a responsibility for kids to follow Follow and submit to those expectations. So again, I say, well that's that's easy, right? Go home and obey. Well you might say Say, kids, you might say, but Pastor Brock, that's actually not so easy. I really sometimes have a hard time with that. And You know, sometimes my mom and dad, they don't always get things right. They're not perfect. Pastor Brock, did you know my parents aren't perfect? Yes I did. Cause I'm a parent too. And I'm not perfect. I don't get it right all the time either. And so it's not a scenario where Where God calls you children to obey perfect people. Now he calls you to obey Jesus. Jesus is perfect. But your parents? Well, we've still got some work to do. And so have you, I don't think any of you kids have ever thought, well, my friend Johnny, God gave them perfect parents, but He didn't do that for me. No. Even the pastor. Now you don't have to talk to my kids afterwards, but my kids would agree That even as the pastor, the pastor's wife, God's still working in us, too. God doesn't call us kids to obey Perfect people. But God calls us to obey our parents because, for the most part, our parents, more than anyone else, have look out for what's right for us and want us in what I say is Christian homes and that is homes that are guided by God's word and where the members have trusted in Jesus Christ as their Savior, the parents want to lead their children in God's ways. And young people, I think you can see that, right? Your parents aren't perfect, but they have a desire for you to want to know God's word, to obey God's word, to obey the Ten Commandments. Have your parents ever talked to you about the Ten Commandments of your house? I have an idea they probably did because they want you to know God's rules and why we do things in Christian homes the way way that we do. You know, I know up here, I'm standing up here and I probably look a little old, right? Maybe a few hairs missing or whatever. But there was a time I remember I can still remember when I was a kid. Can you believe that? And there was one time in particular that I remember where I tried to pull something over on my dad and it didn't work at all. And that was one time, and I think when I was maybe five, four or five, and we lived in a small town in the thumb of Michigan. And I went beyond the boundaries of our home and beyond the fence, and I walked back a little ways to where there was a road, and my friend's house was across the road. Now I knew even as I started walking that Way that I could only go so far, my parents had said, don't cross that road by yourself. It's a busy road, and you could get hurt. I had that in my mind. And would you believe, young people, that I crossed that road anyway? Yeah, I did. It was bad. Well, I thought everything's okay. I talked to my friend. Well, there were neighbors around. My parents had eyes in the sky. There were neighbors around that knew that we weren't supposed Well, just the fact of a small child walking across a busy street, somebody's gonna pick up on that. And so my dad got a call. And so later on, you know, I didn't think too much Much more about it. I went home and my dad came home from work and he pulled me aside. He said, Brock, what'd you do today? Oh, I played in the yard and this. And he said, That's interesting. I got a phone. Phone call saying that you crossed the road by yourself that you weren't supposed to cross. And I thought, uh oh, now I'm in for it. And so you know what came to mind? I could have told the truth. I could have told a lie. In that moment, young people, I decided to tell a lie, and it was a whopper. Would you believe I told my dad in all seriousness I tried to keep my face a serious As possible. Dad, it was amazing. I got to the road and I decided I was gonna jump over that road. And I got a running start, and I jumped over the road and into My friend's front yard. Now, kids, do you think my dad believed that? Would you believe he didn't buy that for an instant? And I got the repercussions for lying. And for not doing what I knew was I was told to do. Now, was my dad mean because I had consequences? No. No, my dad loved me, and he didn't want to see me get hurt, and so there were rules that we had to follow. Kids, your parents more than than anyone else really in a general sense more than anyone else in this world, except for Jesus. Your parents love you more than anyone else and are looking out for you. Well grandparents, we'll throw grandparents in the mix too But your parents want to see what's right for you. And so they give you these things, and God just says very basically That you must obey. And Jesus can help you to do that. But it's hard, isn't it? And you may get frustrated sometimes at your pain. It's a simple command. Let's read it again. Children, obey your parents. That means in all that you're told to do, and you do it in the Lord, because this is what's right to do. It's Pleasing to God. But notice that phrase in the Lord. That means that Jesus helps you to obey and that you must obey that your parents As they formulate the rules and principles for your house, that also they must line up with Scripture. You're giving obedience in the Lord, doing what He wants you to do through the Dictates of your parents. Now, boys and girls, do you know the song Jesus Loves Me? Okay, I want all the kids to sing along with me real quick, first verse of Jesus. Are you right? Ready? Excuse me. Jesus loves me. This I know for the Bible. Hey, I don't hear a lot of voices out there tells me so little ones to him belong they are weak but he is Strong, yes, Jesus loves me, yes, Jesus loves me, yes, Jesus loves me. The Bible tells. me so kids are like man they do a lot of singing up here yeah we do that song you get you kids know it well do you believe it Do you believe, children, that Jesus loves you? Yeah. How do you know that? Well, he died for you, didn't he? He died for you. He gave himself up. He was nailed to a cross and shed his blood so that you could be forgiven of your sin and be with him forever. in eternity. Would you say, boys and girls, that that's a lot of love? Yeah, I would. So young people When Jesus, when God the Heavenly Father, who sent Jesus to die for you, when He created you and He put you in the family that He intended intended for you to be in because God is in full control and He does these things in full control. It's a part of His plan. The parents that God gave you, God really did intend for you to have. They're not mistaken Mistakes. There wasn't a glitch in the parenting department up in heaven, and you ended up with a deficient set of parents. No, God provided those parents for you. Why? Because Jesus loves you and he wants you to have guidelines and structure in your life so that you can be as useful. For him, as you can. So you can grow up in a structured, protected, careful environment, knowing what God's Word says and being obedient, and you Young people, you children get opportunity to be obedient in that house to learn obedience to God. So listen, even when your parents really irritate you and you really don't want to obey them , I won't ask how often that happens. You might say, how do I obey Pastor Brock? Well listen, young people, kids, this is very important. You remember what Jesus did for you, that he died on a cross for you and gave his life for you. And then you say, you know, if Jesus was willing to die for me, I am Need to be willing to live for him, I will obey my parents because it's what Jesus wants me to do. It's right. And if Jesus loves me, it must be the right thing for me to do. Now that's not so hard, is it? But you have to decide. If you want to be pleasing to God, obey your parents. But you know, I'm talking mostly to young children, and some of you teenagers, and those of us who have parents, might think that you're kind of getting out of this. Well no, that's not the case. Look at verse two. Honor your father and mother, this is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. Now this broadens out to also teens, although teen Teens, you're still responsible to obey your parents too, as long as you are independent upon them and under their roof. We broaden it out to all of those who have parents. That we must honor them, respect, and attribute weight and value to their counsel. Teens, let's be honest, that's hard to do sometimes. Obedience maybe, but as we get older and we have our own ideas and we want to try out our own ways of living, it gets harder to be obedient with the right attitude. And yet that word honor teens, and all of us who have parents, but especially those under your parents' roofs, still living at At home, it means an attitude of willingness to obey and honoring and valuing and respecting the authority that God has given you. And again, I would say to our teens, those that are getting older and it's harder to do, remember when you struggle with a Obedience to your parents, just remember what Jesus did for you. That he died on the cross for you, and that he can enable you to obey. Even when you don't want to. He can do that. Now, you might say, well, Pastor Brock, are you a little naive? In our nation today, in our world, there are all kinds of situations where in homes there is sin and even abuse and all kinds of kinds of things. And so what do you do about that? How do you apply obedience when there are dreadful things that sometimes happen in some home And young people, I will say that it is abhorrent and it is terrible when abuse and terrible things happen within a home. Unfortunately, we hear about these things in the news all the time. And when severe abuse and um terrible things Things happen to children in a home that is not a part of God's plan for that home, yes, things have to be dealt with. But and and and sin has to be dealt with. The young people, I know the families here, and I know you, and I and what I want to Remind you is that you need to be careful or thankful for the families that God has given you because there are a lot of terrible examples out there. And yet, God God has given you families and parents that love the Lord and want to serve Him. Does that mean, teens, that your parents are perfect? I just ask The kids that no, we're far from it. And you might think, well, I don't have to obey my mom and dad. I don't I think they're wrong. What they're asking me to do do is is different from what I think is it should be done and I'm kind of moving out. I want to get out on my own. But do You trust that God has given you the parents that He has, and that He's placed you under their authority for a limited time, it's not forever. Yes, you must honor your parents. parents throughout your life. But you're under the strict term of obedience for only a certain amount of time. Remember that God has given you the parents He's given you. Be thankful for them, is my point. Are they perfect? Am I perfect? Absolutely not. But be willing to obey God's word. I tell this to my kids many times, and I mean it. And I tell my kids, you know, no Nobody, I know we're not perfect, I know we don't get things right all the time. But nobody apart from Jesus and perhaps your spouse one day, nobody loves and cares for you. More than your mom and I. And we may not get it right all the time, but we're trying our best. We're trying our best to follow God's Word. We're trying our best to live out the principles of Scripture. And young people, even though your parents aren't perfect you are fully you are amazingly blessed to have parents that love the Lord Jesus and want to follow after his Principles. That is a blessing that you should not belittle or ignore. And so give to God then in worship the obedience that is required. Give it to the Lord. Lord, I may not understand everything that my parents are asking me to do here, but because Jesus died on a cross for me, I will be willing to offer up that obedience. As an act of worship for all that Jesus has done. And don't worry, young people. One day when you get out on your own, you get married and you'll have kids, you'll start to see Yeah, your parents were pretty much right in almost everything. That's a little biased, but it's amazing how your perspective changed. Changes. Let's continue though to look at verse two. Honor your father and your mother. This is the first commandment with a promise. What is that promise? That it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land. What does that mean? Does that mean, kids? And teens, that when you obey in the way you're supposed to, when you obey your parents, that you're actually going to get a D To land in Israel? Ho ho! What a great deal! Is that what Paul's saying here? Kind of reminds me of that original Charlie Brown Christmas. special where Lucy is tired of all the normal toys and gifts and what does she say? She says, I want real estate. Is she thinking one day she'll get land in Israel? Is that what the Bible's saying here? Well, uh I hate to I hate to douse your excitement, young people, but that's not what Paul's saying here He's reminding us of one of the Ten Commandments, and in that Ten Commandment, the children were promised That in the land it would go well with them, and that they would have a place in the land of Israel for their whole lives, and they would in a general sense have have long life. But Paul is writing to a group within the church. Not all those folks are Jewish. Not all the promise applies to everyone. one within the church. So what is Paul saying? He's saying that when you worship God, when you give God the gift of worship, kids, and you Give him the gift of worship in obedience to your parents, not that you'll get a deed the land in Israel, but in a general sense, you will live life to the fullest. That it will go well with you. That no matter how long you live, your quality of life, especially spiritually, will be so much more rich and full. You won't have as many regrets. You won't have as many um uh or mistakes, and you won't have as as many um regrets in your life over things that you wish you would have listened to your parents about because you were willing to submit And listen to them. God will bless a young person who's willing to do that. A general promise of well-being and long life. And this then, this commandment, honor your father and mother, which Paul is again, he is Is repeating one of the Ten Commandments, it also means this: that honor gives value to counsel at all stages in life, especially in major life-changing decisions. And I do believe that honoring your parents' kids means that when they're older, you will also take care of them. Because honoring your parents Your parents is a lifelong commitment. Once you have your own family and your own kids, you're not under the severe commandment to obey your parents in the way you were when you lived with them. But you are under the expectation to honor them throughout your life. And for even parents here today, that Then, folks, are we being the proper example to our kids of those that honor and care and show concern for our parents? It's an epidemic, is it not? That people, parents get to a certain age and they're kind of shovel shuttled away Forgotten about. Many times one of the main complaints that I hear is a pastor, it's just like my family's forgotten me. Like, do they even know Oh, I'm still alive. Now, there's lots of reasons for that, and there's lots of family extenuating circumstances. I'm not trying to address all of those this morning. But I do believe in a general sense it is a responsibility of kids throughout their lives to honor, to show care and concern for their parents, to let their their parents know that they care for them. That to let their Their parents know that they haven't forgotten them because they want to honor them, because God gave them as a gift to them. Even though they were far from perfect many times. Parents and to the church as a whole, I ask you, are we being good examples to our kids of those that are honoring their parents? Even now. Jesus can enable us to do that. One more verse here. So kids, breathe a sigh of relief. We're moving on to dads. Okay, but you still need to listen. Verse 4. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction. Instruction of the Lord. It's interesting. Children will be blessed who do right, and children will be blessed when they have a father's right exam. And we need to know some background here because Paul is addressing a specific problem within the Roman culture. Within the New Testament culture at this time. That is, in this society, that fathers were considered responsible for the education and discipline of their children, and it was considered the children's responsibility not to provoke or irritate their parents. In other words, society at this time, as Paul's writing, told fathers, you instruct, you deal with your own kids, and it's their responsibility not to make you irritated or frustrate you. It's kids' responsibility. Almost Like the children should be seen and not heard. But Paul reverses that whole thing around, doesn't he? He actually says, shocking. For fathers in this time period to hear this, he says, fathers, actually, you don't provoke your children to anger. You, as you're leading your kids, don't irritate and provoke them to anger and hurt and damage Their spirits. Don't provoke them unnecessarily. Fathers must not in anger and harshness break the spirit of their children. They must address And pray, God, break the sinful will of my children, but we must not break their spirit. As we instruct and as we discipline. You know, When I was first married, I really did, I thought of myself as a pretty non-angry person. Now don't ask my wife about that, but I thought overall that I was pretty even keeled, kind of laid back, you know. Um sure certain things would happen in our lives that would make me angry or frustrate me, but that's Doesn't that happen to anybody? I'm not really an angry person. The Lord brought us here and we were uh instant we we uh moved into the parsonage and we had we well we had ardening Greenville. And then Luke came along in 2009. And so we had Arden and like, oh, this is this isn't that this isn't that hard. You know, yeah, they they do things He's doing things that are wrong at times. We try to correct him, but I can handle this. I I don't have to get upset. Second child came along and it's like, okay, well we've got I've got Arden, Leslie has Luke. Then four children later. As they were growing up, Up, would you believe that the opportunities to show long suffering and patience became much more abounding and plentiful as they grew older And I begin to have to realize something and come to a conclusion. You know, I'm more of an angry person than what I ever realized. God is using my kids as tools. To show me I'm not so laid back and nice as I thought I was. And dads, I don't think I'm alone in that Yes, God has called us to lead the home, to be the head in authority. But do you remember the what he called us to and it was talking about role in our marriage is that we are supposed to give of ourselves, to love our wives as our own bodies, to show the love of Christ and his sacrifice to our faith. Families and dads, it is our responsibility to direct and lead, but when we show anger through irritation and impatience, and when we let things come out of it out of our mouths that are ungodly, and our kids don't see our love for Jesus, but they see our anger and irritation at them, we are not being proper examples. And hey, that hits hard for me too. We can't have the attitude of look Look, I'll do as much as I have to do, but then I have my own time. Stop irritating me. Go somewhere else. Don't you understand? Don't you understand when I put you to bed as the dad, you're supposed to stay in that bed and you're not supposed to come back out because this is my time now, and I've had a busy day. Oh, I know that one. And we get angry. What are you doing out of bed, or whatever? And so, dads, we need this message. Don't provoke your children to anger. But bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. This has the idea of bringing them up refers to the entire process from child to adult. And discipline means the concept of Their total direction and education, that we should bring them up in the ways of the Lord in every area of their lives. You see, dads and moms, too There's a lot of responsibility that we have in helping our children grow up in a way that God has called them to do. And there does need to be guidelines set. And restrictions merit it out when they cross those lines. There does need to be structure. That word instruction is a wonderful word, neuthasia. If you've ever heard of the term neuthetic counseling, this is really what the picture is. And it is a picture of exerting influence to redirect And correct behavior. A great old counselor and theologian, Dr. J. Adams, put it this way: change through confrontation out of concern. Most of the time, dads, if we're on Honest, it's change through confrontation, and you better do what I say. And we forget the concern. And our kids need to see our love for Christ and our love for them as we show them: I am correcting you, I am dealing with you out of concern for you because I love you. Do our kids see that? Do we make it easier for our kids to obey us because they see a loving example of Jesus Christ? Or do they see a deranged, angry person like, I know I have to obey this person, but it's really hard? It's easier to obey when your loving example is Jesus Christ. Timothy, 2 Timothy 3:16 points out the fact that God's word Helps us. Dads, we must teach God's word. We must use God's word. It's convicting to convict our kids of their sin, to correct, to show them the right way, and help them to Keep going in the right ways. That's what God's Word does, and that's what training and instruction that Paul's talking about here does. We teach, we can Carefully, patiently help our kids understand the ways of God, and we train them in that. And that is an impossible expectation, dads, and that's why we need to Rely on Jesus for this in order to be successful. Let's finish up here. I want to give you two stories real quickly. Contrasts. There was a young lady born in the early part of the last century in the 1920s, and she was destined for stardom. Early on, her family lived in Wisconsin, and at two years old, her parents were involved in vaudeville and they owned a theater, and they got her and her sisters involved. In entertainment early on, and at two years of age, she would do vaudeville acts with her two older sisters, and uh very successful, so successful they decided to move to California. California and her ma the mother of the daughters, the three daughters, enrolled them in a special acting school where they would get noticed. And This one young lady that I'm referring to, the youngest of the three, did so well that at age thirteen she was offered a movie Contract supporting roles in some major movie musicals. And her name became very well known. But it was at age 16 where her name became uh grew to receive international fame. She became world famous. She was landed. She gave was given a movie role that was the greatest of her life and made her a worldwide phenomenon. She became famous very quickly. And she was known still in our culture today for some very well-known, well-loved movies. That might seem like, wow, what a life. How wonderful it would be to have that kind of life. Well, actually, folks, it was miserable for this young lady At a young age, she was given pills to control her weight and barbituates to help her sleep. This fostered a longtime addiction to prescription. Drugs. She battled depression, anxiety, emotional breakdowns. She had all kinds of handlers in Hollywood that were telling her What to do. Her dad died when she was thirteen. Her parents didn't have much guidance at all. Despite her success, and it was continually growing, her Success became worldwide, she actually faced crippling financial struggles. She was married five times. And at age forty-seven, She accidentally overdosed on those barbiturates. Her name was Judy Garland. You might know her as Dorothy One of Hollywood's greatest stars, and by its own standards, one of its most terrible tragedies. There was a young man who was about five years younger than Judy. And he grew up in a Christian home, not perfect, but a Christian home in Portland, Oregon, where the Bible was taught regularly and where the kids were encouraged to study the Bible and to know Jesus Christ. At age six, he trusted than Jesus as his Savior. He was a smart, intelligent young man. He got involved in a tech school, but eventually God called him to Wheaton College. He met some friends and God moved in him. He was a popular figure in his college, but he was still rather insignificant. As far as the world was concerned, and God moved in him a heart for missions, and he ended up in Ecuador with some friends. Eventually, he married a woman named Elizabeth Howard. And in the early fifties, he and his friends gave the gospel to the tribes of the people of Ecuador. But there was one tribe In particular, who had never heard the gospel and were fierce and vicious. And this man and his five friends had a burden to share Christ. You probably know who I'm talking about. The story of a young man who loved the Lord was brought up in the ways of the Lord. Was willing to give the gospel to a fierce tribe, the Wandani. Or excuse me, the Harani. He and his friends on january eighth, nineteen fifty-six, made a first contact with these people. They thought things were going well Well, but then things took a turn for the worst, and this young man and his five friends were martyred for their faith. And in that moment He became a worldwide phenomenon in his death. And that man's name is Jim Elliott. And he's still remembered today, for giving his life for the cause of Christ. Folks, I'm not saying that with good Christian family structure that we're always gonna have everything's gonna turn out okay and that every person's gonna be A Jim Elliott versus a Judy Garland. I'm not saying that. But in a general sense, this is what God is saying that rightly structured and functioning Christian Christian homes provide opportunities for Jim Elliott's and others. Whereas those with no structure and no concern and no care With parents that aren't available can lead to terrible tragedy. Tragedies versus Triumph. The structure of a godly home, would you agree with me, can make a difference. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor them. Show them the honor that God calls you to show them show them. Parents, fathers, show the love of Christ when you have to correct and discipline. And teach your kids the ways of God's word and God's word above all else, above all sports trivia and sports knowledge and knowledge of entertainment and all the Things teach them God's word and train them in that that we might see many young people give up their life. Jim Elliott said he wasn't looking for a long life, but he was looking for a full life. And he received that. And that is the promise, kids Not a long life, even. Not a contract for a deed in Israel. But whatever, however long your life is, it will be full, it will be meaningful. Because you trusted God and obeyed and followed the structure that He provided for you, and He blesses those who are obedient to Him. Those are good Good things to think on this morning. Father, my prayer is first of all with these families that these members can say that they have a relationship with Jesus Jesus, that they have put their faith and trust and are trusting in Him alone for their eternity in heaven. I pray that the children here understand what Jesus has done for them And I pray that they would be obedient to their parents because Jesus loves them. And he has provided them parents that will teach them in his ways. I pray that you will help us as parents To not be stern and angry, to not let that be the memory that our kids have, but rather a memory of imperfection Perfect parents, but still ones that love Jesus and tried their best to direct them in the ways of your word. Lord, let these themes Impress upon our hearts, help us to do better, and help us to be families that point people To Jesus Christ. Folks, you think on these things as Leslie plays