Chapter 6. Now, I have to, I guess, almost apologize to our children, even though there's not as many here as in As normal. See, uh today was the day in line here that we were supposed to talk about obedience to parents. And so of course we would want our children to be a part of that since the message However, with the um snow coming, and I realize a lot of young families wouldn't be able to be here this morning, I went ahead and switched things up. We're skipping over that part of the passage and moved Moving on to verse five of chapter six. So we had canceled children's church today. So next week we will also cancel children's church so that they can hear the message. Done obedience. But in the meantime, those of you kids that are here, we'll try to make it make it as interesting as possible, okay? Um, and so for all of us that are following through in this series, you need to skip ahead. I know it's a little unusual, but really I do want to encourage our families, especially with kids, teenagers, young kids, middle school kids, to try to be here next week. The Lord has really impressed upon me a number of things It's about um obedience to parents, children's obedience to parents and their honoring to their their parents that um I think w we all know these truths, but I think there's some application In our culture, that are so important. Because Satan is attacking these fundamental truths in so many ways. So I want to encourage our families, please let's have a good showing next next week as uh for this part of the passage. But we're skipping ahead then to talking about and probably the title for those of you that have Bibles that um segment these different passages. It might say bondservants and masters. And so we face a passage that can be challenging and concerning Concerning in our culture today, especially. It's interesting, isn't it? For our culture, Paul has all these different controversial topics. Here all at once, right? You have the one on alcohol and then music and then uh marriage roles and then now it's talking about bond service And masters and a pastor might be tempted to say, thanks a lot, Paul. Couldn't you have like just you know spaced these out a little bit more? But Paul, again, Paul's purpose was Was not to throw in a bunch of controversial topics to keep the pastors on their hot seats throughout all this. These were genuine things that needed to be addressed. in the church in Ephesus, and thus they do need to be addressed in the church today. This one in particular, though, does have baggage and some misunderstandings. That we need to carefully dissect as we get into this. It is Paul's main theme that servants should obey their masters as unto the Lord. And remember the the um undergirding principle Behind all of this, whether it's marriage or obedience to children or this aspect of bondservants, Paul has recently called all believers to walk worthy of God's calling. Whatever God has called you to do, whatever role he has given you, do that in a worthy fashion by knowing God's word well and submitting to the Spirit's work in your lives. And then there was that very helpful pattern process. You put off the old ways, the old ways, the sinful ways, aren't appropriate anymore for God's children. For those that have been redeemed and given new life. Take off those nasty old sinful rags and putting on the new by studying God's Word and learning what the new garments are. asking the Spirit to produce in us the fruit of the Spirit. One of those fruits is submission, obedience. Getting rid of sinful practices and replacing them with biblical virtues. And so it requires us really a change of thinking with many times At great odds against what the world says. To walk in the light of God's truth, folks, don't be surprised by this. Many times it puts Us at odds with the darkness in this world today. People will look at us and say, Why did they do that? You know, why why Why do they emphasize obedience rather than you know expressing yourself and um making sure that that you as an individual get to express yourself and what Whatever way that you want to do and live life the way that you want to do it. That's so important. And yet God's word, God's people say, you know, there's something much more important than a Expressing myself and doing living life the way that I want to live life, but it's living life in obedience to my Heavenly Father, to God's word. That cuts against the grain. So there must be an attitude of self-denial and concern for others as we address these obedience issues in our Social relationships. And let's just be candid, folks, when it comes to this area of obedience, it isn't always going to be convenient for us. God hasn't called us to a convenient life But he's called us to a challenging road that will be blessed and worth it in the end. The convenience, the rest will many times come in the future. So that can be convenient, but it's necessary because we're not just called to submit to people, but through our roles and submitting to the authorities, like we just read in Romans, that God has has placed over us even those politicians that make us groan. Law enforcement. All of these things God has put in authority, employers over employees. When we submit to the authorities God's given to us, we are giving an act of worship. We are off giving an offering to God because we're offering obedience to Him in the end, not people. So our obedience then is not motivated by whether I end up Up with somebody over me that's fair and reasonable and very nice. But our obedience is motivated by love and reverence for God. And that's true with relationships and families. But it's also true in this interesting section on bondservants. And you know, you come to the section in our culture today, it's like, what do you even do with it? I think some pastors just kind of just kind of Skip right over. Let's talk about the whole armor of God. That'd be good. But folks, this is in our Bibles. So one of the complaints that you hear from those outside of the faith is that, you know, it seems as if your Bible's God's word. It doesn't really condemn slavery or servants and masters. In this arrangement. It kind of seems sometimes like God's word, like Paul when he's writing, is okay with this kind of thing. And that's just that's not only off-putting , that's disturbing to us. Because we know in this issue of slavery We know what is right and what is wrong. We know that slavery is evil. And the promoting of one race of people as signific as more significant or more Superior than another race is wicked. It's wrong. So when Paul says, bond servants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trouble. Trembling with a sincere heart as you would Christ. It's like, well, what do we do with this? So we need an understanding of what this is all about. First of all, I need we need And this is why I'm going to carefully make distinctions here between slavery and what Paul is talking about with bonds. servants. I do in my study believe that those there there are some similarities, but they are they are slight, that there is a big distinction between Between what is commonly thought of, what is commonly considered slavery and the wickedness of that versus what Paul is talking about here with bondservants because there's some distinctive factors that was involved in this in Roman culture. And this was also a part of Jewish culture. culture as well, but these were things where God God gave his people specific um guidelines for if someone would subservient and put them themselves under the subservience of a master in a bond servant relationship, God made it clear that there were certain characteristics that it At certain times the masters were to go ahead and let go of those bondservants and at certain years and at certain times and be kind to them and all of this. That was spelled out for the Jewish people. in these relationships. And they were supposed to be rather rare. But in Roman slavery, here's one example interesting thing, uh racism didn't play a really a factor at all. Now folks, God's word is clear about the evils of Racism. Whenever slavery is presented in the way that we think of in modern terms, the oppression and the bead And just the the stringent cruelty that's involved with that All I have to do is take you back to Israel, being in subjection and being literal slaves to the Egyptians. All throughout God's word, God God's word makes it clear that God delivered them from evil, that God delivered them from enemies. So slavery where one race is put into subjection over another race is wicked. God, we we've just finished the study in Essence. In our adult Bible study, a belief of one race being superior to another in its most extreme form can um can progress into supported genocide. Literally the this the wiping out or the attempt to wipe out a whole group of people The book of Esther makes clear that's evil. Esther makes clear that the bad guys, the villains of the story, are those that are trying to eliminate a whole race of people. Makes it clear they are the enemies of God. And Paul as well makes it clear that the church should have no part in thinking that one race could be in any Do you remember how many times Paul rejoices that But in the church, it's a new entity, and people groups are on the same footing before God. Jew and Gentile are unified. They're they're family. There's love and concern. For each other. No, God's word makes no conciliations for racism. God's word makes clear That it's wrong. And it's so tragic and grievous that whether it's in our own country or other countries around the world, that history is filled very unfortunately with Even believers who erred in this, in thinking that one group of people by their color or their race could be superior to Oh, that's evil. Should have never been a part of Christianity. And I pray that it is not today, and it's not a part of the church. God condemns that. Well, if I can put it this way, this bondservant relationship that Paul is referring to here had distinctive factors in Rome. Roman society and basically racism really didn't play a part, it played no part. There was, I'll put it this way, there was equal opportunity enslavement. It didn't matter race and that kind of thing. But here were some factors. Again, number one, racial factors, and this is the relationship that Paul is talking about with bondservants. And their masters in verses chapter 6, verses 5 through 9. Racial factors played no role. Another aspect was many could expect emancipation in their lifetime. Many times these servants would willingly put themselves in this type of bondservant arrangement. If uh finances dictated or if their social standing dictated that they needed help, and so taking a position with a master was more conducive to helping them. They did this still expecting that a Roman society they could gain their freedom in their lifetime. Number three, bondservants were many times involved in specialized and responsible positions, believing, or including, believe it or not, doctors, teachers. Teachers, writers, accountants, agents, bailiffs, overseers, secretaries, and sea captains. This was a broad list of these folks that were considered bondservants that had a master. mastered, and yet they were able to be in a variety of occupations. Many of them received education and special training with skill for skills like apprentices. And oftentimes these bondservants, when freed, could even become Roman citizens and develop a client relationship with With their former masters to be more on an equal level. So as I have studied this out We are really not referring to the slavery issue that we think of today that's so atrocious, atrocious and wicked. But it is a factor of the Roman culture, these bondservant positions that allowed many, many people to get ahead in a certain sense. However, lest you misunderstand me, this wasn't like really an employee-employer relationship. There were still some real downsides to being a bondservant. These bondservants possessed few legal rights. They were many times subject to cruel punishments. And they could not always expect to enjoy permanent marriage bonds or even to keep their children with them. See, it wasn't ideal. And let's be clear, God's word never supports this bond servant system. It never indicates That this is acceptable, but what Paul is doing is just making it clear this is a recognized reality But even with that, don't misunderstand Paul. In First Corinthians seven, chapter seven, verse twenty-one. Paul's talking about whatever position in life you're called to, make the most of it. Paul says, were you a bondservant when called? Do not be concerned about it. In other words, I think what he's saying is, ah, it's no , he's not saying Ah, it's no big deal. He's not saying that, but he's saying if you have uh trusted Christ and you're a bondservant and you think that your opportunity is to serve the Lord, No, you could be a useful tool for God. Then he says, but if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. Freedom's better. You can be a better useful tool for God in freedom. That doesn't sound like a figure Or a book that condones this sort of thing. And then if you read the book of Philemon, which is very important for this topic, You will find, I believe, that Paul in a soft way is appealing for a slave named Anisimus and his master, Philemon, and Paul is appealing that Anisimus. Anisimus be set free. That Anisimus will be of more use to the Lord if he is freed from, again, I want to differentiate not slavery, but the bondservant arrangement. And he also tells Philemon, the owner of or the owner, the master of that servant, Anisma Thomas, he says, Don't forget, Philemon, you are equal, both of you are equal in the sight of God. So when your servant returns, you guys, when you uh as far as the church is concerned, You're on the same footing. You don't treat them like a slave or a servant, you treat them like family because you're equal. And that blows up any argument that somehow one race of people could be superior. To another, by the way. Paul's reactions and his requests in Philemon do not allow Christians that caveat at all. Folks, no matter your size, your hair color, your skin color, where you're from, we are equal before God. And we worship together in equality. And we have freedoms. We're free to worship God. These things are important. What do we do with this? Let's look at the verse then with that understanding. Verse 5. Bondservants obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling. with a sincere heart as you would Christ, not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as bond servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord, and not to the Lord. Man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bond servant or he's free. To obey with f your earthly Masters with fear and trembling. That sounds awkward at best, doesn't it? In this situation, this bond servant situation. What is Paul referring to here? He's saying, if you find yourself in this situation, to obey is the act of hearing Um what God, the authority that God has allowed over you to hear them and to follow through on what is being requested by that authority. Out of honor and respect for that position over you And then he says, make sure that it's sincerity, not by way of eye service as people pleasers But they are reminded that regardless of whether they're free or bond servants, that they are servants of Jesus Christ. Christ and that above all else they must do the will of God from the heart. And so folks, let's be clear, that puts us all on the same footing as well. We're all equal in this. And that is no matter what your position in life, whether you're a director, whether you're a foreman, whether you're an employee. Whether you're a president of a corporation, as believers in Christ, we all are servants before Jesus Christ. We are all servants. And it's a service that we should, in our hearts and our spirits, be willing to gladly give service Submission. Oh, yes, I will give submission to Jesus Christ for all eternity, for what he has done for me. Goes back to that spirit of that song that we sang. Jesus, thank you. And it goes through all the truths that what Jesus has accomplished for us. That He provided us redemption. That He He has provided for us a home in heaven that we don't have to be enslaved under the curse of sin any longer, but he offered up himself so that we could be free to serve him. All of God's people are free people. We're free to serve a truly loving master and lord. And that is Jesus Christ. So all of us in that respect are servants. And so as we find ourselves under other authorities, We give honor and respect and we obey out of sincerity, not trying to climb the ladder or trying to flatter or trying to just say certain things to those above us in authority so we We can move ahead in our positions and all this. Paul says, no, obey from the heart. Well, let's be honest, that's really hard to do. Now again, I've given you a context. I think there's a secondary application that can be made to employer -employee relationships. And all of us have had situations in that respect where we've had people over over us. And I'm sure we've all had situations where there have been really good employers over us. And ones that were, let's just be honest, pretty bad. That were pretty difficult to serve under What do you do when God allows somebody an authority over you that is just really hard to follow in their For example, in the way that they handle things, maybe they're just cruel and angry. What do you do? Well, we remember first of all that God in His sovereignty for a certain amount of time has allowed these authorities into our life. We give obedience and submission. From the heart. Now, again, to be clear, it's when we're asked to do things that are not in direct conflict with God's word, God never gives approval. To authorities over us that ask us to do things that are in contrary to God's word. But that still leaves a lot of things that those over us, employers and otherwise, would ask us to do, that really just. um gnaw at us and frustrate us. What do you do? At that point you realize, you know what, I'm not giving service and submission. To this person and their flawed character, I'm giving it to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has asked me for a certain amount of time, especially in today's society where we have the opportunity to move about and get another job or whatever. One opportunity that we have is if we have an employer, someone over us that is really frustrating And um just making our life miserable. We do have the opportunity for change many times, but until that point we have this attitude of follow hearing and following through on what's been requested of us. As long as we're not being requested, the request doesn't conflict with Scripture. And we give, we act out in that and ask, and we do what we're told as an offering of worship. to Jesus Christ. Not because that person deserves it at all. That must be our response This is acted out as sincerity, not disingenuousness, but an act of worship to Jesus Christ. Now I said in a secondary way, this really can apply to employer-employee relations. But let's be clear, Paul wasn't writing to really that kind of scenario that we have today. Is there a scenario in our culture that would More reflect this arrangement? Well, I don't believe the evils of slavery really reflect this at all, but I I thought through this, you know, there are a few situations that would parallel what Paul's talking about here. How about military service where someone goes into the military understanding now not having been in the military myself and talking to others who have Please forgive me if I mess up this arrangement or misunderstand. But in the military, there's expectation that if you give yourself over to the military, that there is all kinds eventually opportunities to do different things and to be involved in different even uh career directions or whatever, but you are expected To stay within that rubric and framework, and if you try to remove yourself from it, there are severe consequences By trying to get out of the military early. There is a sense of you are with us now, you've dedicated to this, and so we expect That you are going to give loyal service to the military as we provide for you. And there will be consequences if you try to get out of this arrangement, unless there are very specific extenuating circumstances. Circumstances. I think that actually reflects more of the situation that Paul is talking about here. And I'm thankful for many of our own folks. Who have willingly put themselves under that submission to our military and have served faithfully for many years and seen a lot of different things and had a lot of opportunities, but all under that rubric of Not quite your ours now, but they're willing to give their lives and service in that way. That's a commitment to an authority that many Many times last a lifetime. Whatever that looks like, folks, whether it's something like military or something like an employer -employee relationship. We have to remember that God is sovereign. And that He has allowed us to be put in these situations. And that the authorities that He's allowed into our lives, we must be willing to hear them out and act on the request that they have given to us. To us as an act of worship to God. That's hard. But when we remember all that Jesus has done for us, doesn't it not make it a little bit easier easier. Now you may say as I'm talking up here, well that's easy for you to say Pastor Brock, you you've always been in the ministry. You've never been in the workforce. Well actually the Lord has allowed me, if you remember my testimony for many, many years, multiple times, to be in what we sometimes referred to as the secular workforce for many years and I've had a lot of different employers. So when I say this, I truly un I truly know that it is difficult. I've experienced it myself. You see, I've had some employers that were just wonderful to work for. Almost couldn't wait to get to work. And others were I loathed even having to get in the car. to take the drive to get to work because they were so offensive. I remember one time, and now I'm not saying we'll just say a In general, um, the Lord had provided me an opportunity for a few years to work for uh a company um and I had a specific uh position That hat was along the lines of my graphic design and commercial art background. And things were going well, and they were glad to have me, and I was thankful for the position. and the opportunity to have a paycheck at that time. But there came a point where that relationship kind of soured. And the employer and myself, we just saw things a little differently. And I felt like there was a point where I couldn't do what I needed to do because it was I was being asked to do stuff. so many different things I couldn't focus on what I had been hired to do. And so some of the things that I was asked to do, I couldn't do as well as others. Well a situation came up where there were mistakes made, misunderstanding, and it had to do with a particular order that was going out to a customer, and um the Employer ended up the order ended up being messed up. The um the consumer was upset, and the employer lost some money over that transaction. And as you can imagine, he wasn't very happy with a number of us, me included. And I went to him and we talked, and he was very intense but I was as he went through the scenario um I was confident in my own mind as I as I walked out and continued to think about it I thought, I'm in the right here. I have done everything that I was asked to do, and I couldn't have done anything differently And yet, that was in opposition to his mindset where he felt like I could have done much more. And I there were some things that I wanted to say to him. About how many arms and hands do you think I have? You know, would you like me to clone myself? All these sorts of things. Maybe you thought of some of the those things too. And yet I went home and he asked me um to consider doing some things that I just didn't agree. With because it wasn't wrong, but I felt like it made me the scapegoat, and I felt like I had performed my duties Acceptably, I went home and prayed about it, talked with a friend that reminded me of this passage, and reminded me: hey, In the end, remember your response is a reflection of Jesus Christ. And this employer may be in the wrong Are you willing to humble yourself and to give up your rights for the greater purpose of a right gift of worship Worship to Jesus Christ. And man, I struggled with that. Because I knew I was right. But regardless, the Lord convicted me. In that scenario, and That scenario, the Lord called me to go back to the employer and acquiesce and say, okay, not that I agreed with him that what I had done was right. wrong because then I would have been deceptive and lying. I didn't feel like I'd done anything wrong, but I accepted the fact that he had been hurt and that he had con He had experienced loss, and that I would be willing to do whatever I needed to do to help him with that. And he softened. And what I thought was going to have to happen at expense to myself did not take place because God worked in that scenario. God blessed my offering of willing, reasonable And willingness to work with an employer that I felt like was being unreasonable. Folks, God will do the same. Look back at verse 7. Rendering service with a good will. As to the Lord and not unto man, knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bondservant or free. In these scenarios, when we are willing To carry on and put up with someone that we feel is not a stellar or a High mark person, a person even of good character to be under, and yet it's obvious that God has put us under that person for a while. When we're willing to give good service and be a good employee, God says it may feel like a loss for a while. But I'll give it back to you in spades. I'll bless you beyond what you could even think I could do. He will receive back From the Lord. The Lord says, I'll remember that very difficult act of worship that you gave in submitting to that difficult person. I won't forget it. And I will give you back. One more thing, as we finish up this morning, number verse nine. Those that are over the bondservants, they don't get a free pass. Let's be clear. Masters, do the same to them and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. There is no partiality with him. At some point, we might find ourselves in a position of authority at work , maybe even the military, whatever. Folks, in that point, and what Paul is saying to these masters who did have a lot of control in this time, in Paul's time, and who did have a lot of control over people's lives and their families' lives, God says remember masters, you have a master too. You are not auto you're not all independent. You are not autonomous. You are not the epitome of you've you've had Hit the top of the pyramid and nobody and you you don't answer to anybody. No, Paul makes it clear all of us answer to somebody. And for believers, we answer to our Lord and Savior. Jesus Christ. So stop being stern. Stop the threats. Stop the intimidation. Masters, be Be an example of our loving Savior Jesus Christ. Employers, be an example of your loving Savior Jesus Christ Leaders in military positions and corporate CEOs, presidents of small businesses, pastors Remember that you serve Jesus Christ. Be a proper example of Him. It's understandable when those under us get frustrated. When we lord our power and our authority over others as if we have deserved that position. Oh no, folks, we deserve nothing. But eternal punishment. So when God gives us with a position of authority, don't forget how hard it works Was to serve under others when you were in when you were not in authority. And be a reasonable, loving example of Jesus Christ. Don't be partial. Don't act as if you're better than that employee. Because before God, we're all in the same place. All of us need to remember as we consider these principles. Father, thank you for this reminder. Thank you for the clarity that we have in your word. We are gladdened to be reminded that you, as a holy God, do not in any way condone the Racism that it is anathema to you, that it is repulsive to you, and that you don't condone slavery, the ownering the owning of other people and controlling of their lives in that way. Thank you for the principles in the New Testament Testament that talk about the freedom of not being under the ownership of another and free to serve you. But help us To remember as well that we all do have a master, a loving, kind, ultimately fair Master, but he also is a loving Heavenly Father. And that we see Serve your son. He is the head of this church. And in his offering himself up for us, he has been the ultimate loving example of authority that we So help us with these truths then to fall in place and be willing to put up with sometimes, many times, the faulty lead Of others, and treat our responses and our service as acts of worship to Jesus, who truly does deserve all of our service and submission Lord, we can't have this attitude apart from a work of the Spirit in our hearts. So I pray that you would illuminate our hearts and help us to see the Importance of your word and help us to be humble before you. And folks, today if you are wondering about, I'm talking About the loving relationship that we have with Jesus Christ, and you don't know Jesus as your Savior, come talk to me. I'd be glad to share more with you about how you can know Jesus Jesus, and have one that is your Lord, that is loving and cares for you infinitely and has your best interests at heart. I'd love to share with you about how you can have a relationship with Jesus Christ, how he can be your Lord and Savior. Think on these things as the piano plays.