Well, good morning, everybody. You know, it's interesting here before I uh begin, it's just interesting how the Holy Spirit works. I mean I'm kind of flabbergasted all the time. I had nothing to do with the beautiful music uh songs that were selected. particularly the last song. But it's just interesting that the very words of the song that we just got through singing as a congregation , line up almost precisely with the sermon this morning. And so I could not have orchestrated it better myself. It just goes to show that God is always in charge, isn't he? You know, uh but for churches that he loves, for people that he loves, I just I'm at an age in life where I think God does orchestrate. things. He knows where you're weak, he knows where you're strong, and he wants to bring all the little pieces together where it kind of makes sense So I just want to commend the music committee and Tim and the group for the wonderful song. It I think you're going to see that it lines up quite well with the message that uh I've been inspired to to preach this morning. Before we uh begin, New Year's resolution Today is what, January 4th or 4th? How many of you have made a New Year's resolution? And already forgot it. You know, when I was growing up that used to be a popular expression. You know, well, we're gonna make a New Year's resolution. Well the next day you already broke it, right? So I'm not sure how far it really went. But it's interesting , people do make New Year's resolutions. I'm just not really sure how effective they really are. And a New Year's resolution should be, should have a different kind of connotation, I think, with believers. Because we are new to begin with. We're new creations. We're born again, right? So in some sense, if as a Christian, if you really have dribbled all the way down And kind of flattened out or sunk by December 31st. And if you need to be regenerated, I mean you got a real problem in your walk. That would be my take on it, right? On this whole thing. But the Bible uses the word new or renewal many times. In point of fact, according to my little scholarly books that I have, the word new or renew is used a hundred and sixty-six times. in scripture. Did you know that? So obviously it's kind of an important word to God. At least the concept is. And if you think about it, Christ came to this world, died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, so that we are new. By those who put their faith in Jesus Christ. We are a, at that point in time, we are kind of a new resolution that God the Father has achieved in his Son through Jesus Christ. But uh just for fun, I kind of wrote down, you know, copy and pasted with the computer, you know, some of the Bible verses that have the word new in there. And I just thought I would read a couple of them to you here. Let me put my, you know. He says, my glory in Job uh 29-20, my glory is ever new with me. And my bow is renewed in my hand. Psalm 33, 3. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with the shout of joy. Are you shouting with joy this morning? Are you singing a new song, right? On this Psalm 96. 1. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Psalm 98. 1. Sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done wonderful things. Just when I look back over the past years and even last year, I just think of the wonderful things that God has done. On this. Proverbs 3, 10. So your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will overflow with new wine. Now some of you may take offense at that. just substitute it and say my my uh my vest will be filled with soft drinks. We're Baptist, right? Okay? Isaiah forty thirty-one. Yet those who wait for the Lord will gain new strength. They will mount up with wings like eagles. They will run and not get tired. They will walk and not become weary. We are new in Christ. We should rise up, we should never be weary, we should feel strong, right? You can take any one of these verses, and there's something about being new. There's something about having the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, who sealed us to the day of redemption, about being a child of our Heavenly Father, adopted. And having the very righteousness of Christ imputed to us, that's called justification. Okay? Yeah. Isaiah 65, 17 For behold, I create a new heaven and a new earth, and the former things will not be remembered or come to mind. Now, that has to do with end times. There's eschatology, but clearly that has a soteriological salvation. impact to me. You know, I I create new heavens and a new earth. The former things will not be remembered. In Christ I knew Judicially, all that I've done in the past has been forgotten, imputed to me as the righteousness of Christ. When I look at you and I look at each one of you, I don't see you, I don't see, I see the righteousness of Christ, the righteousness of Christ, the righteousness of Christ. We We are a new creation Yeah, Ezekiel 11, 19, and I will give them one heart and put a new spirit within them. And I will take the heart of stone out of their flesh and give them a heart of pure flesh. Ezekiel 18,31. Cast away from you all your transgressions which you've committed, and make yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. Yeah. Ezekiel 36, 26, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. When Christ came into my life, My Heavenly Father put in me, in Christ through the Holy Spirit, He put in me a new heart, and He put in me a new Spirit. Each of you have a new heart and a new spirit So, Happy New Year. Who needs a New Year's resolution? You've had everything new from the time you were saved. Yeah. Oh, it goes on and on and on. It's just uh let's look at just at a couple verses in the New Testament. Yeah. I just love You love this word new, don't you? There's something about it. You're new. Yeah. Mark 2, 22, no one puts new wine into old wineskins, otherwise the wine will burst the skins, and the wine is lost. In the skins as well. But one puts new wine into fresh wineskins. You're new. You don't live in the old anymore You don't live in the old anymore. You're new. Your walk is new. Your walk is fresh. We walk worthy before the Lord. Luke 5. 36, Jesus says, no one tears a piece of cloth from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. Otherwise, he will tear both the new and the piece from the new will not match the old. We're new creations in Christ. We don't have to walk the way we walked before. Right? We walk different, we think different, we have a new heart, we have a new spirit. So we don't need a New Year's resolution. We just need maybe to remember who we are in Christ. Amen? That's who we are. Yeah. Luke 5, 38. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskin. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. And the old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. You are new. We are different. We are fresh. We don't have to live in the old anymore Ephesians 4, 23 to 24. But be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new self, which is in the likeness of God, has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Colossians 3. 10. I love these verses. And you have put on the new self who is being renewed. to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him were new. 2026 is a new year, although we're just In the fourth day, but it is new, but we've always been new. We don't have to make up a new year's resolution. We are new. We've always been new. Each and every year. since we were saved and trusted in Christ. Yeah. Hebrews ten, nineteen, and twenty Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way which he inaugurated for us. Wow. A new and living way. Revelation 2, 17. He who has an ear To him who overcomes, to him I will give him a white stone and a new name written on the stone which no one knows but he who receives it. And Revelation 21, 5. And he who sits on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Right, for these words are faithful and true. What is faithful and true is this. You are new. We're different. I don't know about you. I think I do. But I have a new heart and a new spirit. And do I make mistakes? Sure I do. Do I fall down every now and then? Sure I do. Am I imperfect? Ask my wife. Life , tremendous amount of imperfections. But I don't need a New Year's resolution because I'm already new and I have been new since that very moment. that I put my faith in Jesus Christ and trusted him as my Savior. Oh, hallelujah, hallelujah. For what God did in In Christ through the Holy Spirit. So as we begin 2026, and we already have four days into it I want you, the challenge in this sermon this morning is to have you reflect on your newness And the old things are gone. Whatever mistakes you've made in the past, you don't have to live in the past anymore. You don't have to be dragged down by it. You can press on to the high calling. Yeah. You can you can walk the talk. Your walk walk is in newness of Christ And what a joy we have in that. You don't have to be dragged down. If anything, it's not a New Year's resolution, but it is a sense that I I am new in Christ. And I want to be faithful to my God every day and let my newness shine forth. Yeah. That's what it really really is is. And so this newness is important to me because of everything that that Christ did. Think of it. I mean this whole sermon is going to be about Jesus. We're not going to get into deep theology on soteriology and pneumatology or any of this, but I just want to talk about my Lord and my Savior, Jesus Christ. You know, he propitiated the Father. He died on the cross. He satisfied the Father's righteousness. He redeemed. He redeemed me from the power of Satan and the wages of sin. And he reconciled me. I'm reconciled. I have faith with my Heavenly Father. Yeah. And he accomplished everything. So that's what this newness means to me. But it's built on everything that my Savior did on the cross. Okay. The challenge this morning, and basically the sermon itself, I want to focus on a particular passage. I don't think we show it on the screen because in my newness I failed to tell the gentleman back there. Okay? But we're going to talk about Romans 12, verses 44 to If they have that ability to find that and throw it up there real quick, we can just keep our eyes focused on it. But John 12, verses 44 through 50. And I think it's about the heart of Jesus. It's about the heart of Jesus that challenges me, but really defines my newness. So when I said this has always been a powerful sermon passage for me. I mean the whole book of John is profound in every way, but this particular passage about the heart of Jesus. of why Jesus came, what he said about himself, how he defines himself in John 12, 44 to 50, has always stood out It's always stood out in the midst of the many Bible classes I may have taught or Bible sermons that I've given. This to me really kind of says it all. And we need to understand the setting. It's always important when you're talking scripture. You want to give the context, right? Words have meaning, but meaning is determined in context, like what's really going on here? And the context, scholars will tell us that this occurs in discourse number seven. There are seven major discourses that that Jesus gives. And this one is in number seven. There's ten discourses. And it's often called the hour has come. It's at that crucial moment and he Jesus knows what's going to happen to him. And he says in verse 23, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Jesus knows everything that is going to occur, that he's going to be taken prisoner, captive, and he's going to be crucified on this. And so that really is the major, major context. And in verse 27, before we read the main passage, in verse 27 of chapter 12, we see his sense of mission. I just want to give the context here. He knows the hour has come. This is the big moment for which all of history has been moving towards. This is the primary moment to which the Father sent the Son into the world. that he's about to be taken, he's about to be glorified through his death on the cross. And he says, now is in verse 27, now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? No, but for this cause came I unto this hour. So we see his purpose and we see his sense of mission. And that feeds us, that sets the basis for the main path. Passage this morning that I want to read to you. And it's John 44, John chapter 12, 44 through 50. Let's just read the whole passage. Beginning with verse 44. Now Jesus cried out and said, He who believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. And he who sees me sees him who sent me. I have come as a light into the world, and whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. And if any one hears my words and does not believe, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world. world, but to save the world. Verse 48, he who rejects me and does not receive my words has that which judges him. The word that I have spoken will judge him in the last day. For I have not spoken on my own authority, but the Father who sent me gave me a command What I should say and what I should speak. And I know that his command is everlasting life. Therefore, whatever I speak, just as the Father has told me, so I speak You see, the total mission, the total purpose, the total obedience to the will of God the Father. Every action, every word of Jesus, every miracle, Scripture would tell us, has been blessed by or comes directly from God the Father He didn't come to ebopping on this world to do his own thing. He came to fulfill the will and the plan and the strategy of God the Father. And this goes all the way back to the proto -evangelium in Genesis 3. 15. He looks at the serpent and he says to the serpent. You will bruise his heel, but he, the Redeemer, will crush your head. See, this has all been laid out by God the Father. There's no accident here. And we see the beauty of Scripture really coming together in the words of Jesus Christ on this. And we're going to see here in these words, when we get into them, the heart of Jesus and who he is The heart of my Savior, and sharing the gospel and passing the message on of who He is, the word of my Heavenly Father The need for salvation, the need for truth, the need for people to put their faith alone in Jesus Christ, in his death, burial, and resurrection as the basis of their righteousness. We're going to see the heart of Jesus. And what is that heart? It 's to honor his heavenly father. Is to honor his heavenly father. You know what's interesting this morning and some Sunday school class. I enjoyed that one too. I enjoyed the Psalms, Psalm 122. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. I wish you'd all have been there If you ask me personally, I thought it was a great Sunday school class. Just thought I would smile at you on that, all right? But David opens up and he says, let us be glad when I entered the house of the Lord. Let us be happy, let us be joyful. You know, and he says, For that purpose, I have come to honor, to honor God, to honor my Lord. David is saying that That's the primary purpose when we come to church, is to honor our Heavenly Father in Christ through the Holy Spirit. And so Jesus is kind of saying the same thing here A little bit differently, maybe, but the emphasis, the spirit of those words are the very same in Psalm 122. So that's basically the context of what's going on. I want to get into the actual passage itself. And so let's take a look now at verse 44 on this. What does he say? Then Jesus cried out and said, He who believes in me believes not in me. But in him who sent me. In verse 44, right from the get-go, that's kind of the topic sentence of this passage, is Christ identifies the Father's will and his submission to the Father's will. I mean, it's very interesting. He doesn't say this is all about me. He says it's about my Father. He who believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. His submission to the Father and the fact that he is God, Jesus Christ. You know. In John 7. 16, as a parallel verse The heart of Jesus is pure and direct. And he says, my teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. My teaching, my words, are from God the Father. And in 728 he says, and Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, You both know me and know where I am from. I have not come of myself. But he who sent me is true, whom you do not know. I know him because I am from him and he sent me. So in this beautiful passage, it's about Jesus, but Jesus makes it very plain, just as David did in Psalm 122. It's about honoring God the Father, doing the will of the Father. The Father was the one who sent him. And it's the same Father, my Heavenly Father, who saved me, who elected me in the past and his only begotten Son, who drew me through the Holy Spirit before the foundations of the world. Yeah. And we see in in this verse, we just see his relationship to the Father. And the will and the purposes of the Son. Let's go to verse 45. Verse 45. And he who sees me sees him who sent me. You know, just absolutely, absolutely Beautiful. In John 10, 3, he says, I and my Father are one. And you know what's beautiful about that is when we put our faith in Jesus. Christ. Did you know that you're adopted? We are believers. We're brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. We're united in Christ, is who we are. See, we are one in Christ. We're united through the Holy Spirit in Christ. And so these words are just very, very applicable and they're very powerful. Who who sees me sees him who sent me. And in verse 46, he says, I have come as a light into the world, that whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. So you see how Jesus is orchestrating this. You can see how he's building this. In verse 44, he who believes in me believes not in me, but in him who sent me. In verse 45, he re-emphasizes that again, and he who sees me sees him who sent me. In verse 46, I have come as light into the world, that whoever believes in me should not abide in darkness. Now that's a very, very powerful, that's a very, very powerful set of words there, and that kind of leads into something that I I think is is pretty powerful on this. How many of you ever heard the I am sayings? I gave a sermon on that once here. How many are there? Take a guess, are there? Five, six, seven, eight? How many of those I am saints? There are seven. That's good. There are seven I am saints. And they all fit in line actually with this verse 46. I have come as light into the world, and whoever believes in me should not believe in darkness. Well, I do want to take a quick look at these I Am Saints. Okay, because it's they're absolutely beautiful. In eight twelve, I myself am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have light of life He describes himself, Jesus, several times as light, a light which illuminates, which shines forth, which gives us a pathway to walk. In John 6. 35, I myself am the bread of life. He who comes to me will not hunger, and he who believes in me will never thirst. He is the light of the world, and he is the bread of life. So he's really building on to John 12, verse 46, where he emphasizes the light again. John 10, 9, I myself am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. You know, all of these really have Old Testament tie -ins. You know. The bread of life, of course, he's referring to Exodus. He's referring to the manna. The manna was only good for a certain period of time, right? And then the manna just kind of rotted out. It went away. But when we have Christ, you know he is the bread of life. And when we believe in him, we will never hunger, we will never thirst. See, he's different. So when he was speaking to the Jewish people, they would have known who he was referring to. They would have known that completely. He's not manna. He is the bread of life, the eternal bread of life. Okay? He is the door, and if anyone enters through me, he will be saved. You know, and that's the idea of really the Old Testament. You know, and the paint and and the blood that was put on the doorpost. You know, and when the angel of death saw that, if there was blood on the doorpost, it passed. They were saved. The Jewish people were saved. Jesus Christ, of course, is the door. And when we enter through Christ, we're saved. See, nothing can happen to us. Nothing can take us away. He says, I myself in John 10, 11, am the good shepherd. And the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. I've told many times to the children about the shepherd that I met, and the shepherd in Germany that I walked and talked with. He he knew all 250, 300. of the sheep. He looked at them. He never took his eyes off the sheep, even though he talked with me. He looked at the sheep and when one ran here, one ran there, he called out the sheep by name. The shepherd was unbelievable that I met. I spent two hours with him. And when it came time to take the flock or the herd of sheep, whatever you call these, And when he moved them, I stood in the center. I stood in the center, right with the shepherd, and he was always looking like this. And he would talk with the shepherd. me. He and he in broken English and I in broken German. You know, we got by with Gutenberg, V Gates, and a few other things But he was always he never took his eyes off the sheep. And at that time when we moved through the valley and it had been raining out, and I was, and he had on his heavy clothes and leather and a hat and water was dripping and coming down. But he was always stern looking and looking at the sheep and and the valley kind of merged and there was a road And then there was a pond, a small lake, and some of the sheep fell off a three-foot ledge into the water. It was like a concrete ledge they had created this thing. And I thought I was going to be a hero and I reached down to try to grab some of the sheep. And let me tell you, when you get a when you get sheep completely submerged and covered with water, they're heavy. You just can't pull them out of the water. But the shepherd took his rod and his staff. You know, the rod is the rod, the staff is the little hook that goes on there. He just moved it down, grabbed the sheep by the neck and the head, and just pulled it up. And all the sheep were saved, and he looked at me and he goes, Good, good. He made me feel good, even though I didn't do anything. The shepherd took care of the sheep, and Jesus is our good shepherd. See, that's the picture here on this thing. And he says, I am the resurrection and the life in John 11, 25. And he who believes in me will live even if he dies in John 14, 6. I myself am the way, the truth, and the life. And no one comes to the Father but by me. Or but through me. And in John 15, 5, I myself am the vine, and you are the branches. Apart from me, you can do nothing. So this verse 46 opens everything up It's a reaffirmation that he is the light. He is our pathway. He not only has come to be obedient to the Father, everything he does, he does because the Father gives him authority to do it. His words are the Father's words, but he comes on behalf of the Father to do the work of the Father, and He is our light. And for those in Christ, He is in effect, we don't need a New Year's resolution. We have a pathway. We have a light that we can follow. He has showed us the pathway. He has showed us the road. On this. And so we see we see the importance of the gospel clearly emerge. You know, I often think of those words of Paul in 1 Corinthians 9. For if I preach for if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of. Woe is to me if I don't preach the gospel. You know, I could come up here and give a sermon, and I say I suppose we could talk about many deep theology topics. But at the end of the day, there's an obligation I have, I feel, and I love, and that's really to preach the gospel. To preach who Jesus Christ is and what he's done. You know, that's all very, very important. And that should be part of my newness. That's part of my New Year's constitution. And it's not a New Year's resolution. It's something that I should want to feel every day, is to walk in the light of the Lord, but I want to live out and I want to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. I'm already making plans. I'll be going, you can pray for me actually. I'll be going to uh the Ukraine in the second half of uh February. Plans for that are under process. And as soon as I get back, I have just a short time. Then they want me to go to Uganda again and go to two villages in Uganda. a short period of time. I mean these are very, very difficult. I'm just being honest with you. If I were 25 years old, I would just smile. But you know, the older you get, you feel it. It just takes a couple months to to recover from this stuff. But there's nothing I would rather do, nothing, but other than preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and build people up in our Lord. Because Christ was sent by the Father. And like David said in Psalm 122, I do this for this. Sake of the Lord my God. I honor my heavenly Father, who sent his Son. And that's what we do on this thing. We see in 1 Corinthians 1:17, for Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ Christ should be made no effect. Just preach the gospel. You know, my my prayer would be for you today when we think of About everything that is related to John 12, 44 through verses 50, we just see the heart of Jesus. He came to do the will of the Father. And may each of us find ways and opportunities in prayer that God would give us to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. To share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let that be not a New Year's resolution, but let that be an implementation of being new that we already are. A reminder of who we are. We're new creations. Okay. And then, of course, one of my favorite verses, the very theme of the book of Romans. In 16 and 17 in chapter 1, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone. who believes. For the Jew first and also for the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. Just as it is written, the just shall live by faith. You know, I don't know about you. I mean, I think I do. This is kind of a rhetorical question, just to ask it. But I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. I'm not ashamed. You know, I mean I I don't mind telling that to my neighbor. I don't mind telling that when a question comes up. I don't mind telling that if I'm sitting at a restaurant and and I'm talking with someone and I'm going through a Bible study, which has happened at a restaurant, and somebody walks up and they say, Well, what are you studying? What are you talking about? You've had three cups of coffee, and I'm just curious. The waiter might say that, or the waitress and I would say, We're doing a Bible study and we're talking about Jesus Christ. Do you know Jesus Christ is your Savior? Just ask the person. Well, they'll look at you kind of weird, but then sometimes they come back and and they want your name and they want a phone number. I mean, never be ashamed. I mean, Christ was not ashamed when he came to this world, and he was our bread of life. That's how he advertised himself. See? We're new. We're new creations. You do things with newness. Newness means that you're not going to be buried off on the side Okay. So we get to verses forty-seven and forty-eight. We're back on the main passage. And Jesus speaks the truth of what happens if people reject him. And listen to his words. Now, if anyone hears my words and does not believe, I do not judge him, for I did not come to judge the world, but to save the world. The word that I have spoken will judge him in the last day. Yeah. Jesus is basically saying, here 's the facts. They had this TV uh show on years ago called Dragnet. Anybody see that? Anyone watch that years ago? And they had the They had the famous policeman, and he would say, just the facts, ma'am, just the facts. That's what Jesus is saying. I'm just giving you the facts. I don't judge you, but the word that you You reject. That is the standard of judgment. This is the word. You know, you know. This is the word. reject that you reject the word you reject that you reject my heavenly father you were you reject me so that's why it's so very important that we each of us find ways to remind ourselves that we're new, we have a purpose, we're a new creation, and the word of God should always come forth from us. Right? Welcome to 2026. It's a new year. There's things to do, people to see, places to go, joy to be shown, happiness to be felt United in Christ. I just I love these passages here. And then we come to the last of the verses. Verse 49 to 50. Jesus honors the will and the authority of the Father. For I have not spoken of my own authority, But the Father who sent me gave me a command, what I should say and what I should speak. And I know that his command is the everlasting Life. Therefore, whatever I speak, just as the Father told me, so I speak. I mean this is really remarkable. We don't think about this. We we think of in many ways, well, here's Jesus off doing his thing. Well, he was in a way, but he's being obedient to every part of what the Father told him to do. He's fulfilling the will of the Father. Does that make sense to you? He's the instrument, as it were, and the second person of the Godhead, through which the Father has sent the Son to accomplish his will. And everything that Christ said, everything that he did was on the command and the obedience of his heavenly Father, even his death on the cross And that's why he says in the garden, if it's possible to remove this cup from me, remove it, but not my will, but your will. It's the obedience of Christ. And you know what? Do you feel, just a little bit, do you feel that kind of obedience? Maybe that's the hundred dollar question here When we lead this service today, when we begin, welcome to 2026 Is there a sense of obedience that we can take away from what Jesus Christ has shown us and done on the cross? You know, I think a second Timothy 4 Preach the word, be ready in season and out of season, convince, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering. And teaching. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, and they will heap up for themselves teachers. You know, we're in that time already, aren't we? We're in that time where people just don't want to hear, they just don't want to listen. Well, you got a mission to do. You got a mission to do. You know, we have a uh uh people in church, missionaries, and and I've talked with them, and some of them don't have outwardly a lot of success, like tens and tens and tens of people coming. being saved. But you know what? So what? You're doing the work of God the Father. You know, you're sharing the gospel. You're telling the truth. You're rebuking. You're encouraging. You're telling people about the gospel of Jesus Christ. You're being obedient just as the Lord our God Jesus Christ was obedient to his Father. And that's what lies ahead of us in 2020. That's what lies ahead of us ever since we were saved, and all the teachings that we ever heard on this thing And we see in John 5. 30 the importance of this. I can do nothing on my own initiative. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. So this message today is solely about my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, how he executed and his heart, the heart of being an evangelist, the heart of serving his heavenly father. We see a real rare glimpse in this discourse Verse number seven, that the hour has come. He's about to be glorified. All the darkness is about to move on him. But even in those dark moments, He never forgot who he was, why he came, and what he had to do. And you know, these are dark moments that we live in. They really are. You know, but rejoice. Rejoice in that God has saved you. Rejoice that we have a mission to do. Rejoice that we share in the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Rejoice that we have a Savior who died on the cross and in those final moments of darkness, all he said, all he ever did was, I want to be obedient and faithful to the one who sent me. See, that's the Quarian call. That's the sound of the trumpet. That's the zoophar that's picked up in the shepherd in the fields and the sound that is given. Are we faithful to our heavenly Father? In Christ through the Holy Spirit. So there's a conclusion out of this I've probably made reference to it several times already. But if we look at the footsteps of Jesus. We see his character shine forth. And in his character, I get a picture of my newness. I'm new. This is a new year, a new day, a new beginning ever since the minute I put my faith in Jesus Christ. The old things have passed away, and I should look at every day as being new. Whatever happens, whatever challenges that I face. Every day for me is new because I am a new creation. I am born again. And God loves things that are new and act like they're new. 166 times the word new in Old and New Testament, it has meaning to us that's applicable to how we live our lives. We're not old wine, we're new wine, whatever you want to call yourself as Baptists. We don't go into old wineskins. I'm a new piece of cloth. I don't have to go on an old piece of cloth. that will fall apart. See, I'm something new and I ought to do something with it. That's the challenge for me in the newness. of my life. So we see some of the characteristics of newness. And I want to run these by you and you can kind of mentally tick them off. Fair enough? Faithfulness and dark moments. You're going through trials and tribulations, but yet are you faithful? The hour has come for many of us. Oh, it may take a physical issue. I don't know, it may take a financial issue. But Jesus, the hour had come, and yet he was faithful all the way, all the way. Jesus kept eternal perspectives and priorities. Is your priority eternal? Or do you get kind of bogged down in the day-to-day muck that's kind of out there? Jesus was faithful in the dark moments, and he had eternal perspective and priority. He had a sense of mission. Do you have a mission? I mean, some of you are getting to be as old as me. I mean, I'm 76. I'm 76. Wow. I mean, all of you look like you're 25. But you know what? I don't care how old I am. There is a sense of mission that I have. And what is your mission? I mean, that's something you just have to ask yourself. You know? What is your sense of mission? Our mission should be, how many of you think the word retirement and 401k plants show up in the Bible? Is that listed anywhere? In the Bible? There is no retirement plan. Psalm 9012, teach us to number our days that we may be filled with the heart of wisdom. Wisdom meaning reverence, worship, and honoring our Heavenly Father. That's my mission. Walk in a manner worthy of the high calling to which Which God has called me. Submission and obedience to the Father's will. That's another trait of our newness. Are we submissive and obedience to the Father? Do we have clarity and purpose? in what people see, and what people see, and what I do, do people see clarity and do they see purity in my motives and my actions? We see in Jesus evangelistic passion and fervor. I mean, that's what this is all about. Jesus doesn't judge us, but the word The words judge a person who rejects. May we all be in our own way evangelists to our neighbors, to the person at the the restaurant, to our relatives, to our cousins, to our daughters-in-law, to our sons-in-law. You know, you might be surprised. A lot of people go to church, but I'm convinced that not everybody is a Christian. who goes to church. I hope that's not too controversial for you, but that's a fact. Not everybody who comes to church, they play a game, but they don't know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And is there a commitment to the hard truth? In our newness, are we committed to the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Are we committed? And finally, do we honor God the Father? It's my focus in life. Father, I'm here. I'm here, Father, because you see Save me in Christ through the Holy Spirit. I want to honor you. I want to walk in a manner worthy of the high calling to which you chose me in the first place. I want to honor you, God. I want you to know, I'm just being transparent with you. That's always in my mind. Am I honoring my Heavenly Father? So those are the questions that I would leave you with. That's the challenge that we have. But make no mistake about it in John 12, 44. Through 50, we see the heart of Jesus. We see the heart of somebody obedient and faithful to his Father. And we see in there a prescription, a picture Of our newness and what our heart should be like also. Let us pray. Father God, I thank you for the words