And he will give us victory. No matter how much the tempest rages out there in this new year, no matter who is president. We have victory through Christ. So a new year, first message of the new year. First worship service of the new year. And we've had some themes as we've sung together that I trust will help carry you through. And that you'll reflect on, that you'll hold fast to in this new year. As you can imagine, you face a new year like this as a pastor. It's like, well, what do you preach on? There's so many things. Do you encourage people to do better at their New Year's resolutions? I don't know if you're into that. I might surprise you actually But I'm going to call on you not to make any New Year's resolutions at all. Because I don't believe in them. Does that shock you? New Year's resolutions, what as we know many times in our culture today, they're made to what? Be broken. Well, that's not the kind of commitments we want to make toward God I'd rather make faith and grace commitments that Lord, by your grace , I will I want to see victory. Victory in these areas in my life. And so, Lord, I need your help. I depend upon your help. And I pray that you will give me victory. We'll get a lot farther. We'll go farther with that kind of commitment. Trusting in God and not our own efforts. So whatever you want to change in this new New Year, give it over to the Lord. Trust in His power to help you to make those changes. And He is capable of helping You. But again, what do we talk about? The beginning of a new year. Well, there's many things, and the Lord kind of actually naturally led me to this because it's the next topic in our series on the Sermon on the Mount, you can turn to Matthew chapter 6. And it's one of those topics that's guaranteed to make everyone feel guilty this morning. How's that go over well for you? Well, I don't I don't mean to purposely uh bring angst to your life, but from the pastor on down, folks, when we consider our need for prayer What I can't think of a better way to encourage you at the beginning of this new year than to renew your commitment to prayer. So how is your prayer life going beginning of this new year? Have you in the midst of the busyness of the holiday season and you know The the season where we're supposed to be reflecting on Christ, have you found that you've been so busy that you've neglected your prayer life? I think many of us could probably raise a hand to that, possibly In fact, I think if you could take a survey among all the Christians, let's just say in our country today, and ask them to share what they believe would be one of the most important aspects. In fact, let's put it in the context of this message, because Jesus is preaching this Sermon on the Mount near the Sea of Galilee, and it is based on Basically the expectations of kingdom saints, of those that are citizens of the kingdom that is yet to come. Jesus will establish. And Jesus is pointing out, first of all, that we can't be citizens of that kingdom unless we have a righteousness that far surpasses our own abilities. And so we ended last year with that reminder that, folks, we need Jesus Christ in his righteousness. Because even our attitudes of the heart are sin. The lust of the heart, the anger of the heart. That's murder and adultery. And so we as sinners have to and need to rely on the righteousness That Jesus achieved when he was here on this earth, and the salvation that he offers through his shed blood and the cleansing of sin. It's All that Jesus has already done that we put our faith in, not what we still need to do in order to please God. And so kingdom citizens Citizens, they get their citizenship by relying on Jesus and a faith relationship with him alone. And then the rest of the Sermon is will we allow God to change us in important areas of our life? And so this is one of those. Are we willing to allow Jesus to help and energize And help us to have a more vibrant prayer life. As a kingdom citizen, I think that you would agree. Then that prayer is one of those most important things that God expects from us. But wouldn't we all agree as well? It's important. I don't think anybody here would argue that. Prayer is important. But in that same survey, if we were to ask Christians what they want to see the most improvement on in their lives, I also am confident that prayer would be at the top. Top of that list. I've never met a person yet who comes up to who has come up to me and said, Pastor Brock, I've achieved prayer nirvana. And I am there and I don't need any help, and now I'm just going to help other people with their prayer lives. Nobody's ever come to me. Because we all know we need more help in seeking out Out seeking help from God. Prayer is thus a vital part of life in God's kingdom. Folks, I'd like to call on us, even in this new year, to make prayer with our Heavenly Father one of your top priorities this year, 2025. Can't think of a better way to say Started out than to say, Lord, my prayer life needs to be strengthened. I need to be more consistent. Help me to do this. And Jesus Jesus will with this passage that we're going to be looking at through the next couple weeks. And Jesus is going to point out here that our prayer life it needs to the content It's very important. It's particularly important. There are things that Jesus commands and gives us that we need to be praying about Jesus gives us in this passage a very helpful guide to help establish a pattern for our prayer. And as you would expect, it's far different from what our prayers tend to be. Our prayers tend to be sporadic and then self-focused. When God finally reminds us to pray, oh, I have this need, I need to pray. And there's so much more. God wants to hear our needs. Our Heavenly Father is ready. And waiting to hear when we reach out and say, I have this need. But folks, when our prayer life ends there, um we're not experiencing experiencing a vibrancy that we can. And we're being disobedient to God and to our Lord Jesus Christ. There is much content that our prayer should include. So don't Don't look at this message as a guilt trip this morning, but look at it as a call to further commitment. You can't outpray anyone else. There's too Too much, there's too much content, there's too much to pray for. We can always be praying more, is my point. And so we're gonna see it to this Week and next week, the patterns of prayers for kingdom heirs. We are heirs of the kingdom of Christ. And so we need to know what our prayers should look like. And Jesus gives us that. Now he's already mentioned in chapter six, verses five through six. We've already looked at this, that we should not pray hypocritically. We should not pray seeking the honor and the esteem of others. That's an ugly way to pray. But when we pray, it ought to be in seclusion. It ought to be in a way that it's clear that we are seeking God and depending upon Him. That's a good attitude to have in prayer this year. We've already covered that. Here's the next aspect of prayer that Jesus focuses on as he preaches and teaches to his many disciples that the desire to be a part of the kingdom. He points out in verses 7 through 8 that empty Prayer does not impress God. See, just saying any old thing that comes to mind without even thinking through our prayers, just to have followed through on a commitment. To God in prayer, that doesn't impress him. It's not meaningful. Contrived, and in fact, what Jesus is saying here is Contrived meaningless prayer is also powerless. If we pray as if God is almost hard of hearing, What's that? I need you to speak up a little bit more, a little louder. Or if we pray that he's uninterested and we have to do a number of things to get his attention. Folks, that's not faith and confidence in our heavenly Father. Look at verse 7. Again, Matthew 6, verse 7 Verse 7. And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you You ask him Jesus is pointing out here the regular habit of don't be offended by him saying Gentiles because Because I know most of us in here are Gentiles. In this culture, this is a way of referring to those who do not follow God. Okay. So do those that don't have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ, who do not follow God, do they pray? Well They do. But their prayers are characterized by a doubt and maybe anxiety that God doesn't hear them at all because they don't trust Him. They don't have confidence. That God is listening. And their prayers are also characterized many times by foolish utterances or dramatic gestures of ways to get this Deities' attention, just like they used to do, well, you know, kind of throughout world history. The Greek gods, their followers were always trying to do things to get their attention because the Greek Greek gods had their own strengths and foibles, and um as people were told these these Greek gods weren't that they had their own lives to work on and to live, and they weren't that interested in the people that were under Under them so you had to get their attention many times through doing really weird and strange things. That is what the world thinks if you're going to try to reach a deep You need to do things that will get their attention. Does that seem strange to you? Well, think about it, folks. You think about Many world religions that you know. We have many missionaries that come and give reports of people that are held captive by false religions of the world. What do those religions many times expect when it comes to trying to reach out to their gods to get their attention? Many times these religions add strange utterances, strange sounds, and wrote things that they hope That their gods will hear, or physical ritual. Aren't we aware of many religions that put ritual to prayer? In other words, you have to To do these things, you have to light these things, you have to do all of this ceremony, and then under the right circumstances, God may hear you. I'm sure we're aware around the world that these sorts of prayers take place on a regular basis. We know of places in the world where people have to mount steps. On their knees as they pray. Sometimes destroying their knees in order to get to the top. Again, what are they doing in all these situations? They're trying to get the attention. Do people actually heap up what is this word? Look back in verse seven. Heap up empty phrases as Gentiles Do? What does that mean? Has the idea of just throwing things out there or religious leaders having expectations That if you say these things word for word, then God will be impressed. Or it can also refer to Babylon. And a babbling prayer that goes on and on with little content, or with intelligible or unintelligible elements that are designed to get our attention. Even in public prayer, we have to be careful, don't we? For those of us that have that opportunity. That we're not praying in such a way Way that we are conveying to our folks that God is not here listening, and so we really have to do something powerful or dramatic to get his attention. Jesus says here we shouldn't have that attitude at all. When you pray, don't have that attitude. Don't heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do. Why? For they think that through these strange things things and their strange ways of trying to appeal to God that they'll get his attention. We have been working through the life of Elijah in our adult Bible study in the evenings, and we went through recently that incredible Incredible story where Elijah calls down fire from heaven. And all he really does, he speaks to God in a personal way and says just simple things. um to God and God responds, Remember what the Baal prophets did? All sorts of weird incantations and jumping around and cutting themselves, trying to get the attention of their God I think that again is an example of what Jesus is saying not to do here. Now I hope that we wouldn't try to do that in order to get God's attention today, but there may be things that That we have gotten into patterns with if I do this or say this or act in this way, maybe I'll get God's attention. Why is that wrong, folks? Look at verse 8. Do not be like them. That's not a right way to act, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. Here's the glory. Glorious truth that we must always remember and should motivate us to prayer. Our Heavenly Father, folks, is always listening. You don't have to do things to get his attention. He's ready to hear from you. And he already knows what your needs are. He already knows every problem that you face. He knows every problem person you're going to face in 2025. He knows every challenge that you're going to face this new year. He knows every difficulty that I'm going to go through and that you're going to go through. He is fully informed as to what's going on in our lives in a way that That no other person can be. And so he is the really the only one, the perfect one to go to in recognition. What is perfect One of the things that prayer is, is a recognition that God already knows and beseeching Him to act. Lord, I have faith that you know what I'm doing. Going through, and I trust that you will hear me. And I talk to you. I just have a conversation with you, and I know you're there. See, our Father already has attention on us and knows our Well, why do we need to pray at all then? God knows our needs. He wants to hear from us. When we pray to him, what is it in actuality a recognition of, folks? It's a recognition of the fact that we can't Handle our own lives. That we can't save ourselves. That we recognize that He has all that we need. And it's a recognition of our dependence on Him. And that's all God wants in prayer is a recognition of the fact that we depend upon him. Lord I depend upon you. I need you. I can't live life without you. And that is, if I can put it that way, that's music to God's ears. Our dependence And our submission to him. So it makes sense that he would want to hear from that kind of heart. And isn't it wonderful that we can talk To someone who already knows us in that intimate of a way and is ready to help. I had a friend one time. you get involved in all kinds of interesting things in seminary and I had a a friend uh one time that um in seminary that had had a background in a different type of uh well of of church background. It was a Christian background, but it was one that incorporated uh speaking in tongues, private prayer language, and it was His own testimony that growing up, his father and that other people in his life would speak this prayer language, but that it was confusing to him because he never really understood what they were saying. And so we said, Could you give us an example of this? And so he said, Yeah, I think I could. And he started to preach in this way, and it wasn't words, it was utterances, it was blah blah blah blah blah, and it was these different things. And by the end he was done, we totally understood with him why he was so confused as a child because it wasn't communicating anything at all. But in his upbringing it was taught that this is a a gift of tongues. This is a way to get God's attention. When you pray personally as well, there's more More power and more aptness for God to listen when you pray in this way. And it was only confusing to him. I think, folks, and we are a church That believes that God had uh does not um use the gift of tongues as he did in the be in in the beginning of the church. He had purposes for them. For that gift It's not to say that God can never use the gift of tongues in the future, but we believe that in this era, at this time, in his program, that he does not need to, nor does he use Regularly the gift of tongues. And I think one of the and I'm convinced one of the reasons that we prescribe to that is because of what Jesus is saying here. is that we don't need to have a special type of prayer language or whatever to get a hold of God and get his attention. We just need to talk to them, to have a conversation with them. Empty prayer doesn't impress God. So Jesus says: don't follow the example of your religious leaders. That have these wrote prayers and these formulas that they always pray to get God's attention. He says, you just talk to God. That's really what he's saying in verse 9. Pray then like this. Jesus is saying: just talk to him. Have a real conversation with your heavenly Father. Use normal words, but important words. Empty prayer does not impress God, but petition prayer, seeking God's face, that recognizes our need and God's greatness. And so Jesus is going to give us a template here. Again, there's another misunderstanding as we get to what's been referred to as the Lord's Prayer. Some refer to it as the disciples' prayer, because Jesus Is giving this to his disciples for them to pattern their prayer. But even this has been misunderstood that somehow when Jesus gave this, that he expects this to be prayed in a A rote way, word by word, and that really gets confusing when you get to different translations, right? Because some of the English words change it. Did Jesus give this petition prayer? So that we would just repeat it by word and then experience some kind of power if we say the exact words. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. I'm going to kick back into the King James Version, right? Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Okay, went through the prayer. Now God bless me. That's not the purpose. We just said that rote prayer formulas to try to get God's attention don't work. He's just seeking that we'll have a conversation. And so what we need to understand in this passage that's referred to as the Lord's Prayer is that this is really a template. And that our prayers should recognize God's greatness. And that's what Jesus is trying to portray here. Now there's nothing wrong with praying. This prayer, folks. Please don't go out here and say Pastor Brock said that we can't repeat the Lord's Prayer. It's not right. That's not what I mean at all. But it is rather a pattern, a prayer given Guide. Pray in this way. And he gives them that pattern, that guide to us. It's a better way of understanding this prayer. Jesus is just saying, talk Talk to God and mention these things to Him as you pray. So we're going to start the Lord's Prayer this morning, and we're going to finish Hopefully next week, as Jesus teaches us to pray so that we can have better prayer lives this upcoming year. He starts out, our Father and the King James Which are in heaven, hallowed be your name. Our Father in heaven. Even that simple phrase that we tend to just move right over. We need to take time, folks, and think through that. Our Father in heaven, my Father, is the God of the universe, who created all of this and holds it together with his very word It holds this great universe and all of the black holes and all of the solar systems and all of these things, the stars, the star systems, the constellations. Holds all of that in his hand, and I have the miraculous privilege of being able to call him my father. That ought to never get old for us. You know, it's interesting in the Jewish mindset addressing God as Father was almost unheard of. It was considered pretty much blasphemous because they did recognize that God was so much Different and so much greater. They recognize this intellectually. Unfortunately, they didn't embrace this with their hearts, right? But they recognize God is a sovereign God of heaven. Heaven, there needs to be a distance between us and him, so it would not be appropriate really to refer to him as Father. And so So when Jesus invites his disciples, literally these this first phrase is shocking and paradigm shifting for these people as they realize the great sovereign God of the universe Yahweh, we can refer to him as our father. Wow. That's amazing. Jesus invites us, calls us to call the supreme creator of the universe our Father. It's an open invitation, folks And one of the privileges of being a kingdom citizen is that the God of the universe is our Father, and He loves us, and He calls us to address Him in that way. When we were here before, one of the things that I enjoyed doing because I was teaching uh the teen group in Iwana , come down sometimes uh while my boys were playing games there and it was always I always enjoyed just watching them play games. But whenever at at that time, now this was a few years ago, there was still some excitement about seeing their Dad, right? Um, and so they come running to me, and you know, I'm there as an official representative official Iwana representative and as the pastor And would it surprise you to find out that I didn't demand that they call me pastor as they ran up to me? Daddy! No, son, son, pastor. Brought. A wana leader brought. People are watching. No. Why is that? Because I was their father and I was happy. And glad for them to acknowledge that fact. We need to get it into our head, folks, that that's exactly how God feels toward us. Us. Isn't that amazing? He wants us to address him as Father. Now as kids get a little bit older, I understand things change. There's not quite Well maybe there's an excitement deep down inside as they see me. I think of you know Rand Hummel, um our friend from the wilds who was here uh la this the beginning of last year now, twenty twenty for for our teen in-it-to-win-it um event. He's going to be with us this year as well at the end of March. He had a funny account of how teens would react to him when they would come to camp because yeah he just has a way with young people and they they love Rand. And he said that the middle school, seventh and eighth grade especially, when they would come to camp and they would see him. Oh, Brother Rand, it's so good to see you. I want to tell you about this and I'm having such a great time at camp. And you know, they would just their whole life story just out. He said they'd come back as ninth graders and it'd be They would respond, hey Rand, how you doing? I'm so glad to be back at camp. They'd come back as 10th graders. Hey Rand! As 11th graders, Rand. And as 12th graders. And that's just how it goes. I understand. As you get older, there's not the the excitement. You know, for the running to daddy and things like that, but it is something that parents cherish, right? And isn't it wonderful to think that our Heavenly Father cherishes Us running to him. Folks, don't lose the wonder of that. And so Jesus says, refer to Him as your father, he wants you to do so. He is a great father, but he is your father. And then he calls us, he says, hallowed be your name. Whether you could say, holy be your name. And what is he saying here? If we use that word holy, it almost makes us sound like we're praying, Lord, I hope that you can be holy. Do we pray that to God? We say these things. See, this is a prayer that we've known for years, but when we really think through what we're saying, sometimes we kind of come with question marks. Well, what what am I supposed to be saying there? Hallowed be your name. Aren't you already holy? Aren't you already hallowed? Um and so what we need to understand here is this It is not our desire that God would fix some deficiency in his character, but that he would be honored for his full sufficiency In his character. That we come to God and recognize you are all you say you are. You are the all-powerful God. You're my heavenly Father. And I desire that the whole world will one day Recognize. We'll recognize you today, but one day as well. We'll recognize that fact and give you the glory. God, my Father, I desire that you will get the glory that you deserve. That's really what we're praying there. And something that's key to this prayer through the next few verses, and even as we'll see this more next week, Jesus Jesus spends the first part of this prayer not on our own needs. Did you notice that, folks? Our needs are in this prayer. But what does he consider first? He considers the glory of God before he considers it. man's concerns. So as Jesus says, before you say anything else to God, give him glory. Worship him. This is a call for us to worship him. to recognize who he is and say, Lord, they the world would recognize you the way that I recognize you in your glory and majesty and knowledge and power. Take time at the beginning of our prayers to give him worship. Hallowed be your name, or let your name be kept holy is another translation, or let your name be treated with reverence. That helps us to understand Right? Holiness is the heart of God's divine character. And that should be reflected in our actions. That is true. But here Jesus is saying that we should request that God be honored on a global scale. And that we should desire for that to and and look forward to the day when that will take place. Do you have a desire? Do you look forward to, folks, the day when Jesus returns in all All will bow the knee and all will say, hallowed and honored be your name. Do you have a desire to see that? I do. And to tell your Heavenly Father that you desire for that to take place is certainly an appropriate part of any prayer. Hallowed be your name. In a global sense, but as we finish this morning, let's make it personal. Because I hope you agree with me that if we want the world to honor God, that we want to honor Him as well in our own lives. And proclaim who he is. That's a part of this as well. Do you have a desire with the rest of your life? As we sang this morning, all I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. Lord, I give my life to you. Do you have a desire to say, Lord, may you be honored, may your name be hallowed in my life with my testimony? And help me to proclaim who you are. That people have the opportunity to trust Jesus and to become a kingdom citizen and to be able to worship you with honor the way that I know that you need to be worshipped. I think I mentioned this already in the last election cycle. It was a shock to many. And I don't want to get into politics this morning. I just want to point out one thing that my my basic prayer for the election above all else was even not e even beyond who Was going to be elected, it was Lord, let your name be known in this election. Let your glory and power be seen in this election Election. Let people know that you're there, Lord. And many were surprised. And we still have to see We still are waiting to see the results of what's going to happen in this new year. But I did read, right off I think, Apple News, off my phone. I wet read One reporter who actually said something like this. He said, after the polit and and you know, I don't know if this was political theater or if it was an exaggeration. But the guy, the writer said, after the systematic changes of what has just happened this election, this is the writer of this news story. He said, I can only um come to the conclusion that this had to be God. And I thought, that's what I was praying for. God to be honored. Not that every person that was elected was a committed servant of God, but my prayer was is that regardless of what What would happen in the election that God's power would be seen? And here is um an author of the news, a news reporter. Making that claim. That ought to be the desire for all of us, not just in the political sense, folks, but in our whole lives. And in the goings-on of the world, we ought to desire and cherish that God's name would be known And that his power would be seen. Do you have a passion and desire for that this morning? Then in your prayers, let your heavenly Father know that. Now that's just two sentences of the Lord's Prayer. And look how much we've learned already. You see, there's a whole lot that we need to be praying for. Wouldn't you agree with me? That many times we never get to. So at the beginning of this year. My hope is that your prayer will be, Lord, help me to pray more significantly than I ever have before. Help me to realize there's so much more to pray for than what I ever take time to do and to pray to seek your name for. And help me to do better this year, to pray the patterns that Jesus has given to us, and to proclaim the name of the Lord. Father, even as we go to prayer right now, Now I pray that this prayer will not be wrote or be an away a vehicle to impress. But Father, I just want to have a And beseech you even now that you would help us to pray better, to talk to you better, to have faith, more faith that we We are actually talking to a real person. And that you, as our Heavenly Father, want and desire. Desire to hear from us. Let that knowledge change us and motivate us to pray that we can come to you And you hear us and are ready to respond. Folks, as Leslie plays this morning, take time to Commit again our need, your need, our need for prayer this year. Be a better prayer warrior. And for those that may not have a relationship with Jesus, Jesus Christ, my prayer for you is that you'll see your need to put your trust in Him, that you will rely on your own righteousness and your own good deeds no longer, but that you'll put your faith in Jesus. And come to a better knowledge of what prayer is all about, and be a true follower of Jesus and pray in a Significant way. I'd love to talk to you further about how you can have a relationship with Jesus. Let's take some time to think on these things as Leslie plays.