In the meantime, what is one of the great ways that we can experience a more vibrant relationship with Christ? Christ. Well, he gives it to us. It's through prayer. It's through conversation with him. And again, as we mentioned last week, as we continue through the sermon on On the mount, we see prayer emphasized as it is so many times in the scriptures, but emphasized particularly by Jesus See, we may have the desire, and I hope within everyone's heart that's here this morning, there is a desire Desire to pray more fervently and more effectively, but let's just be honest, folks, we can't do that without Christ. We need his help. He gives us that graciously and shows us how to pray here. Again, this Sermon on the Mount was one that was a characteristic Message of Jesus. It was one that he would preach often. It is the only full transcript of a full message of Christ. Now we have his teaching through Throughout the Gospels, but this is the only transcript we have of a full teaching session. And it represented what Jesus would regularly teach on a regular basis. To his disciples and to others. And the first part, again, of this message, this Sermon on the Mount, was a A comparison of the righteousness that we have versus the righteousness that we need. And Jesus said That each of us need to have a righteousness that is better than the most moral person, the most rule-abiding person in our midst. That's not Good enough. We need to have his righteousness, and so he is calling people to follow him for the righteousness that he would one day Achieve and give himself for as a sacrifice. We look back on this and say, we have that righteousness available. Jesus offers it to us. We can't ever do enough good things to please God and to be in His kingdom, to live with Jesus and to live with our Heavenly Father forever. And that real kingdom that is coming. Because of our sin and our brokenness, there's not a one of us that gets to live in that kingdom without change, without true spiritual change. And that comes through relationship by trusting in Jesus Christ alone. And so we can't trust in our own righteousness. If you think you're not a murderer, Jesus says Well check your heart. Your anger makes you a murderer of the heart. If you think you haven't committed adultery, well check your heart, because if you've ever lusted, and all of us have. Sinful lust, you are an adulterer, and you're not worthy of the kingdom of God. But Jesus is worthy because he is the ruler of that kingdom and he died for you. Us. And so we need his righteousness. He took our sin. We get his righteousness when we trust him. And so because he gives us the power, he gives us the cleansing from Sin and the power to live as kingdom citizens, Jesus gives us citizenship in the eternal kingdom through his sacrament. And now he calls us to live in such a way. We're in the second section where he calls us to live in dependence on him, but in a A way that those that will that are a part of the kingdom and that will live in the kingdom for all eternity, that we must live. And so, again, one of those examples is prayer. So he is teaching us how to pray here. And we started what is considered the Lord's Prayer. He reminds us not to pray in a haughty, arrogant sense because he says, don't be like those people, because God already knows what you have need for before you ask him. He already knows everything that you need. So prayer then is why even pray? It's a vehicle of dependence. It's Lord, I need you. And so I'm taking time to pray in recognition that I need You in my day, and that I worship you as Lord, and that I am submitted and ready to serve you as your servant today. And so then he says, verse 9 of Matthew chapter 6. Are you there? Matthew 6, verse 9. Pray then like this. He gives what it is a template for prayer. We can pray these words, just wrote. In other words, word by word By word, but this really is a template and pattern for how we pray. So even though I'm an ESV, I'll probably kick back To the King James. But the Lord's prayer is: Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is. Is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, and the King James it says, For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. And so we started this back to the beginning of this prayer. In verse 9, that we recognize, first of all, that as the children of God, for those of us who have been regenerated through faith in Christ, through the word Work of Christ, and we trust in that work, that's a more specific way to describe that. That we We can refer to the God of heaven, the Creator, as our Father. And what a glorious truth that is. We focused on that last week. And then the very next thing that when we come When we recognize that God is our Father, we ought to burst out in worship. Hallowed be your name. Give your name glory. This is worship in prayer. Lord, may the whole world honor your name as you deserve to be honored. And may and help me to honor you in that way and glorify you. You in my own life and point people to worship you. People all over this world, for all of human history, have worshipped all other kinds of Of things besides the one true God. And it's tragic for them, and it's tragic for God's glory. Now, God will give his glory But he seeks us to give him that, give him what he deserves, and recognize the truth of who he is His majesty, his power, his wisdom. So, yes, folks, in a prayer, really it ought to begin with thanking God. It ought to begin with worship. We don't often take time to pray like that. And there are times where we need to quickly reach out to God and pray Lord help me now. That's acceptable. But it's good for us to regularly follow this pattern of prayer. So Recognize that we're praying to our Heavenly Father. For those in a faithful relationship with Christ, God is our Father, and we need to worship Him and give Him glory. That's a great way to start prayer rather than just starting prayer on our own needs and our own self-focus. Then we can Continue, verse 10. And it says, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We've heard these words so often, and yet I wonder sometimes if we really reflect on what we are praying. That we would pray that the kingdom of Jesus Christ Christ would come, and that it would even be today. A desire here reflected for Jesus to return and establish his kingdom Do you long for that this morning, folks? We've sung of that. We've sung of the anticipation of seeing Jesus face to face. Do you look forward? Do you plead for God to send Jesus and for the physical kingdom to come And for Jesus to rule and reign. Are you satisfied with the current um results of the elections And say, you know, I'm pretty comfortable right now. So I don't think much about Jesus' kingdom. I'm enjoying the kingdom that I live here right now Well, that's a wrong that's a wrong focus. And it's interesting, the Jews actually, they would have really resonated with this. They would have been rather shocked that Jesus was calling his disciples to refer to God as their father. But they would have resonated with this phrase, your kingdom come, because any good Jewish prayer, I don't know if this This is the case today, but at this time, any good Jewish prayer would always include a request for God to bring his kingdom, to set up his kingdom. Establish his kingdom. And that was what their hope was for Jesus, is that he was going to come and that he was he had come the Messiah and was going to establish a physical kingdom. And he He hadn't come at that point to do that. He'd come to die for his people. And through that, the kingdom would come. But the Jews would say any prayer that doesn't recognize that the kingdom got or ask God to set up his kingdom is not a true prayer at all. It's a very false prayer. Weak prayer. Because of course we would pray for God to rule and to reign. If we want His glory to take place in this world and people to recognize And people to bow the knee. And if we're praying for our own selves, our own hearts to bow the knee before him, then that means that we want him to reign as king. And so please let your kingdom come. And if Jesus were to come today, I trust that there are many here that would rejoice in that thought. But let's be candid at the same time. There are those who struggle with that, and I think many times, if we remember back to when we were young, those of us who maybe aren't quite so young anymore. There was a time where we weren't quite so focused on Jesus' kingdom kingdom coming right away. Do you remember those times? Our young people that are in the back helping us out this morning with the sound booth and the streaming and all of that, they might resonate with this a little bit more and let's have a little bit of understanding for them. But a lot of times as a young person, this is a hard part of the Prayer to pray. Because it's like Lord, your kingdom come, but you know, I have all these big plans. Um, I want to get through high school. I want to be out of my own. I Lord, I I want your kingdom To come, I think, but I really want to get married first. And then I always joke, then after they get married, start having kids, then they start praying in earnest, Lord, please come. But there's all these plans, and that's a that can be a hard prayer to pray because there seems like there's so much life ahead of them that they want to experience first. Can you at least, Lord, wait till I marry? Maybe you remember those days. For our young people at the same time, do you I and And I believe this, young people, that you can have such a vibrant relationship, that Jesus can be such a good friend as you read his word And as you pray. Yes, young people can develop such a close relationship with Jesus that I think they can say something like this I don't yet understand what all that means about Jesus returning. But I do want to see my friend face to face. And I know that Jesus is a better friend than any friend that I have in my high school. with my siblings even my girlfriend or boyfriend. I know Jesus is a better friend than all of these. And yeah, I if and put it in the team I'd like to hang out with him. And so there is a way that we can all pray, Lord, we want to see Jesus personally. We want to be in his presence. presence. And I hope that's a desire. Of course that would be a desire for all kingdom citizens, wouldn't it? We're citizens of that kingdom. Let's let the good times start Jesus come today. But then it says this second part, Jesus points out, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And if you really think through that, you might think. Well, how is that even possible? Um, because let's think through this. If God's will, let's think of it being done in heaven How do God 's servants and those those angels and all of those of the heavenly realm, how do they obey and serve Now there was a time thousands of years ago that the Bible indicates that there was a rebellion. But folks, let's Be clear, there's no rebellion in heaven today. God 's servants worship and serve Him perfectly. And so, what is Jesus calling us to see Say here. Lord, help me to worship you as the angels who certainly can do a much better job than I can at worshiping and serving you. Um is Is that even real? Is that practical? Well, remember, Jesus is giving us a template here. In heaven, there is No rebellion. There really is perfect submission and worship toward our Heavenly Father. The angels bow, they repeat, they sing, they chant. They're constantly giving God glory. But Jesus knows that this world is broken because Jesus in a few years is going to be tortured. Tortured and um taken to a hill and die a bloody death. Jesus is not being pie in the sky here. He's not being naive that somehow Um God's will can be done perfectly at this time on earth because he will suffer the terrible results of mankind's rebellion against God. He's not being naive. And he's not calling us to be naive here. Well, what is he calling us to do then? Not that in this world we would be perfect, but rather that we would be good representations of doing His will on the earth, that we would be good soldiers, good representations to somehow reflect the worship of heaven And let's be clear, folks. One day we will be able to do that. When Jesus returns and we are glorified and we receive those New bodies and sin is finally experientially dealt with, and we will sin no more. We will have no problem with That perfect worship in obedience. It's coming. But we know it's not here right now. And so Jesus is saying, pray that my kingdom will But in the meantime , pray that you will be good representations of faithful servants who are obedient and who are worshiping To their master. You pray that the work of God will be done in your hearts, that people will look at you as kingdom citizens and say that collectively those are people that Do God's will, and then have a desire to want to obey. No, none of us are perfect. We're all broken. But we can Still have that testimony, folks. And we pray that Jesus will do that work and the Holy Spirit will do that work in us. Lord Jesus, help me to be a better testimony of one Who loves God and is obedient to Him. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And help me personally to follow your will in my life. Help me. To grow in spiritual growth to reflect more of the character of Jesus Christ. Help me to be dedicated, Lord, to doing your things and not just self-focused in whatever I I want to our young people who face um lots of things in their future and have lots of hopes and dreams. Are you willing to To submit all of those hopes and dreams to a heavenly Father and say, Above all else, your will be done, Lord. Even though I have these things I want to do, I'll do what you You want to do first. And God will give us the other things in his time as he seems best. All of these, this first part of this prayer, then The focus has not been on our own needs, has it? It's been on recognizing our Heavenly Father. And so Jesus is giving us a pattern of prayer Here, folks, that if we're honest, we we rarely follow. And that is as we begin to pray that we focus first on our God and on our Savior. And that He He will come, and that we will worship him well and be good representations of who he is, good ambassadors of who he is. We don't pray that, would you agree? But really, as far as our prayers are represented, that really ought to most of the time be the start We have a lot to learn in prayer. But then in verse 11, God in His grace does call us and command us. To seek him about our needs. He knows the needs of every person in this auditorium this morning, and he wants to hear from you. And so this beautiful phrase, right? Give us this day our daily bread. Some of you might have a note in your Bibles that's interesting. It might say, give us our bread for tomorrow. And really, what's going on here is Jesus is being very specific about what needs we're praying God to ask or to meet. See, God wants us to go to Him and ask for our needs. But as that alternate translation, I think, more accurately puts out, it's for us Our daily needs that Lord, you I trust that you will provide for my needs, and so really the needs that I have is just one more meal coming up in the next day Clothing, a roof over my head. Lord, I trust you on a daily basis to meet my needs, and then I don't worry about What's going to happen days from now or weeks from now? I pray that you'll meet my needs today and that you'll prepare me to serve you well tomorrow. That helps us to focus and that helps us to trust. So all of us here, I'm sure, have needs that we need to go before a heavenly Father and not that he needs to know them, but we show our dependence and realizing like a small child who tries to do something himself, a small toy that he thinks that he And eventually he gives up and he hands it over to his parents, holding it up and with a questioning look, saying, Can you help? Eh. Lord, I can't fix this. I have needs. Will you help? That's prayer. And then we trust him. We're not anxious for what's going to happen weeks and months and years down the road. We trust him for our needs today. But one more thing. We love this part of the prayer, don't we? And we should. But what does it actually say? Give me my needs. No, it says give us. And so that's a reminder, folks, as you look around here, look around each other, that there are other people besides yourselves, but Besides myself, that have needs too. And maybe we ought to think about praying for them as well, that God would meet their needs. Don't be so self-focused about your own needs once you give your own own needs to God and are trusting Him, then look around and say, Lord, pray for the needs of this, my friend, and this my brother, and this my sister. Please help their needs. Give up Us our daily bread. Give us what we need for physical and also spiritual sustenance today, Lord. Be aware of the needs of others and pray for them as well. What's a real practical, easy way that we could do that? Well we have a prayer journal that we supply every week. It's front and back, and we can make it even longer, multiple pages, but we don't want to get you weighed down. Lot of needs on there, folks. There's a lot of people to pray for. So pray for them. Pray for their needs. Take seriously the chart. Well Jesus continues, forgive us our debts as we forgive those oh forgive us and and uh here's that's the ESV. I know the King James says, forgive us our transgressions as we forgive those or trespasses as we forgive those who have trespassed against us. But really the idea there is forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors. Now what does this debt refer to? Have we swerved somehow into a financial Financial um advice situation here where we are asking the Lord, Lord, uh I've been a little been a little too um free with the credit card. This last week. I charged some things I shouldn't have. Lord, forgive me. Forgive all that debt I've racked up this week, this month. And help me. And I'll be glad to forgive others as well. Well, God will certainly forgive you that, folks, but that's not really, I think you understand, that's not the spirit here. Lord, help me to be better at using my credit card. Is that really what Jesus is asking here? I think you understand. That's not really the point. It may be a practical offshoot of that. But what is this debt? What is the debt here that we are asking? Asking for forgiveness. Well, in context here with what Jesus is going to accomplish for us, this really must refer to our sin debt. And so we pray, Lord, we know that we have grieved an Almighty God. We have transgressed against an Almighty God. We have offended him with our sin, and we realize that there is a debt and a curse of sin that we can't pay. We're in debt and we're in trouble because the payment Is eternal punishment in hell. Oh Lord, forgive my debt. Now there's two aspects to this Jesus is first of all, he hasn't been sacrificed. He hasn't given himself on the cross yet, but he will. And so he is calling people People to depend upon him that their sins can be dealt with and forgiven. See, they wanted him to bring in a political kingdom, and actually what Jesus was getting ready to do was Pay their sin debt by his death on the cross. And so he was calling people to follow him that he would be the forgiver of all debt, sin debt, for those who would trust. In him. So follow him. We look back on his sacrifice on that cross, that bloody, terrible sacrifice, where he shed his blood for our sins And he offers us forgiveness of all the sin debt for all time. Every sin that we've committed, when we put our faith in Jesus, he's already done Done the work, and we're depending on what he's done, we receive forgiveness in our sin debt, who what he's already paid, is applied to our account. And we're cleansed of that sin. So then for those of us who have recognized our need for Christ and have recognized and experienced that kind of forgiveness, is this just kind of the Prayer that we skip over? Well, Jesus has already forgiven us of our debts, so I'll move on to the next. That doesn't apply to me. No. I think just as much, if not more, this is referring to not our eternal destiny because of our sin debt, but Jesus is also calling on God's children who are kingdom citizens to ask for forgiveness quickly in the sins of God That they commit in their lives here on earth, that they might have experiential, a better relationship with God and with Christ. And so He He's calling on God's children, on kingdom citizens who have already experienced the forgiveness of Christ and the cleansing of sins, to say, Lord, forgive me regularly. I want to quickly run to you and ask for forgiveness for my sins so that I can stay close to you experientially in my relationship, so that our relationships Stays close. Forgive me of these sins. If you've trusted in Christ this morning, He has forgiven you all of your sins, folks. You don't need to um doubt that. In any way. But we still sin in this life. And that sin keeps us from having close experiential relationship with our Savior. And so when we recognize This sin that has gotten in the way between our relationship, between us and Jesus, and he doesn't seem as close as he used to, then we need to run to him and say, Forgive me, Lord. Lord, I want to be close to you. I want you to know, I want to feel that you're right by my side. I ask forgiveness for my rebellion and straying away from you. From you and I want to walk close to you again. Forgive us and help us to stay close to you. And he says, then, as we have also forgiven our debtors. Because this again realizes that because God has forgiven us so much, our sins that would have Banished us to eternal fire of hell. God has forgiven us of all of that, then we have no reason and no excuse not to forgive us. Give others. It's expected. You see, we pray as well because, and this happens, this can happen so regularly, folks, that it ought to be to be a regular part of our prayer lives. Lord, I'm sure there's probably someone I need to forgive today, so help me to know who that is. And help me Help me to release and forgive them so that I can continue to experience the joy of our relationship. Because when we fail to forgive others the way that Jesus Jesus has forgiven us, you can count on it. It will disrupt our close relationship with Him. We're still God's children. We won't lose our salvation. Let's skip ahead here to verses 14 and 15. I don't normally do this, but this has to do with forgiveness, so I think it's important. Verse 14: For if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. And we hear that and we say, uh-oh, does that mean that for not forgiving other people is some sort of unpardonable sin and God won't forgive us? Well, no, for He His children, we know our sins are forgiven. But what he's saying here is that if you're not regularly willing to forgive others, don't expect that you're going to feel close to your Savior. And your Lord. Your unforgiveness will entrap you in a prison of bitterness and hate, and you won't have that close experience of relationship with Christ. Christ. But for those of you that are willing to forgive others their trespasses, and that word trespasses means things that people have legitimately for done wrong to you. And folks, everyone in this room has had someone else do something that was legitimately wrong and hurtful and sinful. Each one of you have had that experience. Experience. And I don't want to make light of that. Because this broken world can hurt us deeply and can trespass against us. Deeply. But regardless of how anyone has hurt you, we always remember we hurt our Savior far more When he was nailed to a cross for our trespasses. And so we must, we must Be willing to forgive others. And we have to pray that every day because sometimes it's too hard. And Jesus says, you pray. And I will help. And then finally, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now, again, we've heard this so many times, but does that phrase lead us Lead us not into temptation? to Does that bother you a little bit? If you think about it. What is Jesus saying? Here. You need to pray that God will not lead you into some sort of tempting situation that will cause you to fall. Wait a minute. Does God do that? Does God lead us into tempting situations? Well, this is one of those times in Scripture where We need to remember the full counsel of Scripture, right? And this is a good reason why we sang this morning. I need the Bible. I need to know the full counsel of Scripture. Because if you know the book of James and you You've read there, uh James makes it clear that God cannot tempt us with evil. And so when Jesus then says, lead us not into temptation, whatever he's referring to, it cannot be referring to To God trying to tempt us because other places in God's Word say that's not possible. Your Heavenly Father will not purposely lead you or try to So Jesus must be referring to something else here than what we normally think of as testimony. Temptation. Lead us not into temptation. Well, that word can also refer to testings. And even in the book of James it refers to testings sometimes. And so what the prayer is here I think is lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And I think this is a request that God would not lead us into To testing situations without our reliance on His power. Does that make sense? Lord, as the temptation, as the testing times come, as the difficult times come as the times that you allow into my life to help shape and mold me to be more like Christ. Give me the strength to endure through those because Lord sometimes they're hard. They really are. And I need your power and your strength to do what's right and to um go through that difficult time and to have victory over That temptation. I think in context here, Jesus is saying, pray that God will give strength during testing times and times of temptation Not that he will lead us into those. Does that make sense? That helps. So we're not praying the wrong things. And then deliver us from evil. And many translations that say The evil one, I think we can understand this that we pray for God's protection from evil, but also from the yes, the evil one. The one that roars, that runs around like a roaring lion seeking to devour us. The one that Jesus said wanted to devour Peter. The one that wants to see evil. Against us and not to see us succeed, but to see us permanently useless for God. We pray for God's protection from Satan himself. Because we recognize that we can't handle the devil , the adversary on our own. Oh Lord, help us from the attacks of Satan Help us from the attacks of our own sinful condition, our own flesh, but keep us from evil also means not just Satan, but our own propensity to sin. Sin in our own hearts. Folks, is our greatest enemy really the devil? He is an all-powerful enemy, but actually, according to Scripture There is a greater enemy. What is that? It is the sinful inclinations of my own heart. My greatest enemy is inside. And if God doesn't give me victory over the flesh and over the inclination to want to follow after temptation, I will fall. And so will you. And so we pray at the end of our prayer: oh Lord, give us the strength, deliver us from my own sinfulness. Inclinations, my own flesh, and deliver me from Satan because I know he's out there somewhere and he doesn't want to do me good. Protect and help me. Lord, I need you. And that in the end is what prayer is all about. Lord, I recognize your greatness and your awesomeness and your majesty. And Lord, I need you in every Aspect of my life, and that is the prayer that Jesus gives us. So if we have an understanding of these things, then folks, why is prayer so hard? Especially when's when's when God and our own Lord and Savior Jesus Christ give it such a We'll understand prayer is an exercise in dependence on an unseen but ever present God. Time you pray, you are in faith, depending on the fact that God is out there. And I can't see him, but I believe And so I seek his help. And I recognize who he is. Because most of the time we spend our time dealing with things that are seen. In our jobs, we talk to our co-workers. We deal with people that drive crazy and um terribly around us because we're never one of those. We Deal with the things that are seen. But when we call to pray, we're dealing with someone who's not seen yet. And that's why we pray your kingdom comes so that we can see Jesus But we can't see it yet. And so it's an exercise in faith and dependence. And it is thus a great spiritual battle to learn to pray well. But as we can see what Jesus says here, it is a most effective weapon against sin and Satan. And our Heavenly Father is willing to hear from us whenever we talk with Him. So there really, folks, in the end, is no excuse because We need this. So again, at the beginning of 2025, here is the command and the pattern from our Savior. Himself. If you have trusted Jesus, this ought to be a life pattern for you, that you depend on Him. And if you don't have a relationship with Jesus this morning, today trust him in faith. And thus, folks, then you will be able to reach out to the God of Heaven and call him your heavenly father and seek his face and he will help you. Father Even at the end of this hour, and at the end of this study, I realize that even as I'm praying now, I need your help. But Lord, I recognize that you are our Heavenly Father. In your grace and mercy, you have allowed us to come to you. And seek your face. And so I pray that your glory and your power would be seen upon this broken down, dark old earth world and that it would be magnified in our lives and that we would finish this worship hour with hearts that love you and are not harboring unforgiveness or bitterness. Let us worship you well, Lord, even as we go from here. And we pray that Jesus would come. And that we pray until he does, in the meantime, you would help us to live life. Lives of testimonies of obedience. One day, Lord, we know we will be able to worship and obey you perfectly. But in the meantime. Help us to be good, faithful testimonies of that obedience. Lord, meet our needs. The needs are Great physical, financial , health, spiritual needs. And it's not just one, it's all there are so many needs represented Here, Lord, that we pray you would meet our daily needs, and we trust that you will take care of all the other things. And as you have forgiven us, we pray that you would help us to forgive others. And that we would have that spirit of love for you that's willing to release those those legitimate trespasses and hurt Hurts that people have committed against us. Help us not to keep it against them. And Father, we pray for the power and the help during temptations. And trials to cling to you. We need that. And we pray that you would help and give us victory over the sin in our own Hearts and over that ever-present evil one that you will one day deal with in finality, and he will be locked up forever. We rejoice to think of that. But he is Still a roaring lion, and so we pray for your protection, even as we go from here. And I, as the pastor, I pray, as the shepherd, pray that you would protect these folks From bitterness, from selfishness, from the own temptations of their heart, and from Satan himself, as a shepherd of This flock, I pray, Lord, that you would protect these your sheep this week and help us to use our time well for your purposes.