Our desire ought to be to draw closer to Jesus every day through his word and through prayer and through our worship time together, even now, as Jesus is in our midst. I believe that's what Revelation teaches us, that he holds the churches, and he's observing. One day he will return and we will be able to be as near to him as we could ever desire. But in the meantime, folks, we ought to desire through growing in His word in communication with Jesus Christ through prayer. To grow on a daily basis. I hope that prayer we just sang is truly reflective of what you desire in your heart this morning Well as I've said, we're going to be focused on prayer and the message this morning. Two passages from Matthew, so you can turn to the book of Matthew We continue in our worship series. Have two more in this series after this week. And one of the main tenets of this series is something that is central to God's word as well, and that is that worship is one of God's central commands to his people. Again, it is his expectation above all else that we worship him well. And he has expectations, and he has commands for us on how to do that. In a general sense, in gladness and joy in our attitudes and in our hearts, we should be here this morning, prepared. And I hope that as we talked recently about how to do that, that you have been able to prepare your heart more before we ever come into this building this morning. You are ready even the night before. And this morning as you came to church, maybe there was a little less dissension in the vehicle. We're all working on that. We're all works in progress. But I hope that we're being prepared for this. Last week we saw specifically that God cares about our music and about our singing. I hope you you saw that. You didn't miss that. But there's another element here that many times we we kind of we don't think as much about, and many churches actually take this out altogether. or minimize it in the service. And I think that that's certainly unfortunate, but very directly, folks, I think that it's disobedient to take prayer or minimize prayer out of the service. So we're going to see this morning that actually it is a command that God expects That he expects us corporately to be led in prayer and that prayer is worship. And he has expectations for how we pray and how we address him in corporate prayer. And so we're going to give consideration to that this morning. The opportunities for prayer during worship. We're now back to having our deacon leadership as well lead us at the beginning of the service. I have the mid-service prayer. We pray before the message and at the end. These are wonderful opportunities to worship God, but we need to do them appropriately as well. Other words, prayer isn't just an interruption. In a service that was going well, oh, there's a roadblock, there's a prayer. No, it's an expectation. In fact, I know I told you to turn to Matthew, but if you would, Mark is only the next book over, so could you turn to Mark and look at chapter 11 and verse 17 what Jesus says As he quotes from Isaiah chapter 56, Jesus says in Mark 11, 17 And this is after he, one of his cleansings of the temple, too that he did that are recorded in Scripture. He said that he, and Mark points out that he was teaching them and saying to them, Is it not written, My house, the temple where worship takes place shall be called a house of prayer? For all the nations, which you have made it a den of robbers. He's quoting from Isaiah 56. I'll read, you don't have to turn there, I'll read verse 7. These I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar, for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. Ultimately, prayer is just communicating with our God. And that certainly ought to be taking place within the worship service. And that's why we have the emphasis on it that we do. Let's go to prayer now and give this time over to the Lord. Father. Help us to continue to understand, have understanding about things that maybe we hadn't reflected on as much or that we didn't value as much as maybe we should have. You have already made it clear through these passages we just read that the worship in your house ought to be prayer, that it ought to include prayer. And so help us to understand more about how to best honor you in our prayers, corporate prayers. Certainly as individuals, we need to be praying. Convict us of how little we pray. Help us to pray better. But also help us to pray better corporately as we come together and worship. And we ask for the strength of Christ to do that, for it's in his name that we ask it. Amen. Prayer and worship. And Jesus gives us that pattern for not only individual prayer, but it also applies to corporate prayer. So turn to Matthew chapter 6. has been uh referred to many times as the Lord's prayer. But this isn't the prayer just for Jesus, but this is the prayer that he taught to his disciples. So you could say this is a disciple's prayer that they're supposed to pray to the Lord. But that's kind of a long way to describe that. So we can continue to call it the Lord's Prayer if you want. But it is the Lord's prayer, Jesus' prayer, that he is giving instruction to his disciples with him at that time and his disciples today. And how he expects that we should pray. And first of all, that as we pray, individually and corporately, that prayer should include and express our devotion. Just in general, folks, I think this prayer is one of those areas that I have never heard somebody brag that they've got it all together in. It 's one of those things that as we talk about it, we all feel a little conviction, Lord, I know I need to pray more. We can never have too much prayer in our lives. And it's something that we need to take more seriously. We need to talk to God more often than we do, the pastor included. But one of the problems that we have with prayer is we focus many times, our focus is too myopic, it's too singular. There are so many more things to pray about, folks, than what ever enter into our prayers much of the time. And that's Jesus' point. As his disciples ask him to pray, he's going to point out There are many, many things. If you've ever sat down and thought, I just don't know what to pray for today, well this instruction from our Savior is going to help you out. Many things that we can pray for. Matthew 6, we'll read the Lord's Prayer together and then we'll come back to the specifics. After this manner, pray ye. This is verse 9. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Now I'm reading from the King James just because if I didn't I'd recite it that way anyway, because we know it through the King James, so much of us. So verse 11, give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil. And I believe there he's talking about really the evil one. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now, Jesus is in response. He gives this prayer to his disciples. They say, Lord, teach us how to pray. We must not have, there's another misunderstanding, we must be careful not to apply. And that is that Jesus isn't just saying, you recite these words of my prayer as like a magic formula, and every God will be pleased and everything will be okay. We misinterpret if we think of it that way. Now, there's nothing wrong with you taking time to pray this prayer. It's the very words of Jesus. Why not pray it? But we need to understand that Jesus is not just giving them a formula that repeat these words after me and you're okay, but this is actually a model. He's modeling prayer. He's saying this is the pattern. These are the principles of prayer that you must incorporate in a specific manner. And the very first pattern, then, is that it focuses on our devotion to God rather than our own needs. And we all fail at this, folks. And there's that doesn't mean, I'm not trying to say here as we go further, that there's never a time Where in a moment you just call out to Lord to the Lord in a time where you don't have a lot of time to think through, Lord, help me, or whatever. That certainly is acceptable. But many times in our prayers we forget to address the greatness of God and our love for Him before we ever get to our own wants and needs. And Jesus says that our prayer should include our devotion and our attitude towards Him. And that certainly it ought to be respectful as we address Address God as our very Father. Now, to the Jewish ears, as they heard this possibly for the first time, they would have been almost appalled. Address God, the God of heaven, as our Father? Well, that's too personal. That's too familiar. You can't do that with God. Jesus here is revolutionary in one respect to the thinking at that time that we could actually refer to God, have a close enough relationship with him Through Jesus to refer to him as our Father. That would have been remarkable for these disciples to hear that for the first time Well, folks, we have heard this psalm many times, or this prayer, and I think we lose the marvel of it. And that's a shame Because through our relationship with Jesus Christ, never forget this. We can call the God of heaven our Father. We can refer to him as our dad, as our father, that is ready to hear from his children. Our father, you are our father, you love us as your children. What a wonderful. Don't ever lose the wonder of that. A privilege of relationship that all of God's children have. But in the midst of that reminder, Jesus does make clear that we still need to reverence and respect him because where is our Father located? He is in heaven. In other words, he is above us. So, yes, we can address him as our Father, but respectfully, reverently, and in our worship, making sure that we're respectful and reverent as we approach the God of heaven. We need to have both of these attitudes. And we always need to remember, whether we're coming to him as a corporate body or individually, it is a wonderful privilege to address him in that way. In a way that the saints of the Old Testament never could. A remarkable privilege to literally enter his throne room and talk with him. And so, as we get a better understanding of the remarkable privilege that is, then the first thing that ought to come to us, we want his name to be respected, to be revered, to be worshipped. And so Jesus says Hallowed be thy name. His very person, as we come before him in prayer, ought to be treated wholly, respectfully as we worship him. And whatever we do in worship, folks, whether it's prayer or singing or listening to the message, it all must be done with respect and reverence to God. That is key to proper worship. And our thoughts, even as we come into prayer, should not be careless. We're misdirected. Let's again just be candid. It's hard. We get so distracted many times when we go to prayer, don't we? I think sometimes Satan throws things into the midst when we're trying to pray. Or things come up. Saying, okay, Lord, I'm going to dedicate time to prayer to you today. All of a sudden a phone call comes up that you know is important or the kids have a problem or something or other, and you're like, I have to deal with that. Then Lord, give me the time later on to come back to you and pray more effectively. But we should never be satisfied with that. The problem is many times we just give up and say, I'm just never going to be able to pray like as devotedly as I would like to But no, we must continue to ask God for help, to pray, and that our thoughts and our attitudes would not be careless and apathetic as we pray to him. But if we should say, Lord, let your name be reverenced and respected. And then verse 10, thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. And this is one that, let's again be honest, it rarely makes it into our prayers, or maybe some of ours, but it should Basically the prayer that Jesus would return and usher into his kingdom. And usher in his kingdom. Well, maybe as things get more dark and more broken, I think actually for Christians in general, this has become more of a regular aspect of our prayers, right? Even so, come Lord Jesus, let your kingdom come. We want to be done with all this mess. Clean it off. But at the same time, Jesus understands, he wants us to understand the practicality of it is we don't know when he's going to return, so what do we do in the meantime? Do we just sit around and long, Lord, come back, please deliver me. I don't want to be involved in this world anymore. No, he says, in the meantime We need to pray that we will be submitted and obedient to the Lord on earth as it is in heaven. We should desire for people to recognize and submit to Jesus' Lordship and His kingdom today, as we're waiting for that kingdom to come. We're not supposed to just be there in our corner nervous and just and without action and without purpose. But we're supposed to be active in obedience and proclaiming the kingdom now. As you can imagine, obedience takes place perfectly in heaven, right? Whatever God wants, He gets. And Jesus says we ought to pray, Lord, more and more. We're not perfect in our obedience, but let us reflect that perfect obedience more and more. As we live our lives. Let us never be satisfied with a certain level of obedience and submission, but continue to help us to be more submitted as we wait for your kingdom. Had a privilege while I was in seminary of being a part of a distinguished choir that did triox for and really I was just humbled that I was I was able to be a part, but I really wanted to be a part of this choir because I had heard some of the music that that they had some and some of the opportunities that they had. It was just marvelous for me. I'm like, oh if I could Get a chance, Lord, to sing in that choir. It was called the chorale. And the Lord worked it out that I was able at least for two, maybe three years while I was in seminary to have a part in this choir And they would have a um concert once every semester, and then they would also travel at times. So we had the opportunity to learn this this absolutely beautiful music, some of the most beautiful music that I've I've heard as far as choral and classical to sing this together. And we also had the opportunity to sing um Christian songs and hymns in traveling. We took a trip to New England uh while I was uh a part of this chorale. And just to sing the truth about Christ And see people's faces emotionally impacted and moved by the truths of Christ was just a marvelous, marvelous opportunity. But there were times we had practices Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and there were times during those practices where we didn't quite, well, we forgot how much of a privilege it was to be a part of that choir. Maybe we'd have classes where we were tired and we had things going on that would distract us. And so we'd be in there and our director who is a very accomplished director would be there leading us in these songs and we would make some mistakes and things and I remember specifically many times he would say, oh rats. He said, now we're going to have to start the whole song over again because you folks weren't watching me. And then he said, I've paid hundreds of dollars for these hands to know how to direct you And you're disrespecting all that money that I put into these by not paying attention and following after me. Well, that was a creative way to help us get the point. Well, even more so than accomplished director who wants us to follow him, folks. We need to be paying attention to God and respecting him. When we don't pay attention to the director, we're disrespecting what he wants from us And so in our prayer and in our lives, we must pay attention to the director and obey in the way that he expects. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Help us to do that. Well, in fact, one commentator said this it's impossible to pray this prayer in sincerity without humbly committing to obedience to God. If we're going to pray it, we need to live it. That's just the first part of the prayer. God does give us opportunity, folks, to express our own needs and our own concerns, and that's what the rest of the prayer is all about. Corporate prayer should express our devotion, but also our dependence. This is the part of the prayer that we're most interested in where we ask God to help us. But then many times in our prayer life, we really aren't depending on him. We're just kind of like, I'll just try this and see if God will hear me. And we actually we need to be dependent if we're going to pray and ask him to meet our needs. We need to have faith that he's going to do that. That's the rest of this prayer. The rest of the petitions focus on our need, physical and spiritual. And this daily bread that we pray so often that we know well in this prayer. actually is representative of all our physical needs. Verse 11, give us this day our daily bread. All of the needs that we have, we should go to God for. Before we try to fix it ourselves, before we try to provide or go to other people, we should go to God about our needs. But notice that Jesus just doesn't say your needs, but he says our daily bread. Here's the other aspect that sometimes we forget. Not just our own needs, but we go to prayer for the Lord for other people's needs as well. Our needs. Pray for others. That God would meet their physical needs as well. Again, that's the one that we tend to most focus on, and it's legitimate, Jesus says to pray that, but there's still a lot more that we need to pray for ourselves and others. Look at verse 12. And forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Now what is this debt that he's talking about? Is it somehow some sort of credit card debt? Lord, I really rang up uh expenses on the credit card this month. Please forgive me. And deliver me from doing that again and help other people not to run up debts on their credit cards. Well, I think you know that's not at all what's going on here. But what is this debt that he's talking about? He's referring here about our Not just our sin debt, because Jesus has taken care of our sin debt already, right? As we trust and put our faith in Christ. Our sin is cleansed. It is taken care of in finality. But that doesn't mean that we still don't sin from time to time. From time to time. And so what he's saying here is keep short sin accounts, repent, Lord help me to repent regularly of my sin. You offer forgiveness. You have cleansed me from sin. But when I sin on a regular basis, I know I'm going to heaven. I know that's taken care of. But my relationship with you, Lord, let it be close, nearer still nearer. And don't let sin get between us. So Lord, help me to ask forgiveness for my sins quickly. And then, Lord, as quickly as you forgive my sins when I ask, help me to be that quick about forgiving sins of others that have sinned against me. That's key, isn't it, folks? We can ask God to forgive us of our sins, but we are so slow many times to forgive other people. Let's just be honest. We hold things Pastor Brock, you wouldn't believe what so and so did to me. Or what they said or whatever And we need to pray, Lord, help us, not just individually, but corporately as a body, to be willing to forgive others because you forgave us of so much. I think we all get the point there. But we need to practice that better, don't we? Again, we're quickly going through this because we have another passage to look at as well. But he says, lead us not to temptation, but deliver us, and I believe here it's from the evil one, from Satan who walks about as a roaring lion. And not that Jesus is saying that God's going to lead us into temptation, and Lord, don't tempt us with sin, because we know from other passages, like in James, that God says He does not tempt us with sin. But he does allow testing. And so I really think this can be misunderstood, but I think what Jesus is saying for us to pray for here is Lord, give us strength and endurance. during those times of testing that we know will come our way. And Lord, at the same time, spare us from overwhelming situations that you know that right now we just can't handle. Lord recognize that we're weak. And spare us from those really hard things that, Father, I just don't feel like I can handle right now. I think that's a legitimate request. And then we leave it at his feet and trust him. And certainly we need protection from the enemy, from the evil one. And asking for that protection shows that we're not depending upon ourselves then, but we're depending upon Jesus Christ. to deliver us from all the attacks of Satan. Don't just sit there trying to endure but ask Jesus for help And then a reflection again on the glory of God, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Isn't there so much more to praying than just our own needs, folks? And so, first of all, as we see in that prayer, the priority is to ask God to help us to honor Him well and give us power to serve Him well. And our corporate prayer should match this prayer as well. Well, Jesus not only gives us a pattern. But he promises his presence in corporate prayer. Turn quickly to Matthew 18, verses 19 through 20. What a wonderful thing that Jesus just doesn't tell us to pray. Pray this and I'll return one day and Be back with you. But he says, when you pray, not only will I tell you what to pray, but I will be with you as you pray. He goes with us. And he points out here in verse 19, Matthew 18, verses 19 and 20, that corporate prayer should be in agreement. We should agree together in corporate prayer. How many people, by the way, does it take to represent corporate prayer? Well, in here you only need two. But even if it's two people praying together, In corporate prayer, they need to be in agreement. In other words, in unity as they pray And another thing about this, too, I believe, that prayer is a great unifier, folks. It's hard and difficult to be angry and upset with others when we pray for them. I think prayer brings that unity, but God is not honored if we have two quarrelsome people that are trying to pray together and that they have things that they have aught against each other. And in corporate prayer, I don't think that God necessarily honors when we're fighting with each other as a church body. And then we try to pray together corporately. God's not pleased with that. But he says that we must agree together, be in unity together. That very word for agree is very interesting. It's symphonao. Where we get the word symphony. Isn't that interesting? To agree together, to sound together, to be in harmony, unison, to be of one mind, the same quality. God expects us as a church body when we come together and prepare to be unified, to not be divided. This is a command of Jesus Christ. So it's on us, through his help, to make sure if we have aught against each other, that we take care of those things, that we deal with those things. so that we can have the blessing of Jesus in our midst as we pray together in unity, to literally be a symphony of prayer together in the local church. Well let me ask you a very practical question in the midst of all this then. So Pastor Brock, you're talking about corporate prayer, and we have corporate prayer, we have different people that pray During the message, or I'm sorry, during the service. So if that person is praying from the pulpit, what is the responsibility then of those that are listening to the prayer? I mean, what are we really supposed to be doing? Well, here's what tends to happen, I'm afraid, in a lot of prayer times, if we're not careful. Pastor or the deacon leadership, whoever's gonna pray, gets up, starts to pray, and mentally we think, ah, here's a break. So I can just kind of put my mind in neutral at this point. Pastor's praying. He's talking to God. So I'm going to start thinking about, oh, I've got that casserole that might be burnt, you know, and I hope that I get home in time or Now I've got this responsibility. We just kind of tend to, a lot of times during corporate prayer, put our minds in neutral. That's the pastor talking to God, so I can just get a little bit of a it's like an intermission in the midst of the worship service. How nice to be able to have that. Well folks that's not at all what Jesus is saying here or what he expects. Well, do do I pray my own prayer then while the pastor is praying? I mean what what are the aspects of this. Well it's really very simple. While one is praying, while one is leading in prayer , Everyone else just needs to be listening and making sure that as he's praying, that you're able to agree with the prayer. Not not trying to review or be critical of it, but you're praying long, yeah, Lord, that's right. I agree with that. I agree with that. I agree with that We ought to all be in unison in agreement together as the person that's up here is leading that prayer. To be in unison, a symphony of prayers as you hear the person praying up here. What that does is that really puts a great responsibility, even more so on the one leading the prayer. Lord, make sure that everything that I pray is accurate. And that's one of your jobs to make sure to check as you are agreeing that everything that is prayed is accurate. There's a responsibility on the one praying and the one listening. You're supposed to be paying attention and agreeing together corporately, yes, Lord, this is what we want in our church. That is our responsibility And when we have that, look at the blessing here. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. It only takes a few. But Jesus can be in our midst. I know one uh church churches do corporate prayer a lot of different ways. I know one very effective ministry where the pastor decided many, many years ago that the corporate prayer was so important that he would actually take sometimes 10 minutes or more to pray during the midst of the service. Now that may start to make you nervous, that I may think that that's a good thing to do. Well, I I'm not very good for praying up in front of people for that long, so I tend to try to, you know, I I don't I don't want it to be pithy and too short, but I'm never going to pray uh unless the Lord leads me or tells me to do so for over ten minutes or so. That's just not I what I feel that the Lord's led me to do. But this man did and he would pray and every so often it would just happen that as he was praying you could hear the melodious noises of a few people that didn't have enough sleep the night before and snoring and making it apparent that they weren't exactly in line and in unison. They weren't paying attention at all to this longer prayer. Well, I think we can kind of understand that a little bit, but still, as we see from what Jesus says here, it's not right. We need to be paying attention together. And I think, again, as we bring this full circle, this makes clear corporate prayer is necessary in our worship. Jesus says in that verse 20, what a wonderful thing. But he's saying that in corporate prayer there is actually a special representation of his presence when we pray together with others. And I really believe that's true. Not that he's not with us when we pray privately. But folks, Jesus is saying here that there is a special blessing and presence of himself when we pray together corporately that we should want and ask for Jesus supports our praying together and wants us to do that. Why? Because prayer is powerful and he's in the midst of us. And maybe we would see things more happen more as a church family if we really got a hold of this and prayed in this way and expected, as we prayed in the corporate prayer together, Jesus is in our midst right now. He's listening. He's with us. He's present with us. We need to believe that when we pray together So our worship services today should be services of unity, not just in praise, but also in prayer. We don't often think of that. But the more we're unified, folks, in our corporate prayer, the more there's opportunity for Jesus' close presence and God's response in our midst. Don't Wouldn't we all say that we would love and desire more of Jesus' presence in with us at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church right now, today? I don't think anybody would argue with that. One of the ways to have that, as Jesus says, make sure that we're unified, that we're agreeing together in prayer. Make sure that you've dealt with issues with other people. Before you come to the worship service, make sure that we're of one mind. We are a symphony. A beautiful sound to God as we pray together. One of my uh seminary professors and a former pastor, was talking about Jesus cleansing the temple and was making the point is that when we don't worship and and this goes with prayer as well when we don't worship in the way that God intends he will deal with it Jesus overturned the tables of the money changers because he was so concerned with how they worship. And he said, when the money changers turned the purpose of temple worship upside down, Jesus turned their worship practices upside down in the temple. Well, we don't want to miss out on any of the blessings that God would give our church as we agree together in prayer. So very practically, let's be careful that our minds don't wander during prayer. And it's a pastor that prayed for me, that I am praying legitimate good things, and that you're able to agree with those things about God. And that we can literally experience Jesus' presence as we pray together corporately. I hope all of us desire to do that. Father , What a responsibility it is, even as we close the service and as I'm praying now. That I pray things that are in accord with your will. Help me to do that. Help each person here today to have a better understanding of the importance of prayer as we get together corporately, that it is necessary, that it must take place, and help us to see that the more we're in proper agreement and unity The more we can have a beautiful symphony of prayer, in agreement, and in leadership, where we can sense the presence of Jesus Christ. Convict us of our lack of this Spirit, Father, and give us time even now to reflect on that. So as Luann plays for a few minutes, reflect, ask forgiveness, repent, and pray, folks, that God would give us more of a sense of agreement and unity. in our prayer and in our worship together. Let's reflect on these things now. Birthway. Father, help there not to be anything, nothing between my soul and the Savior. That we are able to, in biblical unity, worship and pray together as you expect and command. Father, if there's anyone here this morning who's struggling with this, I pray they'd come to me, either now or later on at the end of the service. And we'd be able to talk through and we'd be able to share together the workings of the Holy Spirit in our lives and conviction, and that we would do better in the same that We would see the importance of prayer and desire the presence of Jesus in this congregation on a weekly basis as we worship together. We want to see Jesus come visibly, but in the meantime, we want to experience him spiritually together as a church family. Oh, do a work in our lives. That would allow us this experience every week, Lord. And we pray that through the power of Christ, in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.