You will not be sorry. You will not be unsatisfied. If you're clinging to anything else, you have no real hope. Come today and trust in Jesus Christ. Well, the children are off to Children's Church, and we are off to finishing our series in Ephesians chapter 6, so turn with me. Me to Ephesians six, verses eighteen through twenty-four. And Taking this time and remembering all that Christ uh came to do for us, that Palm Sunday Where he entered into Jerusalem, and the people thought he was coming as the conquering king to deliver them politically. But Jesus was coming to deliver them from sin and death, and an even greater victory and conquering over the enemy himself. And he accomplished all of that. And just a few really a few days later on that cross. And so everything that we have been seeing in a Ephesians is a result of what Jesus accomplished on the cross and the experience that we can have in our Christian lives of victory Is because of what Jesus provided for us. You see, we can stand strong. We can stand firm Jesus equips us for that. He provides everything that we need, the whole armor of God. Paul is going to finish up with a very important aspect that ties all of the armor together, and without it, we cannot use that armor. So we're going to be looking at that this morning and finishing up the book. Just a few verses from verses 18 to 24. But let's go back to verse 10, chapter 6, verse 10. For the context, again, is the battle that we must, the defensive battle mostly that believers fight. Our Lord has already gone on the offense and has proven himself victorious, so we can be strong in the Lord. 10 Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. Against the evil, the spiritual forces of evil in heavenly places. And we had a wonderful discussion about these forces In our Sunday school today, as we talked about Satan and his minions , we may think that the battle is what we see in front of us, that person or these set of circumstances Circumstances, but it's much deeper than that. It is we are ultimately battling the enemy himself and his forces. Now that may sound intimidating, but Jesus has given all that we need to stand firm. Verse 13: Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all, to stand firm. Stand, therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. And as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace, in all circumstances take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Now we talked about all of that recently But Paul's not done yet. There's one more thing that is vital for us to do in order to stand firm, and that is to depend upon the power of Jesus Christ. By seeking him in prayer. Prayer is the necessary aspect The necessary action that pulls all of this together. So we're going to see at the end of this letter in Ephesians this morning. That Paul is going to call us to pray and to proclaim Jesus Christ. After we've been through a book like this for so long, it feels like an old friend. It's kind of sad to announce that we're at the end of this study, but we're going to go out in a glorious fashion. So let's look at this together and um acknowledging all of us our need Need for dependence on prayer filled with the Spirit. Pray and proclaim. And we need to pray at all times and proclaim the whole gospel And we need to pray with perseverance, not just a prayer thrown up here and there throughout the week when we're really in a difficult trial or we really struggle struggling with something and we're reminded, oh yeah, I better throw up a prayer to God and Lord, I hope you hear me. No. The prayer we're talking about here is confident, persevering prayer that is empowered, energized by the Spirit. Praying at all times in the Spirit, verse 18, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance. Making supplication for all the saints, and also for me, that's Paul, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim The mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. Paul states here what is necessary for us in the heart of spiritual warfare. We may have all of the armor of God, folks. And we've talked, we've talked about this. Remember, the belt of truth. That we rely on the truth of God's word and that we live lives of sincerity and truth in the midst of the deceiver who is battling against us. Truth keeps us fastened and the armor fastened together. A commitment to reality, the truth of God. The breastplate of righteousness we receive when we trust Jesus his righteousness that he earned for us in his sacrifice on that cross And we have it imputed, accounted to our account as righteous, the righteousness of the Son of God that he earned. And with that, then he enables us us to do righteous things, to please God, to live a life that's pleasing to Him. Oh, when we sing victory in Jesus, Folks, you can really mean it. Because he gives you the ability through the Holy Spirit working through you to please him and do what's right. The shoes, your feet, the readiness given by the gospel of peace, readiness to give, to tell people what Jesus has done for you, but to really be able to um articulate the gospel. Our need for Jesus because of our sin condition that eternally separates us from God. Our need for need for Jesus' righteousness, which he accomplished on the cross. Jesus His blood cleanses from our sins. We and and then of course his burial and his resurrection. Certainly, as we face a week like this, as we think on all these things, we ought to be able to articulate This, folks, better and better as we as our minds go to these wonderful truths. So ready to give the gospel, which brings peace, brings peace to the soul. More about peace here in a little bit. In all circumstances, taking up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. Oh, he loves to send those flaming darts of doubt. And cause us to be less than confident and doubt the reality of God's word and who God is, but we must be confident, folks. That shield of faith, remember it covered the whole soldier, and he would dip it in water many times to quench quickly the darts of the opposing foe. And we can quench the doubt doubts of dart. Oh the dar the darts of doubt, excuse me. Try to say that twice uh five times real fast. You'll see how hard that is. The darts of doubt and discouragement that Satan loves to send our way. Are you discouraged this morning? Ask the Lord to increase your faith. If you're a child of God, He will. He will make it even, He will make you. confident that you are one of his children as you read his word. Oh don't give in. Use that shield of faith Take the helmet of salvation that keeps our minds from Satan loves to work in the mind and loves to cause us to doubt And to be discouraged and depressed, but that helmet of salvation reminds us that all that Christ has accomplished, we have in eternal salvation. And we will experience fully when he returns. There's no need for despair and fear. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Really, in one sense, the offensive weapon that's described here. Jesus used it as Satan came against him, trying to get him to do things and worship himself. Satan himself. And Jesus used the word of God so effectively. It was effective to chase Satan away for a while. One day, as we saw in Sunday school this morning, the devil will be thrown and dealt with forever and be thrown into the place of But until then, we continue to have to be in the battle, relying on the one who gave us the armor, the one who If you are going to be an effective warrior in this army and remember all of us that have trusted Christ we are all soldiers every last one of us no matter your age no matter your situation And we must be prayer warriors as well, ready to pray at all times, as it says in verse 18. But in the spirit, it would be appropriate as we hopefully daily seek to pray. Praying for all kinds of things, thanking God for what he's done for us, thanking him for his character, and then asking him to meet our needs and to help us to minister for him better. There's all kinds of things Kinds of things that we can pray for. But as we begin our prayers, it would be appropriate to say, Holy Spirit, help me to pray today. Because there are sometimes emotionally, some days we're just tired, some days we don't feel as close to God as maybe we did on other days, and we need to pray. Holy Spirit, enable my prayers today. And doesn't Scripture say that even when we can't pray? That the Holy Spirit steps in and prays for us. What a wonderful God we serve. That He calls us to do these things and then enables us with Himself. to be able to accomplish them. What does it mean, Paul says here, to pray at all times? This doesn't mean that we just spend all of our days in a prayer closet, although it would be good to have a prayer closet, and we never go to work and we never finish our prayer responsibilities. No, this is a spirit of prayer that throughout our day we remind ourselves, oh, I need I need I need the Holy Spirit today. I need the Holy Spirit right now. I need the power of Jesus in my life for this. Oh, thank you, Jesus, for all that you've done. Please help me. It is a spirit that's ready to pray at any time. It's really what Paul is saying here. And he says, then again, repeating with all prayer and supplication, three different words of stress the importance of prayer here. The two are the general words for praying. That word supplication means to specifically plead and petition with God for things for your needs. And for things in other people's lives that they need, both physical and spiritual. You think if at the end of the this passage Paul mentions prayer again three times after he's already mentioned it multiple times throughout the book. Do you think we ought to get the idea that prayer is important? And yet why do we struggle with it so much? When Paul is saying, oh, you need to pray more, not less. Again, I think I've mentioned this before. At the beginning of Ephesians, Paul said, Remember me in your prayers. And then he said in Ephesians chapter 3 that he prays. For the believers in the church of Ephesus, and let's say down through church history as well, he prays that they will come to a better understanding of Jesus Jesus Christ in their lives. And so what he is saying here Is that prayer really is important and it shows our dependence on the Lord Jesus Christ. Why is prayer so hard and so needed all the same? same time because folks again let's just be candid we tend to rely on ourselves self-co confidence I can do it I can get up in the morning I can get up in the morning and Brush my teeth and take care of myself and then we just kind of get into that mode and we're kind of we're going on um That mode of self-idealization, the ability to be able just to actualize and do everything ourselves, and we're already at the beginning of the day operating Operating under a false premise. We need to remember every day that we need Jesus. We need his help. are dependent on him. We are really frail and unable to fight the fight against the enemy and to live this life the way that we need it. need to without daily, hourly dependence on the Holy Spirit. That's humbling, folks That's a humble, that's a humbling admission. And yet it's exactly what we need as we get continue to fight this battle. And Satan is so crafty and has so many ways to bring discouragement and defeat into our lives. We have to say every day, Lord, I can't do this without you. So Paul says, be dependent on prayer all the time. Our spiritual power comes from prayer. We must be ready at all times to pray as we stay alert to the needs and situations around us. And that's what he says. next keep alert with all perseverance making supplication for all the saints do you are you on the lookout is it on your radar what other people are going through What prayer needs are ness are are going on and and um people are experiencing. We have a we have a prayer journal in the foyer That helps you just a little bit to know how to pray for people. But beyond that, folks, we ought to be constantly aware and alert. I know that in the midst of our day and our we have our responsibilities, and it's hard to always keep that in mind, but we need to do better at it because Paul says Be alert for prayer needs. Don't be lazy. Be ready at all times to pray as we are alert to the needs of situations around us See, the more we're knowledgeable about the needs and the more we're knowledgeable about what God says about prayer in his scriptures, we can persevere. We can have victory in our lives until Jesus returns. Our spiritual power comes from prayer. And maybe that's why we feel so weak so much of the time Because our prayer warrior lifestyle is very anemic. Arnold said this, the Spirit stands by the side of the believers to prompt them to pray, to direct them who to pray for and how to pray, as well as to energize them in praying for themselves and others. Have we become lazy in our prayer lives? We're not really that alert and aware as to the needs of others and our own spiritual needs. You know, one thing that Paul is saying here is as a church family that people need to pray. We need to pray corporately. And specifically, that we will stand strong in the fight with our armor on, and also God will strengthen us to fulfill the Great Commission. And fill the world with the gospel. That making supplication for all saints means that you know of the needs of the saints. And then also Paul reminds us he needs prayer as well. That God would give him the right things to say as he opens his mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery. Well, at this point, is the gospel really a mystery? Paul has proclaimed it, and yet I think still Paul is asking, and is it isn't it remarkable that the Apostle Paul himself is Saying, I need your prayers for God to help me to articulate the gospel. This is the Apostle Paul that wrote the amazing book of Romans and the defense of the gospel. And yet he still seeks the church to pray for him, that he will represent accurately and well what Jesus Christ has done. And the salvation that he provides. You know, if the Apostle Paul needs that prayer, I guess the rest of us do too. I guess your pastor needs that as well. The leadership. Brother Mike Erickson, we've been praying for him, and he was in Uganda recently, in the Ukraine before that, praying not just for safety, but that God would give him the word Words to say, and uh certainly uh God did, and people were saved, and we rejoice in that. People are being saved, God is saving people in this church. Looking forward to telling you the stories very soon. But we need to pray for all of us to effectively declare the gospel. Jesus gave the Great Commission to all of us. And so even in the prayer that we have in the morning in the worship service, it's appropriate. It's actually very biblical. As we talk about took a few minutes this morning to pray for the Smiths and others, the gospel going around the world. We are being obedient to what Paul asks us to do here. To proclaim the mysteries of the gospel. The gospel is, I can put it this way, it's difficult, impossible to explain apart from the help of the Holy Spirit. And yet, when the Holy Spirit directs us, even a child can understand its truths. Paul reminds them where he is. Remember, as Paul finishes off Up this letter. He's he's been writing this letter. Um he's not been he's not a free person that's able to move around. He says, though, that he is an ambassador. Which really is a remarkable word. An ambassador of God for the gospel. This word ambassador ambassador in the New Testament World, in the Roman world, it was referred to as a legate, and this ambassador could be sent by the emperor or an important political official to govern a particular region on his behalf or to give a message to a particular region on behalf of the ruler. Kings would use ambassadors as their representative to the people. And one thing about ambassadors, especially in Roman whole chair but even today as we have ambassadors. One of the things that the the men the even the women sending out the ambassadors, whether it's in antiquity or today, is there has to be a level of trust and that ambassador has to have um A level of blamelessness and reliability because they are carrying the message and the authority of the ruler who sent them. And so if an ambassador in Roman times was imprisoned or was caught doing something they weren't supposed to, it tarnished their image. Longer be an ambassador. Here's what's remarkable is that Paul says, I'm an ambassador for the God of heaven, for the gospel, and yet I'm in chains. What? How can that be? The creator God of the universe would use someone who's imprisoned to be a representative for him? Well, in this case, yes, he did. God uses the weak. God doesn't promise that when we give his gospel, that when we stand for Christ Jesus, that it's always going to be easy. There's going to be hardships involved. So Paul is saying, yeah, I'm actually an ambassador. I have a very distinguished position with the God of heaven, and yet I'm in jail. Boy, that's a that's a contrast. And yet he says, I still in this jail cell need to know Or need need I need you to pray that I will give the gospel effectively. Do you know that from what we can tell, Paul, as he was chained to these Roman soldiers, That he was giving the gospel. And we are pretty confident that at some point the gospel most likely Likely reached the higher levels, maybe even Caesar himself. Paul carried through his ambassadorship and was effective. And it reached the highest levels. But in ways that he would never expect, or we would never expect. An ambassador? A prisoner? Yes. And we need to pray that in the midst of the hardships that we face, that we will be effective representations for Jesus Christ. We need to pray for each other. We need to pray for our missionaries, for those that we send out to give the gospel, and then marvel at what God has done. Paul asks for this prayer, and then he says, as he finishes up the letter, he reminds us, by the way, it's not just myself that has a responsibility to proclaim The gospel, others have this responsibility as well. Verse 21. So that you may also know what I am how I am and what I am doing. Ticachus. That's a fun thing to say. A word. Well, how'd you like to have that name? Ticikos, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will tell you everything. I have sent him to you for this very Purpose that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts. Paul was an effective ambassador for the gospel, but he couldn't do it alone. And here, this is very interesting. At the end of this letter, it's a very short ending. It's like Paul is so much into the doctrine and into the application. He gets to the end of the letter. He's like, oh yeah, that's right. I gotta end this thing. Um let me tell you who's bringing the letter. And this man, Ticicus, he was mentioned in Acts, and he was with Paul while Paul was in prison. He was A companion of Paul during Paul's later missionary journeys, the third missionary journey. He was with Paul while Paul was in prison there in Rome. And Paul sent him to deliver this letter to the Ephesian church. This letter to the Ephesians, and as well, from what we can tell, the letter to the Colossian church, and perhaps the letter to a man named Philemon. All of this, this faithful man was delivering on Paul's behalf so that God's people could have the word of the Lord and know how to operate. and how to pray and serve in their local churches. And he's referred to as one that is well loved and one that is a faithful. The idea here is a totally sold-out. Committed servant. And Paul is confident that he, when he gets there, he will deliver these letters, but he will also not just deliver them and leave these people, but he will encourage them. See see Tychicus and others like Titus and others that served Paul, they ministered to people. And Paul said, Prison, but you love this guy, and he's gonna come, and you're just gonna have a wonderful time of fellowship as you go through and think through all that I'm encouraging you to do here. Folks, I can't think of a better thing to be known for in my life, maybe one day on my tombstone, still hoping for the rapture. To come, but if I end up with a tombstone, for it to say a beloved brother and faithful minister to the Lord. I'd be very happy with that. Is that your greatest goal amongst all the goals that we have in this life? Is it ultimately that you are loved by the people of God because of your care, your alertness to the Their needs, as Paul said earlier, and that you are a committed servant to the Lord. What a wonderful description here of a faithful servant. It's not just Paul. Paul needs help. And we all have a responsibility amongst the people of God to have the This testimony. And it's almost as if Paul says, you know, Tychicus is coming, and he'll tell you everything else that I don't have time to tell you in this letter. So he'll tell you everything else. Then he says, and he ends verse 23: Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love. Incorruptible. These beautiful qualities. Peace. Again, Paul has mentioned much about peace, the gospel of peace. That when we give the gospel, that it brings peace to people's hearts and souls. He has also mentioned early on in Ephesians that Jesus Christ is our peace. Because he has broken down the hostilities and divisiveness of people within the world. He's defeated the enemy, and he offers peace to those who put their faith in trust. in him. And he says here at the end, you can have, and this word peace is for full, total well-being, not just physical, but spiritual well-being. He says you can have all of this. For the brothers and sisters in Christ, you can have the sacrificial love of God. And that confident faith that God is working, because remember, these are the chosen people. As God's children, they are chosen to be his children. children and therefore they can be confident in his love and show his sacrificial love to others because of what the Father and the Son have accomplished. And there is grace, that undeserved favor for all of those who will love Jesus Christ committedly. That word there at the end, it says love incorruptible. Some of your verses says it it says love sincerely. This doesn't mean that there's no grace for anybody unless your love is perfect and is a sacrifice. As God's is, he doesn't measure our love for others and say, okay, you get grace, but you don't. That's not what Paul's saying here. But he's saying is the more you reflect on all that Jesus has done, The more you will want to serve him committedly in love. And so that love that you have for him Him when you recognize all that Jesus gave for you, you will be motivated to love him more passionately. More fervently. And for those of you who Jesus Christ is the most important thing for you in this world, oh folks, there is grace. There is favor to do what he calls us to do. We need to recognize as we Prepare for this week that Jesus came, he rode on that donkey, but he came to Jerusalem to offer up himself on a cross To accomplish victory over sin, over death, and victory over the enemy himself. So that we could have peace, so that we could have confident faith in God's love for us and His grace when we put our faith and dependence in Jesus Christ. Gives us all that we need for this life and the next. Jesus accomplished all of that. And he was prepared to do that as he came into Jerusalem. Jerusalem on that donkey this morning. Oh, he was coming to do more than those people that were waving those palm branches ever really understood until later. But folks, today, he has already accomplished victory over these things. And when you put your faith and trust in him, you can have peace. In a crazy evil world. And you can have your faith increased. And you can know the love of God that passes all understanding. That's a great way to end an incredibly wonderful book. Let's pray together. Father, thank you. For this beautiful book, the reminder of all that we have through what Jesus accomplished. And as we finish up this service on this Palm Sunday, Let us marvel that Jesus was coming into Jerusalem to die for the people. And to offer salvation for those who would independence trust in Him. Lord, help us to be prayer warriors. Help us to seek your face. Help us to be confident in your love and help us to be aware of the needs around us. Help us to use the armor that you have provided in an effective way to stand firm and to stand strong. And thank you that when you call us to battle, that you have provided everything that we need when we depend on Upon you. you. Father, if there's still one here who doesn't know you, may today be the day that they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Folks, think on these things. We're about ready to have communion. The deacons are going to come up here in a minute. You reflect on these things and prepare yourselves as well, your hearts, for For the communion service that we're about to experience here in a few brief moments