You can turn to the Old Testament again. We were in Malachi last week, and this this text may surprise you as well because I think it It's not one that we focus on a lot. It's a long, a book with a long name, Ecclesiastes. Can you find that? Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes chapter 5. I think That sometimes we may look at passages like this as a little bit obscure. That we know that all the Bible applies to us in some form or fashion, but some of these Old Testament passages Well, Pastor Brock, how does that really apply? Does God really mean for us to take this seriously? And we're going to see, folks, hopefully by the time we're done. Yes, he does. Although this is in direct application, it is Solomon, because he is the writer of Ecclesiastes, he is the wisdom preacher. The writer. He's encouraging the people that are getting ready for worship coming into the temple to be careful. But that doesn't mean, folks, just because we don't worship In the temple, we don't offer sacrifices. We are still offering worship to Him. We've offered the sacrifice of worship today in our prayer, in our singing. And in our giving, and now in our listening as we hear God's word and interacting. And so this applies to us too as we get ready to continue our worship. We're in the middle of our series on worship, and as I hope that you have seen throughout Scripture, worship is one of God's central commands to his people. It is the most important. It is what we'll be doing throughout all eternity is glorifying him and worshiping. singing his praises. It is what the angels do right now and continue to do right this very minute as we're worshiping together. And so we're going to now continue to talk about several practical aspects of that worship. And God, I hope that you've seen this folks, God is very serious about worship. And he's very serious about how we do it. So serious in fact that he actually expects us to prepare beforehand before we ever get to this building. Before we ever get to the service, God's expectation, just as it was in the Old Testament, as they prepared for worship, so he expects us to prepare for worship. Even really before we ever enter those doors. Well, where do you find that in Scripture? Well, we're going to see this morning in Ecclesiastes 5. Again, it may seem an obscure pasture. our passage. But we're going to find an expectation of preparation that readies us to worship God in an appropriate manner. manner in the way that he wants to be worshipped. I'm going to give a scenario here that was is a real scenario of some Circumstances that I know many years ago. I do have to say this though. When I give illustrations, please understand I don't give illustrations about our current folks that are here in the auditorium without first asking questions. So if the illustration that I give made it hit a little close to home, well it it's supposed to do that, but it's not about you. I've not God didn't give me a vision into your family life this past week, okay? And I'll always check, unless it's of course illustrations about myself, and then that's free game. But I I remember a number of years ago, and I think I think we'll relate to this, a family, a Christian family who is dedicated to Christian education and to Faithful church attendants. They would get to the weekends after a busy weekend and the kids would have uh basketball and sports games on Friday night. So they get home late, then they would sleep in many times the next day, those that could. They go about their day, they do their chores, they they go shopping and prepare for the next week and by the time the afternoon came around they were exhausted and so they uh Saturday many times Saturday evening ended up being a family move night for them. Now I'm not um condoning that or um being judgmental against that, but they would go to at that time uh blockbuster if I remember those But the problem was they wouldn't just take one movie, then, well, since we're here, why not just get two? So they would have pizza and they would watch that movie. That would get done at 9 o'clock, 9. 30, Saturday night. Let's watch movie number two. Get into that. So you can imagine, especially if it was a long movie, you're talking about 11:30. Midnight? Well, I guess we better go to bed. Go to bed. Can you believe the next morning they were actually tired? Getting up a little later than usual, rushing around, realizing that they'd slept in, the alarm clock. Oh, we gotta go, we gotta get the kids. And it was a wide range of range of kids from uh junior or two teenager rushing around angry, mom, so-and-so is in the bathroom. I'm trying to get quickly gulped down breakfast Just drive to church, and of course the frustrations lead on into the drive, and the father and the mom frustrated, and sometimes those frustrations were expressed. Until they pulled up, and maybe that argument would continue, but as soon as they opened that door, as soon as they got to church, it was like switch. Oh, glad to be here. So glad to see everyone, glad to worship together. They would go to sit in the pew, sing the songs, but maybe the husband was still frustrated and thinking about what his wife said to him as she He's not thinking on the music. The kids are yawning, get to the service, a couple of them start dozing. And folks, it's quite obvious that you have a family. Maybe one that we could relate to sometimes. That we're not ready to worship the Lord. Now that may hit home a little bit more closer than I realize, even with you. But whether you're doing that, and that can happen sometimes, and we need to evaluate. But even just preparing ourselves the night before, the morning of If we're not doing that, we're not giving God, the Almighty Father that we just sing of, we're not giving him right worship. God deserves better worship, folks, than we can provide at the spur of the moment. Let's get into our seats. Let's okay, now let's try to think. Well, you know, I had two songs and I was thinking about other things, but this third song, God, is all yours, and I'm gonna put Focus on it the whole time. No. God deserves so much better than what we give him so many times. So we need to be prepared. And we need to seek his help to be prepared for worship. Success in worship. Count on it. It involves preparation. You can't just plump down into the pew. And be ready to worship when you haven't prepared your heart. And that's what Solomon's talking about here as we prepare for worship. The title this morning is Preparing for Worship. Let's just read the first two verses and we'll pray together. Ecclesiastes chapter 5. Guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil. Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in heaven, and you are on earth. Therefore let your words be few For a dream comes with much business, and a fool's voice with many words. Give us understanding. Lord, clear away the obscurity of this passage to help us to realize that it It is a responsibility of each believer to have their hearts prepared before they even come through the door. And Lord, I know we all need help with this, myself included. Let us be convicted. Help us to do better, to provide you the worship that you deserve. Let us learn much today from your servant. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Preparing for worship. Be prepared even before we begin corporate worship. That involves preparing our heart even before the service. So here we have Solomon in verse 1 calling for the people to guard their steps, to watch their step as they get ready to worship in the house of God. Now let's be clear on this. This isn't a call for people to to be careful during slippery conditions. Now we actually had that a lot in New England, where we had to warn, especially some of our senior saints. Hey, we've got some slippery conditions today. We've got some ice. So you be extra careful. And you know what? If you have to stay home and stream and watch the service that way, in order for you to be safe, that's okay We did have to do that a lot in New England. But that's not what Solomon's doing here. I don't know that they had a lot of icy conditions there in the Promised Land in Israel as they were going to worship. Well what is he talking about now? Well really it's a picture here. Gardner Steps has the idea of key Keep your foot or to be careful. And it really is the picture of preparation of heart and mind. To fully interact with all that's about to take place in the service. Guard your steps. I could put it this way: guard your heart Keep your focus as you go to the house of God. If that's true for the Israelites and for King Solomon, It's still true for God's people today. This isn't just a warning for back then that the sacrifice of the Of the temple, watch your step, you know that step's a little trick trippy or whatever. But folks, today it also is a call for us: don't approach worship unprepared. What happens when we perform we approach worship in that way. What does it really show? It shows that we're taking it for granted. Another Sunday. I'm here. You got me here, preacher. I'm gonna listen the best I can. But you've got to understand, you know, I was watching the Orioles game last night, and they lost, and I'm still frustrated by that. Now, on a side note, I'm not condemning those of you that watch the Orioles game I watched part of it too, and then I had to turn it off because I was too frustrated. But the point is that we come so unprepared that we aren't obeying what Solomon says here, that our hearts, our steps, our spiritual steps are prepared even as we come in to worship. As we arrive today as a congregation, that's work that already should be being done before we ever got here, folks. The work of preparation, the plowing up of our hearts to give God the best that he deserves is what Solomon is talking about here in this first part of this first verse. Well, I can go through in a lot of applications on that. I hope you see the principle there and the need for this. So I guess one of the questions would be, well, Pastor Brock, when do we start this preparation for worship? Well, I would like to suggest to you that it's not Saturday morning or even Friday night or even Thursday. But that we should be building up in our hearts throughout the week a desire to worship God again on Sunday. Now I've talked with some of you. And you've expressed how difficult things are during the week. And some of you have expressed, I'm looking forward to just going, being in God's house and worshiping with his people. All the dreariness and the brokenness of the world. Man, I'm ready to do that again. That's exactly what folks we're talking about here. In that way, we should be looking forward to worshiping God all week. Believe it or not, it should be one of the highlights. It should be not even one of the highlights. It should be the highlight of our week. Now, that's a a uh What's the front looking? That's an extraordinary statement, isn't it, on many levels? Because we have a lot of things throughout the week that we get excited about. And you have your list, and I have mine. And they get us jazzed and excited. We're ready to go. I can't wait to do this. And unfortunately, coming to church for the the worship service usually doesn't end up in the top ten. Well let's say the top five. We'll give you maybe the top ten. But that anticipation really, folks, it should be number one. For us. So the question really isn't should it be, but why isn't it for all of us? Why aren't we anticipating worship like we should? Really, practically as we plan our weekends, especially Saturdays, let's just focus on the weekend, okay? Sunday worship should be on our minds. To the point that, believe it or not , maybe that we should think about what activities we're planning the night before. Can we prepare our children for worship the night before? I'm really getting meddly now. Are we prepared to get the sleep we need the night before the worship service? Is it even possible that maybe we could prepare and have things together so that we don't have to rush out the door late, frustrated, and hurry? I have a dear friend, a mentor, Pastor Gary Reemers, in Greenville, South Carolina. my seminary professor, my pastor when I was down in Greenville, and he was the one that initially preached this series of messages on worship. I've modified it in many ways for our folks. But he's the first one That I heard these biblical concepts from, and it really just struck a note with me, wow, I need to be doing that. And they would actually go to the extreme Now I'm not saying everybody needs to figure out how they can do this in their own mind, but they would the night before have all the shoes. They had three girls and all the outfits set up the night before. Everything ready to go. So the next morning all they had to do was slip in, get them on, get and get out, and they were ready to go. And they didn't have that frustration. That worry. Now, again, this is a new concept for us, so I'm not saying we have to do that. I'm not trying to be legalistic here. But we ought to be thinking: how can I prepare my family? to alleviate as much of the frustrations as I can Sunday morning so that I'm guarding my steps and my heart to worship God effectively. What this means, folks, is that worship is a high hurdle of preparation that God's calling us to. And just like any sporting event or Olympic event, we practice and we Work, we prepare ahead of time so we can do our best. Worship, we ought to want to do our best for God's glory. So why not prepare? Why not exercise this? Um I was in a uh I I was talked into taking in the midst of my seminary studies a Speech course on acting. And the guy that talked me into it was a friend of a friend, and he was into speech and he uh at at the seminary well Bob Jones University, the seminary there. He was involved in knacking and things, and he said, I think every pastor and seminarian ought to take this class. I'm like, Well, you know what? Okay , that sounds good. I think I will take that speech class And acting. Well, folks, unbeknownst to me, that ended up being one of the most difficult classes that I had ever taken involved classes throughout my whole seminary. process because the expectations of that speech teacher were so high. He gave us expectations and one of those was we had to write out our own monologue and then we had to give it Memorized. Well that was a high hurdle. And we were all intimidated, and some of us were scared to death. Not only do I have to do this in front of this whole class and in front of a speech teacher who is a very good actor. Shakespeare and all these things. But I had to have it memorized too. So I was intimidated to do well, but we had one or two, one girl in particular, that got up and it was so apparent that she wasn't ready. It was just painful. And she got up and she hemmed and hawed, and then she started to say a few things and tried to remember some of it, and then skipped ahead, and then just stood there. And he just Let her stand there in front of all of us and we're all like, please, please help this poor girl. We just feel terrible for her. Let her out of her agony. And he finally looked at her with piercing eyes and said, It's obvious that you were not prepared. Prepared, you may sit down. And we felt so bad for her. And you know, he could, I think he could have had a little more grace and mercy. that scenario. But folks, it is true that she wasn't prepared for the high hurdle that he had given us. How much more so when a holy God says, you need to worship me with all of your might, and then we come, we ought to be a little embarrassed when we're not prepared. So we need to be prepared even before the service, but also prepare for participation in the service. Look at the second part of verse one. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil. And what this is basically saying, Solomon's saying You prepare ahead of time so you don't end up offering apathetic or wrong worship. And what is then a right preparation for worship? Ready to hear, ready to involve yourself, he says that draw near to listen, that are ready to interact, to participate. to take in all that's going on in the worship service rather than to be preoccupied and distracted. That, Psalm is saying, is a sacrifice to worship of fools. You don't want to be in that category. Strong statement, but he's serious about this. So right preparation for worship involves being ready in worship. To worship God in a thoughtful and a reverent fashion, ready to give worship and ready for the instruction that God has for us. And again, like I said before, it really should be the highlight of the week. Not because you have such an entertaining or interesting pastor, don't misunderstand that. I'm not trying to promote myself at all, but it's because we have an almighty, unchangeable God who deserves all of our worship and all of our energy and all of our intent to do that well. Put the pastor aside. I step out of the way. And we give the glory to God. And that takes preparation. And so really, this may be hard for us to hear, folks, but what Solomon is saying is when we become come in unprepared and distracted by so many things, we're offering half-hearted, foolish worship Probably a lot of us have never thought of that before. And Solomon even says, they don't know that they're doing it. And so I appreciate that because for all of us there's this understanding, look, they're not doing it on purpose. You came in today, and some of you were fine distracted, and you didn't mean to offer less than your best. You didn't know. A lot of us don't know that this expectation is in God's Word. Well, here's the thing that we need to do now, folks. If you didn't know before, thanks a lot, Pastor Brock, you know now. What are we going to do with this information now that we know of? Are we going to be motivated to do better now That's the point. It's not enough just to participate. We need to be ready to participate, to be heard, to sing God's praises. To pray together as the pastor is praying, to be ready to hear from his word, to hear what God says. It may not, when we're distracted, and I guarantee you for most of us, it doesn't feel like it's wrong. It's just, well Lord, I've got so much going on in my life. But make no mistake, folks, when we worship in a distracted, uncaring apathetic way, regardless of the excuses, it is actually a worship disaster, and God is not pleased by it at all We do this in ignorance. But now we know. Now I'm not going to take a survey of all of you that were distracted. There were some aspects where I was distracted this morning as well. And I need to ask forgiveness for that as well. I'll give you an illustration based all on me of a time when I was a teenager. We came in late to church, and one of the only places available for me and my brother Scott was Right in the front row. And for my defense, I didn't get a Sunday nap. And I was a little extra tired. And so I made it through the singing. Fasture starts up. But at some point, I don't even remember when, I dozed off. And the problem is sometimes, sometimes when I fall asleep and even napping, I tend to snore So all of a sudden you have me up here in the front, snoring in the front row. The pastor's trying to preach. Thankfully, the pastor was gracious, and he turned it to my brother and he said, Scout. And lots of other people looking around I mean, folks, it was an embarrassing situation. I didn't realize how tired I was. I didn't mean to offer that kind of poor worship. It was an ignorance, but I was reminded quickly of my need to give my full attention. Well, we've been reminded of that and told about that this morning, haven't we, in Scripture? So, with this understanding that we may not have had before, again, what are we going to do with it? Are we going to carefully, let me suggest to you, we carefully examine what we are offering to God in our worship service. The singing. Are you thinking about the message? We're trying to facilitate that with reading scripture and talking about the songs before we sing them so that your hearts are prepared to sing. To think through what we're seeing. Are you prepared in giving? All of these things we're going to talk about in much more detail. In the series, but giving is not something that the pastor requests because the church is in need of funds. No, folks, giving is an act of worship that must take place and I would suggest take place every week. Are we ready for that? Are we prepared in our attitudes, actions, and responses, or are they blemished? Here's another one. Are you helping other people be prepared as they're getting ready for worship? Not just ourselves. Folks, if we're not careful, we can say things and we can do things that totally take people's attention off of getting ready for worship. and send them a million miles away. And then that's on us if we do that. We don't intend to do that. But it's still cause for us to think, how am I helping other people around me? This is a corporate venture. How am I helping them prepare for work? Am I helping the pastor prepare for worship? I remember a a dear senior saint in again a minister a number of years ago that felt like it was his duty right about before the pastor got up to preach. to go to that pastor. He had something on his mind that he was bothered up on about the church or a suggestion for the pastor. So many times he would get up maybe a couple minutes before the pastor, he would try to catch him before he got to the poll but and just lay it on him. And then he felt better, would go back and worship. But now that's on the pastor. And now the pastor's having a hard time worshiping because he's saying We don't think of those things, and none of us intentionally want to keep people from the focus of worship, but we need care to be careful of these things. So that we can do that. The pastor can wait till the end of the service or on Monday or Tuesday or whatever to know those things. It's really, wouldn't you say folks, it's just making work Our priority. It's prioritizing. Worship's the number one thing we do for God. How high is it in our list of priorities? If it's number one, you're going to prepare for it. Well, if Solomon hasn't been heavy-hitting yet, just a couple more verses here. I know our time's at an end. Chapter 5 again, verses 2 and And three 2 , says, Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God, for God is in heaven, and you are on earth Let therefore your words be few. I think what this means is we need to be prepared at the beginning of the service. Be prepared to be focused in our speech as we're talking with others and the service is about ready to begin. That's one of the reasons, folks, so I put the announcements at the beginning, just to kind of get those out of the way so that then we can focus entirely the whole service on worship of our God. And even with our speech, we need to think through is this helping me and other people Well, why do I have to take so much energy and effort to do that? Well, Solomon says, because God is in heaven and you're on earth. God is worthy because he is superior in his lofty position. You're an earth dweller. He's the God of the universe. Okay, he's worthy. He's worthy of all of our preparation. And so we need to ask His help. Lord, this is hard. I've never even thought about doing this before. And I need your help to filter out the pressures and even the influence of the world and the impurities of sin in my life that I've struggled with this week. Maybe some repentance needs to be involved Saturday night or Sunday morning as we're reflect on the sin in our lives. Maybe just a time of reflection on God and who He is. My family and I have for many years now, we have a time Saturday evening where the boys get ready for bed and then we all gather around and we say, okay, let's focus on God here for a couple minutes. Here's what the message is on. Here's a thought voice to take with you to bed so that we're ready to worship him tomorrow. And then we pray, Lord, please help us worship you in the right way tomorrow. And it's a help to us. It's a benefit to us That helps prepare so that we're not preoccupied and we're prioritizing worship. We get preoccupied with so many things that Things that are important. The dinner has to be made for a Sunday afternoon. You have responsibilities. We have things that we have to do. But the Most important thing is to worship God without distraction, folks, and we must do that. Our very words as we're singing ought to reflect thoughtful praise of God. He's worthy of that. Therefore he says, let your words be few. Be careful of what you say as you're coming and as in your in worship. Be careful as we start worship. Should you really elbow the person next to you and say One more thing about that discussion you were having? Or should you wait until after the service? Finally, be prepared to focus with your mind. Here's a strange verse in all this. For a dream comes with much business and a fool's voice with many words. That's the obscure one. What in the world does that have to do with preparation? Preparation and worship, Pastor Brock. That word for business, by the way, has the idea of your job in which you give and exert a lot of effort, toiling effort So it has to do with your occupation or business that is on your mind, that is weighing heavily on your mind. And what comes when you have a lot of responsibilities, a job, and different things that are weighing heavily on your mind, what do you tend to focus on? What do you tend to daydream about? those responsibilities and those things within the world rather than being ready for worship. Now this word dream here can mean a literal dream as sleeping with dreams during worship and you certainly as I made mention of earlier you want to make sure that you're getting the sleep so that you're not sleeping during the service. That's important and preparation, sleep, and asking God, Lord, clear my mind of anxieties and worries so that I can get the sleep that I need I need to worship you well. I'm confident God will answer that prayer request, folks, and prepare you in that way. But I really think what Solomon is talking here is daydreaming. having other things on our mind because of our busyness rather than worshiping God with full attention. And having these cell phones and all these other distractions And all these things, we can get distracted so easily and distracted from worshiping God. And Solomon says, don't let that happen because that's a fool's voice. Many words, that's a fool's worship. We can actually be singing and praying and teaching, but not fully engaged at all. We struggle with mental distractions and work. But as Solomon points out, I I hope folks, but none of us want to be guilty of offering a fool's worship. I hope you don't. And now you have the information to be more careful in the future so that we don't fall into this. We don't want to be foolish with our worship. Look at one more verse here. Verse 7. Skip ahead. When dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity, but God is the one you must fear. And what Solomon is saying here is thoughtless, unprepared worship is worthless to God. It's vanity. Because it reflects focus on self, on self rather than God. And true reverence reveals one's reverence and awe toward God. And that's what our worship needs to reflect. So when your daydreams increase and your worries and your thoughts in other places increase and your words, your distractions with other people increase and keep them distracted. Then we end up offering worthless worship. And Solomon says, you won't do that if you truly fear God. You'll be more careful. So as we finish today, just a few verses, folks, but very convicting, wouldn't you say? Our corporate worship must be done carefully and thoughtfully. Our minds and our hearts prepared beforehand to meditate on who God is. And all He has done for us, we need, as we come into these doors, be ready to offer the best of what we have for God. To be fully engaged as we worship him together. That's hard. And so we have to ask for God's help. But do you think that if you ask God, Lord, give me more insight into how I can prepare myself and my family for worship the next day? Day and Lord, please keep distractions from me so that I can worship effectively during the service. When you pray that prayer, don't you think that God is going to answer that prayer? He certainly will He will answer that and even more. And you will find folks that worshiping God is even more pleasurable, enjoyable, and fulfilling than it ever was before. Because you're ready. You're ready to worship him. Really, if you think about it, when do we start preparing for the worship service? You could literally say, really, we need to prayer prepare as soon as we leave these doors. Be prepared for the next time we worship. What does that mean? That means that right now, as we finish the message today, That you say, Lord, I realize that I have been long and distracted, and I ask for your forgiveness, and I ask that you will help me in the future to give the best That I can, and preparing yourself for the next week to do better. It's a process, folks. We're always going to offer imperfect worship to God this side of heaven. But there's no excuse for not trying and giving our best to him, is there? There's no excuse. He deserves our best. Let's be prepared. And let's be ready to worship him with all of our being. Father, thank you for this reminder. Really a passage that we don't often consider. And yet it is necessary because We need more preparation and readiness for worship than we give. And we admit, Lord, the pastor included. That we need to do better at this. We acknowledge that if we didn't know this was a sin before, we know it now. And I pray that as a corporate body that we're ready to repent. And ready to do more preparation to worship you on the weekend. And ready on Sunday. And then even as we leave from year. Be ready to do it again next week. Because you are worthy of all of our praise and honor and glory and the best that we can give. Help us to remember that and to do with well.