To it. You've already been a blessing to our hearts. Well we're going to be in a number of passages this morning. As I present a specific topic that has been on my heart. It's a series that I presented at Village Chapel Baptist Church And uh glad to at least do the initial message this morning. If if you're one that likes to turn right away, you can turn John 4, chapter 4. We'll start there, but we'll also be in Genesis briefly. And then Isaiah and then Romans. How's that for a roadmap? And I'm just going to throw out a question this morning. That's one that I hope you have an answer to. And that is, why are we here this morning? Now, if you were listening very careful to some of the things that Pastor Marty said, and if you were paying attention to one of the songs that we just sang a little while ago, Bow the Knee. Then you already have the answer to this question. But I understand that distractions come, and I totally understand when you're singing as much as you enjoy the melody and you you say, oh, I love that song, this is one of my favorites, that we still find it hard to track What we're singing. Sometimes that's embarrassing. But really, folks, it is the fundamental question of why we're meeting here this morning. And we need to make clear what is our purpose in being here together. Well, some might say, well, I I really enjoy the fellowship that I don't get throughout the week elsewhere. And it's so good to meet with Christian brothers and sisters and have that And that is true, that is a blessing of meeting together as a church family. But that's not the primary reason. And some of you, I'm sure many of you are already thinking, well, uh, Pastor Bach, so you're candidating. And isn't the purpose to get to hear you? And actually, it's a little disconcerting, Pastor Brock, that you're asking that question. Don't you know the main purpose of why you're here? And you know, I know everybody treats these things a little differently, but you know, as far as how to handle this process, but I imagine there might be some of you even making some pros and cons lists right now. And you're writing in the prose list, well he has a nice looking family. His wife plays the piano, but in the negative, uh he doesn't even know why he's here. That's a little disconcerting. Well folks I do But I just want you to answer the question. Maybe it's just because you enjoy the service and meeting together and the songs and the prayer and hopefully the message this morning. But none of those are the primary reason that we're here. Now I know it's a secondary reason to come together to hear us and to pray about what the Lord would have you to do as a church family in regards to our candidacy and as far as our family, we're praying too. We mentioned this, by the way, in the Sunday school service this morning. But worship is primarily to worship and praise and honor the Lord. You see, all those other issues are important, but ultimately it's not about me. It's not about you. It's about God. We're here to worship Him. And as you read through Scripture, it might surprise you, worship is actually one of the primary emphasis throughout Scripture, and it's actually one of God's central commands to His people. So we shouldn't miss this, because sometimes it's actually trivialized and misunderstood entirely in our Christian churches today. And folks, worship is actually a vital endeavor that we must understand correctly because God has high expectations. And we must worship him wholeheartedly. And the purpose of this message this morning is really just to point us to God. Don't even be distracted by the fact that I'm candidating this morning. That may be hard. But let's keep our focus on God. And then we're functioning and we are here for the right purpose. The primary purpose of our worship is to obey God and to please him this morning and not ourselves. And actually the word worship originally in English had the idea of worship, that one is worthy of worship. And I hope there's no argument today that the God that we serve, folks, is fully worthy of our worship this morning. That's so missed in so much of our church environment in our world today. Yeah, I've got a couple things here. That amused me from a particular ministry and political satire website. I'll give you a couple things here Ways to entice entice back to church those that have strayed for a while And a couple of these, I'm not going to give all of them, but suggestions were. Number one, offer of VIP backstage passes to meet the pastor afterwards. That might be good. Or how about this? Number two, everybody gets a game board buzzer to press whenever the pastor says something they don't like, because there's nothing like audience participation. Or tie a string to their smartphone and slowly pull it toward the church doors. That would get some people in the back of the church. Here's another one. I really thought this was funny. And if you don't, it's just my sense of humor. I'm sorry. Now remember, this is this is from a satire website, okay? Let's be clear on that. What it describes, a church of the harbor unveiled its new sleep number pews for congregants this past Sunday, becoming the first church in the nation to offer personalized, adjustable sleep options for members. While many churches force you to try to get comfortable on a hard pew or chair, this church wants to revolutionize the way you sleep during a service. Attendees entering the building will be handed their own wireless remote, which they can use to tweak their own sleep number pew to their heart's content. One deacon was interviewed. He said, finally you can adjust your pew to that optim level of resistance and incline for caulking out during the pastor's message. He demonstrated his own pew in the back row. For instance, I like to recline almost all the way down. And I also like very little resistance. I want my pew to be as soft as a seeker-sensitive gospel message. Oh yeah, right there. That's right. That's perfect, he muttered as he drifted off to sleep. Ushers will make a circuit around the room, passing out blindfolds and earplugs in case the sermon is too distracting for them I'm glad you're laughing. That's not something that we did at Villas Chapel Baptist Church, and that's not something I don't think that we're going to do at Upper Crossroads here. I would hope not. But it does it does represent something and it does uh give satire something that uh my way of thinking That is a problem. And there are a lot of churches out there that everything that they do is their main thought is how to please the people and make them comfortable. Now folks in a church like Upper Crossroads, we know you folks well. I know that you understand that that's not the purpose of coming together to worship. But you realize even, let's just say, in conservative Baptist churches, there is this mindset that somehow sometimes kind of creeps in. And it comes in this way. After a service, when you go out to your cars and you're driving home, you might say something to your family like, so What did you think of the message today? Did you like the music? Did you like the prayer time? What did you think about Pastor Brock 's message? Need to think some more on that. All of those would be normal in a church setting, and probably that conversation has happened in your vehicle. Well, folks, you realize that that's asking the wrong question The question, first of all, should not be, what did you think about the service, or did you enjoy the service? But folks, the real question is: what did God get out of the service this morning? Was he pleased? In our worship, in what we did this morning. John 4, 23 through 24, Jesus makes this clear to the Samaritan woman. But the hour cometh, and now is, and that hour is now, by the way, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. And remember that song we just sang, bow the knee. Well that word worship has the idea of bowing down. Of submitting, of giving reverence and awe to someone else. And of course, in our context here, that is God. As we saw this morning in Colossians, that should be the Lord Jesus Christ. Bowing down is an act of worship, reverence, or respect, and it symbolizes the believer's grateful response to all that God has done for him. And Jesus says that type of worship must be done by my followers in spirit and in truth. And that word truth means according to how I say it needs to be done. We don't think about that as often as we should. But we need to submit all our desires and likes and preferences ultimately to our God. To the Lord Jesus Christ. One seminary professor of mine, a mentor of mine, said this: Worship is the process of declaring by whatever means God ordains that the Lord is full of glory. It's to be all about God. And worship is attributing glory to God and not contributing something to Him, but recognizing who He is. And so the title of the message today is going to be Purposeful Worship. And I hope that it's a help to you as we consider further of these things. Father, what a blessing it is to be able to be here at Upper Crossroads this morning. Lord, we know. That many people have been involved and many dear people at this church have have discussed And uh talked over and prayed and sought your will in this whole process For us even to be here at this point. And I'm so grateful for that, Lord. Thank you for faithful servants here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. But Father, help us now to put away the distractions, and there are many, and we acknowledge that, as we hear now from your word and realize that our focus at this time, our worship, needs to be directed all to you. And help us, Lord. We need your help to do that. We're distracted people. But as we hear from your word this morning, help us to be focused singularly on you. And let the passages remind us of that as well, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Worship is purposeful and it is directed toward God. For our Lord Jesus Christ. And as we consider this, folks, first of all, we must purpose in our worship to honor God. And part of that, then, is obeying God in worship. Now we can go all the way back to Genesis 22. Go ahead and turn there. We're not going to be in this passage long. This is a passage that I could spend literally at least maybe one or two messages in And we're just going to go quickly because there's a principle that I want us to see in this. And this is that dramatic event, probably the most dramatic in Abraham's life. Of where God literally commands him, it's not a request, but calls him to offer up his own son. And as we come to this passage, it's still sometimes it sounds strange to us. Why would God do this? Well, it's the God of the Old Testament, and he was a little more strict and mean. No, there were purposes for why God did this. And the understanding of that helps us understand his expectation for us in worship. Now this passage, this account of Abraham taking Isaac up the mountain to worship him. And by the way, it seems like best to interpret this mountain as the one that the city of Jerusalem would be built on later on. Wasn't there another son that was offered up? But I'm getting ahead of myself, okay? This passage does have some unique characteristics that are not applicable to today. Obviously God does not call us to offer up our children to him. Aren't we thankful for that? And we know by the end of the story that's not what happened here anyway. So that's a wrong application to obviously to this uh this passage, but it was a unique test from God for a unique and centrally important figure within God's plan. That was Abraham of raising up a nation of people to be his own and testify of his greatness. And yes, as I mentioned a few minutes ago, I do believe it also it was a vital picture Of the ultimate sacrifice that God the Father would make of his own son on that same mountain for the sins of the world. And Isaac was able to be a part. of that glorious picture. But the actual test here is really a simple one, although it had to be difficult, right? Let's look then, chapter 22, verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt or test, because God doesn't tempt. But he does test, this is a test, Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I would tell thee of. We lose sometimes the reality of how this of what Abraham had to be thinking. What would you think if God asked this of you? Wouldn't you at least be tempted to question? God, I no, I okay. But our only son? We waited a long time? I mean just to say something, isn't it amazing that we have no record that Abraham questioned God at all? That's a miracle. By the way, that was a miracle of faith that God worked in Abraham's life. God did that work in his life. But this was, there's a little bit, sometimes we can misunderstand. Was this the same sort of offering that the people of God and Israel God called them later through Moses to offer up and the significance of the sacrifice That would one day represent the sacrificial lamb. No, that's too far ahead of the story. But what this is, this is an offering of worship. A sacrifice of worship. And what we see here is Abraham is willing to worship God in whatever way God would declare, even though this was rather, wouldn't you say, unexpected. So really, it's simple in one sense. Would Abraham obey God in faith the way that God commanded him him to worship. God was giving Abraham a requirement for worship that was abhorrent to him. Obey God by killing my own son. How is this possible? This is one of the earliest acts of Scripture, of excuse me, of worship in Scripture And guess what? Does the primary principle say here describe someone that gets to do whatever they want? No. This is one, God says, you worship me in this way, Abraham. And Abraham submits to the way that God calls him to worship. Now that's a principle, folks, that continues on to today. In principle. Abraham was willing to do this. And so let's get to the dramatic part of the story here, okay, before we move on. Verse 9, and they came to the place where God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there. Now remember that touching scene where Isaac is saying, Dad, how are we going to offer up an offering? We don't have the equipment. We don't have the land. And Abraham says, God will provide And at this point then at verse nine God or Isaac realizes, oh, it looks like it's me. And he's still willing to get on that altar, folks. There's a remarkable faith here that God has worked in Isaac's life too. Halfway through verse 9. And he laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here I am. He said, Lay not thy hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything to him, for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son's Now that doesn't mean that God was testing with the idea of, I want to really see if Abraham's going to do this or not. Okay, God knew what Abraham was going to do. He's God, He's sovereign. But he's saying he's basically this is a language of Abraham has passed the test because he was willing to obey God and worship him in the way that God had called him to. And then this beautiful picture that God provided another source for this sacrifice. Again, folks, one day God the Father would provide the ultimate sacrifice. For Abraham, for Isaac, and for all of us. And Abraham here got to be a marvelous picture of that. But he didn't know all this. He just knew God's asking me to do a hard thing in worship, and I don't want to do it, but I will. And he was willing to do that. The principle here, really , take all of this, these marvelous things, and the marvelous blessings that God the Father then Gives Abraham as you continue to read. Verse 18, in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because why why is he blessing him? Because thou hast obeyed my voice. You've obeyed me in what I've commanded you in worship, Abraham, and you will receive incredible blessings that we still are waiting for their fulfillment of today. God honored this man in a mighty way. But he is willing to be obedient to God. So obedience and worship is really a key aspect of usefulness for God's servants. Worship ultimately again is not, I don't get to choose what I want to do, but it's what God wants me to do in worship. Well, not just obedience, but we must purpose to please God in our worship, which I understand is somewhat of the same thing. But turn to Isaiah 58, verses 13 and 14. And here in this passage, Isaiah is highlighting for God and the Old Testament, the Old Testament people. The need to choose what God delights and what pleases him rather than what pleases them on their day of worship, the Sabbath. I'm sure there was a lot of things that they wanted to do. By what you think about early on with Israel and their worship, Uh they they committed a major sin in doing worship their own way. Do you remember when Moses went up the mountain? And they were so used to worshiping false gods in Israel that somebody Got the bright idea and came to Aaron, hey, let's let's worship the God of heaven, our God, but let's make a nice image of him as a golden calf. And that was their idea, and it seemed right to them because of their experience in Egypt that this is a right way to worship God, but they forgot to ask God. So God's people needed a little work in knowing what was acceptable to him just because they liked it or it made sense to them even. Doesn't mean that it was right. And God reminds him of that here. Verse 13, if thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath , From doing thy pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable. Here's a key phrase, and shall honor him, the Lord. not doing or going thine own way or doing things in worship in thine own way, but you honor him, nor finding thy own pleasure, not doing what you like to do in worship. Or even speaking the words that you want to speak and worship, but you're honoring him. Verse 14, then thou shalt delight thyself in the Lord. And I will cause thee to ride upon the high places, the heights of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father, and the mouth of the Lord have spoken it. Isn't it true that in our Christian culture today everybody's trying to seek for the best, most Exciting worship experience. And yet it's clear here, folks, that obedience to God in worship is the most pleasing, the most joyful way to worship Him. It's the way that He constructed the whole thing. Now a lot of times we get our own ideas in our culture of what that needs to be, and we have to take time to work through what really does God expect in worship. That's why I went through a whole series with our church family up in New Hampshire, Village Chapel Baptist Church, because this isn't a topic you can cover in one message. How do we best please God? And that's a big topic, but God does give us the way and highlights the way that we can please Him. And there's two emphasis here for the Sabbath that they're talking about. Rest and worship. The need to rest and the need to worship God. One commentator said this, in a word, the Sabbath calls for careful, thoughtful living. This is great. It is not a day for doing as you please, because it is my holy day, the Lord's holy day, and worthy to be honored. It is a day, therefore, for reverential, thoughtful use, coupled with sweet joy. The determining factor is whether this or that activity defiles or honors the holiness of the day, whether it is a mere indulgence of a personal pleasure or preference, or whether it conduces sweet delight in the Lord. Now the Spirit may lead us in different ways in this. But let me just ask you a question to give to show you how serious I am about this. Folks, how much time as you came in this morning did you think Did you take to prepare your minds for the worship we were about ready to take to partake in How long did it take you in this service for you to finally get your mind focused on Christ? Now I'm not, I'm not judging you in one sense because I understand. Hey, I'm the one that's that's candidating here. I can tell you there's a lot of things on my mind this morning as well But we ought to be preparing ourselves for worship. Another part of this series I described, I think, even the day before. What do you do on Saturday evenings that prepares your heart to worship God the next day? What's the conversations in your vehicle as you're driving to church that's preparing your heart to worship God in the right way? And then you could go into the fact we'll see in Romans that really we're supposed to have personal worship throughout the week, but that's another series. That's another topic for another time. The point is, we don't really come to worship prepared as we should be because we don't, we're not prepared for the object of our worship being God and our focus being on Him, and it needs to. He expects that from us. Well, now, those of you that were listening very closely might have caught the fact that in this passage in Isaiah, he's talking about the Sabbath. So you might say, well, Pastor Brock, we don't worship on the Sabbath anymore. We worship on the Lord's Day. The Sabbath is on a Saturday. And maybe on your pros and cons list that you're writing down, maybe a con is He he is supporting worship on the Sabbath, uh, he's kinda got that mixed up. No. No, I know I know. Saturday for the Jewish people is the Sabbath. And so that doesn't directly to apply that to us in that way. Okay. Well that was their worship day. What is our worship day today, folks? It's Sunday. So the same general principle still applies. Whether it's Saturday or Sunday, our focus needs to be on God and how He wants us to worship. So you can take that off your cons list, by the way, if you had that already. We don't strictly observe the Old Testament law, but God has never done away with his people's need for corporate worship. and per focus on him. That expectation, folks, is today in this church building. And that takes place in the normally the morning worship service. And so what Isaiah is pointing his people here to is we need to take thought on how our worship is pleasing God and not ultimately pleasing us. The side benefit of pleasing God in worship is that it will please us. He says that here, but we get it mixed up. We must please God before people. And really, ministry rock-wide, that's a great characteristic. That's a great standard. I can tell you as a pastor, that's my goal. Please God first. Please the Lord Jesus in everything that I do. And then also take care of the people. But in my ministry, folks, Jesus comes first. I obey him. I knew a man who told another pastor who told kind of an amusing story. about um getting married and uh the the honeymoon week and he was just so excited about a lot of different aspects of things but he really enjoyed coffee And his newlywed wife really had never made coffee before. She didn't drink coffee. But he woke up one morning and he heard her busy off another part of wherever they were staying for their Um for their their honeymoon. And he could smell coffee. And he realized she's making coffee for me. And he got excited. He said, wow, you know, I've married the best woman in the whole world. And not only am I married, but she makes me coffee too. This is great. He was so excited. And she came in and she brought that steaming hot cup of coffee and she was excited and she said, it's the first time I'm ever making coffee. And he said, Oh, this is great. She's willing to do this for me. And she hands it to him while he's in bed and he says up. And he took one set. And he had to do the best he could because his loving wife is weighing on his every action. What's she gonna do? Is he gonna like it? And folks, he said it was the most terrible cup of coffee that he's ever had. And so he carefully, not to disdain or anything, he said, oh, this is coffee. How how did you make it? Well she said, I saw you had a bunch of bags of coffee and there were a number of flavored coffees where they were almost empty, and so I just used up all those different bags of flavored coffee and put it. together. And he was like, oh, well now I know. You know, you know how kids, I don't know if they still do, but when we were kids, my kids still did sometimes they mix all the sodas together and then you have this weird green Lowing mass. Oh, terrible. Well, she wanted to please him, but she didn't have the knowledge to do that. She didn't do it in the right way. The heart was there, right? Folks, many times I think it's just that simple. Can sincere people who love the Lord and want to worship Him Still worship him in the wrong way? Yes, we can. And we need to know God's word well and his expectations his principles so that we don't hand him a terrible tasting cup of worship. But it's pure and pleasing before Him. That is our highest goal. Every part of our worship should be evaluated then. The singing, the prayer. The giving. You're not giving just because this church needs your money. No, Jesus is head of the church. He'll take care of us. You're giving to worship God. That needs to be our focus. And then listening to the message as well. We have a few more minutes here. Turn to Romans 14. We're going to go through this briefly, 5 through 9. We've seen that we need to worship, we need to purpose in our worship to honor God, but we also must purpose in our worship to serve God. Not to serve ourselves. Now, this passage I've actually done a series on it. It's about the conscience, and it's a very important series. that I think a lot of churches misunderstand. We're not going to get into a lot of aspects of this passage today. But there's one point that I want to make clear. And that is, and we'll see that in this passage in just a minute, starting at verse 5. But we must purpose to obey God in our corporate worship. But also in our personal worship. God expects us to obey Him in our corporate worship. And so Paul gives an example in this passage on the conscience. about how his people observe, God's people observe the holy day, the Lord's day. And he says this, one man esteemeth one day above, or better than another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded or convicted in his own mind. He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto or the honor of the Lord. And he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth, eateth to the honor, I'm adding that word, to the honor of the Lord, for he giveth God thanks. And he that eateth not to the Lord, he eateth not and giveth God thanks. There's a lot here that I could get into, and here's the only point I want to make on this. Did you notice that when it comes to issues, and this is describing each person and their approach to worship on corporate worship for us at the Sunday morning. that they submit their desires and convictions unto what brings honor And gives advantage. Go back to that phrase, regardeth it to the Lord. That actually said actually really means that gives the advantage to the Lord. In other words, God's people, when they come together, must primarily submit to themselves: how is this worship of advantage to Jesus Christ? Does this please Jesus Christ? One friend of mine said he observes it, describes it this way, as an advantage to the Lord, like I just said. And so one question that ought to come up in every worship service. is how can we worship God publicly in a way that brings him the most glory? Not what that brings me the most pleasure. Unfortunately, let's be honest, we think that way sometimes I like this song and I like this and I want this, and that tends to dominate our thoughts when it comes to worship. And very sadly, embarrassingly for many of us We don't often ask what is going to bring the most glory to God. But I like this aspect of ministry, of the worship service. But does it bring the most glory to God? Always needs to be the first question. Well, let me just expand this briefly as we finish up here. Because yes, have you have you are you now agreeing with me if you didn't before that the main thing, the main purpose of worship that we're here to do this morning is not even to focus on Pastor Brock as a candidate? But it's to please the Lord with everything that we do in this worship service. It's clear from Scripture. But, folks, this attitude extends beyond just the service. We don't leave here and say, okay, oh I can do live with however I want. Rest of the time is mine. I gave God his time. I mean I gave God over an hour because that pastor went on forever He ought to be pleased with that. Actually, it extends to everything that we do in our personal worship. And Paul makes that clear as we continue on in Romans 14. He's going to show us the decisions that we make all week long must glorify God as well. Right down to what we even eat and drink. Did you see that in verse 6? He giveth God things, and what he eats, and he eateth not to the Lord, he eateth not and giveth God things. For none of us liveth to himself. That no man dieth to himself. For whether we live, we live not to ourselves, right? But unto the Lord. And even in our death. The time where we we would all understand there's there's a time where we spend and we remember the things of that person and the life of that person and how they serve God But folks, even at a funeral service, what ought to be most important is how that person served God. I can tell you, one day I I'm still praying for the rapture. And the way things are going right now, I'm convinced that it's going to be soon. I don't have a date, but I'm praying. My friend Rand Hummel is always talking about what if the Lord would come today. And um I hope it comes soon But if I die at my funeral service, the thing I want talked about most is did I point people to God? If we leave here today, or if the Lord would call us to minister here, for whatever amount of time he would call us to. My ultimate desire would be not for you to remember all the foibles and the mistakes and the highlights of Pastor Brock's ministry But I would want you to go away from any ministry that I had to saying this, that that person, that man pointed us to God. Don 't even remember his name. Don't remember a lot about him. But he pointed me to Jesus Christ. Then I've done my job. Even in my funeral, I've done what God's called me to do. Verse 9: For to this end Christ both died and rose and lived again, revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and the living. Jesus did what he did, folks, to certainly to provide us salvation, to provide us cleansing of sins. That's certain. We're not going to argue that. But ultimately, he did what he did so that we will serve him and submit to him and recognize him As Lord and give him glory and say, You are my Lord. Whatever you tell me to do, I will do. And as we finish up this morning, and you hear that Does it bother you? Pastor Brock, when do I get to have my own time? When do I get to enjoy the things that I like? And when do I get to just have my me time? If I can put it carefully here, really, folks, Christians don't get me time. It's all for the Lord. Now He'll help us to enjoy that. We'll enjoy our time serving Him, certainly. Folks, the greatest joy that you can have is serving Jesus Christ passionately. Please don't understand that's not a boring prospect. There's great joy in obeying Christ. But we must be submitted to Him. So in the end, we must purpose, right? To worship in God in a way that's pleasing to Him by checking His word and praying for wisdom. He deserves our full consideration and focus in our worship. That's unarguable. Let's not argue. Let's do it. Father. Thank you again for making this clear for us. Lord, it is a wonderful privilege to be here And Father, only you know right now the future for Upper Crossroads and for our family. And we submit to whatever that is. But I pray that you would help us, whether it's in worship or whether it's in this process, to be fully submitted to you, that no one would be holding their fist up and shaking it and saying, I want what I want. But that we be fully obedient and submissive to what you want in our worship and our service to you. And Lord, then we can be assured that the right things will happen. That you we will be following the right direction for ministry for you till Jesus returns. We want that sense of accomplishment and purpose. So help our purpose to be focused on you and submitted to you. And we need your help to do that, and so we ask for that. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.