Was resurrected, and folks, for those that trust in him, we will be with him resurrected one day. To be with him for all eternity. That is the wondrous mystery. And it starts. Well, in essence, it starts from eternity past in the plan of the Father, but on earth it starts with that babe. In the manger. And we rejoice in those truths this morning. Let's turn back to Ephesians 4. And we will have some Christmas messages eventually, but uh there will be a Christmas emphasis in this. Don't you worry. By the end of our time together. We're in Ephesians chapter 4. And as you know, when we when when we continue in a study like this, I like to give a lot of Preliminary background and remind us where we've been. I was given a gift this morning, though, in Sunday school, and that is there is a wonderful way to quickly summarize All that we've studied in Ephesians by just quoting part of Psalm 40. Dr. Mike went through this in detail this morning, and it truly does summarize, you could summarize the book book of Ephesians from a couple of these verses. The first three chapters of Ephesians talk about the wonders that God has done for us. And Psalm forty verse five said, Many, O Lord my God, are the wonders which you have done and your thoughts towards us. There is none to compare with you. If I would declare and speak of them, they would be too numerous And Paul is relaying all of these blessings that we have in Christ through the sovereignty of the Father. Folks, again, this Christmas season, go back through those first Three chapters. Just read through the book of Ephesians again and be reminded, be in awe that the wonders that God has done and the blessings He provides us in Christ are too numerous. Account. That would be a great way to put you in the Christmas spirit. But then the sovereignty of God also is in Ephesians. And we saw it this morning. in Psalm 40 verse 6, my ears you have opened that he doesn't require our works, because our works aren't enough to have relationship with With Christ. But God does the work through the power of the Holy Spirit. He opens our ears to understand the truths of the gospel. And thus we can come to Jesus in faith. And trusting in him. And so through that work, when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ then the Holy Spirit does a work of righteousness in us, experiential righteousness, where we begin to desire to Do the will of God. Psalm 40, verse 8. I delight to do your word, O Lord. Your laws within my heart. And that's the last four chapters of Ephesians. is the outworking, once we are a believer, a child of God, the outworking of the Holy Spirit who transforms us, who actually Gives us a desire and a delight to do God's will that we never had before because we were spiritually vacant, we were spiritually blind, and only through the power of God. And through what Christ accomplish, can we experience true change? And that true change, then, is what we're talking about this morning And that's described in Ephesians chapter 4. Turn there again, verses 22 through 24. Here is the process of spiritual change. That we put off our old self, which belongs to the former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires. And as believers, as Christians that follow Jesus Christ as disciples, we We shouldn't want to have wear the old putrid, torn, disgusting, stained rags of our former s former sinful life any longer. It'll be disgusting to us Men, just like that old shirt that your wife knows that you're keeping that has the holes and it's ripped in many ways and stained, but it has, you know, memories and things, and you don't want to get rid rid of it and she's of yeah you pull it out. Oh don't wear that. That's disgusting. That thing's old. Well but it brings back so many memories. Yeah I know I have a couple of those too But you don't want to go out in public looking like that. Put off the former things because we have victory through Christ. We have the Spirit that calls to us and And teaches us what we need to look like and gives us victory over these things. So put off those things. And we saw specifically, Paul now is going through a list as we get through to verse 25. Put off anger, wrong anger. Put off lying and deceit. Those aren't appropriate for believers any longer. Back to verse 23. And be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. We are renewed in our minds. It's not some mystical thing that we can't experience, but renewal comes through Scripture. Reading Scripture as believers, allowing the Holy Spirit to do a work, to show us the truths, give us understanding, and submitting to what the Spirit says to us so that we don't think the way that we used to. If you're thinking too much like the world and your lifestyle, even though you you are a true believer, for those of you that have put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And yet you still find yourself acting a whole lot like the world. Maybe you're not renewing your mind enough through Scripture. That's probably a evidence that you need to be in Scripture. More. It renews us. The Holy Spirit leads us in change. And then we put on, it says, the new self after the likeness of God and true righteousness. And holiness. When we trust in Jesus, our judicial righteousness has already been taken care of. received Jesus Christ's righteousness. He took all of our sins on himself and suffered our punishment that we deserved. He suffered on that cross. And we get his righteousness so that we are judicially declared righteous. But we are experientially continuing to experience that, to look more and more righteous and in experiential sense and more and more holy to reflect Jesus Christ more. So put off that anger. Put off that lying. Put on gentle Love, patience. Wear the right clothes that marks you as a citizen of the kingdom of God That is the process of change. And Paul now is getting into the details and he has for us this morning See, it really is very simple. Paul is urging us, he's saying, let's get into the details of what this looks like in your daily life. Lives, the sins that you struggle with on a daily basis. Let's get to the the gist of it, the heart of it. Put off the old, put on the new. We get rid of sinful practices and replace them with biblical. We saw last week that anger and falsehood can actually, if we don't deal with, let the Holy Spirit deal with those things in our lives through application of scripture. That we can actually be tools of Satan rather than tools of the Spirit, tools of the Savior. We don't want that. Folks, we inhibit the work of the church. We inhibit the unity of the church when we don't have Growth in these things. But when we do submit to the Spirit's work, oh, we can be used in a powerful way to minister to others. And so let's continue to look at this list. We got to verse 28. So let's see some more, some things that we need to put off, and some things that we need to Put on. Verse 28: Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. And so here we have some of the basics of the Ten Commandments. That before that we were a child of God, through the work of Christ, Christ, we couldn't even obey the Ten Commandments. We were constantly breaking the commandments, but now we have the power of Christ to help us So Paul very practically says, those of you that have been thieves, that have been stealing, you don't need to do that any longer. The word there for stealing is actually a Greek word klepsis. That's a stem for where we get the word klepto. That's an uh interesting connection to modern-day words. But even when I say that word, let's be clear, I want you to understand that Paul is not saying, oh, well, they're clepto and they have a problem and therefore they can't have um victory over that. Paul isn't offering excuses. Well, you know, the thief, they just have to steal. They can't help it. No, that used to be the case before you were a child of God. But now you can, if I could put that It that way, you can help it. You can change. Paul says: Don't be one that takes another's property that is not theirs Now we may come to this and on this list of things you know you may say, well, I know I tend to be a little deceitful in my life. I better change that. I know I tend to be angry. Yeah, I struggle with anger. Yeah, he got me on that one. Um Haven stolen anything lately, Pastor Brock. I guess on that one I'm I'm pretty good. And maybe in a in a um judicial sense in our local community we haven't stolen things. But you know, I will say in a general sense, I think that thievery and stealing has tender To be glamorized in our society today. In Paul's time, in biblical times, it was a real problem because people didn't have a lot. A lot of people didn't have a lot, and they were desperate. And so thieving was one of those things that they resorted to many times because they were desperate, and even believers, rather than trusting in God to meet their needs. Would result would would cave into this at times. And Paul says, that's the old man. You don't want to do that anymore. That's not what, that's not the Example that Jesus left for us? Don't steal any longer. Dr. Mike Erickson was telling me when he was in this trip to Africa. And And uh they deal with thievery and stealing quite severely. They don't mess around with it. You'll have to ask him later what they do. If I tell you now, then you won't pay attention to the rest of the Message, you'll be distracted. But they they don't allow it to happen. They deal with it very quickly. Our society today, though, I think as a whole, we tend to kind of glamorize Stealing. I know we all enjoy the stories of Robin Hood, right? I'm not trying to diss on Robin Hood. But isn't he one though that steals from the government uh oppressive tax gains? And we have all kinds of movies and and lift him up. Again, there's lots of different emphasis to that. There's many stories where he's the good guy. Again, not trying to diss him, but we have that. Glamorization and then eat Even stories of like Aladdin , different accounts where he's a thief and it's kind of funny and it's glamorized, but in actuality, it's really not. You realize, folks, in our society today with many, many businesses, that they have to write off a certain percentage of their merchandise and of You have this situation and it continues I for over Over a decade now, where at at times you have this rioting and this out of control chaos, and a part of that is is looting, and we see it on TV, and people just think, well, you know, I'm part of this community and just go in and take what I want. That doesn't reflect well what a Christian should look like. That's not the clothing, the apparel of a Christian. So don't take, you could say, don't take that apparel that's not yours, but put on the spiritual apparel. Of Jesus Christ. What is that apparel? Well, look, Paul gives us, he gives us clothes that we should no longer wear, and this is what we should wear instead. Second part of verse 28, but rather let him, her, labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. What's it An alternative to taking things that aren't ours. Hard work, labor, exertion. Having worked with young people for many, many, many years Many years. One of the reasons that young people and again I've never had someone in my youth group that has had this struggle, but you hear about these things. juvenile detention because of stealing and thievery is because they're just many times bored. They don't have a lot to do. They don't have a lot And so why not go for the thrill of the chase and and take something that's not mine just so I'm not bored? Well, this certainly gives the other This word for labor is actually in the Greek it means exertion. It talks about manual work that brings on of physical tiredness when you're at the end of it. Doing honest work with his own hands. This really has the idea of working so that at the end of the day you have worn yourself out. It's hard work. It's hard labor. Some of us have physical labor that wears us out at the end of the day. Some of us have spirits or mental stress in dealing with people on a regular basis and by the end of the day, after a hard day's work, we're a little tired. We're many times too tired to get Involved in things that we shouldn't do. Well, that's actually a good thing, Paul says here. And then God provides through the honest work. You know, labor and work are not bad words. They're not bad things. God has actually given us labor as a gift. Paul is describing that here. So God's way of providing for his people one of the ways is through the work that people do. So we ought to do that as an act of worship to him. And that literally at the end of the verse it says he may have something to share with anyone. In need. And Paul says here, one of the motivations for working hard like this and earning money is that you can use it for ministry purposes to provide for others that are truly in need. Sometimes in our culture it's hard to fully calculate who's in need or who's not. But folks, if you pray about it and ask God to show you people that are really in need, that could use some financial help, God will bring that to your um to your notice. We have a deacon's fund here at our church that we use for that very thing. People can donate To and the deacons, as we hear about needs that need to be met, we meet them through the support of God's people. We literally, as Paul says here, through the The honest work of our labors, we're able to share with anyone in need. I had a friend that I used to work for when I was in seminary to make some extra money, actually, my wife and I. I worked for him. Um his name was Mark, and he had a cleaning company and he would hire uh a number of us college students and seminary students um that that needed extra I actually needed extra money at that time to pay for an engagement ring of someone that I was about to ask to marry me. And so it was very important for me to have uh a good amount of money. And this man provided that. He would have us cleaning at different places all over Greenville, South Carolina. Um some athletic and workout places, others even Funeral home, thank you. It's Christmas season, my mind's going here. We uh Leslie and I had to clean a funeral home a number of times, and let me tell you, it's a little creepy when you go in and you're supposed to clean a certain room and you turn on a light and there's a casket and it's opened up and you weren't expecting that. It's like, oh well I gotta clean in here anyway, so let's hurry up and vacuum real quick and let's get out. Uh I remember that vividly. But the thing about working with Mark, there was an extra benefit besides his paying, and I was able to buy that um engagement ring by the way, and she did say yes, so I'm very thankful for that. Um but one of the things that Mark did with his money is that he used Used it to go on missions trips, and he had um booklets of the gospel and he did spe he had a special tape ministry where he would act out um stories and things And they would translate it into Spanish and other languages, and he would take money that he had earned, a good majority of that money, and he would use it for missions trips, and he would come back and tell us how many Young people had trusted Christ and people that had trusted Christ. He was a hard worker. I can vouch for that. And he expected the people that worked with him to work hard. And he used That's a good example to me of what Paul is saying here. So don't be tempted to take what's not yours any longer. That's not what a Christian should wish. Okay, let's continue to move on here. Verse 29. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you are Here's something else that Paul says to put off, that we should not have as one of our garments as believers. That word corrupting talk literally means corrupt, filthy words. Literally in the Greek, rotten, putrid, rancid So often, folks, we forget to put filters on what we say. So often we enjoy humor That we've heard from the world that really isn't appropriate for a community of believers. Many times we're moved to laughter and mirth over things that the world may find funny, but really are not appropriate, that are actually corrupting in our talk and are not a good representative of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Oh, humor is important, don't get me wrong. A humorless Christian is no joy to be around. There's good humor. There's ways to enjoy humor. That's uh in enjoyable, but sometimes gets to the point, makes the point. We can enjoy that together We must make sure that the talk that comes out of our mouths isn't actually rancid and disgusting. That it's not impure talking and joking. We have to remind, you know, y young men sometimes struggle with this. Young girl, well, young women do too, but I think young men, I remember growing up, there was that fascination with talking About things that we knew weren't appropriate, but it was just funny to do. It's a reminder, we remind our boys, I remind teenage guys, be careful. That's funny to you. Be careful what you say. People are watching. People are noticing. Make sure that you are not representing the corrupt and putrid humor of the world in your speech, but you're rather representing speech that edifies and that builds up. That idea of building up is building a house, strengthening. And we are literally building relationships, folks, with individuals as we minister to them. So a good question would be: as we're ministering to each other, And to unbelievers, are we using words that are building them up? How are your building projects going on in your life? God all gives us all in all of our projects. lives people that he expects us to minister to. Are you building? How's your building projects going? Are they going well? Are you talking? Are you being a good example of Christ? Or are you building a structure that will eventually collapse because your relationship is all about the wink wink and the all yeah this guy's gonna say something Funny, but it's not really pure. It's not really right. Are we building people? Are we good examples of those that are growing in Jesus Christ? Edifying words, meeting emotional needs through encouraging and a Affirming words. Folks, our words ought to be like water in a desert. Cool water in a desert. Have you ever had someone in your life that when you're really Really hurting, or you're really struggling, you just almost wish, Lord, I just wish I could hear something from that individual today, because they're just so encouraging. And what they say is just I don't think any of us, when people are hurting, want to be the person that people say, you know what? Good for a laugh once in a while, but right now that they're the last person that I need to hear from. Because they don't really say much that's edifying or anything that builds me up. They're just kind of like a jester. They're good for a couple laughs, but man, when I really need someone, it's like, please just just leave. I want to talk to someone that affirms. And builds me up. We all ought to want to be that type of people. Your words of grace and edification Are God's ministry to other people? So many examples of this. If I think of an example When I was an undergrad in college, I had a group of I had I had many friends, uh, but there was a particular group that sometimes I would eat lunch with. Um and yet it got to be such a burden as I would come out of a class and working through and just kind of my mentally tired And just wanted to go eat and have some good conversation. This group in particular, they were always, always characterized. We would get together, we would sit down with our trays of food and we would just be quiet until some poor sap said something and everybody else jumped on them and was sarcastic About what they had just said. And then the sarcasm would start to flow freely. And I was one of those that didn't really say very much because I just didn't want to be Teased. I didn't want to be the brunt of sarcastic comments. It wasn't edifying to me. And finally, I began to think afterwards I walked away one time. I said, Lord, why do I put myself There's nothing edifying. We're all sitting here being quiet because nobody wants to be the first person that's going to be teased and be the brunt of sarcastic Comments. There's nothing enjoyable about this conversation at all. And so I made a change. I decided not to sit and eat with them those people. And do you know that after that, my lunch experience and even my eating and enjoying that was much more enjoyable and satisfying? Because I found some people that not that they couldn't joke around and have fun. But they were able to just be nice and kind. Folks, I'm telling you, in this world today, you can be such an example, literally. By being nice to people and by being kind. When something doesn't go your way at the supermarket or at Walmart or at your favorite place where you lay Do you immediately jump in with criticism and hey this needs to be better and hey that person can't get in front of me? I I was waiting here. Or do you look at it as an opportunity to add a Others. You know, this is a really frustrating situation. For me, if we're at a restaurant now and there's something wrong with the dish or whatever, I'll yes, I'll mention It to the waiter, but I won't make a big deal about it. Usually they'll give you something else in return, and we'll just say, you know, no, it's and they'll be really positive. Apologetic and now we don't get to go out that eat to eat that much anymore. But when we do and something happens, they're apologetic and they're really, I think a lot of these folks wait And wait waiters are scared because so many people have gotten angry and have abused them with their words and anger. And so when we just say, hey, thank you, It's not a big deal. We're okay. No, it's really, it's okay. Thank you for giving us a replacement. This was very kind of you. We're enjoying this. They're just almost stunned. Folks, we want to stun people with the grace of God and with an example of Jesus Christ. Because people don't see that very often. anymore. Don't let corrupt communication come out of your mouth. Don't wear those ugly garments any longer, but wear the words of building up. as fit the occasion that we may give grace and the love of God to those who hear. And by the way, when you use corrupting words or impure words or angry words, you not only grieve The people around you. More importantly, folks, we grieve the Holy Spirit. Yes, he really is a person. He is a person that can be grieved by our sin. And Paul says When you talk in a way that's inappropriate of a Christian, you grieve the Spirit of God. And oh, by the way, he's the one that sealed you for the day of redemption. This ceiling, remember, we've already talked about it earlier on in Ephesians, but is a legal protection and guarantee. We're marked literally that ceiling of the Holy Holy Spirit, folks, remember, we're marked as God's personal property. He owns us. And he has redeemed us and he's redeeming us experientially to look more like Jesus Christ. Until the day of deliverance, when the day of the Lord comes and judgment comes, we are delivered from that judgment. We have salvation through Jesus Christ, and we will be with Him. Him for all eternity, and God has provided that for us. He owns us. The ownership is the seal of the Holy Spirit. And therefore, yes, mark it, he does get to have a say in what we Say our very speech is governed by the one who owns us And if that in your spirit right now just makes you go, hmm, what kind of freedom is that? You need to submit yourself. To the owner as God the Father. He's redeemed you. He gave up His Son on the cross. His son shed his blood. Yes, God gave all. Jesus gave all so that we could be his own. And yes, he is our owner. And yes, he does have an interest in what we say. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit Even in the Old Testament, in Isaiah 63, it refers to the Holy Spirit as a person. The Holy Spirit can be grieved. And we don't want to do that with our words. Well, just a couple more here, but important. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. Those are the things again that we put off. Here, real quickly, is a list. That word bitterness has the idea of pointed or sharp arrows. of words that that bring pain and that bring bitterness to the taste. So that bitterness has the idea of um bitter to the taste. When people hear your words it's bitter. To them. It's not edifying. That wrath has the idea of something that's sharp and painful. Are we known for people that are painful with our words? Sharp. That's not the reflection of a Christian. Are we bitter and harboring bitterness so that everybody else can see that we're bitter? One commentator said, hard-heartedness that harbors resentment about the past. A bitter, unforgiving attitude can leave one imprisoned and hurt those around. Let me just give you a couple more definitions here. Okay, we're going quick. What is wrath? It's fury, intense desire, something that's boiling up and explodes in force. Are you one that blows up when you're angry? That's not the garment of a believer, of a child of God. Anger. Anger is that anger that moves people to decisive acts. They're so angry they act on their anger. And it has the idea of gaining of getting revenge or trying or or or attempting to punish someone uh beyond what God is doing in their lives. Anger, clamor, what's that? That's crying, screaming, shouting in a quarrel, yelling. Are you a yeller? Are you a shouter? Are you always going to get the last word? And you'll raise your voice as high as you need to until you're the one that's able to be louder than everybody else. So you win. Well, that's not a good example of Jesus Christ, is it? I think clamor is an example of the ungodly nature of the riot. That we see today. Out of control yelling and anger and clamor. Evil speaking, that refers to, or you have here and slander , really the word is slander. Slander, clamor , well, slander in particular. In some versions it says evil speaking. That has the idea of a beauty It can be malicious talk, talk that is defamatory or abusive, blasphemy against God, and blasphemy is a violation of God's power and majesty. Oh, yes, that's definitely wrong. And finally, malice, along with all malice, that's hateful feeling, moral evil. And Paul uses it for the idea of a type of speech Speech and anger that disrupts fellowship. It's a force that destroys your relationships and the people around you. Do you hold malice towards other people? Folks, it shouldn't be. Those are the things we put off. What are the things we put on? Well, be kind to one another. Tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God and Christ forgave you. Kind is good, benevolent, and gracious. A sense of excellence. Tenderhearted means compassion towards others. Forgiving means that you are willing to let go of a debt of anger and hatred towards others. Someone who's done you wrong. You're willing to release that. These are the clothes of a child of God This reminds me, I've told this story many times in youth group. It's one of the favorites. And it has to do with me. So again. Up front, I'm being totally candid here. And the struggle that I had with anger. Growing up as a teenager, I wonder how many of you teenagers still have to ride a school bus to school? Anybody? Yeah, that's what I thought. You're all way oh okay, we do have the the little guy in the back. All right. Okay. Well here this was an embarrassment for me because when I was a teenager Unlike obviously all of you, when I was uh sophomore or ju a freshman or sophomore, I still had to ride the kitty school bus to and from because Because I didn't have my own vehicle and my parents couldn't afford to always come and pick us up, so we had to ride the bus. So we would ride the bus. But here's an interesting thing. thing. We as brothers, I have three brothers, I have four boys, I have three brothers. I know it must be in the genes. We were very aware, see, we knew when we got home from school every day that mom Mom and Dad weren't always gonna be there right away. So it was basically we were hungry, been a long day at school, and it was kind of like every man fed for himself. So you gotta get to the kitchen first. So we would actually, even that morning, and maybe even And we would calculate as she was putting them into the lunch bags, okay, we know that they're this and for this story there was one left and we all knew one package of Swiss uh little Debbie Swiss cake rolls only one guy was going to get them. And so this was a common thing really every day. But we would position ourselves, especially if our teacher let out class first, we would run to the bus. We would position ourselves And if the other brother ended up in the back of the bus, sorry, you know, don't feel bad for him. That just gives me uh more of a advantage. And when the bus driver would finally stop Stop at our stop. We had to run a little bit to get to the house. She would open up the door. We would all carefully get out, positioning ourselves, and of course we would carefully go across the road. But after we got across that road, folks, it was every man for himself. And we would start to run. And we would start to elbow. And me and my brother Scott, the two oldest, we could quickly most of the time take care of the other two. You know, get the right elbow or you get a head start. You leave them in the dust. They're clambering around. Maybe they lost their bag or something and they they never really were able to get to the kitchen first. 're But my brother Scott and I were good at running and kind of pushing each other out of the way and wrangling and we would run and I would get a little bit ahead and then he elbow me and he get a little bit ahead. We this one time we hit the lawn and we were both neck and neck running to that door. We were able to get the door open and kind of like in those cartoons where two figures like kind of get stuck in the doorway at the same time. That was Scott and I. But Scott was able in this moment to wrench free before me and in total loss. and frustration, I saw him run to the kitchen first and he grabbed the little Debbie box and pulled that last little Debbie snack cake package. And in victory, he said, Ha ha! I got it. And there was a malice and an anger that rose up in me, folks. And I thought, I wanted that I was close enough, and now I'm gonna end up with carrots or raisins or something. And I was so mad that I walked up to him in his triumph and I took my hand and put it over his hand and squizzed it as hard as I could till the snack cake came out of both sides of his fist. So much for that glorious moment. Would you believe that he got angry with me and started chasing me around? The rebel No, folks, in that moment, I was not a proper example of Jesus Christ. Would you agree? Agree. And the Lord convicted me of that many years later, but we all have those stories to tell. Paul's lifted listed some specific sins that should not be reflected in the regenerated life of an unbeliever. And he calls us to put off these sins so that we can have more unity and cohesiveness in this church and in your family. If you want more unity, let go of the malice, let go of the clamor, let go of the wrath and the bitterness. Work hard. Come and worship together in unity. Now, all of that, as I finish up today, you might say, well, Pastor Bach, that was good, but where's the Christmas part of this come in? Folks, I thought about this. Out of all the gifts that we're going to give each other this Christmas, wouldn't the most poignant be for your family? Is to give them the gift of your spiritual change. You see, Scrooge, Ebenezer Scrooge doesn't have to have the corner on this Wouldn't it be great if for Christmas you decided, Lord, the through the power of the Holy Spirit and the help of the Holy Spirit and the help of your word, I'm not going to be as angry and as hurtful with my words. And wouldn't it be wonderful to actually show Shock people with the change in your life? That's why I say Ebenezer Scrooge doesn't have a corner on this. You could, because you remember at the end of Christmas Carol, he shocks everybody with his new behavior. Why let him be the only one that does that? Why don't you shock those people around you? Wow. Dad didn't get as angry as he normally does when these things happen. Young people. Wow. My child is working and doing um you know they're they're working hard and this not that some of Not that you don't, but maybe some of you struggle with that. Maybe dad, maybe you working a little harder and exhibiting a little bit more of um a character of laboring. Or, mom. Maybe you're being tenderhearted. What about this? What about for Christmas, you offer the gift of forgiveness? Huh. Folks, I could tell you as a pastor, I'd much rather respect Any of those spiritual gifts than anything else I can have. Oh, a gift card to a coffee shop is nice, don't get me wrong. But to see people around me say, by God's grace, I'm going to change. Because the power of the Holy Spirit works Within me. And I need to be a better example of my Savior Jesus Christ. Why don't you give that as a gift? Father, as we finish up this list, there'll be more of things We need to put off and put on. We fully acknowledge the pastor included that we need your help, that we cannot get victory over our anger, over our laziness Over our bitterness, we cannot get victory without the power of the Holy Spirit at work in us. We acknowledge that this morning But at the same time, Lord, I pray that each and every person here will commit those that truly know Jesus Christ. They will commit to the real power of the Holy Spirit in their lives to work change. And they will finally put off those nasty, detestable old garments. Of sin and put on new robes of a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. Father, help us to no longer be content with reflecting. The nasty, sin stained garments of the world, but help us, move us, convict us to better, be better examples of those that live for a heavenly kingdom That we might point others to Jesus Christ. And Father, if there is one person here today who still doesn't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, Let today be the day they put their faith and trust in Him and receive His free gift of salvation and redemption and experience that change for themselves. Folks, you think on these things as Leslie plays