To go to children's church, and we are going to turn this morning to the book of Ephesians again and just consider Consider further the practical outworkings of everything that we have just saying about And we've covered recently in the book of Ephesians. Again, the first three chapters of the book of Ephesians. is all the blessings, or a good number of them, that we have as a result of what our Heavenly Father as from his eternal plan has accomplished in Jesus Christ. Folks, if you are in relationship with Jesus this morning If you are a child of God, oh you have the blessings of heaven in your life. And we ought to be able to come together and revel in that And be thankful, have thankful hearts for all that he has done for us. Yes, through um what Christ accomplished on the cross. He came to earth as a baby. He lived that life of righteousness. He was sacrificed as a perfect lamb for our sins. And he was raised from the dead, showing his victory over sin, death, and the devil. And showing that he has the power to give us new life. And when you and I put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, depending really, just depending on What Jesus has accomplished, acknowledging that it's all Him, that it's nothing that we do, it's nothing of our works And we acquiesce to that knowledge and receive Him in faith that we become the children of God. And we have eternal blessings forevermore. We're adopted by our Heavenly Father. We can never lose that name. We never have to be concerned about whether we're going to But as we see in these last three chapters, chapters four through six Not only does Jesus save us from eternal punishment and cleansing from our sins and gives us his righteousness so that we are justified before his heavenly Father, but He Gives us the ability to live out that salvation in our lives here and now. And so as believers, we can experience victory. What are the sins that have felt like they've kept you in chains? What are the struggles That have left you defeated. Folks, this morning, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, you do not have to Experience defeat. Those chains are broken, and you can live and experience Experience victory over your sin. Not in a perfect way. That will come one day. When Jesus returns, we will be glorified and perfected. And we'll never have to worry about sin again. Again, our own imperfections or those of others that are the children of God. But in this life we can still experience victory. And so how that happens is described in Ephesians, and we went through the process last week So I want to go back through that again because this process is what we call progressive sanctification. Those are big words to describe continual maturity in our walk with the Lord. To reflect the character of our great Savior. That is what sanctification is all about. Positionally, we are children of God through the work of Christ and our dependence on that work. But experientially, we will continue to reflect better that we are the children of God, to look more like part of his family as we grow and as we mature. And we should never be satisfied with a certain level of growth, but continue to put off the things of the flesh and put on the righteousness. the righteous deeds of Jesus Christ. And we can do that. So Ephesians 4 Verse 20, Paul has described two ways to walk in him, and the first way is to reflect the carnality and the the sin of the world. And Paul says, as believers, we shouldn't be reflecting those who have rejected Jesus Christ and be involved in that sin. And certainly we can't be comfortable in that sin, but we should reflect our Savior. Verse 20, that is not the way you've learned Christ. You've learned experientially by going to his word and the Holy Spirit has made his word understandable to you. That is not what God's word has said that the way that you should live like the Gentiles, like the Gentiles. The unbelievers, but he gives us the truth of how we need to live. Assuming you have heard of him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus in Jesus. Paul is saying here, if you truly are children of God, followers of Jesus, his disciples, believers in the truest sense. You won't act like the world any longer, but you will embrace the truth of your new nature, of the new person that you are. And you You will reflect more of Jesus Christ throughout your life. Sometimes better than others. But the progress will be there if you truly are a believer. And here's the process then. Verse 25 To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires. And to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. And we talked about this last week, that the deeds that we were involved in, the sin habits that we were involved in before we came to Christ should no longer be our garments. We shouldn't be satisfied with wearing the old sin-stained, muddy, garbage-strewn, ripped, tattered clothing that's not appropriate for the children of God. No, we should in Disgust, be ready to toss off those garments quickly, and be ready to wear the robes of righteousness. and to look more like Jesus as we renew our our minds through, how do we renew our minds? We said through a deeper study of God. God's Word. Our thinking, our heart attitudes are filtered, refined, the more we know God's Word. And so, folks, a deeper study of God's Word and a greater understanding is a priority. It has to be for every believer. You can't be satisfied with the amount of scriptures That you know currently. But in order to have minds that are renewed and thinking more like Christ, oh, it's a process. We must submit ourselves to God's word for the rest of Remember that book I mentioned to you that was such a help to me when I was a young man, really a thesis in this whole Concept and this biblical doctrine of sanctification is a book called Change into His Image by Dr. Jim Berg. And the idea of putting off the old man, he says this, although technically the old man, all that we were before salvation, that has been crucified with Christ. And sin's absolute rule over us has been broken, we still possess a residual effect of that old man even after Salvation. The residue of that sin still needs cleaning up in our experience. We still have an indwelling principle of of sin that corrupts every part of us. sin Paul sometimes calls it the flesh. It is in constant conflict with the Spirit of God and represents everything within us that attempts to make life work apart from God. Another writer that you might know well, A. W. Tozier, wonderful writer and preacher from the last century, he said, the old man is the bent toward self-assertion. We know it's there. We know we struggle with it. But folks, Jesus Christ has given us the power through his righteousness that old man is defeated and we don't have to give in to those um temptations to those desires any longer There's still a bent toward doing and living life the way that we want to rather than the way that God says that we should. But we don't have to give in to that anymore. We put off those nasty, dirty old clothes. And we renew our minds in scripture. Go to one other verse. I usually try to be careful about having you turn to other passages, but 2 Corinthians 3, 16 through 18. Turn there. Now my son gave very nicely gave me a whole bottle of water and I left it behind me. So I'm going to get that water while you guys are turning. Second Corinthians chapter three. And this helps us understand again the concept of having our mind Renewed. Paul says in these verses, starting at verse 16, but when one turns to the Lord, the veil is removed. That is again a reminder for Everyone here that in order to experience this change, it is not a matter of you doing good works, but you must turn to Jesus Jesus Christ in faith, turn to him, realizing that all of the work has been done through Jesus. If there was any work left to do or any righteousness that we had to obtain, wouldn't that be Make Jesus' sacrifice somehow insufficient. And to even say that would be blasphemous. No, we fully turn to Jesus in faith, and then this veil is removed. That we get understanding. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. We can have victory. We can have understanding of God's word. And we all with unveiled face, the veil is removed. We have the spirit to understand God's word as we read it, and then we behold the glory of the Lord, and we're being transformed into the same image from one to glory to the Lord. This has the idea of when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, are the obstructions of unconscious understanding the truths of God's word are removed. And we can see, yes, when we trust Jesus, folks, we really do receive the third person of the Trinity. Within us the Holy Spirit, who the word is official word, is illumination. He illuminates our minds. And it's a good prayer, then, as we get up in the morning and as we Come to God's word. Oh, Holy Spirit, or Father, through the Holy Spirit, help me to understand your word today. I need his help. And I can be renewed in my mind as I understand better the glories of God that will be revealed to me. God's Spirit will personally show Show us the realities of Jesus Christ and of our Heavenly Father and of our relationship with Jesus as we ponder the scriptures and submit to them. That understanding. That is what the idea of renewing your mind is. Have you ever been reading God's Word? Now, sometimes we we when we come to We come to it with different attitudes, don't we? Sometimes we're tired and we're not really checked in until maybe a number of verses through that reading. Sometimes we come to A reading of God's word, and we are ready and we are prepared and we have prayed to receive and do receive that understanding for the whole passage. There are times as well where we are dull. And we can admit that we've read the whole passage and we haven't really been thinking about it at all. Folks, out of those three experiences, the one we want to Aim for, right? Is every time we come to God's Word, our hearts are prepared. We believe in faith, the Holy Spirit is going to show me the truths and renew my mind today. I believe that. And therefore as I read these scriptures, Holy Spirit, show me. Renew me, change my mind. Help me to think in the way that Jesus does because so often I'm still bent to think my own twisted way. The world calls to me and wants me to to consider things from its point of view. And I'm so blind. So Holy Spirit, as I read your word , Help me to understand and to be more like Jesus Christ. Renew my mind. Folks, we need to pray that a whole lot more than we do, don't we? Pastor included. Don't be satisfied with a certain amount of scripture every so often. Well, I get my message from the pastor, but he better keep it kind of, you know, it keeps Keep within a certain amount of time, but I get my um understanding and preaching from pastor, and that's pretty good, and maybe a couple scriptures a week, and I'm good. No. You need the renewing of your mind through scripture every day. Not just once a week. And when we submit ourselves to the scriptures, then verse 24, we put on the new self, created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. Putting on that new self is really, what is that? Well, we throw off the tainted rags of the old self. We're no longer committed to sin and debauchery and the ways of the world. Oh, that grosses us out. We may still have garments that are garbage stained. We struggle struggle with sin, but we ought to be disgusted by that. Oh, Lord Jesus, help me to get rid of these garments and help me to put on the new purified garments that reflect Jesus, the righteous and holy character. of Jesus. That's what it means. Those new garments, the new self is created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. It is better reflecting the reality that we are made new. That we have new spiritual life. If you have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ, folks, you are a new creature. The Bible guarantees that. So you know what? We ought to start reflecting the fact that we are new creatures a little better. We shouldn't be comfortable with the sin-stained, nasty, gross garbage. Strewn garments of the world any longer. They revel in those garments. But we know better And so we must not accept anything less than that continued growth and reflection of Jesus. Are you submitted to this maturity Dirty process this morning. The process of sanctification that will continue throughout our lives. Put off the old self. He's dead. Stop wearing a dead man's garments. Renew your mind through Scripture. Start reflecting, put on the new self. Start reflecting Jesus Christ. You can do that because of the power of God that works in us. Remember how Paul was emphasizing the power that works within us. I'll remind you, real quick, Ephesians 3:20. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, that is the power of God in us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Yes, folks, it is that power that works within us that It can help us to change and then when we do see victory over sin in our lives, when we see the new self, the new garment , Better portrayed and displayed in our lives. We don't pat ourselves on the back and say, look what I did. No. You say, Praise the Lord. Look what he is doing in my life. I'm so undeserving to be a child of God, and yet he is changing me to be more like My dear Savior Jesus Christ. Oh, praise the Lord for his power in my life. This is his grace. His mercy is more. We sang that this morning. It's so important to understand this process. Well, with that understanding in mind, then let's go to verse 25 of chapter 4. Because Paul is going to be really helpful in get, well, he's going to meddle. I'll just put it out there. Get ready. Paul's going to make this very practical. Do you remember how he said that it is possible for churches to be together in unity and for people to serve together in unity? Well, Paul really meant that. And so now he's going to address some of the sins that keep us from unity and say, hey, if you're comfortable with that sin in your life that's keeping you and the church from unity, you're comfortable in old, nasty, sinclot garments, and you shouldn't be. Take off those garments. This is how you should be acting. And your right response will help provide unity in the church. And he goes through a list here. Very practical, starting in verse 25. We won't get through the whole list today. But let's start. Therefore, having put away falsehood Let each of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Replace the old self-deeds, the old sin nature deeds. That self, that sin nature is dead within us with righteous deeds. Paul says, let's talk shop here. That propensity that we have to deceive ourselves and others. Let's talk about that for a minute. The falsehoods The ways that we lie and we deceive one another. And we're going to find out that if we're not not careful if we let these attitudes and these sin habits continue in our lives that we literally are are becoming tools for Satan. Rather than Jesus Christ. That's how important it is to change in these areas. Falsehoods, verse 25, is more than just not telling lies. Hopefully we would all agree that those that are liars that are regularly deceiving others that are telling lies, that's a habitual That's a habit in their lives, that's wrong. But it's more than just don't tell lies. Although that's a good start. What Paul is saying here really is that we must have a love for truth because God is truth. That in our hearts we ought to be working toward having a revulsion Toward being deceitful in any way. Because our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is truth. God is truth. There is no falsehood or deceit in him. So if we're going to reflect more of Jesus, folks, we've got to stop deceiving each other. We've got to stop telling lies. Liars, lying is one of those old garments of the old self. It reflects, lying doesn't reflect the truth and the reflection of Jesus Christ. Would you agree with me? It reflects the opposite. Lying reflects the enemy, Satan himself. So it's inappropriate to embrace falsehood. Deceit is one of the key traits of Satan. When we think of him, one of the first things we think about is he's a deceiver. We all would agree with that. Then why are we so comfortable so many times deceiving other people? Lying to others? Truth should be a way of life, a consistent pattern that allows for trust in the body of the church. You see, one of the aspects Of unity is the ability to be able to trust each other. And when there are those within the church that are known to be deceitful and lying and not telling the truth, it's hard to trust those folks. It affects the unity. And we should not be comfortable with falsehoods in our lives in any way. One commentator said honesty with one another is essential. For mutual trust and is foundational to life in the community of believers. In fact, in Zechariah 8:16, you don't have to to turn there, but it's interesting. This verse in the Old Testament says that truth-telling will be a fundamental characteristic of the future eternal kingdom. It says this, these are the things that you shall do in the future kingdom. This is what we all will be doing. The first one is speaking the truth to one another. Render in your gates judgment that are true and make for peace. Do not devise evil in your hearts against one another. Love no false oath, for all these things I hate. He's saying here that we shouldn't wait for the future kingdom to start being trapped. Truth tellers. No, we ought to reflect the fact that we're kingdom citizens right now, folks, in the fact that people will get an honest answer from us when they talk. Talk with us. Truth is foundational. It's foundational to the church. Jesus Christ is the truth. He's given us his truth. Everything in Scripture is true. There's no deceit found. And so in that foundation, truth must reign in our churches today. This really, if you think about it, affects every area of our lives. I know when we talk about lying, the first thing we think about is outright just lying and misrepresenting some aspect of our lives to others. And that's true. That's a A violation of telling the truth and being truthful in our lives is that outright lying But we have to also admit that sometimes we're comfortable with what we tend to call little white lies, right? Things that we say, well if I deceive in this area, it's okay because it's gonna c Come out for the greater good. So I'm all right. And yet, if I compare myself with the one who is truth, Are even little white lies okay? See, the Lord convicts has to convict us in all lying, in all deceit. Don't we tend sometimes to misrepresent who we are in our words when in reality our character is something far different? Different. I represent and try to come to church and make myself look a certain way, and I'm represent representing myself a certain way. But God knows my real heart. And there are closets, there's space within me that if people really knew, they'd be shocked. Because I'm misrepresenting who I really am. I can look good in church, I can look good around family, around others. But I'm actually acting the part of someone that I'm really not. Folks, that's embracing Falsehood. It's not that we have to come to church and with people air all of our dirty laundry, okay? That's not what I'm saying. Or you're not a truthful person. But we do have to regularly go to the Lord and say Say, Lord, give me victory in these areas so that I can properly resent Jesus Christ and maybe be a little more open when we have struggles. Be a little more honest when we have struggles in our lives, instead of trying to gloss them over and put on our best self. Well, that's not the person that I really wanted to be today. But that's what you really are in your heart. Let's just be a little more honest with it. And allow the community of the believers to help come alongside Guide us and disciple us. We all have areas that we struggle in, folks. We all have areas that we're embarrassed about that we wish That we can have more victory in? Why not be more honest and seek from people that you trust, believers that you trust, the help and encouragement? To grow in your faith rather than to lie to those folks and act like there's somebody that you're not. You know what, folks, I need honest voices in my own life life as a pastor. I need people. Now remember, Paul has said already in this that we speak the truth in love. So what I don't need is someone that just hammers me over the head and hits me as hard as I can with the truth And hey, you know, just take it, buddy, be tough. No, we need people that are willing to be direct and tell the truth in love, but we do need those people. I need those people. I need people that get beyond, hey, you're the pastor and you, you know, the sermons we appreciate and and and we just appreciate your leadership too. You know, I need I know you pretty well, and there's some things in your life that you need work on, and I love ya, and I'm praying for you, but have you considered this? I need to be listening To my wife, my kids, others, so that I am not portraying myself in a false way That's just one thing on the list. Let's try one more. Verse 26: Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity for the devil You know what's interesting here? Did you catch that? Paul says there is an anger that is appropriate. It's not across the board. Just don't ever be angry. Don't ever flare up or Well, flaring up probably even in in that description is wrong anger. But there is a type of anger that is righteous. And Jesus in his life, if we are talking Talking about displaying the character of our Savior, would you admit with me there are many times in Scripture that Jesus showed righteous anger? It's a thing. And Paul says, Oh, righteous anger is a thing. But that's rarely what we're showing with other people. Be angry, but he has that reminder, but don't sin. Because so often when you hear the word be angry. And I hear that. It's just like, oh, it's an excuse to just let people have it. And Paul says, no, you don't get to be sinful in your anger. I have a article here from a parody site that I like to read from and visit periodically. If you want to know what that site is, you can see me afterwards. I'd be glad to share it with you. But this was this was appropriate. The headline of this article from this parody site, this is a parody, right It said report. And this article was done written around election time. It says, lots of yelling at each other, expected to fix things any day now. In the United States, it is a contentious time in this country with a sharp partisan divide and extremists committing acts of violence But a number of people have stumbled upon what they think could be the answer. Lots of yelling at each other. Loud yelling really is the answer, said a consultant. Certain citizen, and it's not just the volume of the yelling, but also the content. It should be full of anger. And the target is anyone on the opposite side of me politically. If I express that I'm even angrier now at people I already don't like, that will finally engender change. But actual yelling isn't the only tactic people have settled on. A big part of the answer to our problem, perhaps even the biggest part, is virtual yelling online. If I type enough angry things online to show how frustrated I am with the state of things, and especially with people who don't share my views, that's finally going to turn this country around, explained online activist Larry Garrett. He has been using the shift key extensively to help express the level of his displeasure, but that had been slowing him down. He recently discovered the cap lock, a key that's much like shift being held down automatically. And so, which is speeding up his process of expressing anger and shi should lead even more quickly to positive outcomes. It has been pointed out that many of these people were already constantly yelling at people, so it's not certain how this new effort is going to lead lead to a different outcome. But now that we're yelling even louder, said one activist, and are even angrier It's uncertain if they finally reach the volume and anger level needed to fix things, but both of these measures are expected to increase in the coming week, hopefully reaching the correct level by the time Election Day. approaches. Now if that were the case and anger were able to solve all of our problems, things would have been solved a long time ago. But we know what we man found out even at the beginning with two brothers, Cain and Abel, getting more angry didn't solve any problems Cain showed the murder that was in his heart. You see, Paul is saying there's an appropriate anger that can be demonstrated without sin, but it has parameters It must not be self-centered, and it must be short-lived, and it should not be a regular part of one's life. David in the Psalm, Psalm 4, says, Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts on your beds and be silent. David seems to um describe that before we get angry In order not to sin, we ought to take time to think. Am I right to be angry? To ponder over that, and to be silent until we're convinced, yes, this anger is appropriate. Until the Holy Spirit has convinced you and I that our outbursts of anger are appropriate, then it's appropriate to be quiet. David helps us on that. Again, Paul says there's parameters here. Don't sin when you're angry. Don't let the sun go down upon your anger. In other passages in the Old Testament, it seems to indicate that the sunset is a reasonable time for dealing with sins, that sins ought to be dealt with within a short amount of time. That's not always possible. It doesn't mean that if you're still angry with Someone as you go to bed that uh you've broken this rule, but the point is if we have wrong anger towards someone, we ought to be quick to deal with that. And to move on. And don't let it fester and don't let it simmer. There's a reasonable time limit for dealing with anger. And folks, let's just be honest, many times. We don't give us we don't give ourselves any time limit at all. We just let that thing go. And we're angry and bitter with people the rest of us Our lives, imprisoned in anger. To refrain from anger is to give place to God. To yield to it is to give place to the devil. And that's as we finish up this morning, what I want to leave us with at verse 27: a sobering warning: give no opportunity to the devil. Uncontrolled sinful anger and deceit and lying, those are all garments. Folks, of the old man. They're dirty, they're gross, they're stained, they're torn. We should not be wearing those garments Of sin, of lying , of wrong anger. And we'll have a lot more here next week as we get into the rest of the list, because we have to get through that. They're inappropriate for a Christian. What's appropriate for a Christian? Put off those and put on truth. You be the one in the church that people trust whenever you say something. That they know that they know you're not perfect, but that you're reliable. You be the one that is filled with love and gentleness and kindness. Rather than anger and bitterness, you put on those right things See, we let these words that we've just read this morning, these warnings, renew our minds. Let the Holy Spirit work. Is the Holy Spirit convicting you of guilt right now in these areas? Or more. He's trying to renew your mind. Will you submit? Will you let go of the anger? Will you let go of the deceit and the lying? Put off those terrible old garments. Put on the righteous garments that Paul's talking about this morning. If you're not willing to do that, folks, what Paul is saying here, if you continue on these sins, you're not as useful to Jesus Christ. You're actually more useful for the enemy. We hang on to these sins, and we become a useful tool for Satan. Let's not give the devil opportunity to work. Let's not give him that satisfaction But let's submit to the Spirit. Oh, I see my need for change. I can't gain victory of myself, but through the power of Jesus Christ, through the work of the Spirit, I can change in these areas. God promises that to be the case. And so I run to Christ and I ask for his help because I don't want to be A lackey for Satan any longer, a tool for his purposes, but I want to be a useful tool for Jesus Christ. And a better reflection of him. And that ultimately is the attitude of someone who is becoming mature in your faith. Folks, if you are sitting here this morning and you You have a desire to want to be used by Jesus. I don't want to be used by Satan. I want to be used by Jesus. I want to be a useful tool for him. That is a sign that you're maturing. So submit to the Holy Spirit's work, rejoice that you are changing and maturing, and just give all the glory to God. That would be a great way, as we end this message this morning, a great response for believers in general And for those that don't have a relationship with Jesus yet, again, as I say almost every Sunday, you can come to Him in faith and embrace all that He has done. In his death and resurrection. And you can be confident and promise eternal life and have that hope. And you can change to be more like the Savior. Through his power. Don't you want that change in your life this morning? Let's take some time to pray together And ask the Holy Spirit to change our hearts. Father, oh, we need this Thank you that Paul gets so practical that he deals with our lying, our anger, our thievery Our corrupting talk , our clamor and slander and malice, and that he shows us what to put on, kindness. Tenderness, forgiving one another. Father, I pray that it is a desire in every person's heart this morning that is a true believer that they do not want to be a tool of Satan for his purposes to provide disunity and to tear the church apart, but that everyone in this room, there's a child of you Desires to be a useful tool for your purposes. So help us to change and help us to be submissive to that change through the work of the Spirit. Provided because of the actions of the Savior coming from your eternal plan. Let us be submissive to his work in our lives and to put off the old, nasty garments of what we used to be and reflect the reality that we are a new person in Jesus Christ. Folks, if you desire that, you take a few minutes and pray that God will help you through the Spirit's work to change And for those that need a faith relationship with Jesus this morning, you place your faith and trust in Him even now. Not in your own works, but in all the Jesus Jesus has done, and you can receive him and experience that change. Think on these things as the piano play.