If all, again, folks, we've said this many times, but if all we have is Christ, we have more than enough. And we should have hearts that are filled with Christ. With joy and Thanksgiving this morning before we even get to Thanksgiving on Thursday. And I hope, I hope that you have a wonderful week. And a wonderful time with family and friends on that Thanksgiving day. But this is really the day where we prepare our hearts to be thankful. And we ought to be thinking. On all that God has done for us. And uh then whatever you face, even whatever ornary relative you face at the Thanksgiving table, you can already be prepared to have a heart that's joyful. And if all you could think of to talk about is Jesus, well that's good. That's all we need. So now with all of that, you might think that we might be uh touching on a Thanksgiving psalm, but it just I felt like we We could focus on Thanksgiving with our singing and in our hearts and still go back to the Sermon on the Mount. So we're going to do that this morning from Matthew chapter 5, verse 38, starting there. And this is a passage That really those who have a spirit of thanksgiving and gratefulness for the love that God has shown them can Only those can fully appreciate and practice what Jesus says in these well-known, but I think very much misunderstanding Verses. Again, the context here is the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is teaching at this point many disciples and teaching them the laws of the kingdom and the expectations. And then he has in verse 20 this overarching verse, and he's telling his disciples that they, in order to be legitimate kingdom Citizens that they need a righteousness, really a perfect righteousness, that far exceeds even the best, the most moral, the the best uh rule keeper In their society, their religious leaders and others, Jesus says you have to have a righteousness that exceeds even the scribes and the Pharisees, or For you will never be a kingdom citizen. And he is pointing to a righteousness that only he will be able to provide through Through his death and resurrection. And he is driving the point home with so many uh things that we take for granted, and uh so He is bringing up what would got for God's people be low expectations, and he's making them much higher. And so we've talked about anger and about lust and about being honest. And if we're honest, we have to say that uh We uh break God's commandments in our actions and in our heart attitudes every day. And so by our own strength and our own might, we don't have a righteous Righteousness that allows us to be kingdom citizens. And that's why we must trust Jesus Christ in his righteousness. Because Jesus is the epitome of one One that did all of these things and fully obeyed his father's law because he is the Son of God. He is God. And yet fully made And so as we get to this passage, he's going to continue to point out why they need a righteousness that's greater than their own, or greater than the scribes and the Pharisees. But he's going to To say something that really is so simplistic, it's so easy to understand that people over the centuries in the church have misunderstood and misapplied what Jesus is trying to say here. He's going to talk to we're going to see today as Jesus talks about retention. Retaliation that radical love renounces revenge. Even as we read this passage this morning, I I think we could be tempted to be discouraged that this passage asks too much of us and has too high of a standard. Nobody could meet that standard. Well, let's read it and you'll see what I'm saying here. Here. Verse 38: You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. Revenge. We understand that aspect. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. I'm sure We know that well. And I think sometimes some of these passages that sound really good may even sound political Um political groups use these for their own benefit that we just we don't really fully understand what Jesus is saying, so well I guess I'll just try to somehow I'll follow that the best I can, but never retaliate and act this way toward those that would treat me in this way. I think sometimes We get frustrated with passages like this, and so we just tend to glide over and gloss them over. Well, let's go on to a passage that I really understand, right? But folks, if we desire spiritual maturity We seek to understand what all the passages of Scripture say. And this is again a passage on the Sermon on the Mount that Jesus would have preached regularly. This was important to him. And so it must be important to us. And whatever Jesus is referring to, then, we must understand it and then say, God help us to live in In this way. Accomplish your work in us. However, Jesus wants me to act in not seeking revenge. You accomplish a work that is not even natural for me to consider Consider. You do the work and help me. So Jesus is going to point out radical love renounces, revenge. And to show love in the face of opposition. This just is almost just goes against the grain for our society and for For a lot of us. Why? Because we tend, the world tends, to view revenge as a right. It's my right to get revenge. It's my right to seek retaliation. I need justice. I remember Uh one time when I was uh working for a commercial painting company when I was very young, um in college, making money for college, and there was a young man that was going to a Bible college and And uh he would bring up he he had he struggled with anger and he was upset about some things and he was talking about how he was going to um exact his you know um retaliation On those things. And the verse was brought up about you know, do not seek revenge in this passage. And so his response many times was, Well, yeah, um, God will seek revenge. but I'm gonna be his tool that he uses. Well I think, wouldn't you agree with me that he was kind of missing the point of this? But a lot of us do. Because what are we supposed to do with this? The world reviews revenge uh views revenge as a right And even in this first verse, Jesus is referring to the Old Testament law. We'll see in a minute from Deuteronomy 19. We're going to be looking through a number of passages today as well. So get your fingers ready to go through a lot of scripture. And you might want to just go ahead and get ready to go to Deuteronomy 19. even though we're still in Matthew 5 at the moment. This was called in Latin this eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth that we find Find in Deuteronomy 19, the Lex Talianus. Heard that before, and that is Latin for the law of retribution. And so, as God in the Old Testament said, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, it was expected that revenge could be sought. You do this to me, then of course I would retaliate in this way. And wouldn't you agree that seeking retribution is a common theme in our culture today, not just seemingly in scripture. Let's be again candid here. What are the movies and the books, the stories that we tend to enjoy Enjoy the most or that really get us fired up are movies that have an action hero, an action figure hero, and and and especially in modern movies today. Those heroes tend to get beaten up and all kinds of terrible things happen to them, including things to their families and things to themselves. And there's so many terrible things that happen in some Some of these movies that it moves us all to think when is our hero going to seek revenge and retaliation? And then the end of the movie is the action hero, you know, he gets the upper hand and with guns blazing or fists flying, he wins the day, he gets the revenge, and we're all like, yeah, he does That was great. It was worth the whole two and a half hour movie to see and get his revenge or her revenge. There's a lot of female action heroes as well. So be balanced on both sides. That gets us going. We like to watch that kind of thing, right? And it even seems as if we read Jesus and the dude around in in the Old Testament that you might say, well, isn't the Bible, Pastor Brock, endorsing retribution and revenge Isn't that what Jesus is saying here? And that's actually what Jesus is addressing, but he's not confirming that this is the right attitude. Is he? In fact, he's addressing this attitude and saying, You have heard from the Old Testament and from God's people in the Old Testament that revenge, retaliation is acceptable. But the rest of the verse Jesus is saying, but I say to you, you have basically You have misinterpreted what God is saying. But let's go ahead and look at that passage that Jesus is referring to. Deuteronomy 19:15. What is God saying then? I mean, isn't God giving us the go-ahead to get revenge and retaliation, a life for life, eye for an eye? Let's look and see. Deuteronomy nineteen, fifteen through twenty-one. And notice notice the Pattern and the framework before God ever in uh instructs his people in retribution. There is a process that many times we miss, and it is an actual legal court process that is involved here. before we ever get to that last verse. Verse 15, a single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime. And for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses or three witnesses shall a charge be established. Uh if only things were that simple in our culture today, uh God makes things pretty standard, pretty straightforward. Forward. If there's only one witness, that will not suffice to condemn someone. And I don't want to get off on too much of a rabbit trail, folks, but I do think that God's peace People especially need to uh uh uh uh remember this when it comes to judging people in our own circles and other believers and in congregations. I'm afraid sometimes that people are automatically judged or condemned, and they haven't followed through on this at all, that there needs to at least be two or three witnesses to Substantiate. We have to be careful in just listening to someone say something about someone else and saying, oh, that's right. They're wrong. No, we have to be fair. But there's a process here. Let's continue to read. If if a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of of wrongdoing, then we just don't say, well that person's done wrong, but they have to prove it. Then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the Lord, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days days. See, this is a malicious witness. Yes, there really are circumstances, folks, where people will judge and condemn other people and they're really slandering, and it's not true because that witness is malicious. And they want to get at the other person. That really does happen in the Old Testament and even today. So they have to prove it. Verse 19: then you shall do to him. Oh, no. I'm sorry, verse 18. The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him as he had meant to do to his brother. So you shall purge the evil from your midst. And the rest shall hear and fear, and shall never again commit any evil, such evil among you. Your eyes shall not pity. It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand And foot for foot. So we see there was a legal process involved. And this really refers to someone that would give false testimony about someone else. And so it needs to be You better have your witnesses in order. And then that group will decide: is this true or is this not true? And then the either the malicious witness or the one that has actually been proven to do the wrong deed, they would receive to them what they had tried to do to the other And again, that may sound like revenge and retribution, but remember the context in God's people at this time. They were nomads that were traveling through the wilderness. They didn't have a home They were going to a promised land. But God had provided capital punishment to protect a community that was very vulnerable. They were besides from all the world's appearances, they were all alone, all by themselves. And when evil happened They had to bring it before their leaders and had to be dealt with , both physical and spiritual evil. And so these folks had to have an avenue by which these things should be dealt with. And so God provided this. But again, this was a legal procedure. And it seems as if from the time that God gave this in his law to the time now where Jesus is preaching, that God's people were skipping ahead and just saying, no, remember that last part. They do to me, I do to them. They were forgetting the whole process and the whole reason why God had instituted that in the first place. And they were just giving um credence and Viability to get revenge on whoever they wanted to get revenge on. And Jesus is saying that's the wrong attitude. You've missed the Point. When I was in high school, I remember the first time I was introduced to hockey, the sport of high hockey. Now what we found is when we were up in New Hampshire that you have a lot of passionate hockey fans. But growing up I had never really had much exposure to hockey. Until my high school days. And I lived well, my family and I lived in a lot of different places, but for high school, we lived South of Kalamazoo of Portage, Michigan. Uh I'll I'll do the hand. I can't help myself. It was in this area of Michigan. Okay? All of you that have been in Michigan, live there You know what I'm doing. And we, when I was in high school, we had some guys that loved to go to K-Wing hockey games. This was the official hockey game. hockey team of Kalamazoo. There really is a Kalamazoo, by the way. I've been there multiple times. And they thought that our school, we we we went to a small Christian school. This was probably eighth or ninth grade for me. Um, and they were talking about how awesome the K-Wings. The K-Wings were not a major league. If that's the case for hockey, I don't know what the exact um wording is for that but they were like more like a minor league it was the ECHL league um and actually I think that league was much more exciting as it proved to be true when we went when we went to this high hockey game than the professionals than the major leagues um because uh they left it all on the field or on the ice uh after a game and so these guys were saying we ought to get a group together and one of our teachers heard that and she was one of our favorite teachers um and she was just kind um sweet soul she was a young And so she said, you know, you guys are so excited about hockey. I'm gonna my husband And I are going to take you to this hockey game. Oh, that's great. It's going to be a school of well, no, but we'll take you and anybody that wants to go. So we got quite a group of our fellow students together and these guys, and we went this K-Wings hockey game and man it did not disappoint. I mean there was all kinds of bumping and slashing and you know I I don't know all the hockey terms, but actually after a while folks it started to get kind of violent. And um it actually got to the point where one guy um in he from the other And we found out that in hockey they actually throw temper tantrums. Throwing their sticks down on the ice and I think even a glove came off and then There was a fight. Well, unfortunately this continued and uh what had happened, it it spread to the the fans. And toward the end of the game, there was actually a fan that was bull old or probably stupid enough to actually reach down and try he was so angry at the i was it his team it was probably opposing team maybe that he started trying to irritate and bother one of the hockey players that was sitting there because you could actually reach over and touch them in this certain area. And the the hockey player didn't like that. And so he actually actually got so angry that he grabbed that particular spectator and brought him on the ice. And so we're watching all this like, wow, how come we've never experienced hockey like this before? This This was amazing. And the sweet teacher who had this great idea, she and her husband were appalled. They were just slip sliding down in their seat a little bit more. They couldn't believe This law of retribution and anger and revenge was playing out. And so, you know, we thought it was exciting. But in actuality, Folks. I I think this was not a normal hockey game. I think tensions were high and this came a little bit more than usual. But it was amazing. We never forgot it. It was a good example of what Jesus is saying not to do here. The next week we all got back. We talked about the hockey game. That was so good. Can you believe that? actually pulled the guy out of the ice. That was amazing. And at the same time, I think the teacher and her husband, remember we talked about oaths last week. I think they made an oath at that point that they would never take teenagers to a Hockey game again or go to a hockey game. We get the point. But it can be exciting. And yet Jesus says the world reviews revenge or views Revenge as a right, but God views personal revenge as a lack of love. And God says that may be what the world wants to do. But that's not what kingdom citizens do. You need to show the love of Christ to a world that needs to see my love. And so Jesus gives some remarkable instances here that we, if we We need to understand the culture and being able to understand these at all. And the first one. Again, all of these seem extreme to the point where we hear Jesus say these things and say, How can we even practice this in any real way in our lives? Verse 39, he says, but I say to you, do not resist The one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. Now, in our culture today Day, uh, you would you would be, I'm, I'm sure you would be very angered if you were getting gas at a wahwa or going inside for coffee or a sandwich or something. And you stepped in the line and you didn't see somebody in front of you, and they turned around and tried to slap you, you would be appalled. You would probably call a police officer. We understand that in a civil Society, these things just don't happen and they need to be dealt with. But in New Testament times, it was considered, like some of these movies you see in medieval times, were Someone takes their glove and slaps someone across the face as an insult and the other person is all offended. Well, that's really what is going on here. When this happened in Bible times, it was a backhanded slap of the right hand. Kind of like just a disagknowledging of that person, and it was considered a grave, one of the worst Insults that you could give to someone. If you were really, really mad at someone, you'd take the back of your hand and PA. And Jesus says, if someone does that to you, the one of the greatest insults Insults that you could do in our culture today, you say, all right, here's the other one. What? Who does that? Jesus. How can we dare? I mean, the person hit us. Surely they deserve to at least be spoken to. What is Jesus saying here? Well, if you think that one's bad, verse 40. And if anyone Would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. And let's get an idea of what these garments are. First of all, a tunic that Jesus Is referring to here was an inner cloak that was worn next to the skin and undergarment, while the cloak was an outer garment that was not allowed to be permanently taken. According to God's law. Exodus twenty-two. You don't have to turn there, but verse twenty-six through twenty-seven, this is God's law in effect, even for clothing. You see God's law and his , expectations for people even regarded the simple things of life, their clothing. And he says in Exodus twenty two, if ever you take a neighbor's cloak in pledge, you shall return it to him before the Sun goes down, for that is his only covering, and it is his cloak. This is that outer garment that we're talking about here, not the inner garment. It is his cloak for his body. And what else shall he sleep? And if he cries to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate. You see, this outer cloak that these folks wore, um, it would keep them them warm, but it would also be a blanket for them at night. Sometimes it would be a pillow. Um it could be used in all kinds of ways, even to carry things. It was really um the most important tool in effect. that a person had. And so God said, you know, if someone absolutely needs to borrow one of your most important possessions, then you let them do that. But that person is Expected to give that back to you, or they have committed an error, and they are liable. And I will hear them if a person is left without his His cloak. Don't tell me that God isn't interested in the small things of our lives, folks. He is. But Jesus is saying here back to Matthew 5. Verse 40. If anyone takes you to court for whatever reason, maybe they felt like um you had done them wrong, and so they wanted to take one of your most it was probably a a debtor 's situation. They thought that you You owed something, and you could give your cloak, your outer garment, which was valuable as payment for that, and someone were to sue you. This is probably falsely, and take your tunic. This is again your uh I'm sorry, this is your inner garment. Jesus says, Well let him have the cloak as Well, without any expectations that you would get it back. He goes beyond the law of what God's expectations were in the This. If he's taking the the clothes you wear under the cloak, he's taking those um as as a form of debt retribution, you give him that outer coat as well. Let him take it all. Really? Or how about this last one? Forty one. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him to Two miles. Well, what's this talking about? Somebody wants to go on a hike, you say, oh, I really don't want to, but I guess I will. Not at all. This is referring actually to the Roman practice of commandeering civilians to carry the luggage of a military personnel a certain distance. He would force them to go the mile. That's probably where we get that expression. Are you willing to go the mile? And this the reality of it was a Roman soldier could go by a citizen at any time and say, hey, uh, I'm tired. I've been fighting your wars for you. I've been keeping your society civil. Um, I need you to carry my backpack for a little bit. I need you to carry my garment and help me out a little bit. And the civilian would literally have to drop everything That was the the rule of law at that time. And so that was a real inconvenience for a lot of people, and I'm sure they grumbled about it even but they weren't going to argue with the Roman soldier. Right? Those guys were huge. They were big. And they had weapons. They weren't going to argue, but it was frustrating. And Jesus said: if anybody, if a Roman soldier says, Hey, you carry this one mile, Jesus says, how about this? You carry it an extra mile. That's a long way to carry a heavy bag for a Roman soldier. What is Jesus saying about all of this? He says, Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. So if anybody asks me for money at any time. I have to give them money. Or if anybody wants to borrow anything of mine, I have to let them borrow it. So does that mean that I never resist Anyone who is evil. And so we could see as we come to this passage how folks we may know the words well, but we really don't know how to apply it. But Jesus is being very serious here, and he is countering something that was a real problem in the culture then and today, and that is we love revenge and retaliation way too much. And we seek it way too much. What is Jesus really saying here then? Well, I want to give you some practical examples of misunderstandings and in this application of this package of this passage. So when Jesus says that one should not resist evil, what about police forces? Not the Department of Police, the Department of Defense. What about uh military forces? Is Jesus saying being negative toward those that carry the sword in our defense? And that provide correction? He said, don't resist the one who is evil. How do we apply that? Well, we have to take other scripture, right? And add into this to have a whole perspective. Romans 13, 1 through 4. You could turn there. Romans 13, 1 through 4 might help if you do And Paul says in verse one let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God and those of the that exist have been instituted first. by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who Who is in authority, then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. Catch verse 4 especially. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. He is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrong And these are the governing authorities that Paul says God has given them the right and the responsibility to carry the sword, to carry out punishment, to defend its people. And so as we um we uh compare that to what Jesus says, then we say, well, obviously God makes allowances for police forces for militaries and armies and God says for his people that he has set them up and that we need to be proper examples of obedience, if we can, to civil law, so that we don't face the consequences of disobeying civil law. And God has set these folks up. So whatever do not resist the evil one, the one who is evil means, it can't mean no police forces and no military. We can argue about the Um the sense and the propriety of going into different wars and things, but God giving authorities that authority to correct and to protect is Biblical. Well what if then? What about this? What about self-defense and protection of loved ones? That thing about getting slapped on the cheek. And it was a pro Pretty hard slap too. Does that mean that I just take it and let people do what they want and hurt me? Well, I think you would understand that Can't be what Jesus is talking about. I do have a verse for that too. Luke 22, verses 35 through 38. You can turn there. This is Jesus himself. This is right before he is getting ready with his disciples to meet Judas, who would betray him. And the uh Roman army or the temple army was coming to arrest him. This is right before that happened. And Jesus said to them, his disciples, When I sent you out With no money bag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything? And they said, No, nothing. He said to them, But now let the one who has the money bag take it, and like likewise an apsac. And let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one. For I tell you this scripture must be fulfilled in me, and he was not Numbered with the transgressors, for what is written about me has its fulfillment. And they said, Look here, look, Lord, here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough. Happen for him to be numbered, to be punished, to be convicted with the transgressors. But he is not saying that the men around him, his disciples, can Not protect themselves. They have a money bag, they have a knapsack, they carry their money with them as they would at that time. And so Jesus Is saying here, if you have a couple swords, you know, if you need a sword, go ahead and buy one for your protection, to protect your assets. And they said, Lord, here are two swords. And he didn't say, put those things away. Didn't I tell you that you're never supposed that when somebody slaps you or tries to hurt you, you're supposed to let 'em let 'em hurt you? And And don't say anything to the person that does evil? No. What does he say? He says, it's enough. That is appropriate. Jesus Himself acknowledges that there are times where we need to be Careful to provide self-protection and protection of loved ones. I had a pastor that taught a Bible class in my Christian school when I was in high school and this always stuck out to me, he would address this issue like this. He said, when it comes, does when Jesus is saying do not resist the one who is evil, does that mean that I can't protect myself family. He said, well let me tell you. He said if a person comes through our door in any church and any Sunday and a visitor comes in, and I've never met them before. They will receive my right hand of fellowship and I will welcome them and I will tell them how glad I am that they are with me this morning, that they are with us this morning And we will rejoice. He said, however, if someone who I've never met before decides to come through my front door in the middle of the night dressed in black and a ski mask, He said, that person's gonna get an entirely different greeting, and it's gonna be a little negative because I have to protect my family. That um sentence Does not go against what Jesus is saying here. Peter or Paul talked about in 2 Corinthians how that he was in Damascus and the governor of the city was ordering was seeking to seize him and he remembered Remember, Paul allowed himself to be lowered down in a basket and get away. And Paul says, I escaped his hand. He ran from evil. Jesus himself. As a crowd was getting ready to throw stones at him near the temple, it says in John 8:59, Jesus hid himself and went out from the temple. Jesus said, It's not my time. And therefore, God just was enabled to just kind of walk through those that wanted to kill him, and he wasn't hurt at all. He fled Ran from evil. He was able to flee from evil. One more thing here, just to clear this up. Go back to verse 42 in Matthew. 5. Give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. What is Jesus saying there? Again, If someone asks for me money, I just automatically have to give them. Or if someone asks to borrow something, you guys know how borrowing works. If you just let somebody borrow everything that you own, you're not going to own very much very soon. Is that what Jesus is saying here? Well again to counter this in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 Verses 10 and 12 , Paul says this. For when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work, Let him not eat. For we hear that some among you walk in idless in idleness, not busy at work, but busybodies. Now such persons we command and encourage them in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living. So no, Jesus can't be saying here, if anybody ever asks you for money, you just give it to them because Paul says very clearly, no, there are people in our society, in New Testament society, that are idle and um need to learn to work for themselves and provide for themselves. As God provides them opportunity. So with that, and even with the borrowing issue, with all of that scriptural evidence in mind I guess the question is, what is Jesus' point then? And I think it's found, first of all, in our natural tendency to retaliate. On a regular basis. Folks, when someone does something terrible to us or that we designate as wrong, aren't we always very quick to jump in and And defend ourselves and seek justice. You know, I grew up in a family of four boys. I was the oldest. I have four boys. We see the law of retaliation in full effect many days. And with three brothers, you know, we don't uh I guess you know I never had sisters. We don't have young ladies But I remember growing up, there was very little talking it out. Someone, that's the law of vertifusin. Someone pokes you, you poke them back. Someone Pinches you, you pinch them back, someone swugs you. Well, of course, the same thing is true. And we have to, at times, and with our Boys as well. Deal with those things and remind them of this law. It reminds me, uh, don't judge me here, but I love the Pixar movie A Bug's Life. Do you remember those twin pill bugs, tuck and roll, and how they did all those tricks and everything, but then by accident one would step on the other's foot or hurt him in the head, and he would immediately Turn around in like two seconds. He'd be hitting him and they'd be in that fight and they'd be rolling around together. I just thought that was hilarious because I totally get that. Retrobear time! Immediate satisfaction. What is Jesus' point? Is that we find way too much satisfaction and we're way too quickly turning toward retribution before Before we ever give thought, as Jesus is saying here, should I turn the other cheek? Should I go the extra mile? Should I make the extra time? and sacrifice to show God's love to this person who is obviously not uh concerned about loving me in this moment. Folks, even in ministry, you will find, and any of you that serve in ministry, this is of a truth, that you will find yourself giving out more love than you will ever receive. In return. That's just a fact of ministry. And really, that's a fact of life and for God's people. Is that we We must not turn aside from showing God's love to other people and showing love we must go the extra mile to show love to those who in our own minds don't deserve it and perhaps don't In a earthly way. And we will have to go the extra mile as much as we can. We can't go crazy with what Jesus is saying. Here because there's other passages of scripture that says, yes, there should be authorities that provide correction. We are allowed to self-uh have protection and defend ourselves. We shouldn't just, when evil comes, always just stand There and take it. Sometimes it's a good practical idea to flee from that. But as a general rule, we should be thinking when someone does evil against me, how can I best show the love of Christ? Christ to them and how would Jesus want me to show his love to them right now? Maybe it is taking it. Maybe it is letting them um giving them some money. Maybe Maybe it is going the extra mile and I don't have the time and it's going to be a self-sacrifice to do so, and yet God is making it clear I need to sacrifice my time. time and my money to show Christ's love to another rather than retaliate. Don't you think in this world today that's so bent on Retribution and revenge, that to see someone who has had evil done against him or her and is still willing to show God's love, do you not think that that would make an image Impact on our society for Christ? Our testimony will attract people to God's kingdom. And they will marvel. How can a person be that loving towards someone who obviously is antagonistic? And their enemy. We'll see next week. Jesus has more to say about loving our neighbor and what to do with our enemy. But folks, we can be an incredible Testimony of the kingdom. When we take a breath, pray, and say, Lord, here is someone that does not want to do me good. How can I best show God's love responsibly in this situation and let the Holy Spirit lead us? In every one of these situations where people have done wrong against us, we need to pray and say, Holy Spirit, give me wisdom to know how to How to respond right this very minute do so that I can be a proper testimony of Christ's love. That is what I think Jesus is saying. what the application is to us. Don't just immediately go into revenge mode. Go into show the love of Christ mode. And see how powerfully God works in your life. To show Jesus' love to others. Father, thank you for this reminder. We admit from the pastor on down, we are way too quick to retaliate and to seek revenge and to find justice. Justice for wrong. Lord, thank you that your word is reasonable about this, and that you you as as We seek discernment on how to best live out this admonition from Christ that you will give us wisdom in every circumstance. And that you will provide justice in your timing, that we need to be wise with what you have given us That our family needs to have a sense that yes, we will protect them and we will do what we need to do to provide a safe, secure home. But we will also, Lord, help us to go out of our way, to do what we need to do, to show Christ's sacrificial love Even in his death, as he was being spat upon and the nails thrust into his hands, he was saying, Father, forgive them, for they know Know not what they do. Lord, we get angry and retaliate way too quickly. Help us as kingdom citizens to take our time to reflect on what you would have And Father, if there is someone here today that doesn't know the love of Christ because they're not in a faith relationship with Jesus this morning, may today be the day that they trust him. So they can sense a love that surpasses all love, and they'll be willing to forgive their enemies as well because you love them. As my wife Leslie plays this morning, let's think on what I've just said. And if there is someone here who does not know Jesus Christ as their Personal Savior. Come to me. Come talk to me today. And even now in your seat or come forward, trust, put your faith in what Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection on the cross for You and you can be a kingdom citizen and experience the love of Christ even today. Let's meditate on these things as Leslie plays.