Of a discussion that I entitled last week: Radical Love Renounces Revenge. And what Jesus encapsulated here in verses thirty-eight through forty-eight, I I believe is pointing out is that when we have a real sense of his radical, amazing love for us and his sacrifice for us, we will be willing Willing to show that to even those that have done us great harm, those that we would consider opposers, our enemies. We can have a Christ-like response to those who it's most difficult to show any love toward at all. And so, in reality, that's really a great theme to start our Christmas season, is it not? That Jesus shows us how to love Those that are unlovable. How to love our enemies. How to show the love of Christ. And for one that was nailed to a cross and shed his blood for our sin , And yet was able to look down on his enemies that put him on that cross and say, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Folks, there's not Any situation in our lives where we shouldn't be able to do that. To be able to forgive even our enemies. And minister to them. That is what the effects of radical love do in our hearts. We renounce the old ways of revenge and vindictiveness. We put on the ways of love and peace and peacekeeping. And we desire to be peacemakers. As I mentioned last week, this passage starting at verse 38 is so simple and easy to understand. Understand that we can come to it and say, well, I get it, but I don't know how to practically apply that to my life. Because as I read Jesus' words here, it seems impossible. To have that kind of attitude toward those that would do evil against me I know it well, but I don't know how it practically this truth outworks itself in my life. And our tendency then is to take these passages Of Scripture and try to glide over them. Maybe we've even memorized them in the past, but we really don't understand the application that Jesus needs us to understand. From them. And folks, then, if we truly desire to want to be spiritually mature, and I hope we all want that this morning. That none of us still wants to remain infants and babies in Christ. We rejoice when people come to Christ. We rejoice for those spiritual infants and babies, but their men And we don't want to be a messy baby our whole lives, but we want to grow and maturity. And for those that want to take that on through the power of Christ in their lives Then we have to understand what Jesus is saying here and seek to apply it to our lives. And so let's go back again to verse 38, as we looked at last week. And summary here is show love in the face of opposition. Jesus says, You have heard it said that it was said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. And his audience would have agreed with him. Because the world reviews or reviews Revenge as a right. All the movies that we enjoy the most are the super action hero that gets revenge in the end and just It wouldn't make nearly as good of a movie if he just if the super action hero just went and made peace with his enemies. I'm not going to pay money to see that. But we enjoy that revenge and vindictiveness. It's natural for us to And God's people had even misunderstood what he had said in the Old Testament about this phrase uh your eye shall not pity, life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand. There was a legal process that was involved in that with the Old Testament people of Israel that they had to follow in order that they would have justice. And that they would be protected. But God's people mishandled that, and it became just a simple measure for, hey, just feel free to get Get revenge, eye for an eye. They do to you, you do back. And so Jesus says, No, no, let's just let's do away with that misunderstanding. Verse 39, but I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, which was a tremendous insult. Back then, it meant even more than it would today. Turn to him or her the other cheek also. And if anyone would sue you and take your tomb Tunic, which was again a very important element of clothing that people had back then, then let him have your cloak as well. And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. That was Was the Roman soldier practice of conscription in a sense where you could they could order you if they were tired? A soldier could come up to you and order you. To carry his burden for a while so that he could rest. And that didn't go over well with the people. But Jesus says, no, if he asks you to go one mile, Go above and beyond. Go to. That'll be your 5k for the day, right? And give to the one who begs from you, and do not refuse the one who would borrow from you And so as we read that, we think, is that even possible to live? To live out? That just seems like Jesus is saying, just Give in to everybody. Let people walk all over you. Well, he's not. And we went into this in detail last week. I won't rehash all of that again, but Even with those who beg. Remember, as we looked at these things, we saw other scripture passages. How do we apply this? Does this mean if we do not resist the one who is evil that and we should Turn the other cheek that there should be no police forces or standing armies or military, and we saw from God's word, no. Uh God condones and expects that we will have those, and we need to respect them. Those authorities in our lives. Well, does this mean that we just let everyone walk all over us and we shouldn't defend ourselves in protection or protect our families? And again, we saw Verses in scripture that indicates that Jesus expected his followers to protect their families and to protect those loved ones that were close to them. Is Jesus saying just don't run from evil and just let evil have its toll on you? Well, we saw passages where Paul and Jesus escaped Those who wanted to kill them. And so it doesn't mean that as well. And so the point then, as we summed it up last week, is that in ministry, folks, just kind of On it, and Jesus is making it clear here too: that you will in committed faithful ministry always give more love than is given back to you. Don't be surprised by that. We're called to love those who may not ever show us love in this life. Jesus isn't saying Don't be in re or to be unreasonable about this, but most of the time, folks, we're very uninterested in showing any sort of consideration or sacrifice or love. Well we can just ignore them pretty quickly. And Jesus says here, Don't do that. You do what it takes. You follow the Spirit's leading in every Situation. And when the Spirit leads you to go over and beyond to show love, Christ's love, to those who oppose and even hate you, You need to follow that leading because Jesus gave all for rebels and those who had turned against him and against God. And Jesus gave his life for them. And so we must be willing to go the extra mile to those who do take Terrible things to us, and not to always have a spirit of revenge. Right? The spirit of this admonition is what is important here. Not to Go crazy and to be silly with it. Well, we have the second part here. We need to show love to those in the face of those who oppose us and Just blanket then very directly. We need to show love to our enemies. Because as you know, the world expects that enemies are to be hated. That's why they're called enemies. You have you have the people in the white hats that are good people, and then you have the people in the black hats that are evil people, like in the old westerns, right? And it makes it real easy. You just divide it that way. Enemies, you know, we uh oppose and we fight, uh, and we even hate our enemies. But Jesus again turns that all upside down. Verse 43, you have heard it said That you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. You, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers or your sisters, What more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore, and he's talking to those that would be kingdoms of God citizens, you be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. Now again, that's simple to understand, but we would we would come from that and if we really are thinking through, think, what is Jesus really Saying there? I mean, in the end, how can I be perfect? This sounds impossible. And so we need to have better understanding. Because it is It is true, folks, that the world just expects us to hate our enemies. And we kind of expect to do that as well And even in the Old Testament, you had indicators of this, that this was what God's expectation was. So Jesus again addresses the Old Testament. What were the expectations in the Old Testament? And then he gives a new expectation: the law of Christ. It comes from his love and sacrifice for the world. So again, back to verse 43. This is Old Testament. You have heard that it was said: you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Let's be honest, that makes things real simple too, right? I love those that are on my side. I hate those who are my enemy and oppose to me. And Let's not get complicated, Pastor Brock. Let's not complicate our lives anymore. Hate our enemies, love our uh friends, life's easy that way But Jesus always calls us to something that is beyond our comfort zone, doesn't he? This is just one of those things that's beyond our comfort zone. Well, those of you that might read this, you might see that and from God's law, what was he saying there? But you might also think of some other passages, and you might say, Well, Pastor Brock, doesn't God say that he hates sinners or hates sin? And doesn't it say in the Psalms that we're supposed to hate sinners? Well, let's take two of those passages real quick. Just turn quickly to the Psalms and let's look at this Psalm five. Sorry, four and five And the psalmist says clearly, verse 4: For you are not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you. The boastful shall not stand before your eyes. you hate all evildoers. Well, if God hates all evildoers, those that do evil, those that sin Then how can Jesus call us to love those who do evil? Isn't that a contradiction? Well, here in the Old Testament, It's describing the character of God. And the character of God as holy. And you could almost say respectfully, you could say. That God is allergic to sin, that He can't stand sin and it to continue. He allows it in his presence for a while because even Satan is allowed in his throne room and has to give an account before God. But he does not delay And so when it says here that he hates all evildoers, folks, I am convinced that the best interpretation of that is not that he hates the people, but that he hates the sin Sin that they're committing. The evil that they're doing is what he hates. Because these same evildoers, he would send his son Jesus Christ. Christ to die for their sin and provide reconciliation with Him. So, in context, here it's saying, it's describing the character of God That he hates sin and he hates the sin that all of us do as evildoers. Well, turn to Psalm 139. This gets a little more confusing, perhaps. Because David, in response to this, Psalm one hundred thirty nine twenty one One verse twenty one He says, Do I not hate those who hate you? O Lord, and do not I loathe those who rise up against you? I hate them with complete hatred. I count them my enemies Well, that doesn't seem to jive with what Jesus is saying in the New Testament, in the Sermon on the Mount. Did David just not get it right? Is David involved in sinful anger here? Well, I think the best way again, I'm convinced, to interpret this passage is that David David, as he as he delights more in the things of God, that he also is developing more and more of a hatred for sin. And that is really the kind Context here of is that he is developing a sincere, powerful hatred toward evil and toward sin, and he sees what it does And the brokenness of it, perhaps even looking back in his own life. And so he is denouncing those who do evil and saying that he can't stand to be in their presence. presence and be with them, and that hate is a righteous hate against evil, even though it is very passionately uh described here. And emotion But I will say this, even though David says that, and I believe that his hatred for sin, as our hatred for sin, is right, and it should Should be. We should all folks, as much as we should be ready to show the love of Christ to a world that needs him, we shouldn't embrace their sin. But we should We should have a um a disgust and a disdain for the sin in their lives and also in our lives Our own lives, right? But in all these things, I want to point out, and I think this is important, that you will not find a verse, even though David says that he hates his enemies. Enemies, you'll not find a verse where God says, where God tells people to hate their enemies. You'll not find that. And so David in a righteous rage rages against sin. But that's still a far cry as we go back to Matthew 5, then, of what Jesus is doing. dealing with with people that are just vindictive for anything that goes on, any petty thing or any hurtful thing. Immediately get vengeance. Get revenge. I think you would agree with me, that's not at all what David is trying to bring forth in his song. Jesus is pointing out the attitude of vindictiveness that we must be ready to love our enemies and not immediately rise up and see Again, I can't help but think of this story. I've used this before in my message in forgiveness. But some of you probably haven't heard, and I won't go into the detail that I normally do with it, but I still, when I think of loving our enemies, I go my mind goes back to this story in At the end of World War II with Corey Tinboom. And again, if you've ever seen the movie or read the book, The Hiding Place, you know about her and her family's attempts to hide. hide the Jewish people from the the terrible um tortures that the Nazis were inflicting upon them. And Corey and her father and her sister were found out and they were subject to those same internment camps. And only Cory survived. She lost her father and her sister. And yet when the war was over, God led her on a campaign of forgiveness, and she would speak at different churches throughout Europe, probably In the United States as well, and talk about the need to ask for forgiveness. But in her book, The Hiding Place, she tells this remarkable story again, after one of these encounters, after a church Service in Munich, there was a former SS man who had been one of the soldiers in those camps who had done those terrible things to her and her family. And he came up And he said he he had a face that was beaming and joyful, which certainly had to be repugnant to her as she remembered all that he had done to her. Her. And he said, How grateful I am for your message, Frulein, to think that as you say, Jesus washed my sins away. And his hand was thrust out. Out to Shake Corey's. And she said, I, who had preached so often to so many people the need to forgive, I couldn't get my hand to leave my side. And she had these angry, vengeful thoughts that boiled inside of her. And folks, we can totally understand, right? Corey had to go through Cory Tenboom. Had to go through more and see more terrible things than any of us will certainly ever see. And so that struggle within her was real, and we can understand And so, in order to live out what Jesus is talking about in this Sermon on the Mount, this principle, she had to pray. And she said, Jesus, you've died for this man. Can I ask for more? And so she prayed, forgive me and help me to forgive him. And she tried To smile and she struggled to raise her hand and she breathed a silent prayer again. Jesus, I cannot, I cannot forgive him. Give me Your forgiveness. And at that moment, she says, the most incredible thing happened. From the shoulder, from her shoulder along her arm and through her hand, a current seemed to pass. From me to him as my hand came up and grabbed his hand and embraced him, and while into my heart sprang a love for the stranger that almost overwhelmed me And so she said, when Jesus tells us to love our enemies, he gives, along with the command, the love itself. And so in this passage, folks, is Jesus calling us to do the impossible? He is. But he's calling us to do Do not the impossible, but through his power and his example of his love, he calls us to do the eminently possible. If Corey could forgive a Nazi soldier that had tortured her and her family, let's just be real candid here. There's not any of us that has an enemy. Or an opposer that shouldn't be willing to forgive. Because of all that Jesus has done for us. It's powerful. These words seem like they It can't be played out, but it's powerful when we realize that God does expect us to show love to our enemies. And love involves some things. That Jesus talks about here. Now let me say something else. I think when it comes to these enemies, I think the he's referring to those who have truly hurt us, to opposers, to those that would oppose us. And bring us pain, and then we might refer to as our enemies, maybe sometimes even believers. I don't think this may have a secondary application, but I don't think Think this refers primarily to those who are irritants. And in our society today, folks, let's just again be candid here. We tend to be a little too sensitive. Toward a lot of things. That person said that about me, and they gave me that look, and I'm sure they're my enemy, and I oppose them. Or somebody told me something about somebody else that heard something about them and that makes me angry and they must be my No. Those are things that we must be willing to put aside. And say they're not my enemy. And I just need to love them with the love of Christ. I remember one incident of this early on after Leslie and I. We're married. We were still living in Greenville, South Carolina. And if you've ever been to Greenville, some of you haven't, if you've been to their downtown area, it's just beautiful. It's amazing. And so we wanted to take some time. Time to drive down uh the downtown road there, a lot of traffic. Uh we were going to one of our favorite ice cream spots because they also served coffee and I mean coffee and ice cream. What better combination? So we start, we got to the beginning of the road and the light was red. So, as a responsible citizen, I put on the brakes and stopped my vehicle. And there was a guy that pulled up behind me and he starts hawking. And he pulls right up next close to my bumper. And I'm looking at Leslie. I said, is this This light, night, this light, not red. He's like, it's red. I'm like, I'm looking at yes, it's red. So then it turned green, and we went on, but this guy for whatever reason was very angry. Angry and enraged, and we eventually got to a point, he followed us, and we got to the point where we pulled over to stop here, and he pulled up right beside us, and he was one of the strangest looking characters I'd ever seen. bright white hair, young guy, and these white sunglasses. I'm like, where where did this guy crawl out of? And he had the top down in his vehicle and he could tell if I had to rolled down The window, I would have got a long litany of very expressive and colorful things that he was saying. And then he quickly accelerated and took off. And to this day, I have no idea why he was so angry. Did he just expect me to drive through the red light? Who knows? But folks, we have to be careful, not in any sense, to be like that person. Obviously, that man thought of me as his enemy, right? That's not really what Jesus is referring to here, but he is referring to those enemies that really have opposed us and that have um hurt us and have made let's let's put it this way those that have made it clear they're not our friends. Do you know people like that? They make it clear, I'll put up with you, but you're not my friend. How do we handle those? And so Jesus gives us more details. Verse 44. Jesus says, I expect you to love your enemies, but I say to you, love those that hate you. That's What your enemy is, right? And pray for those who persecute you. And this is so genius, as something that unfortunately we don't do as often. Often as we should, folks, but what is the first thing that you should do when you realize that someone opposes you and doesn't like you and maybe wants to do evil things again What should you do for them? Jesus says here, we should pray. We should pray for that individual. They ought to be tops on our prayers. What do we want to do many times in the natural man? We want to, at the least, a sanctified way many times in our lives. uh handling enemies or those opposed to us is just to kind of forget them altogether. And I will admit I have this tendency too. If I send someone who I think doesn't like me or somebody maybe that's actively Slandering me or somebody that's against me, you know, and they disappear out of my life. Uh I'm not really bothered by that. I I don't lament days and weeks. It's like You know, God bless you. See you later. But do I ever pray for them? Do you pray for them For those that oppose you. Here's the truth that Jesus is making clear, folks, it is harder to hate someone that you are praying for. Have you ever tried it? Have you ever had somebody that you really disliked, that really seemed opposed to your values or to who you want? or that seemed that they um didn't like you, that that made it clear they were an opposer, and then you prayed for them. And it's amazing. It really does work. I can give testimony that when you pray for that individual, the Lord just brings a sense of let me work in their lives and let me help them. And you're reminded that they have things going on in their life that you have no idea. You have no idea of the issues in their life. And maybe I should pray that the Lord, whatever they're dealing with, that the Lord help them with that. instead of being so angry and opposed to me. And it is not impossible, but folks, it is very hard when you pray for those type of people to continue to harbor that hatred and resentment in your heart. Because you're giving them over to God. And so Jesus says, have you prayed for them? That's the first thing that we ought to do. Enemy, pray for them. Pray that God will work. Why? What's the motivation? Verse 45, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. And so this phrase, be sons of your father, is Jesus is saying here, you need to as kingdom citizens, and again more fully as those who have trusted Trusted in Jesus' righteousness and have received his forgiveness, and we can lay claim to the confident hope that we will be kingdoms. Citizens of Jesus Christ's kingdom for eternity, those folks ought to be reflecting more and more of the character of their father and thus reflect their father. And so so that the world may know who their father is. Have you ever heard people talk about uh people's children in a man's children and say in a good way there's also a bad way of this, but say in a good way, oh those boys they act Just like their father. Look at those good things. Look at that character that they have within them. They're reflection. Chip off the old block. Well, folks, all of us as believers ought to reflect the character of our heaven. Heavenly Father, and Jesus says one way to do that is to pray for your enemies and pray that God will help you, like Cory Tinboom just I just read, will help you to love the unlovable. Or help us to impossibly do the possible. And show love to those who oppose us. Pray for them. Our Father is the ultimate example. Does he not give blessings? Does he not allow the rain to come for both the evil and the good? Does God not have a general grace for even those for those that are unbelievers and have rejected him, and yet he allows them to experience Good things, if our Heavenly Father can do that, then shouldn't we reflect that grace and that love and that mercy so that you and I might draw those people to Christ? Of course, the answer is yes. And then Jesus takes another approach here. Because again, we tend to be satisfied, folks, with a very low standard. We think if we can forget and ignore our enemy, we've done pretty well. If we can and if we show appreciation to those who show appreciation, Appreciation to us, that's really good. And if I come into church and I make time to greet a few people that have friendly faces towards me, well then I've been a blessing. And uh, I've met my requirements of being a testimony for Christ. Well, Jesus has a response for that too, right? Verse 46, for if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? Oh, that's that's hitting low. But what is Jesus saying here? Well that remember at this time and we can understand this, especially um we can understand this more as it gets closer to tax season, that these tax collectors who would take money from the people people but then would also charge their own interest because hey a tax collector's gotta live he's gotta eat and would take money that people really didn't have and take it from them and adopt rich extravagant lifestyles, those people weren't liked very much in the society. They were hated And so if you were called if you were considered a tax collector, Jesus is saying here, you're kind of on the lowest of the low. It might be a way that sometimes, you know, today we might Might say, do not even politicians do the same or something like that. Now there's wonderful. We have good politicians out there. And we have those that love the Lord and uh respect God's word. I'm so thankful for it. for that but you get the point. Jesus is saying here, do you expect a pat on the back because you do something that even the Lowest in our society, do? Great. You love someone who shows love to you. You don't get a prize for that, in one sense. That's easy. Verse 47 If you greet only your brothers, what are more are you doing than others? You don't get a pat on the back, and I mean your your reward is you're enjoying that fellowship in the moment. You don't get special recognition status because you greeted somebody who's smiling back at you. Although we want to have fellowship and we want to We want to put the right hand forward, right? And we want to greet people and show them the love of Christ, visitors, and all of that. It's not what Jesus is saying here, but if we are satisfied with just Spending time with those who are nice to us and smile at us, Jesus is saying, don't even the Gentiles do the same? Now you might Hear that and say, wait a minute, I'm a gentile. We have a lot of gentiles in this room. Is Jesus slamming on Gentiles? Well, no. But he He's making the point, he's using um the um the sentiments of the time among the Jewish people that if you weren't Jewish, that If you were Jewish, and especially if you were a religious leader, that you were morally and righteously above any of those other folks, especially those that aren't that that are um Are not a part of the Jewish nation, are not a part of Israel. We're held to a higher standard as the people of God, as Jews, and we know how to obey God. And live life in a better way, and we're more moral, would have been their thinking. And Jesus says, you call yourselves moral and you just take the easy way out He says, here's the standard that you need to adopt. Verse 48: You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father. Is perfect. He's saying you consider yourselves more righteous as God's people, yet the standard you hold yourselves to is I'm gonna up the standard here. I'm gonna up the ante. You be perfect. And now at this point, we really lose what Jesus is saying here, right? Because Because as we all know, well, that's impossible. How could Jesus call us to be in to be perfect? None of us are perfect when we're honest. We're all broken Well, we need some reminders then of what the New Testament says about our position in Christ, folks. That is, first of all, for those who have trusted In Christ, who are followers of Jesus and have put their faith and trust in his death on the cross and his resurrection, that one day we will be made perfect. That kingdom citizens will be glorified, that we will be perfect, and we have that to look forward to. And so in one sense, Jesus is pointing to when you are Kingdom citizen, even on this earth, you have perfection, glorification to look forward to. And that is a glorious truth. The think that we will one day not be tempted Tempted by sin, and that we will no longer sin for all eternity in the presence of Jesus Christ ought to be something that we all desire and long for. And that will happen, folks. And there's another aspect of this, though, that is positional and that is that is applicable on this earth And that is that those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ today have the righteousness of Christ. And so positionally, yes, they are made in a sense. Perfect, they have the righteousness of God, the righteousness of Christ. They are identified with the righteousness of Jesus and not their own sin because Jesus died. I think there is a hint of that as well. In this. How can I be perfect? You can't. But Jesus will give you his righteousness when you trust him. And he will then give you enablement. To do the most impossible, and that is to hate or to love, excuse me, the one who hates you. And so then I think we get to the heart then of what Jesus is saying here. As believers, with the power of Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit working within us, we should never be satisfied with where we are in our relationship. But we should always strive to uh show more love to those who even oppose us and more And we tend to measure ourselves with those around us. Well, you know I'm more loving and nice than this person and this person. But Jesus says, no, here's the standard. It's perfection. And that's why I'm calling Calling you to do the impossible and to love those that hate you and your enemies. And you can grow into that and pursue in this Life maybe not perfection, but blamelessness. Would it not be a wonderful thing to have a testimony that as people look at each of us, they say, There's one person That shows love to all those around them, regardless of whether they like them or not. Wow. What a powerful working of Jesus in their lives. Or to the world out there that just, you know, you hate your enemy, you love those that love you, and they see someone that's showing love to their enemies in the midst of persecution like Corey and many others have done. The world says there's something different about that individual. There's some sort of power or something that's in Enabling them to do the impossible. That's amazing. We can be those types of people, folks. We can be, we can have that kind of testimony. We can have a powerful testimony when we are willing to show God's love to others who are against us. I remember uh seeing an interview one time and I won't give you the story about who the What the TV show was, because that would distract from worship and from the passage and everything. But it was a beloved family TV show. And an actress was telling a story. She was the actress who played The bully, who played the mean girl in the TV show against the innocent children. And what she found was that not only did people love to hate her on the screen, they also loved to hate her when they would see her in person. Because people tend to think that when you see an actress or you see somebody on TV, that they're that per they're that they're that character in real life. Which you should never do, by the way. That's part of the the beauty of of acting is they can act like people that they're not. So this girl would many times get threats because they thought, oh, there's the bully in the TV show that we love so much, and there she is, and we need to stand up. And one time, so so many years later, she's Grown up, she wrote a book, and there was a line of people that were getting autographs of the book, and she saw a lady in line that was just giving her the stare down. And she thought, when this lady gets up to me, this is going to be very interesting. And this lady finally, as the person in front of her got his autograph, this lady came up and she was sh Staring at this actress, and she looked at her, and with a steady but controlled voice, she said, I forgive you, and then ran off. Didn't even get her autograph. And the actress pointed out, you know, she may have been trying to forgive someone that she thought was her enemy, even though she really wasn't. She was just an actress playing a role. But that that woman had a wrong idea of who her enemy was and what forgiveness really means. Folks, as we finish today, it's not really that impressive if all the best that we can do is go to someone that's opposed to us or enemy. Say, I forgive you and walk away. You see, heroes in our entertainment culture today, they defeat the enemy through violence, brute strength, and street smarts. That's why we love superheroes. But how does our real hero, who is supposed to be Jesus Christ, how does he handle this? The enemy. Violence, brute strength, no. Jesus, our hero, defeated the enemy. The real enemy, Satan Sin, death, not by violence, but by sacrificing himself on a cross. And offering Offering forgiveness of sins to those who were against him. And in that sacrifice is found the greatest power. And that power can work in us to do this impossible thing and love our enemies. Father, thank you For this important reminder that we can do hard things if we have a relationship with Jesus. We can love our enemies and those of us opposed to us and we must to be a proper example of Jesus. And so Lord, I call upon those that know your name and that are your children today in this holiday this Christmas season that we might take the time to show real authentic sacrificial love to others and not just be satisfied with token smiles And handshakes and claps on the back, but that we as believers that are maturing are ready to go deeper. And show the love of Christ to those who have many times done deep, hurtful things to us. Lord, again, you're not calling us to not protect our families. You're not calling us to always run toward evil. There are times we need to run and get out of the way. You're not calling us to be opposed to police and uh military. You've given us those as helps and as barriers for our own wrongdoing. But you're calling us to go the extra mile against those that would do evil against us and thus show be some sort of example of the sacrifice. Sacrifice that Jesus gave on that cross. And Father, that's hard. And so we need your son Jesus to help us with that. And so we pray for that this morning. I pray that you would help anyone in here today that has an enemy or is opposed to someone or has someone they're struggling with, that you would do a powerful work, that they would allow Jesus to do a powerful work Work in their lives to the Holy Spirit, and that they would be willing to change and forgive and love those who don't love them and give it over To you. And for those here to this morning, Father, that don't know Jesus as their Savior, they don't have any idea what this kind of love is. They have no idea how they could love their enemy. Help them today to come to Jesus and Trust him as their savior, that they might know his love and forgiveness, and then be able to show that to others. You meditate on these things. As the as our audience today as Leslie plays