And so in that rejoicing, let's focus in on the purpose, uh, the the signifying, the symbolism of baptism And what we're going to see here in a few minutes. So turn just briefly to Matthew chapter 12. The children's church are going down? And we are going to call them back up at the prayer time so that our kids that are being baptized can be prepared for that. We just finished recent. A series on the book of Jonah. And I thought, with everything that was going on today, that it was a good time to do the New Testament tie-in and To work through this briefly from Matthew chapter 12. Because Jesus in his ministry mentions Jonah in a very Specific way. And it ties in to the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. Jonah was saved. Remember Remember, we saw the salvation of a selfish servant. Jonah tried to run away from God , the opposite way from where God had called him to Give the message of repentance and warning. And God rescued that selfish servant from his own sinful rebellion and brought him Back and he started over again. And we saw all of that. I don't need to re-preach that this morning, but uh remember the book of Jonah is also in mission Book, where incredibly, again, the greatest miracle in the book is a metropolis of people, the Ninevehites, all repent And submit themselves to the God of heaven, the one true God. And they repent and mourn. And God uh brings, gives them salvation. He He gives them mercy, and he doesn't destroy the nation. And if you'll remember, Jonah wasn't too excited about that, and God had to do a discipling work in his heart. Because he was being ornry. All the wonderful things that were going on around Jor Jonah, literally thousands of people turning to the one true God And Jonah left and moped and complained and had a temper tantrum. And God had to do some work in his life, and we saw all of that. And it was I I trust that it was a helpful book. Many of you have indicated that it's been a good study. Well, I wanted to today to kind of tie in and bring this to full closure here. Bring this together. And let's look then at Matthew chapter 12, verse 38. And there's a little bit of context here. Jesus is Already been doing some incredible signs in his earthly ministry up to this point. At the beginning of the chapter, Jesus had cast a demon from a man who was un Unable to hear or speak and gloriously healed this man. What more of a sign of the power and the deity of Christ could you ask for? And And yet, the ordinary hypocritical religious leaders, they weren't satisfied. Chapter 12, verse 38. Then some of the scribes And Pharisees answered him, saying, Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you. Basically saying that all the signs that we've seen from you so far, and the miracles and the power, that hasn't Convinced us yet. We need a better sign. And so Jesus answered them an evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign. He minces no words Here, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish, so the Son of Man will be three days Days and three nights in the heart of the earth. And the queen of the south or the queen of Sheba will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. For she came from the ends of the The earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. And so Jesus responds to this uh dis Request for a sign that these this generation and these religious leaders had all the signs that they needed. Throughout the Old Testament and also in Jesus' ministry. They had seen the power Of Jesus Christ the Messiah at work. And yet, in asking for a sign and the rejection of these leaders, they were really, they were so concerned about blasphemy and that Jesus was committing blasphemy in his earthly ministry. But folks, um actually the religious leaders were uh were uttering blasphemy as they Uttered their rejection and unbelief of the power of God's Son and Jesus Christ directly before them, doing these things. And so Jesus, in these few words Reminds these men, but also us today, that we have all that we need to come to trust in Jesus Christ in his word We have all the signs that we need in the Word of God, folks, to depend and trust and come to Jesus in full faith These men would not. And so Jesus reminds them that one day they will give an account for the words that they speak and the opportunities that they threw away. And that God will judge them. As again, these rejected the signs of many servants, not just Jesus, but Jonah as well, and even the queen of Sheba and Solomon. And they would be condemned by these signs. So let's look back then. At verse 39, Jesus said, An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it. Now again, Jesus doesn't They have heard many and Seen many of these things, and Jesus is saying, You've seen enough. There needs to be no more signs. And so I'm not going to take the time to give you any more signs. You have plenty. You've seen plenty, and God's word is full of them. So let me give you one sign. Uh and it's from the book of Jonah. And by the way, as a side note here, This again, this buttresses and supports the book of Jonah because our Savior um acknowledges the real historosity of the book of Jonah. Book of Jonah. You know, so many uh scholars today try to say, well, Jonah can't be a real book. That whole thing about the fish and swallowing, that's just so strange. But here Jesus says It really happened. So of course we should trust in the message that God gives us in that book as well. But here's the sign, verse 40. Just as Jonah was three days and three nights. In the belly of the great fish, so the Son of Man will be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. And the men of Nineveh who received That sign will rise up in judgment for this generation and condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here These, the people of Nineveh that heard the preaching of Jonah responded to it in the right way. And they were pagans, folks. They were the enemies of God's people. The enemies of God's people responded to God's word in a more more effective and uh right way than God's people and especially the religious leaders would ever do at this point Now, there's something else here as well that I want to reflect back on. Do you remember in our study of Jonah? And I think I do believe this is the right interpretation, because what is the sign that's going on here? Remember That I believe that Jonah was basically trying to manipulate God as he ran away from God. And he basically saying, God, you're either going to have to leave me alone or end my life because And so God said, Okay, Jonah, I'll give you a taste of what death is all what is like. The experience of death for a few minutes. And I believe that was When Jonah was thrown over and he was descending to the bottom of the sea almost, and Jonah realized I could die here. This isn't a good thing. I don't want this at all. And he cried out, Lord, save me. And so that descent of Jonah into the abyss, into the water, was a picture of Of death. And God brought salvation and rescue in a strange form, the form of a fish that brought Jonah back up and raised him up To life again, and to continue to serve God in that way. So the picture of Jonah, then, as I just described it, is very absolutely Apropos and why Jesus uses it here. Because someone greater than Jonah, because of the rebellion of God's people and not his own, Jonah suffered because of his own rebellion, but Jonah didn't actually die. But God sent his son, Jesus, who obeyed him And met God's full requirements for His law and met His righteous requirements. Jesus, who didn't deserve To die. Jonah was rescued before he died. Jesus would undergo the full death and brutal torture that we deserved for our sin. And yet he would be raised again. And so the picture, the sign that Jesus is giving to these religious leaders is one that he's Calling them not to reject. They have rejected it so far. And he says, you don't have much time left. That picture of Jonah descending, that picture of death. And then the rescue of the fish and raising Jonah up and um to new life and a new opportunity to serve him was so much more deeply Significant now that Jesus was here and would represent a perfect obedient servant who would die for the sins of the people and would be raised again. And Jesus seems to indicate here as well the men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. Maybe if not all of the people, that many of the people of Nineveh truly trusted God, and that we'll see them again one day, and they will then rise up and condemn These that had this opportunity to experience Jesus' ministry, and they will condemn them. The Queen of Sheba, the same, she had the opportunity, if you remember Remember the story and Solomon and his great the great blessings that God had given him and the marvelous powerful kingdom, the apex of um Israel's history. Was Solomon as king, and God gave Solomon great wisdom. And the queen of Sha of Sheba came from the south and wanted to hear Solomon's wisdom. And it seems to indicate From this passage, that she may have left and had a true, trusting relationship with the God of heaven, with the God of the Jews, Yahweh. So she will one day speak out in condemnation of those who would reject Jesus. Why? Because when she heard of God's wisdom through Solomon, she did everything that she could To hear and understand and submit to the wisdom of God. And hear these religious leaders and many others have the very Son of God and their Midst the epitome, the full fulfillment of God's wisdom, and they are utterly rejecting Him. And causing utter Others to reject him as well. Folks, that's really in the end what I have to say this morning. That Jesus is greater than any prophet, than any king, than any priest. And today as well, we have opportunity to Either choose and accept him in faith or to reject him and be condemned for all eternity. Jesus is giving us warning. Here. But for those of us who have trusted Christ, let me read to you a beautiful picture that symbolizes the baptismal service we're about to see. Romans 6, 3 through 4. Those who have trusted in Christ, it says, Paul says, Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too Might walk in newness of life. Jesus is calling us to choose him in faith this morning. But, folks, we have in the end of the service a glorious testimony from many individuals who have done just that. They have trusted in Jesus Christ for faith And so they have been cleansed in a real spiritual sense, as we saw in Sunday school this morning, of their sin. And uh They uh will identify with Christ in death as they go under the water, and then as they come back up, identify with newness of life, as Paul says here. Now that's That's even a better picture than Jonah had to go through, isn't it? Jonah and his rebellion had to sink to the depths of the sea and be swallowed by a fish. But these folks in their baptismal picture Picture today of trust in Christ, and they'll just brief briefly be immersed in the water and pulled back up as a sign of their newness of life in Christ. So, folks, as we finish today and we start this baptismal service, if there is any here who have maybe attended this service because you were invited by a friend or a family member. And you still need to trust Jesus. Do it today. Father, thank you for this sign that you gave your people. Of really the the death, the almost death, and raising up of your servant Jonah. And how, in a much deeper sense, that would risk Reflect the death of your obedient, righteous, perfect son And so, Lord, we have a choice. As you draw hearts, we can come to Christ. Christ and put our faith and trust in Him. And we're so grateful for these that we get to Baptized this morning who have done that, who have given testimony of their faith in Christ. And we We rejoice and are glad. Let the nations be glad. Let our church family be glad this morning. As we saw Celebrate together people who have rebels who have rejected you that have now come to Christ. And our citizens Of an eternal kingdom. So, Lord, let our hearts be full as we experience the rest of the service this morning. we ask in Jesus name that we pray. Amen