Good singing. Turn back in your Bibles tonight to the passage we started this morning, Philippians chapter 3. And we're doing the second part of this message tonight. And I realized this morning at the end, you know, as a pastor, you get excited about the passage and about the message, and I got so excited I didn't even give the title of the message. Message. But I you probably it's probably not something that would be a surprise to you because that was the whole topic. But the title of this study is Rejoice in the Lord and Not in Our Efforts. And Paul is bringing that, making that point very clearly in this passage. It's one of these things we're going to be looking through the second half of this, verses seven through eleven tonight. And I'm really praying the Lord will just give me ability because as I was going through, I was so moved by this, I thought, Lord, I just can't Do this justice. There's so much here. In fact, I'd recommend even memorizing these verses 7 through 11. Because it's such a beautiful testimony of Paul's love for Jesus, that it's a good reminder to all of us of what we need to be willing to give up because of all that we have. In Jesus Christ. And we should want and have a desire to want to know Him more through God's word and through our experiences as we go through suffering. We should Joy in knowing Christ and having a deeper relationship with Him, as Paul does. This morning we saw that he's pointing out we need to have joy in the Lord. And w so because of that we need to beware of those who would value human effort more than God's power. Why? Because our joy is found in Jesus, not in our own efforts. And I think Paul made that very clear as we're looking at this this morning. Morning. But also he was showing us our joy is found in Jesus, not our own capabilities. And as we're going to get back into tonight, Paul was very capable. Capable in the path that he had chosen and was very successful. But once he was confronted with the truth of Jesus Christ, he was willing to give all that up and count it as nothing. And he joyed in that for what he was receiving in exchange through his relationship with Jesus. So let's read the entire passage, have a word of prayer, and jump back into this tonight. Verse 1 of chapter 3. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous. But for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision, for we are the circumcision, which worship God in the Spirit, in the Holy Spirit. And rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may May win Christ, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith And that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, if any mean, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection Of the dead. Father, help us as we finish this passage tonight to be overwhelmed by the commitment that Paul has, and to be inspired to have this commitment for our That Lord, certainly we understand all of our efforts can't bring us in a relationship with you, can't restore our relationship with you. It's not possible. And we need to give those up and cling to Christ. Father, in application, help us to be willing to the things that are most important. If they're keeping us from our joy in Christ, help us to be willing to give those up too. That whatever is in the way or a barrier in our relationship with Jesus that we would be willing to let it go in order to have Christ and to know him more personally. So, Lord, encourage us in that tonight and give us strength and power for that. For it is in Jesus' name Name that we pray. Amen. We're going to be looking at a couple different lists tonight. And so with that involved in thinking of that, I list can Be important. They can be helpful. Sometimes they can cause problems. But these lists that we're talking about tonight are very helpful. And the first list that I mentioned this morning Was as Paul was looking at his life, using it as an example for the Philippian believers, to be careful, to beware of those that would push effort. Over grace, over faith in Jesus Christ. He said, don't do that. And then he gave his list of, and it was like it was the perfect Jewish leader resume. Everything that you would want, Paul had on his resume. He had the perfect resume for what he was striving to be. And he had that on one side. But then, as Jesus confronted with him with the truth of who he was in a dramatic fashion on the Damascus Road. All of a sudden, he had this list of these things, and he had Jesus on the other list. And he said, I willingly give up all of those things. Because of what I have in Jesus. And with this list for Jesus, there was no negatives. It was all positive. And so we come to the point here in verse 7 For he says, after giving that long list, he says, but what things were gained to me? I struggled so hard. I put so much of my life effort into those I counted loss for Christ. Is an accounting list really that he's talking about here. All those things, now I look at it as they were a loss to me. Because Christ is so much more valuable. He's almost talking as an accounting list. Here, measuring the two, and on the scales, Jesus is so far greater than what I was pursuing. Paul wants us to learn from himself, from those who value Jesus above all else. We have to beware of those that push effort over grace. Look out for them. Look out for their teachings. Keep other people informed as to the truth of God's word. But also learn from those who value Jesus above all else because Paul gave up all to follow Christ. He looked at his list of commendables he'd worked so hard for, his superior Jewish resume, and threw it aside for the excellent game. In following and knowing Jesus. Verse 8, yea, doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus. Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung or refuse, that I might win Christ. Here Paul is looking at those things, and he's saying, those things are so meaningless to me now. Because the things of Christ are so excellent. They're so far superior to what I was chasing before. Um And he continues on here to talk about that he was willing to suffer the loss of all these things. And he counted them, and here is a very strong word. Paul's using a lot of strong words in this passage, right? He says, those things that I spent so much of my life pursuing, they're basically like street garbage. They're trash. To me now, because now I know what's really worth pursuing. Putting confidence in the flesh, it's a losing game. And I know, because I played that game better than any other player. Well, how do you know for sure, Paul? Because it didn't work for me either. And in this comparing the things that he used to pursue as trash, I think he's going back to that name that he had for those religious leaders. Who would refer to Gentiles as dogs? And he says, no, the dogs are the ones that would push effort over grace because they're pursuing garbage. And we talked about dogs this morning and we we love our dog. Um I think sometimes though people can get too attached. I remember A friend of mine saying one time, you know, I just love my dog more than people. And sometimes we feel that way if we've had a particularly hard day with people. I understand that. But sometimes they, you know, in in our culture today, it's almost like they act like animals have a superintelligence of somehow that we don't have. But I as much as I love my dog, I've seen her do some really gross things. And a reminder to me, you know, there's no super intelligence here when I see her digging around in the trash And some of the things that she'll find in the yard that she finds appetizing, I think, oh man, that's just gross. Now why am I bringing that up in the message? Because Paul brings it up. He says, pursuing those things, our own efforts, and thinking that that's going to please God and give us righteousness, it's chasing after garbage. And we need to chase after the excellent things, that of Jesus. Another illustration would be of a young child who has his gets a plastic preschool toy toy truck for Christmas and loves to play with that. But after a while, as parents of young children know, they get tired of those things and then you have bins in the basement. Tons of bins with all kinds of toys that they have given up, and one day they see something called a bicycle. And they see that and wow, that is where it's at. And they get to learn how how to ride that bicycle and now they're riding their own mobile and you know what they've moved on from those play trucks. They don't go back to those toys anymore. Because there's something much more valuable that provides them so much more. In a much deeper sense, I think Paul's saying that here. All those things that I was pursuing was important to me once, and I they really were important to me. But again, now that I know Jesus, I realize I don't have to spend time with those things anymore. I've got something much more valuable. Paul gave it all up joyfully to follow Christ that I might win Christ. But then he continues on. Because he gave all up. But anyone who gives up all to follow Christ, they're not in any way less of a blessing, or they won't regret that choice because eternal blessings are given through faith in Jesus. Christ. In other words, if you like Paul are willing to give it all up for Jesus, you won't regret it. That's what Paul's saying here. Verse 9, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. And here we have this all-important principle of what righteousness is. Paul spent so much time pursuing his own righteousness. as a Pharisee, as a religious leader, thinking that his own efforts could please God and give him favor and eternal standing with God Because he was following God's law. And he totally missed the fact until Jesus confronted him with this: that it was through faith in Christ. And now through faith in Christ, he resumed And that is what gives him a relationship with God. I'm going to have a chart here. This is my second list for the night. And if we had a projection system or whatever, I could project this. But I think you guys can see this well enough to understand. What is this righteousness? Well I can best explain it in this chart called the Exchange. What is our record as human beings? It's all sin, right? Lying, stealing, covetousness, sinful anger And we could go on and on and on. That is our record. And even as we try to do right, it's but filthy rags before God because we have this sin. that taints us and keeps us from God. That's our record. Even with our righteousness, we can't get rid of this sin record in our lives. What was Jesus' record? He was holy. He was just. He was always and still is accepted fully by God. Free to live with God. He had that intimacy. Communion with God that Adam and Eve lost when they sinned. Well, how do we get that? This is Jesus' righteousness. This is what we need. And what Paul's saying, I have um I have claimed this. I have received this for my own. It's through faith. And that's what he says in verse 9, right? Through the faith of Christ. And then he repeats it at the end. Which is of God by faith. It's not through any of our efforts. And faith, we just shouldn't see faith as an effort either, like it's a good Work that we do. Faith is basically saying, Jesus, I can't do anything, so I'm depending upon you who can do everything. And Jesus, when he died, he took all of our sin on him. And when we put our faith then in him, we get Jesus' record of righteousness. Amazing. Incredible. And Paul realized that all the effort that he put into his life he could never receive that righteous record that Jesus had except by faith. So why pursue all that? I'm going to pursue Jesus. us through faith and trust in him. And that is how we receive the righteousness that he's referring to here But Paul goes further because he's passionate about this. From the first time that he met Jesus on the Damascus Road, he wants to know him more. It was the defining moment in his life. Wow, everything that I thought I was doing to please God, and now Jesus reminds me or tells me and makes it clear that he is the path and I want to know him. And spend the rest of my life pursuing him. Forget all that other garbage. I want to pursue Jesus that I may know him, verse 10, and the power of his resurrection. And the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. What is he referring to here, that he may know Jesus? He's referring to more than just the head knowledge, but he's referring to an experiential relationship. One that we as soon as we put In faith, our faith in Jesus, we can know him better. We have the Holy Spirit within us that helps us through God's word. To get to know Jesus. More, to live our lives in a way that would please God, and ultimately to be a better example of the character of Jesus. All of that is knowing Jesus well. And Paul wants to know him well. He said, I want to go through the experiences that he. I have experienced the power of his resurrection. How is that possible? I've been made a new person. Something my efforts could never do. I've been renewed. I'm a new person, I'm a child of God, and that's because of the power of his resurrection. And that reminds me that when we're giving the gospel, please Certainly talk about the cross. But don't forget about the resurrection. That's an important part. Because if Jesus just died, there's no victory over death and sin and Satan The resurrection has to be a part of that. And Paul talks about that here because Jesus overcame sin and death and Satan's punishment and Satan, all of these things. He can now provide me eternal security in heaven because of that power. It's one that we can have now. We can certainly get to know Jesus better. Better now, but Paul also is looking forward to the future when Jesus will return and we get to see him and we get to be with him for all eternity. Paul says, then I'll really know him. And I'll get to know him and be with him for all eternity. And all of us that are children of God should desire and And want that. And that should be our motivation when things get tough. Because one day we will see Jesus again. But now we do. We live in the energizing power of his resurrection. That same power that helps us to live the way God wants us to live, but also that power that will transform our bodies one day, just as Jesus was resurrected, one day we will have a new body. Doesn't have to go through any of these aches and pains that we go through now. And whether we're young or we're old in here, all of us have some sort of ache or pain. Or discomfort or illness or whatever that we'd rather not have to deal with anymore. And Paul reminds us again as well: the power of the resurrection will one day give us a transferred a new body where we'll never experience that anymore. What a wonderful blessing That's the good side of it. And if we just stopped there, we'd be really encouraged and happy. And we should be encouraged because that's why he says, rejoice in the Lord. But we have to be realistic. Something that we mentioned even earlier in the testimonies, Paul also reminds us again, yes, the power of the resurrection, but also Jesus was resurrected, but he suffered. He gave up his life. He was tortured for us. And Paul's not saying here that he's going to have to go through crucifixion like Jesus did. But if Jesus had to die and we are knowing him, and we are knowing literally. His experiences, then doesn't it make sense that we're going to have to go through suffering too? The fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death. Death. Do we look forward to suffering? No. It's not something we always like to talk about. But none of us could suffer as much as Jesus suffered And all of us are going to go through different kinds of suffering. We're not going to go through the same thing. God has a specific, see if this is encouraging to you, God has a specific pattern of suffering. and plan of suffering for each of us to go through that's a little unique from the person next to us. Well that's encouraging, Pastor Brock. Well what Paul's saying here is though that when we go through those things That it draws us closer to Jesus because we understand more of what he had to go through. Jesus, I understand more. I know you better now. Because you went through suffering, the ultimate suffering for other people. And so as I'm suffering, there's all kinds of suffering that we go through. I'm talking about the suffering we go through. For being a testimony and taking a stand for Jesus Christ. When we go through that, we have a closer bond with Him. We understand Him better. We know Him better. And another thing though, that kind of suffering is also a sign that we have a real relationship with Jesus Christ. Because God only allows his children to go through that kind of suffering where they're willing to sacrifice themselves because of Jesus. Only willing to do that if you're a child of God. And it's a reminder to us as we're going through deep, dark valleys. You know what? This is another reminder. I am a child of God. I should expect this. But I won't have have to go through this forever. I'm knowing him. I'm getting to know him better. Well one day for all eternity. We'll experience that power of the resurrection that will allow us to be with him forever. No more suffering. There will come a point, in other words, where the suffering will be over. It'll be rejoicing forever. And all of this, then, Paul says, for those kinds of blessings, I can put up with whatever I have to here on this earth. So I'm willing to To give it all up. Those things that were so important to me before, nah, not anymore. Now I want to spend my life knowing Jesus more. And one One day I'll know him when he returns, and it'll be all be worthwhile. But then he finishes up something with interesting here, and it's a little puzzling. Verse 11, our final verse for the night. If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Well, on first read on this. It almost sounds like he's pretty sure that he's going to experience the resurrection someday, but he's not 100% sure. And then secondly, he has this word attain here, which by the way can uh has the really the idea of arrive at. You might have that note in your Bible. But attain, arrive at almost makes it sound like Something that we do, our effort, which he just said we shouldn't trust in or put any confidence in at all. Well, since Paul just said that, then he must not mean that here And this is one of those points that as we're reading through Scripture and we read a verse that just doesn't seem to make sense with what we know the rest of the Bible says, then mark that, study it further. And be careful with it and look at the context. Now, even with that, this is still many times a hard verse. For even scholars to understand and what he's saying here. But as I was studying this, I read um some other commentaries that also agreed with the conclusion that I came to here. Paul is confident that he is going to be resurrected, that he is going to have the power of the resurrection. Jesus had, even on his own body. He's confident of that. And it's through faith in Jesus. He's not trying to say that he's trying to obtain that. He's trying to say that at one day I will hopefully arrive at this point. Okay, so that he's not referring to his effort at all. Well again, what's he saying then? The resurrection of the dead here seems to make best sense as if Paul is thinking Through, I know I'm gonna be resurrected, but how is that gonna happen? And I think this is evidence actually For what we refer to as the rapture. Because I think what Paul's saying here is, I'm so confident that I'm going to experience the power of the resurrection, but Am I going to die first? Or glory, maybe I won't even have to die, that I'll be raptured or resurrected of the dead. He's saying in this verse, I don't know how I'm going to be resurrected, but I hope. I hope I don't have to go through death That I can experience the resurrection of the dead, the rapturing of the dead, the renewal of my body without ever having to die in that. So Paul is confident in the resurrection. But he's saying, Lord, I'd really like to be raptured. That's up to you. That's in your hands. And as we know from uh church history. Uh Paul is still awaiting his final bodily resurrection. And we today as believers Then say, Lord, it's up to you. But we would love if we could attain the resurrection of the dead, if we could experience the rapture and not have to die. I think all of us would agree that that would be the better option. But regardless, Lord, we know as God's children that we will be experiencing resurrection. That our bodies will re be renewed. So regardless, we still have the hope. And we we still rejoice because through all the difficulties that we go through, when we've given it all up for Jesus, we will not be disappointed. And so the practical applications in here as we finish up is this. There's no future in religion. And we need to proclaim that to people. So many people in our world today, in New England, are pursuing religion, hoping that that will get them an eternal pardon with God. And it won't. We need to tell them it's only through relationship, a relationship with Jesus through faith. Forget religion Righteousness does not come specifically, Paul says, from observing Jewish ritual. That's not going to get you the righteousness of Jesus Christ, but it's only through faith. It's the eternal perspective that all believers need to have. That's why I said we ought to memorize these verses to be reminded of the joy that we have in Jesus Christ. Think of the fellowship and joy That we will experience literally for all eternity. Isn't that worth giving up a few things on this earth? And that's the message that people need to hear. Don't try in your own efforts. Give that up. It's not gonna work. Experience the joy in a relationship of Jesus Christ through faith. It's what God's Word says. It's what He offer We understand that, I think. Hopefully, all of us here do, as I look around. But I think there's an application that's not the direct application Paul's making, but there is an application. Application to this for us. And that is, are we then willing to look into our lives and willing to give up the things that keep us from knowing Jesus better? That keep us from reading God's Word. We get so busy, and there's so many things that we think are so important. Can I say this a lot like Paul's list? So many things that were so important. important to him. And we as believers, even though we're trusting in Jesus by faith, there could be so many things that are important to us. And if we were really honest with, well, I know these things are good, but it's better for me to spend time. And these difficulties that are going through are really keeping me, Pastor Brock, from my list of things that I'm trying to get done. And Paul says, those difficult things that you're going through Going through, remind you of your relationship with Jesus and draw you closer to Him. Many times God allows difficult things in our lives to remind us you need To draw closer to me. You need to know Jesus better. So here's a little reminder: you've been straying from me. Come back. Don't settle for the pitsy things, so to speak, of this short life. But live your life for the eternal Reward that Jesus offers. Father, thank you for your word. What a moving passage this is. And we're so convicted by Paul's example. But Lord, don't let anybody here leave tonight without the realization that they can have this too. Father, even just studying this, I'm moved to the point I'm Almost to tears. And I say with Paul, whatever I need to give up, it's worth it for Jesus. Help us to be willing to say that. And be willing to look at our lives. Again, Lord, if there's someone here who is trusting in their effort or religion to be saved, help them to realize that it's not going to cut it. It's not going to Going to work. Help them to put their faith in Jesus. For those of us that have, that are children of God, help us to make sure we're about the most important thing. Not Martha's, but Mary. Listening to Jesus, getting to know him more. Help us in 2020. Let it be said of our testimony that we know Jesus better. Because we've taken time with him. And we've recognized through the difficult times that we've strayed, but he's close. And help us to draw Draw to him in confidence and look forward as well to the day when he will return and we will know him well. And be resurrected with bodies that will never suffer again. And let us be glad and rejoice in the Lord together as we leave from here. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen