Okay, good morning. And I am so sorry about the voice. I don't feel bad at all, okay? In fact, I feel pretty good. I called my wife, she said, I told you this is my Twelfth week in a row, seven youth uh retreats, one couple's retreat, one college, and one pastors conference. Okay. She's and she I asked her, I said, What do you think's the problem? She said, Too many birthdays. So I think I forget how old I am sometimes. Anyway, if you can listen on purpose, we're gonna be fine, okay? I do apologize. I may have to stop and drink a little bit. But good looking group here today. Turn to the person next to you and just give 'em a big smile and um ask him this Uh or just tell Miss I like the way you fix your hair today. Yeah. Okay, greetings from the wilds of New England. Uh Couple things I want to mention. I don't know if you have many homeschoolers, uh, grandkids or kids or we have a homeschool chapel that we do every single Wednesday. It's eleven to eleven third. You can get it other ways too. But Joe Cop, our director of Dwells New England, he hosts this. And anytime I'm home, I get to be a part of this. We have kids from California and all Australia and all over the world to join this. It's really fun. And the ones I'm doing, we're going through snapshots of the Savior in the Gospel of Mark. Also in the back table. Uh I um I just want to mention we do Bible helps. Uh there's uh just a few books back there. You can go to randhumel. com or you can go to Amazon. com sometimes even get a little cheaper uh from the camp. All the money goes to the camp. None of it comes to me. And so just want to mention we do these things. And for the littler ones, uh the junior and Age uh eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. Um we have a new one too. Yes, Jesus loves me, okay? And these are in the back. I I doubt any of you have ever struggled with anger. Or any of you have ever struggled with fear. I'm sure none of you have a problem whatsoever with stress. And I'm being very sarcastic, okay? This is life. If you have kids, uh, just suppose you have some daughters that just really fear a lot, then what you do is you pick up two of the books on fear not. And maybe it's best like mom And the daughter study it separately, don't study it together. And then take one hour each week and just go for coffee and talk. Um Because I wanted you guys to sit together because we are this is family time. My life is teenagers and usually with the teens. I see most of the teens here and the teens With wrinkles over here. And so uh there's issues that we face that we gotta be honest about. Probably the last five uh guys College or high school that I counseled who are addicted to porn. Every one of them started at the age of eleven. And we can pretend this is not a problem. And it is not the word if, it's the word when. Because of the phones, Instagram, the world we live in, it is part of our world. So the book lest you fall meditate. Patience of moral impurity, the only, only, only, only thing I have ever found that truly gives victory in thought life, in anger, in fear. The only thing is the word of God. I'm serious. Because when you we know okay, you guys know what to put off. You know what's bad. You know what to put on. You know what's right. It's that concept being renewed in the spirit of your mind. Until we think differently, we'll never act differently. And the only way we get to think differently is the meditation. So again, encourage dads to get two of them. If they have a couple of sons, maybe three, study them separately. Say, okay, we're going to study meditations five, six, and seven. this week and then uh used to be able to you know go out for you know a coke or something. Now you mortgage your house and go to Starbucks and get a latte, okay? And just Sit and talk, okay. And then one more thing. I do a daily meditation, not with this voice, but with the other one, okay? And it's uh just five minutes every Every day, Monday to Friday, just Bible. We just walk through scripture. Um I designed it for teenagers, I have to admit. And they tell me there's more senior saints that follow it than there are teenagers right now. So all you old people, it may be A blessing to you too, okay? Even though nobody in here is old. Okay, ready? Here we go. And thank you for listening on purpose. And please don't feel bad for me. Me, I am fine, I am fine. Okay, the relevance is scripture now. High tech world. If you wanted a subtitle for this, it is this. What do you do? When your thirteen year old son or your thirteen year old daughter comes to you and says, Mom, Dad, please, please, please, I need a cell phone. What do you do? Do you want to scream? No But obviously, our teenagers who are 13 turn to 14, turn to 18, and they leave home They go to college or maybe a career. And every single one of these teens, they will get to the point where you're not around. And it's like them, God. And temptation. That's it. No parents, no teachers, and our goal is to teach our kids how to respond. When it's just them and God. Okay. So we're gonna look at a couple verses, but we're gonna start with this. Say it out loud together, ready? All scripture That's fun. You guys dig great. You had a great echo over here, okay? So all scripture is given by inspiration of God. It is Inspired by God. God asked his friends like Paul and Moses and David, Jeremiah, to write down God's heart For us. And it is inspired in such a way it's proper for doctrine to teach us what is right, for reproof to teach us what is wrong. For correction, how to make the wrong right, and instruction of righteousness, how to keep it right. That the man of God, the woman of God, the teenager might be, the word perfect means mature Okay. I love to hear the teams talk. And normally as you know, girls will get in their little circle and what they talk about, they normally talk about boys. And I've heard them so many times Did you talk to him? He is like so immature. Okay. And nobody likes to be called immature. Nobody. Even when they're young, nobody wants to be called a baby. The problem Is many of us, even though we grow old, we don't grow up. Especially when it comes to the word of God and the principles therein. But if we want our kids to be mature when they're leaving home. We've got to make sure they understand what is right, what is wrong, how to make the wrong right and how to And the only way to learn this again is through the very, very word of God. So we're going to take one verse and uh team I'm gonna pretend to be your dad, okay? I know I can be your granddad, but I'm gonna be your dad right now. Um but all of you, but I'm gonna pick on one, okay, Lily? I'm gonna pick on you. How old are you? Fifteen, okay, sweet, sweet. All right. Do you know who you're gonna marry yet? No, no, okay, okay. Dad says, wait a minute. So if you if I was your Dad, and you came to me, you said, Dad, Dad, please, please. All my friends have a cell phone. Uh everybody has a cell phone, but I don't. Can I please please have a cell phone? Now what's inside of me knowing the problems? with it. I want to scream out, no. But understanding you're fifteen. I mean three years from now you're headed off to college, okay? So I want to help you when you get to that point. So if you come and say Please please I said maybe really okay we got a couple when's your birthday by the way? Okay. Maybe by your birthday Mom and I'll let you have a cell phone. Yes, she thinks this is so cool. What do we have to do? We're gonna study some verses. And specifically, I'll show you one in a minute. But we're going to study some verses that we're going to both study separately and write on. And then we're going to meet together and discuss them, okay? So I'll be back to you, Lily, in a minute. Teens I would say it this way, don't let anyone look down on you because you're young. And I know sometimes teens think, the parents think that they know You guys are smart. You're very smart. In fact, you guys normally, most teens, are much more adept in our media world than we are. Are as adults. They fly through it. They know what to do. Some of your grandparents have to call your grandkids, find out how to set your phone and the time, okay? This is part of life. So, teens. Don't let anyone look down on you because you're young. But you need to be a believer be an example to the believers. What believers? Both those who are older than you and younger than you. If you have little brothers and sisters, if those little brothers and sisters were as close to God as you guys are right now, wouldn't you be excited? If they were as close to God as you are, would you be excited for the day that they stand before God? Be an example not just to those younger. But also to those who are older. Which even includes moms and dads. Did you know moms and dads and grandparents have a problem with the media? Yeah Yeah. Even senior saints can be addicted to Facebook and Instagram. Choo, choo, choo, choo. And by the way, this won't be fun for any of us, I promise. Often get three times more time than God even begins to get in our lives. It's part of our life, isn't it? So what do you do? You're an example in word, conversation, charity, or love, spirit, faith, and purity. Okay? So be an example in our digital world. Don't let anyone look down on you because you're young, but set an example for all believers in word, speech, and what you say, specifically how do you talk about it? Talk to others in our digital world, cell phone ahonics and tech sponsors. How many of you in this room right now have used your cell phone in the last two days? Let me see your hands, okay? All right, every hand. And those who have them, we text, we call. What does God say? And you might think, Rand, how in the world do you go to Romans 12? Communication is communication. Whether it be somebody etching something on a wall or writing it down on an animal's skin, typing it on a typewriter. Or texting it. It's still communication. Let love be without dissimulation. That means don't pretend. Don't be a fake. If you get love Be real. Okay. Hate, abhor that which is evil and cleave to that which is good. Be kindly affection one to another with brotherly love and honor preferring one another. Not lazy and slothful in what you do, your business, but fervent, zealous in spirit, serving the Lord, rejoicing in hope, patient tribulation, continuing in prayer. So you take a verse like this and you start to break it down, okay? Now, mom and dad, grandparents, we have to study to the point that we understand these truths so we can communicate properly to the people we love. So here we go. Number one, let your love be real. Let your love be without dissimulation. So good question. Are you ignoring others or being rude just because of friend calls. Now it used to meet when parents are talking, little kids come up and say, Mom, mom, dad, dad, dad, say no, no, don't interrupt. But today's world whoops today's world we take these things and even when we sit down as a family to eat together, go out to a restaurant to enjoy fellowship. And when I place this next to me on the table, I'm simply saying, this gets number one. 'Cause if this zings or rattles or vibrates, I'm gonna go for it. And you say, is this just a kid thing? No. I saw a little kid. The kid was More than nine months old, reaching up trying to grab his dad's cell phone. Why? Because he wanted it? No. He was trying to get away from his dad. Dad would look at him. And this is the truth. And sometimes we we're kind of rude. I would hope that no one in here Would keep their phone next to them while they pray and have to look to see who's calling while they're talking to God. I would hope that would never happen. Hey Devil, love God Good, hoard that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. Are you careful what you talk or text about? Do you gossip? Do you complain? Do you Spread rumors. Do you talk about other people before talking to those people? Whoa. And this kind of is our Facebook world. And Facebook has enabled us to do what the Bible says: to be busybodies in other people's matters. Maybe even somebody you don't know. It's kind of an amazing thing, isn't it? Uh how about this? Be kind and loving by preferring and honoring others. Are you Conscious of those people around you. Public places, ten foot zone, keep phone and vibrate. Public places when we I have to fly a lot and when we land, people grab their phones, turn them on, they're screaming on I can hear I've heard couples argue over their phone while we're still sitting in the plane. Ten foot zone. There are times that I'm waiting or no that my wife will call me and if I can feel vibration I might say, hey, would you give me a second? And I will step about ten feet away so I can talk to my wife. This thing about keep phone and vibrate, very rarely do I ever preach in a church that somebody's phone doesn't go off. Right now everybody's thinking, oh no, I better check my phone, right? Now, when that happens, man, I'm I I'm gonna I I just have I'm so proud of you guys. Because you men, you're almost like you're like the cowboys of old, okay? You're quick drone. Because when your phone vibrates or goes off, watch me. That's it You turn it off. Nobody's bothered. But you ladies, when your phone starts going da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da-da, you grab that suitcase you carry to church. You start digging through it and try to find your phone until finally you get it So and everything from rock to Bach and everything in between is on that phone, okay? Uh how about this? Keep a zealous Dad, when was the last time? Grandpa, when was the last time you spent some time in the Precious Word in the morning and you read a wonderful truth? Grabbed your phone and you texted your wife. Or your kids or your grandkids. Ah, let me tell you what God taught me this morning. Do you understand the power in that? How about you teens that already have phones? Mom, Dad, look what God taught me from Psalm 23 today. Now we're really quick to communicate with Our friends. Parents, you need to do everything it takes to build a best friend, a best friend friendship with your kids. And teens you've got to do the same with mom and dad. Because the day comes. Especially for the moms. You graduate high school, you go off to college And I know moms aren't perfect, but they're moms. And what they've been really, really, really good at is gone. It's hard. No wonders are so boogie And telling you you can't go to school till you're fifty-two. I understand all that, okay? 'Cause it's not easy to drop them off at that Christian college. Then you drive away and you cry for six or seven Months, okay. I understand that. So you want to build a friendship, and often you do that by just sharing what God's doing in your life, okay? So don't let anyone, teens , look down on you because you're Young. But set an example for all believers in conversation. The word means life, conduct, or behavior. How do you behave in public in our digital world? More specifically, TikTok, Facebook, Instagram, Marco Polo, or whatever else is there, okay? How do you deal with these social media? So here 's Here's a verse. Let's read together, ready. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure. What sort of things are lovely? What sort of things of good report? If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Now, again, teens, if you listen closely, especially The girls. If you have to talk to them about something, often girls go, whatever. Back in Paul's day, they said, whatsoever. Okay, it's a little bit different. This is the perfect ver verse here to apply the phone. So Lily, you want a phone? Here's what we're gonna do. We have from now until July, which we gotta couple months here which is good. And we're gonna take this verse and we're gonna do a word study on every verse separately. You're gonna do your own I want you to write a whole page. Maybe maybe seven, eight hundred words on every phrase. And I'm gonna do the same, okay? And then we're gonna go out to a real nice restaurant, I promise, get a great meal, and we're gonna talk about And I'll explain why that is so very, very important in just a minute. So as we walk through this verse, What's ever things are true? Have you ever lied online? Have you ever gossiped? Have you Have you ever shared a rumor? Have you ever attacked somebody else or maybe even another church? Do you hear what they're doing? I can't believe they would actually do this in a church. Do you jump into those Type things that are all over the media today. Lying lips are still an abomination to the Lord, whether you talk it, text it, or type it. Okay. God hates lying. Why? Because He tells us you are your father, the devil. He was a liar from the beginning. And the abode not in the truth. Every time we lie, every time we exaggerate, every time we do a rumor, every time we try to get to somebody to think that we're something that we're really, really not. We're acting More like Satan than we are like our Lord Jesus. How about this? What sort of things are honorable? Have you ever dishonored your parents or God? Mom and Dad, oh, they irritate me sometimes. Dad's just never round and mom won't listen When the Bible says teens honor your father, mother, God means that, okay? And in any way we dis Honor them. Anyway, we dishonor God. How do you dishonor? Oh, there's phrases That have seen in our world today is rolling your eyes, shaking your head, knowing in your heart that dad is stupid and mom doesn't understand Believing this in your heart. Now, I know I haven't talked to any of you. I'm not saying that any one of you have ever thought this in your life. But remember, my life. Is teens. And it's easy to dishonor parents when all you think about is pleasing self. How about This, which sort of things are just? Have you been fair to your friends by talking to them before talking to others? Do you catch a phrase, a rumor, hear something Somebody did and quickly, oh, did you hear? Do you know what's going on over here? And again, no offense, but a lot of you moms, it's easy for you to crawl into your Facebook and do this? How about this? Whatsoever things are pure? Have you involved yourself in impure conversations? Now we're gonna talk a little bit more about this on one of the other principles. But mom and dad, you've got to understand if we lived in Ukraine Ukraine right now and had to constantly live with a wartime mentality, constantly wondering who's gonna attack us, who's gonna drop a bomb on our house Who's gonna kill my kids? Would you not always be on guard? I think so. And Satan has waged war On all your kids and grandkids. And all he wants to do is get them to love something or someone more than they love, more than they love their parents, more than they love That's what he does. And God is a jealous God, but he's not jealous of us. He's jealous for us. He knows exactly what can love, can reach down, grab a hold of a 14-year-old boy's heart. Heart, grab a hold of it and not let go, or they'll begin to love that more than they love anything else in the world. Have you involved yourself in impure conversation? That goes with the pictures. It could be devastating. Have you ever Have you kept a positive approach to life? What sort of things are excellent have you lost your spirit of excellence by giving in So Lily, here's what we're gonna do. We're going to take this verse and both of us are going to study it, okay? So you'll be able to tell me as much as I'll be able to tell you what it really, really means. Then we're going to take a big piece of cardboard. Got it? And we're going to put all eight of these principles on it in big letters. I'm going to put a little square to the left of it. This is going to go on our refrigerator in our kitchen. And Lily, you know mom and dad love you, but if you once you get your phone, violate any of these eight principles. If we find out that you're lying or talking nasty with friends or dishonoring God or parents, if you violate any of these eight principles, you lose your phone Two months. Now what did I just do? No longer is Lily freaking out about upsetting mom and dad. Now when she violates These principles, she's making a choice whether to obey God or not. And that's what we need to do to prepare them. Because ultimately, Dad You know what your job is as a husband, as a father? It is quite simple. Your ultimate responsibility is to prepare your wife and prepare your kids for judgment. Every one of us will kneel before God. Now, it's not our job to save our kids, even though we wish we could. We can't. We can pray. We can depend on God. We can trust God. But you can't save your kids. They must put their faith and trust in Christ and Christ alone. But you can let them know that they will kneel, that God is real. He created this universe. He gave away for our sins to be forgiven. And every one of us will kneel before God. We have accepted him or rejected him, all of us will kneel before God. Now it breaks our hearts as parents or grandparents to even begin to think that those we love so much Could possibly hear the words of Jesus , Depart from me. I never knew you. Precious our heart And teens, if you under if you think in some of you older ones who have moms and dads that maybe never did express much love. And we Parents and grandparents, we're not always good at expressing our hearts the way we should. But teens, I want you to know that regardless of the inconsistencies and the failures of your parents, I promise you they love you and they want what's best for you. No question at all. Don't let anyone look down on you because you're young. But set an example for all believers How do you deal with selfishness in our digital world? What am I talking about? iTunes, Xbox, Junk By the way, games are really cool. They're really, really fun. Okay. How many of you, ladies? I'm trying to see here. How many of you You just get married? Who's the youngest married couple in here? Who would that be? Okay, who's been married ten years or less? You're all Okay, let's just pretend. You just get married, you get all those gifts, you go on your honeymoon, and you take them with you, and then you sit down wherever you're staying. You start opening the presents and the very first one your husband opens up. You've been married now for one day. A brand new Xbox. Would you be excited, ladies? Would he be excited? Yeah. Okay. Now, I know we're being a little bit silly, but Think of it this way: in lowliness of mind or humility, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things. Don't be selfish And by the way, because Pastor Brock asked me to be here this morning, both messages, Sunday school and church And if you think this one is convicting, the next one, I don't even like to preach it because it's so convicting in my heart. Pride, humility. And the grace of God. The reason we have conflict in our hearts, the reason we have conflict between husband and wife, the reason we have conflict between child and parents. Is nothing more than stinking pride. And we're thinking more of ourself than we're thinking of others. Here we go. When I use the phrase plugged in or connected, it could be your phone, it could be your iPad, it could be your computer, whatever, okay? Does being plugged in and connected disconnect you from your family? It's amazing how many families they don't don't sit down at a supper table anymore. They all grab their device, grab their food, and sit all over the place. Maybe the TV 's on. And that's That's how they eat and spend their time. Or how about this? Does being plugged and connected disconnect you from your God? And I'm not saying that it has to be equal time for God. got an equal time for media. I understand. We have school, we have things to learn. But some of you, okay, did you know Fox News repeats every eleven minutes? You don't need to watch it an hour. You just hear the same thing six different times by other people. Now with that in mind, here's what we did with my kid now my kids are in their mid 40s, okay. And we didn't have a lot of what we didn't even have cell phones and all, but we did have Atari. I don't know if you ever played Atari, it's kinda cool, okay. What did we do Doing our home, simple. Josh would say, Dad, I get this game Joein back. It'll take an hour, maybe an hour and a half to beat it. Is that okay? I said, Yep. No problem. Enjoy it. But you have to earn your what we call now your screen time. You have to earn your Atari time. How do you do that? in our home is reading. It wasn't even reading the Bible. Read. If you want to play a game and it takes an hour and a half, before you even begin that, you read for an hour an hour and a half. If you want to sit and binge for three hours on Saturday on your phone or computer, you have to read three hours during the week. You can't play and then try to catch up Earn your screen time. What did that do? My son now has two kids. They get 20 minutes of screen time a day. Twenty that's it. One is eight, the other one is twelve. And it's funny to watch Subby because he's playing. Keeps looking at the clock 'cause that twenty minutes goes five fast, okay. Wouldn't that be cool if we would do that to ourselves? Did you know you can take your phone right now? I'm not techie, but I understand. You can take your phone phone and I can go inside and find out how much screen time, how many times you connected with it, how many times you turned it on or used it And I don't know if you put limits on your phone. I hope you do. And this idea of unlimited access What if you had to pay for every minute you spent on your phone? There was no unlimited access. So you say, I'm going to pay, say, fifty bucks a month. month to get so much time. Would you ever use up all that time and have to pay for more? Well let me put it this way. What if we had to pay fifty dollars a month for access to God. For permission to pray. Would you ever run out of minutes? Would you ever have to be willing to pay a little extra because you want to pray a little bit more? I'm telling you folks, this This is real life. And when we stand before God, I promise you, none of us are going to be proud if we reach the top level of Halo. That's not where it's at. None of us can be proud because we have been able to just go to our Instagram and see every kind of toothpaste that people are using. No way. Every godly leader that I've ever studied their lives, when they get to the end of life and people ask them if you could change anything in your life, what would it have been? I'm talking about men in their seventies and eighties. They all say the same. I'm talking about godly men. You know what they say? I wish I would have spent more time with God Isn't that interesting? Does being plugged in or connected consume all your time? For family, friends, or God. It's time to put the phones down to just hang out with people you love, okay? One more. Teams don't let anyone look down On you because you're young, but set an example for all believers in purity, integrity, and control over desires of the flesh. The question is, how do you guard your purity in our digital world? And I'm talking about cell phones and TikTok and Facebook and Instagram, iTunes, game systems. And there's probably five or six more things I could list there. Dearly beloved, I beg you as strangers and pilgrims, that simply means that we're living in a wicked world that we don't belong. It's not our home. Home, or we should not feel comfortable. We should always feel like a stranger in this world. Here's what he says. I beg you, strangers and pilgrims. Stay. Stay as far away as you possibly can from fleshly lust, which literally war against your soul. It's war, folks. Like never before. People ask me, Brand, you've been doing this youth thing for like over 45 years. Is there a difference? Yeah. What is the difference? It's like this. Sin is not sinful anymore. I grew up working on the farm. I'd be in the in the in the barn clean up the stall. and people come and go, Oh man, it stinks in here. I said, Really? Or I get hot and go and ask for c some tea from my grandma and she said, Wait, stop, you're not coming in the house stinking like that Do you know when you work in a barn like that and you're constantly cleaning out the salts, that that that smell, it permeates your clothes, your skin, your hair, and after a while it doesn't stink anymore. And we let stuff on our TV. That years ago we would immediately turn it off. How many of your grandparents let me see your hands? I have kids come when I say kids, that's like I'm not pointing at Lily, I'm pointing at her mom and dad. I have kids Kids, young married couples who have kids come to me and say, Man, I don't know what to do. I cannot let my kids go to my parents' house. Cause we have blocks, we have filters. They don't. They think they don't need them. And I have had grandmas stand before me weeping because their grandsons got addicted to porn at their house simply because they refuse to To get any blocks or filters. And anything goes. Now I'm your friend, but I love kids. And some of us need to wake up to the battles that we face. Okay? So number one, are you communicating with people you do not know? This is a question to ask your kids Lily, I'm excited for you that you're gonna be able to get your cell phone. I forgot to mention something. Um only allowed to have ten friends and mom and I are two of them okay that's all and you can pick who they are and as years go by We can open that more. That would go the same thing with your Instagram or your Facebook, okay. We're gonna limit your friends. Or how about this one? Are you accepting unsuitable friends that made you question your authorities? Even your friends Faith. How many of you believe today that if a person rejects Christ, he will spend eternity in a literal eternal Eternal hell. Let me see your hands high. Okay? If right now I would just say to any of you, okay, grab your Bible. I'll give you two minutes. Prove it to me. You don't have to Could you? We're pretty weak in apologetics. We know we believe because it's been told to us by our pastors, but if you really, really stop, and then somebody comes along and whoa whoa whoa That's just a fable. It's a metaphor. I mean, how can anything burn forever? How can it burn and be dark? And all of a sudden you're thinking, oh boy. Did I learn that wrong? Do you realize Satan sends his false teachers after your kids? You would never let them walk into your room, say hey just Go ahead. My kids are in your bedroom. Go sit down for two hours and talk with them. You would do that. But online we do it. How about this? Are you becoming more and more accepting a lewd and crude language? Sad. I talked to some kids yesterday at the rally. They're public school kids. We were talking about the hardest thing of going to a public school. And maybe some of you do, I don't know. My kids went to public school. And they'd always say the most difficult thing is you don't have to be at school for more than forty-five minutes Seconds before you hear God's name taken in vain. That's the worst part. And on the workforce, oh, some of you guys, I pity you. Because is just constant, constant loo, the F word, constant, God's name in vain. Sad, isn't it? And after a while for us it doesn't stink anymore. And it's no big deal. Are you playing games that are full of nudity, crudity, and graphic violence? Games that you have to You say, come on, it's a game. Probably the most famous is Grand Theft Auto, from what I understand. I've studied but I've never played it. You have to bring Seven of the Ten Commandments to win it. See, Rand, it's a game. It's not real. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And I'm gonna run out of time, I promise you, but I'm gonna take at least five extra. World War Two. World War One. Most soldiers, the average Average of how many actually shot their guns was like twenty-eight, twenty-nine percent. And then we get to Korea and Vietnam, and it's all the way up into the low nineties. Wow. Why? Knowing that most wouldn't shoot their guns as hard, they had a special way to train the soldiers. It was called operant conditioning. It literally was Video games where they learn how to take headshots and never miss on the video games. They taught them how to do this through video games James. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. What we're thinking today, we're becoming tomorrow. You will never ever make a choice to sin that you haven't thought about. About first. You don't slip and go, oh, what did I just do? We always think. Are you downloading any music that exalts music groups or musicians that love what God has? hates and hate what God loves. And I'm not even mentioning the music. Just the characters, the superstars themselves, and some of the most popular, known around the entire world today, blaspheme our God. And we just think it's kind of funny. This sin doesn't stink anymore. Are you viewing YouTube videos they're totally inappropriate. Are you saying yes to the constant advertisements for wicked sites? Do you do has your cell phone become a tool for temptation? Are you struggling? Every single day to keep your thoughts pure. Now I don't know your hearts. God does. I don't need to, but I spend my entire life encouraging people And if we're constantly put in front of our face it's just a matter of time. So we have to be careful, don't we? And the danger, okay It's huge. I'm about to say something. I do not want to offend anybody. Please. It's not why I'm here. But I I've had to counsel girls who were talking about attempting suicide because of what they did on their phones when some guy says, Come on Send me a picture of you. Send me a picture with no clothes. And then they get mad at each other and the boys send those pictures all over. And then the girls just You understand also, by the way, if you would take your phone and send such a picture and it's reported and you get caught You could be listed as a sexual predator for the rest of your life. You see, we can choose our sin, but we cannot choose the concept. Consequences of our sin. And there may be some of you girls in here, some of you wives married. And please don't be offended, who actually believe that you're very unattractive unattractive and that no guy would ever ever be interested in you. You're even questioning whether you're attractive to your husband anymore. And all of a sudden you meet somebody inadvertently online and the communication is very simple at first. Wow, I've never met anybody Like you in my life. Wow, whoever your husband is or whoever you marry someday, he's gonna be the luckiest guy in the world. Wow, I'd give anything, anything to spend my life with somebody like you. And after a while they begin to draw you in. What you're not thinking is of doing this to twenty-five other people at the same time. I was at a church, they surrender. We need your help. Young couple, I think they're 24, been married two years. Guy comes home from work, his wife's van is Isn't there? He walks in the house, there's a no, I'm sorry, I met somebody online, I'd left you. They've only been married for two years. He plops in the chair and begins to cry. The phone rings. It's his father-in-law. Hey kids, mom and I thought we'd surprise you this weekend, come and see you. And obviously the guy told his father-in-law what That guy's daughter rode. And the dad said, We're driving down New York State. We thought we saw your van go up the other side of the road. So he quickly took an exit. Came around. Followed his own daughter, she didn't know it. So she took an exit, pulled into a Lowe's parking lot, pulled up to a white van, a guy got out, they began to embrace the mom and dad. Step in. Now at least I'll say this. The whole situation was so devastating that the parents were there that she got in a car with her mom and and took off. And broke contact with that guy. Okay guys, if if your wife did that, would you have a problem in trouble? Trusting her in the future. Yeah. And do you understand when your wife walks into the room or into the the den or the living room and you're going to shop all of a sudden she's thinking, What is he looking at? Did he jerk it out of the way like That. And what it does is it causes huge mistrust. I can 't, I'm your friend, but this is life And if we truly love God and we truly love each other, we'll be servants. We will. First Timothy four. Romans twelve, Ephesians five, Philippians four, first Corinthians six, first Peter two. I could start over right now if your pastor would let me. And I could go to Proverbs five, six and seven. I could go to first Thessalonians chapter 4. I can start over and get seven or eight more passages and show you the same thing. The word of God is relevant to our social media. world today. But too many of us are just ignoring it, aren't we? Yeah. All scripture is given by God Why? Because he loves us. And he wants us to know what is right. He wants us to know what is wrong. And he wants us to know how to fix it, how to make the wrong right. And he wants us to know how to keep it right. Why? That we can become like Jesus. We can mature in our walk with God. We can become more humble. We can become more loving. We can become more uh concerned for other people rather than ourselves. We we we can fight against the pride and we can fight against the jealousy. And we can fight against the envy. This is what God wants. Why? Because He wants the best for us. It's kind of like the Ten Commandments. Ten ways to make us Happy. Not ten rules that we're not allowed to do. Ten ways to make us happy. You honor your God and love your God. You refuse to lie and steal. And mess around with immorality, you don't covet other people's stuff, you will be a happy Christian. But the reverse of that, the discontented heart Through life is so sad. So my prayer for us that we'll simply realize that God said it. And then he asked his friends to write it down for us. And it's as relevant today, in twenty twenty-five, as it has been two thousand years ago. And that God wants the best for our lives He really does. And he wants us to fight that war that's been waged on us and on our kids. And the only way to do this is to love God more and hate sin more. Allow sin to become what it really is, distinct once again. And allow our love for God to grow. And how do you do that? Spend time with Him and thank Him for His forgiveness. Okay? I'm gonna pray Pray. And then we'll be dismissed. Father, we know this is not always fun stuff. And and we know by the holy hush amongst us this morning That we all, every one of us in this room, we need to work harder on this. We need to trust more, trust you more to give us the grace. And even the desire to do right in this. Please, none of us want our kids to walk away from you. None of us None of us want to teach our kids improper attitudes and life practices by what we do. So help us as grandparents. as parents and help these teens understand that they don't need to let anyone look on them down on them because they're young. But they can be an example for this entire church. for all believers. Thank you, Lord, for wanting the best for us as we pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. Pastor, you're dismissed. See you in a little bit