The shame and the burden of our sin. Jesus Christ can take all of that away through faith in Him. And you see, even our kids are all excited. About learning more about Jesus. That's good. We have that excitement up here, right? Just it's a little more subdued, I hope, right? That's okay. Alright, well turn in your Bibles back to uh First Thessalonians and We talked this morning a little bit as we're looking at the doctrine of the church about James in the book of James and how James kind of just says things. Right out as it is. That's kind of the portion here that we have in 1 Thessalonians. I mean, Paul is being kind , but he's being very Direct about things that this church body, these believers that were faithfully proclaiming Christ And helping each other to grow and discipling each other long ago in that city of Thessalonica there in Asia, not Asia Minor, but really the uh gree almost Greece, um that area of the world. They were faithfully proclaiming him. And Paul is so thrilled by the The reports from Timothy that the people are testifying of Christ. Blessings of being able to live in New Hampshire, New England for a while is there's a lot of beautiful lighthouses. In fact, since we've been back, I've subscribed to a number of um um photographers that post regularly on Instagram and they're always posting these beautiful pictures of these lighthouses with the waves breaking against and the light Sometimes the light and the sunrise, the sunset, and it's just oh so gorgeous. But those lighthouses, especially at another time and place, a hundred years ago or more, served in even more important purpose besides looking pretty and that is they guided people to safety and these people in Thessalonica were being lighthouse Houses for Christ. They were guiding people to safety, the safety that's found in Jesus in relationship with Him. The safety. Of eternal security from the punishment of sin. And these people were faithfully proclaiming that, and Paul was thrilled. And yet still he knows Even though they were having a lot of success, they still had issues. And we today, as Upper Crossroads Baptist Church, we can have success. in ministry in a lot of ways, but we're still all a group of people that, let's be honest, have our issues. We have struggles. We have things that that we need to be reminded of that we need And Paul is willing to do that. And so as your pastor, I need to be willing to report to you what Paul says. And so he's been very Direct as far as the church needing to stay pure. Don't be involved in immoral relationships. That harms the body of Christ. Testimony in the community. And last week we saw verse eleven our need to aspire To make as a goal and to channel our efforts into living quietly. And all that that means, part of what that means is, Paul says here, he describes further what does it mean to aspire to live quietly? And again, in a culture, That has a real struggle with that, where every minute is filled with something, and we're we're in such a hectic pace to get so many things done, it's a miracle. That we were even able to come together to worship God in a service like this because there's so much to do. How do we aspire to live quietly? Is that something that the New Testament Christians were able to do way back when, before they had smartphones. But it's kind of a pipe dream for the rest of us. Well, no. The Holy Spirit still works, and he's given us this instruction for a purpose. So we need to know what he means. And he gives two ways that we can aspire. To live quietly. That word quietly, by the way, means to be at rest, to have, to enjoy quietness in our lives. It also has the idea Combined with the next phrase, it means don't be meddlesome. Don't meddle in other people's affairs. And so then he says To continue that verse, to mind your own affairs. Go back to that word aspire, and then I'll look at that word mind in just a second. Again, aspire means to uh make effort, to do due diligence. So literally a what we call I think an oxymoron, uh a quite a contract Here that we need to do everything that we can to chill out, to be at rest in our souls. And that word, then, the next word phrase I read to and to Mind your own affairs, that really means to be practiced, to be well versed in how to do the things that God has called you to do. And what that means is be practiced in your own affairs and not everybody else's. Don't be so concerned and focused on On what everybody else is doing and what's going on, but you make sure first and foremost that each of us, that you, that myself, that we're doing what God has called us to do in our own lives. We can get so busy sometimes that we literally look at our lives and think, I'm I'm not fulfilling the main responsibilities with family And we all need better practice at that. To mind your own affairs means to be practiced in and fulfilling and Carrying out the responsibilities that God has given us. And that just doesn't leave us a lot of time, folks, to be meddling and concerned about everybody else. Not that we're not concerned. And I'll flesh that That out again here in another minute. But we need to make sure that we're practicing this and faithfully. So again, that's a The first aspect of this living quietly, and we focused a lot on that last week. The second aspect that we're going to be looking at more this week is and to work with your hands as we instruct Instructed you so that you may prop walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one. Getting into the details here of our lives, but why is he doing this? Let's go big picture again here before we look at this verse again. It's because that he recognizes that these people in Thessalonica Are having good successful ministry, but he wants it to continue. He wants it to be long-lasting. And he knows is that when we get caught Up in these very sins and many others that he's describing, that we can become careless in our walk with God, and then we become careless in our love. And our relationship with Christ. Sin really can interfere with a close communion with Jesus. It can And therefore, it can diminish long-term effective ministry. And we're talking about sustaining effective ministry. And again, as a reminder, what is effective ministry? It is directing people to Christ. It's directing the unbelievers that are around you as you get to know them more, directing them to Christ. Is directing the family of God and those around you, even in this body, in this service, directing them to grow in Christ. Effective ministry always Involves pointing people to Christ. And the more we get careless with certain areas of our lives, the less useful we are, the less passionate we are about following after him. Makes sense, right? And so these are very important to Paul because he says these things, if they're in your life, they'll take away your passion and your love for Jesus. And your ministry will wither and dry up. And he doesn't want that. So he's very specific. Look out in these areas Of your lives, make sure that you are acting appropriately. Don't be immoral. Love each other. Continue to show love to each other Do your best, make it one of your top priorities to live at rest, the rest that Christ gives in the midst of a crazy hectic World. Do best to be responsible in your own affairs and to carry out to work with your hands diligently what God And Paul says, we've instructed you that in many ways while we were with you. You know this. Paul says because we've told you this many times. And as we get into this a little bit more, I think that this was a particular weakness of this group of Diligent work here as Paul described is ex Expected an effective ministry and diligent work is to be expected as we disciple each other. That's awkward to Encourage each other to make sure that we're fulfilling our responsibilities, that we are diligently going about the affairs that God has called each of us to in our personal lives. With our family, with our work, and also encouraging us in the work that He's given us to do in the church. That's an awkward thing to sometimes encourage each other in because it's It may point out that some of us are being deficient. And yet Paul says here, it's necessary. We need to disciple each other. Properly carrying out and being responsible for what he has given us to do in our lives and to work with our hands so that we may be a proper testimony to the community out there. And so we need to be willing to do diligence to what God has called us to. Now, before I get any further with verse 11, I want to clear something up. As I thought about this, and as pastors are wont to do, many times after a message, I think back through what I've said and think, you know, I need a little more clarification in this area. And so let me do that very quickly. quickly back to that phrase mind your own affairs and I describe that as what Paul's saying be practice in your own business and business and not constantly everybody else's Okay. Um we find in Second Thessalonians, we'll see this passage in a minute, that Paul has to tell that some of them are walking in idleness, not busy at work, but busy by Not busy at their own responsibilities, but busy at everybody else's. And Paul says that should not be. But I don't want you to misunderstand. It's not that Paul is saying just don't get involved in anybody else's lives. Just you you just keep track of you. What's a what's a uh a common popular phrase today. You do you and I'll do me and we'll all just be happy. Just ignoring each other and staying out of each other's business. Well, I think you know that's not the recipe for ministry that Christ has called us to. That doesn't that doesn't jive or sink with what I've said earlier that God has called us to minister. You can't minister to people if you're just constantly ignoring them and head to the grindstone and just doing your own work and not being aware of people around you. That's the opposite. Well, what is Paul trying to say? Well, I think I can describe it this way. I believe, and I think this bears out in Scripture. Scriptural evidence, like what Paul says here. That God calls each of us as we go about our responsibilities at home, at work, and at church, that God has given us speech Specific responsibilities, God calls each of us to be involved in the concerns of some individuals. That He will make it very clear God has a Wonderful way. The Holy Spirit has a wonderful way of nudging us and saying, hey, you need to encourage that person. Or, hey, this has come to your attention. You've seen someone do this, someone is acting out in a way they shouldn't, you have the privilege of talking to that person and encouraging them that they can do better. But I think that the Holy Spirit makes it clear to each of us, the individuals, that He wants us to encourage and maybe to exhort and correct. But it's some individuals it's not everybody none of us have the responsibility of keeping track of everybody's business it's not possible I mentioned last week it's not possible For the pastor to keep track of everything that you do. I'd be exhausted and I'd do a poor job of it. I'm not God. I'm not omnipresent. I'm not called to get and and to cr have um personal detailed correction into each and every one of your lives, I can't do that. And neither are I any of you called to be the conscience For the whole church in one respect, but I believe that God leads us to specific people and makes it clear, I want you to go help them. That you have in the church, and you're already close to that person. And God says, Yes, that person in particular, that's the one that I want you to help and to encourage and to exhort and maybe correct. Isn't it wonderful to know that that God doesn't give any of us the sole responsibility of being the private investigator and trying to dig out the dirt on everybody in the congregation? That'd be ter Terrible. I wouldn't want that job. So my point is, and when Paul says mind your own affairs, he's not saying don't ever get involved in anybody else's lives. No, that's important. But let the Holy Spirit guide you. As you learn something about someone else, do you pray and say, Lord, should I get involved? Or is this for someone else? I guarantee you, when you ask that question, he will make it clear what he wants you to do. And then that saves us, then. For I think is a practical outwork of this is that when many people people come to us and have all these stories about all kinds of different people and what they're doing, we can say hey um that's not my business you go talk to them if you need to um but uh that I I can't I can't mind my own affairs quietly and live at rest and be responsible for all of these different things. And so um in order to be obedient Obedient to God , I'm not going to listen to that anymore. Or I'll encourage you to talk to that person and you work it out between them. But I think I think sometimes that part of our rest is stolen when we get worked up about so many issues, about so many people that we don't even know. And many times it can be gossip. even be slander. And we hear this and it works on our hearts and it takes away our joy. And it keeps us from being at rest. And Paul says that's not what a Christian should be about. But you make sure that you are faithfully carrying out the work that God has done. Given you. So I hope that makes sense. Right? Don't ignore people, but don't take up everybody's cause. Let God work in lives and be very specific. Lord, do you need me to get involved in this? And if so, otherwise I'm not going to listen. I don't know if this is true or not. And I'm not going to carry that news further. I'm going to mind my own affairs and be faithful to what God's called me to do. And we know, just in being faithful to God what God has called us to do, that's going to take up a majority of our time. We've got to let So let's then look at the second part of this verse eleven and focus more on what he's saying here. Because he says, and to work with With your hands as we instructed you. This is obviously something that Paul had had to talk with them about many times. And he's referring here to work with your own hands in the Greek. It is to be about your own occupation and to take responsibility for providing for yourself and for your family. And I think for Further as well, he's also talking about specific aspects of ministry that God has um clearly called us to. Sometimes it's hard to distinguish between those aspects of ministry God is clearly calling us to do and a lot of add-ons that get added on to us many times. And some of us take those on, and then the people that are supposed to be doing them don't do them and you have an overbalance you have um with with those that are doing a lot of the work in church and those who are doing Very little. That's not right either. And so Paul is saying: make sure you're being diligent and being careful with your responsibilities. with what you have to do with your family, and I think also with ministry here as well. And he had to talk to them about this many times when he was with them. We use the term Derogatory obviously for of freeloaders, those that try to get something for nothing, as far as they're always Those that have a characteristic of not doing much for themselves and always expecting others to come in and help them, right? Well Folks, that's not a just a common problem. It seems like there were freeloaders all the way back in the New Testament. The church in Thessalonica struggled, it seems like, being with sometimes freeloaders. And yet Paul says here, you make sure that that is not named among you. You need to change, you need to fix this. Now let's be clear on something else as well. Paul isn't saying that there weren't legitimate needs of the poor and of the needy in the New Testament church. I mean this was a culture where the needs were so evident. They didn't have um societies and uh government programs and all kinds of things to help the needy, when you were truly needy and destitute, you you almost had no hope at all. Of providing for yourself and daily needs. So there were clearly people that really did have needs, and God called the church to help them meet those needs. And so Paul is not saying here that if someone has a need and comes to you, comes to the church to ask to fulfill that need, well, don't listen to them. You tell them to go work. And just find something. Well, some folks couldn't find work. Some were widows that in this culture they'd lost their husband. They really had no ability to get their own job and to make money except for the very basic labors. If children were orphaned, they had no way to take care of themselves. There were l legitimately people that couldn't fulfill responsibilities. Couldn't even work. And so that's not what Paul's saying here. At the same time, we have to be careful. Some people uh read what the Bible says says about taking care of the needy and almost kind of think well that that kind of means that socialism socialism looks really good and the Bible um kind of uh endorses that that helping others and and meeting others' needs by everybody sharing. And that seems to go, that whole concept seems to go at odds with what Paul is saying here in First Thessalonians. So, what do we do with this? Well, first of all, let's look at Acts 4. Turn to Acts 4, verses 32 and 37, where we do have a passage where the church. is actively involved in helping each other and meeting their needs. This is the early church. The church has just been established. Christ. And this is a sign of great health and influence in this church because of what they're doing. Verse thirty thirty two. Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul. There was no dissension at this point. There was no arguing. They were together for the cause of Christ. And no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own. But they held everything in common. And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was give was upon them all. And there was not a needy person that's key among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds Of what was sold, and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need. Thus Joseph gives more information about him there, son of encouragement. Verse thirty seven sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. And some people look at this passage and say, Isn't this beautiful? Socialism. We just we all work together and we all give of each other's uh wealth and and we share and so nobody ever goes hungry and you know why can't we do more of this today and capitalism is evil and so Now I'm not intending this morning to go on a diatribe about politics, okay? That's about all I'll say about those two words. But this isn't what I would term socialism that people think of today. This truly is the church meeting the needs of very needy people. Who didn't have much, who literally couldn't feed themselves on a daily basis, who didn't have the clothing, had the basics of life that they needed, and there there was a great Great disparity disparity at this time, I think that's the right word, between the rich and the poor. The needy had nothing, the poor had everything Everything. And what the Bible is describing is here the church said we're not gonna have that. We're gonna have the needs of those that are truly destitute taken care of. Wealthy, like Joseph, who was called Barnabas, son of encouragement, said, I've got plenty. I'll gladly sell what I have to meet the needs of the others in the church. That's a beautiful thing. That's not I wouldn't call that socialism. I just call that caring about each other's needs and caring for each other and making sure that Whether it's through financial help or through prayer or through personal assistance, that each person in the body is being taken care of and that their needs are being met. That's not What Paul is talking about back in First Thessalonians chapter four. Turn back there in verse eleven. He's describing Something that seems to be a personal weakness, particular weakness of the Thessalonian Church. And it seems as if in the society you didn't Have and that the church was made up of a lot of what we would term the middle class today, working class people, laborers, and craftsmen. And interestingly, in this society The Greeks, those uh that were uh I'm using a general term there to describe those that were educated and those that were philosophers and went around town. Kind of sometimes telling other people how they needed to live their lives and things. Maybe they were part of the busybodies, I don't know. But the intellectual crowd, maybe those that that were wealthy. Um The Greeks tended to look down on hard work as like an unfortunate necessity that the really smart person or the really well off person could get out of work And still thrive, and that was the superior way to go in these philosophers, these Greeks' minds. That really, if you have to do hard work, you're second rate. Or maybe third rate. And with that background, probably some of these folks were being influenced by that. And were not uh engaged in Diligently carrying out the responsibilities that God had given to them in daily work and labor. And so there was this problem that Paul needed to address. You know, the early pilgrims had this problem and learned early on with uh William Bradford, the colony's uh governor Um they came on on the Mayflower, and actually we uh my sons and I went to the very spot, supposedly, not the spot, but the the rock where the pilgrims landed. It's not supposedly the same rock, but it's it's indicative of where they were and how they set up um their place to live and and they got their community together. And they started out trying to do socialism. But they found that it hindered the growth of the colony. Young men resented working for the benefit of other men's wives and children without compensation. Healthy men who worked thought it And just that they received no more food than weak men who could not. Wives resented doing household chores for other men, considering it a kind of slavery. William Bradford wrote that to avoid famine in sixteen twenty-three, one historian said at length, after much debate of the episode. Things, the governor, with the advice of the chiefest among them, gave way that they should set corn every man for his own particular, and that regard trust to themselves And in all things go on in a general way as before. So each family was assigned a parcel of land. And so now the colonists were able to grow their own food and they became very industrious. Men and women who earlier claimed weakness now going into the fields to plant corn. And God answered that same night with rain that continued in the coming days. Pilgrims got it right, the balance that Paul's talking about here. They depended upon God, but God made it clear through um the normal processes of And that God at the same time would do the work and provide for them as they were being faithful in their business. That's what Paul is saying. Here. Don't have the expectation that someone else is going to do it if I don't, when it comes to our responsibilities. To ministry, but be willing to join in and to do your part in your own work and in the work of the ministry that we um Are diligent in working with our hands to be diligent in our own affairs. One writer called this joyful careful plotting. Application to this could be A child that tends to be slow about their responsibilities, or an employee who literally fritters away time on the job, or a college graduate that returns home and for years Doesn't make much of an effort to find a job. You could go on and on with these things, right? There are common problems in our society today, but folks, this should not be named among God's people. We should be known as people that work hard and trust God. That's what Paul's saying here. Laziness among believers is still And Paul says, Don't you, Thessalonian believers, because Caught being a poor testimony by being lazy amongst your fellow um uh citizens of Thessalonica. But you make sure that you're being Diligent and that you have a good testimony. That is one of those things I think today, as people look on us, that we can still, even as broken Broken as our society is, we can still be a good testimony as far as being work diligent, faithful workers. I found this with our neighbor Up in New Hampshire. We had an interesting situation. Uh God provided us when we moved to New Hampshire. We didn't have a place to live, and we had to stay with some folks in our church for at least a couple weeks. The Lord led us to a particular house in a small town in New England there near the capital, Concord. The name was Kentuck. And for those of you that have met our cat. He sometimes walks over here to the Family Life Center during while we're doing the the teen youth group. His name is Tookie. He's named after the town that we lived in. But um we had the our landlady said along with this this is the amount that I expect you to pay every month but also by the way my father lives on the property property in the back area and he's kind of he comes along with the deal. So he's gonna live on the back property and then he'll help you with what you need help with and he'll help you plow and and things For snow, and he'll he'll be of benefit to you. So that was always understanding. His name was Lee. Um the boys did a couple things early on that boys will do. They were a little route Or whatever, and Lee came to me pretty quickly and was kind of grumpy about it. Um and I explained to him why it happened and he calmed down. Well, what was neat was as We continue to get to know Lee, he continued to soften towards us, and one of the main reasons was he saw how industrious our boys were about all kinds of things. They're building and they're they're desiring to um help out with the garden and clear the snow and all kinds of things. And um it wasn't maybe a year after we were there that Lee said something along the lines to me. He said, I know you guys are good people because I see how hard you work and how industrious your boys are. And that makes a impact with me. Wow. Who would have thought? We can be a testimony for Christ. And I eventually was able to share the gospel with this man more than once. And part of it was because my boys had somewhat of work ethic. And we were able to testimony in that way. I think that's exactly what Paul's saying here. As we finish this up this morning, don't show a disdain for others in your lack of willingness to diligently work and keep Carry out your own responsibilities at home or at church. Don't just expect, even here at ministry, that if you don't carry out the responsibility that you've given, well Somebody else will pick up the slack. No, that's not being responsible. But make sure that we are giving our energies to and giving our hands. to what God has called us to do. And certainly in our society, as far as taking benevolence from others, don't, if you don't need it, take a benevolence from That truly needy people need. Truly needy people must have. That's also a stench in the nostrils of our community. But be known as responsible, diligent workers of what God has called us to do. What are some applications here? I think in our Society today, unfortunately, that many times grandparents are called on many times to do things that beyond sometimes what they can physically handle. Not talking about grandparents that love to spend time with their grandkids and and are willing to help out. That's a beautiful thing. But as I see in our society today and even among Christianity, uh grandparents get saddled sometimes with so much, even rap Raising the kids far beyond what they can handle, and it causes them lots of stress and difficulty. And maybe it's because some others aren't following through on their responsibility of raising those kids. Maybe that's one of the problems. Church members that really seem to care very Little for service in the church? Or even a church leader that gets so busy with so much ministry that he or even she f fails to fulfill the whole home responsibilities that God has called them to. There's all kinds of practical applications of this that we all need to be aware of. And say, Lord, help me to be more Diligent in my responsibilities that you've called me to. You see, when you become careless in even this aspect of our walk with the Lord It will be a poor testimony to others. And really the love of Christ, wouldn't you say in the end here as we finish up? The love of Christ should compel us not to sin against our brothers And sisters, in this way, but to do our part. One more story here, and then we'll finish up. This is a COVID story. We all know what happened to COVID. No need to go back through and over that again. Just rather forget it, right? One of the one of the uh outgrowths though, or one of the things that happened after COVID COVID was uh people were really tired of being hemmed in and being in their houses and wanted to do things. Uh we noticed this in our own family. after uh we we send our kids to summer camp every summer and they love that and that summer twenty twenty of COVID we were close to the wilds of New England the same camp that Rand Hummel, he was here a la a couple weeks ago, that he was director over, and our kids loved that camp. And they look forward to that every year. Well, because of COVID that summer Camp was shut down. They weren't able to go to camp. And I think there was stir crazy also from being at home and being homeschooled and they were just ready to do something. Arden in particular. But so the next year when they had camp, our boys, especially Arden, our oldest, was ready to go. There's only one problem was that uh they decided to be careful that they wouldn't allow leaders or um youth leaders or parents to be on site unless they were willing to commit to staying for the whole week, kind of trying to be in the bubble. Of camp on site so that people from outside wouldn't bring things in. So this was a new experience for me because I was always I loved one of the things I loved the most about taking kids to camp was being a part of it, was jumping in and experiencing all the things that they were experiencing, taking pictures, and I took way too many pictures in front video of over the years when we took our kids to camp. But I loved that. And here I was being told that I couldn't even be on site and it just drove me crazy. Oh I was so angry at COVID and all of that because I couldn't watch my kids enjoy camp. Well one of the guys that was there, one of the youth leaders, was kind enough to send me some pictures afterwards. And the pictures that he s were close ups of Arden 's face and you could tell when I got these, I mean Arden he had this look on that he almost like anger, but he was so all out trying to win in the game I mean he was going all out for all of those games because he was tired of being pent up and he was ready to go and give his All. And he actually got a reputation at the end of the week for one that was um dedicated and passionate about the week and about the games and and Everything because he was done and tired of inactivity. Folks, in the end, that should be us as we look at different areas of our life and say, you know I'm a little slack in this area. I'm not being responsible on some of these things God's called me to. Lord, help me to do better. And with your help, I'm gonna passionately And fully with my whole heart pursue the things that you've called me to do and stop pursuing a lot of the things that I know that I shouldn't be involved in. Stop listening to a lot of the things I know I shouldn't be listening to. As far as other people's business that doesn't involve me. As far as being faithful in my business My responsibilities to church and to my work, this is now going to be my highest priority, and I'm going to give my all to that. That's what Paul's calling us to here. And we all need to hear that once in a while, the pastor included. And God will give us the grace to be diligent in what He's called us to do. Father, thank you for this Reminder that we should never be content with any degree of sanctification that we've reached. But like George Whitfield Said, Lord, let me know more of myself and of thee. And we should always desire to grow more. And thank you for giving us these practical Are you that can guide us to that? That we need to be careful about not being involved in any Sort of immoral relationship within the body, and of course outside the body of Christ, but inside the body too, that we should always be desiring to Show love to each other more and more. That people in our ministry here at Upper Crossroads would know that they're loved of Christ by the love that's shown to them by others. That one of those ways to show love is that we don't talk about other people, but we go to them and we help them to grow in their relationship with Christ. Called us to do that. And that we also are diligent in our own responsibilities and what you've called us to do, that then we truly can live a life of rest in the midst of a turm of a world filled with turmoil and hectic pace. Where we claim the promise that you we have Heard today that we can live a restful life when we're just diligent about the things that you've called us to and diligent about our testimony for Christ. Christ. As Leslie plays, you think, and you ask the Lord, where do I need change in these areas? And seek that change now through the work of the Holy Spirit.