Let's continue. Let's go back tonight then to the book of Ephesians. Again, chapter 2. Thank you, Linda, for playing again for us tonight. It's good to have her back on the keyboard. Ephesians chapter 2, and we began this chapter in the first five verses, and we saw this morning we began talking where Paul is now after again taking us on this hang gliding tour above and seeing God's work of salvation as a whole. And all that he is describing, and now he gets much closer to Earth in a more detailed, though brief, understanding of the truths of the gospel. And he starts out in the first couple of verses reminding us of our past condition And again, I think one of the problems that believers have when they stray from God or they get involved or entrapped in sin patterns A large portion of that reason is they've developed spiritual amnesia over where they've been and what God has done for them and what they were saved from. When they continue to practice, or when any of us continue to practice patterns of sin, yes, we can do that as believers. and we grieve the spirit and we make ourselves miserable. But why would we do that when we were dead in those sins? Those sins were the reason that we faced the eternal wrath of God, and God delivered, saved us from that through Jesus Christ. Why would we go back to that again? We should never forget these gospel truths that we're again looking morning and tonight. We need these constant reminders. We were dead, we saw this morning. And because of what Christ did, we have now real spiritual life. What we're going to see tonight, we also have a new position. and status in our union with Christ that is guaranteed, even though we haven't have it fully realized yet, one day Jesus will come and we will fully realize our position and status that we have in Christ. But Paul is going to describe now what we have again because of what Jesus has done for us, and he's going to remind us that this is all by God's grace. And it's nothing that we merit. We're going to see tonight that we are resurrected to walk in God's works. And let's look at chapter 2, verses 6 through 10 together. Well, you know what? Let's go back at verse 4. That but God there is so important. But God. who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. And by grace, for by grace, are you saved through faith and then not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk Lord help us to glory in these truths tonight, that we were rebels, content and happy in our own sin. And yet you were willing to deliver us, to save us through the work of Jesus Christ, and that now we can experience resurrection to new life And benefits and so many blessings simply because of your grace and through faith So let us again be joyful in these truths. Let them never grow old to us, Lord, and let us be motivated to serve you more because of what you've done for us. And what you're doing through us even now. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well Paul wants us to first understand as we continue in this passage that we were resurrected. And remember we talked about this. This is our spiritual resurrection. We are raised from spiritual death, new birth. We're reborn, we have new life, and that resurrection is for a purpose And we're going to see in verses 6 through 7, the purpose is to be victorious with Christ. We're resurrected for victory. And our resurrection brings assured victory, confident victory. Verse 6 And Paul is going into now the benefits of what God has done for us. And he hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. And at the beginning of verse 5, when he talks about us being quickened together with Christ and now raised up together, made to be sit together. as believers together with Jesus, but also as the church, there is now he's describing an almost we would say mystical aspect of what is called union with Christ. We know it's true. We know its truths. But it's still hard to comprehend even now. And on this earth it always will be. Well, one day when Jesus will return, we'll understand even more this idea of being united with Christ. But we trust, even as we read these verses, that it is true. And that is when we put our faith and trust in Jesus, we are in union, we experience the same things that Jesus has experienced. When we trust him, we're actually in union with his physical death But also our spiritual resurrection is tied to his physical resurrection. And that's what Paul is trying to explain here and saying, quicken us together with Christ and has raised us up together In Jesus' resurrection that took place, his physical resurrection, we experience rebirth in a spiritual way. We still await then the physical aspect of our union with him in his resurrection. What that means is when Jesus' physical resurrection that's portrayed in the Gospels, when that took place, he received a resurrection body, and we haven't received those yet. And so that part of our union with Christ hasn't taken place yet. One day when he returns, though, we will receive that. And what a glorious day that will be. But there's this other interesting aspect as well. And it says here in verse 6, made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. You know, this studying this passage gave me an opportunity to really dig into this more. I don't think that I had really taken time to consider this truth or what Paul is saying here as much as maybe in the past. And maybe you might look at this and say, made us sit together. That almost sounds like we're ruling and reigning with Jesus. But that can't be, because this world is too broken and too opposed to Christians right now, and we we don't always see the victorious life that we will one day experience when Jesus returns. So, Lord, if we're ruling and reigning with Jesus now, this doesn't seem a very victorious way to rule and reign. And isn't that kind of against what the Bible talks about? that Jesus will return and the whole process, right? The rapture. He takes us up. The tribulation. At the end of the tribulation, in the midst of that, we in in uh in We are able to experience the marriage supper of the of the Lamb. And then we come back and Jesus takes care of his enemies and we rule and reign with him in the millennial kingdom. And at that point, we will rule and reign with him. And I hope that you have time in your lives to reflect on that. It's one of the motivating factors for us to be faithful to Him and to rejoice. We, all of us that are true believers, will rule and reign with Jesus one day. And what a glorious privilege that will be. But this almost sounds like Paul saying, we rule and reign. He's made us sit together now. Well, only Jesus sits. on the right hand of the Father, which is the sign of authority that he has as king. Well what does this mean for us? Well, it's a little obscure in some ways, but it does seem, Paul does seem to be thinking along these lines that this is the assured victory that we will one day have in Jesus. And that in some ways we get to experience now. What's one of those ways? Well, he has just recently, if you remember this morning, talked about the power that Satan has. And the fact that as unbelievers, the unregenerate are totally under the power and control of Satan and their own flesh. But when we're reborn, we're not under that power. We're not dead to the well we are dead to the flesh. We don't have to follow its guidance anymore or Satan. We have the ability through the power of Christ to follow Jesus And we don't have to follow Satan. And in that sense, that is part of that victorious living that Paul's referring to here. We've already been victorious. We're experiencing victory. Satan doesn't have total control over us. Our flesh doesn't have total control over us anymore. And it's the beginnings of what will one day be our full rule and reign with Jesus. We don't have to be worried. This morning we talked about the power of Satan. And it's real. And it's not something to be messed with. But at the same time, believers shouldn't cower in utter terror. Because of Satan. Because Jesus had the victory over Satan and sin. That's what his resurrection is all about. And if we've experienced that resurrection with him, then we've experienced victory over sin, our flesh, and the devil. And we can be confident that Satan won't have the final word but ultimately that we will see him taken care of and condemned forever and we will still rule and reign. And Paul says all of that is because of God's grace in this process of our union with Jesus. I hope that makes sense to you. But I also included a quote from a popular commentary that I read on Ephesians by a man named Harold Honer, and he says this way. The believer's spiritual resurrection is in conjunction with Christ's physical resurrection. As he died physically, we were dead spiritually. So also he was raised physically. We were raised spiritually. This talks of the believer's positional resurrection, but not their future physical resurrection. When Christ was resurrected, all power was given to him. So too, Christians identified with Christ and those in whom Christ dwells presently have the same power in them. That power that we will use one day to rule and reign with Christ forever. All of that because of God's grace. And isn't that incredible to think? That rebels who were doing everything they could to reject God and go their own way, that God provided a way through Jesus Christ for them, those same people, through faith we're going to see in just a minute. to now rule with Jesus, to switch sides, to be on God's team. And he allowed all of that. of his love for us and his grace for us. Don't ever lose the marvel and the awe of that. Incredible things. on display here. And we're going to see next verse 7 that our resurrection is a display of God's grace. And what well, Pastor Bach, that's what you've been saying. But no, look at verse 2. Oh, I'm sorry, verse 7. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us. through Christ Jesus. Now, what's going on here? Well he's talking about the fact, first of all, this idea of ages, that in the ages to come, these ages include the age that we're currently in, but also the end times and the establishment of the millennial reign. And God is is um displaying what he's doing in us as a display of his power and glory to the whole world, the whole created world, even probably his angelic audience, all of this All of these are watching God's grand display of his work in us. This is more than just a cosmic show and tell. To all the ages that he's doing here. But he's showing to the world why he deserves to be worshipped. There was a recently, and we didn't get a chance to see this, but maybe many of you did, this recent rocket company. SpaceX that sent a rocket with two astronauts from NASA into orbit. And it's the first time, and probably some of you are watching this and know this, since the retirement of the shuttles nine years ago. that an American crew had made the journey from U. S. territory. Two guys, Doug Hurley and Bob Benkin, they were in a new capsule system, but they were also initiating a new business model for NASA. Which the agency now would not be creating the rockets, but they would be allowing private enterprise to create the rockets and offer then basically a taxi service offered by SpaceX. And this was something that everybody was cued into and watching, and we would see on Facebook afterwards a number, a lot of homeschool moms saying, we just saw the rocket take off, and this is amazing, and all of this. And these men were worthy of displaying this power in what they had done because it was a worthy thing. It is that they deserved praise and recognition for what they had accomplished. Well how much more then the God of eternity who has created all these who've created space And he has taken rebels who were rebelling against him and turned them around through the work of his son in Jesus. And now we will one day rule and reign with him. How much more as he displays this truth for us should he be worshipped and be given praise? God is worthy in praise as He displays His work in us And again, in more detail here as it talks about, that he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. The exceeding riches of what he has done through his grace. We looked at this this morning, this word about unlimited resources and capacity for love and mercy And God has an endless storehouse of these riches that He shows to us. I was intrigued by another news story that I read recently, and it said. I found this on Fox News by a reporter named Peter Atkin. It says treasure staff stash worth over 1 million found in Rocky Mountains after decade-long search. I don't know if you heard about this. But a New Mexico treasure hunter revealed that his chest of gold, jewels, and other valuables worth over one million dollars had been found Ten years ago, Forrest Fenn, that's a great name, Forrest Fenn gained a following when he announced that he had hidden a treasure chest somewhere in the Rocky Mountains. He inspired tens of thousands to set out in the search of his treasure, but the prize eluded everyone until now This was literally a few weeks ago. It was revealed to Forrest Fenn that a man who wished to remain anonymous had finally discovered the chest a few days ago. And the hunter sent him, Ben, a photo of the chest, confirmed his discovery, and posed for it. This was something that this man, Forrest Fenn, had decided to do all the way back in 19 1989 because he was given a terminal diagnosis of cancer and he wanted to leave a historical legacy for people to remember him by. Well, he recovered. But I don't think at that point, well he actually I guess I guess he remembered where it was. But what he did was he decided to go ahead with it anyway and he wrote a poem and put it out there somehow for people to be able to read and figure it out. And it took people, what's that, over 20, almost 30, yeah, over 30 years to finally find this treasure. And he said that he hoped that the man that had found it would maybe sell the treasure to those that needed it or maybe even re-hide it. And he says, to keep the thrill of the chase alive and continue the legend. Well, here's a man who, I guess you could say, in his grace, allowed this treasure to be found. Oh, I should I should list what's in it, right? That would be interesting. I didn't mention that part. This chest contained three Colombian animal figures, gold nuggets, and coins. Chinese jade bases, emerald rings, and other exotic items. So this was true treasure. It was a real thing And this guy was gracious in allowing people to do this, but people still had to put their own effort. Obviously 30 years later somebody finally found this, and yet This man, I'm sure, was still grateful to Forrest Fenn for doing this, but it just reminded me how much more grateful then should we be to God Who gives us his mercy and his love and his kindness, and it doesn't expect anything from us at all because we have nothing to offer. He just gives us from his treasure storehouse And he doesn't hide us, hide it, and give a map for us to find it. But he freely gives these treasures to us. The grace, that unmerited favor, his kindness. Again, that loyal love that he has for us. And also all of this through what Jesus Christ has done for us through the gospel And now we are displays that it put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ of all that God has done Well, we were resurrected to be victorious with Christ. We won't experience that fully until Jesus returns. But you know, folks, I think sometimes we don't. Take advantage of the victory that we could experience in our lives. It's available to us because we give in to sin too easily God has raised us up and we have the status as his children and that will rule and reign with him. And I think so many times if We, with God's help, were more faithful and more dedicated to Him, we would experience more victory than many times we do. We have access to the power. We have access to the treasure house. Of God's grace and his mercy and his strength, and we don't avail ourselves of those things. We could be so much more victorious in this life than what many times we are. Full victory is one day coming, though, and all of God's enemies will one day bow the knee, and we will rule and reign with him. Forever. Wonderful truths. But you know, God has also resurrected us to perform his mighty works. And that's what the rest of this says. Verse 8 through 10. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God Not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them We were resurrected for a specific purpose. When we get saved, God has a purpose for our lives. He has a direction. He has things that he expects us to do. But it's through his strength. And one thing Paul wants us to understand, and he's going to go over this over and over again. Because so many times we can forget this, and that is that this is God's work, that our own works cannot save us. Our own works can do nothing. Verse 8 again: For by grace are ye saved through faith. It's all God's work. It's nothing of our work and that we merit. And it says through faith there and then faith, what is faking? Belief. I would do this with our teenagers and our youth group back home in Maryland many times because you know a lot of people hear the word faith and they think they understand what it means. So I would ask our young people, I'm like, what does the word faith mean? And when we raise our hand, they say it means trust. Okay. True. What's the word trust mean? And another one raised their hand, they think, you know, oh, I got it on this guy. It's believing. Belief. That's true. What does belief mean We would continue on and maybe somebody would say having faith and I'm like, no, I already said that. You don't get to say that again. And they would kind of well, you know, it is a little confusing sometimes And some religious people look at faith in some strange ways. I was watching a very family-oriented TV show a number of years ago, one that you would all recognize. And the main character, a father, was asked by a woman that was going through a lot of trouble, do you trust God? How can you have faith? And he described faith as something that inspired him that even though, even if God wasn't real , that his faith was inspirational and helped him to get along in life. You know, that may sound okay for a TV show, but that's just empty, right? I just believe and have faith because it's inspiring. We need much more than that. We need a faith in something that's going to deliver us from the wrath of God. So what is faith? I think at its essence it's this reliance and total dependence. And that faith must have an object, and that object must be Jesus. It is our agreement with the truths, the basic truths of the gospel. And it's our utter reliance and dependence upon Jesus. One thing that we need to understand, and Paul's clear here, don't think of faith as a work. The gospel salvation is all the work of God. But all faith is, is our realization that I need Jesus. That's not a work. That's not something we do. It's just saying, Lord, I need you because I can't do anything. And Jesus says, that's where you need to be. Rely. Depend upon me. And you will be saved. Peter's confession in John chapter 6, I think, is a great description of faith When Jesus was taught giving some hard descriptions of the sacrifices that his disciples would have to make, it says in verse 66, From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him And so Jesus said unto the twelve, Will you also go away? And then Simon Peter answered him in this beautiful description. He says, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believed and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Peter says there, Jesus, where else are we going to go? You're it. If you're not it, we have no other option. All of our hope is in you, Jesus. That's faith That's belief. And that's what we need to have. Again, it's not a work, but it's our dependence and reliance in Jesus. And by his grace, then we are saved. We're delivered. And this encapsulates all that Jesus did. His righteous life that he lived, his sacrifice as the perfect Lamb of God, his blood that was shed, and all the components of the gospel here God 's plan. And we just have to put our faith and trust. Because Paul says at the end of verse 8, it's not of yourselves. There's nothing that you can do. It is the gift of God. It's God's free gift. And then verse 9, not of works, lest any man should boast. It's interesting throughout this particular passage that Paul obliterates the concept of salvation through any kind of merit or work. Don't miss this. This truth is mentioned in different forms at least six times in this passage. Paul continues on throughout this passage saying, it's by grace. It's by grace. It's not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works, so that you're not arrogant. It's by grace. Did you understand that? It's not your own works You think Paul's trying to get across the message here? Religion is useless because religion is the attempt to try to merit favor of the gods or of the one true God. It's useless. If you ever run into someone, it was mentioned earlier about some folks that had a Catholic background. or others that would ever try to apply works to salvation. All you gotta do is take them this passage. Paul can't make it any clearer. It's not that we do over and over again. He makes it clear. We cannot be saved by our own works. So I hope, if nothing else, that you didn't miss that. Religion is useless. You know, isn't it true though that one of the great sins that we have is our attempts of reliance on ourselves, even as believers? Ultimately, think about this. What was the sin that Eve actually committed? Was it just eating a piece of fruit that looked really good to her It was much more than that. What did Satan promise her? That if you partake of the fruit, you will be like God, that you will be able to discern good and evil. And I think I really believe what Satan was saying there is you'll be autonomous from God. You can live life on your own. You won't need him anymore. And I think what Eve thought is, and I'm sure the fruit was really enticing and it had a nice scent to it or whatever. It wasn't an apple, we don't know what it was. Probably a kiwi. But anyway, uh whatever it was. They uh Eve was tempted because she thought that when she ate of the fruit they would not have to be dependent on God anymore That they would not need him. That maybe is the great sin that we face when we reject God and when we try to live life on our own. And Paul reminds us here, don't live life on your own and rely on your own works. You will be facing the wrath of God. So it's not our own works, but God resurrected us, gave us spiritual life. He saved us to do his work And look at verse 10, for we are his workmanship. This has the idea of handiwork, his masterpiece. Did you know that God considers his work in you through the Holy Spirit and your spiritual maturity a masterpiece? Well, it's a masterpiece in progress. One day it'll be a full masterpiece, but it God is working on this It's like someone that a craftsman that's been working on something that they're very proud of. We just had, we have a couple craftsmen in our house. Hudson had his birthday Friday and we had a great time with that. But one of the things that joys me is a number of our other boys will actually get involved and give presents to their siblings. And uh Kendall in particular had chosen, he, I don't know where he gets these ideas, God just gives them to my guests, but he decided he was going to make his own toys for Hudson. And so when we were giving out presents after lunch, Friday afternoon, Hudson opened up this one big box, and there were these three, there was a tank. that was made out of cardboard and painted and all these things and it was really nice looking. And there was a biplane, one of those old planes from the last century. And what was the third one again? Do you remember? A ship a battleship. And he had made these things with his own hands, and I saw his face as Hudson was opening them, and there was this pride. This is something that I did for you And there was a joy on his face as Hudson opened that up. Luke, as you know, is our very tech is our technician, and he's always working on, he's like our mad scientist, always working on new projects. Sometimes it's a little concerning and a little fearful. Going into his workroom to see what he's working on. Did you lecture shoot yourself again, son? No, I didn't this time, Daddy. I'm okay. But he comes up with these things that that are really are amazing. A couple weeks ago he came up with a music box. He opened it up and this cardboard box where music came out like wow son this is great And now he's working on his own remote control boat that he came up with. I'm like, this is amazing. I where did he get this? I don't have this ability. It must be all Leslie's side of the family, I don't know. But here they had these things that they had pride in because they took time to create them, and that's what God is saying about you, that He has love. for you and that we this work that he's doing in us is his handiwork. We are his workmanship and we're on display. That'll be a little intimidating, huh? Do you ever think through your week that you are a display of God's work? How are you doing on that? That will give us motivation, if nothing else. But God is doing this work in us. We are his displays of his power and glory. And because of that, he's deserving of worship and praise for these works. You know what the gospel should do and the work that God is doing in us? When we meditate on this, it should literally take our breath away. It should be that amazing. But we're so used to it. We're so used to the truths of God's word and thinking about them that it just doesn't seem that special to us anymore. And it should Because it's special to God, what he's doing in our hearts and lives. And then he says we're a new creation because of what Jesus has done. And we're created in Jesus with a purpose unto good works. You see, here as we finish up is the amazing thing about this, is our works can't save us. But God saves us to do his works with his power. These good works are God. using us to be useful to him in ministry and in service and in testifying of Jesus Christ. And God has ordained that all of his children should be involved in these good works. But he doesn't leave us to do it ourselves. He actually gives us the power to do that. Don't ever forget this, that we need faith in the power of Jesus to be saved. To be regenerated. But also as we're growing in spiritual maturity, we have to rely as well on the power of Jesus to help us to grow. Every day we need to be submitted to Him. And he will do his work in us. How do we know that? Because at the end of this, God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Again, this picture. that God has a purpose, a plan, a direction for each and every one of us. And it's not something that he just came up with on the fly. He's had this purpose from eternity past. And it is to perform useful service to him, good works, but relying on his power and not our own. So what do we have here as we finish up? God in his rich mercy, his grace, has transformed a rebellious, sinful people. into his children and done more than that, enabled them to serve him faithfully as a display of his abounding grace and glory And that should then supply us motivation, endless motivation, to persevere in our faithfulness to Him with the life that we have now. How are we doing on that? We need these truths to continue to motivate us to persevere, especially at this time with all we're going through. All the craziness and chaos of our world, we need to go back to God's word and be reminded God has a plan We're talking about before this opportunities for witnessing. God has a plan. He wants to do good works through each and every one of us. He wants us to be testimonies of Jesus Christ. Submit to his plan. His power will help us through that. Let's pray together. Father, thank you. for the truths that our should be so precious to us of all that you are doing In our lives as believers, that we are your display of not our own power, but of your glory and might. And that may be a little intimidating for us, Lord. In fact, I know that it is for me. And yet I know that through your strength that I can be what you have called me to be because I can be victorious because Jesus has been victorious. And one day he will return and we will perfectly know union in him in a way that we can't know right now. But it is secure. Lord, help us to remember that what these truths portray about us is sure. They're true. And we can be confident of the work you're doing. Help us to go then from here in confidence that you are working through us, that you will use us for your purposes, through your power. And let us be an even brighter, more amazing display of your glory and grace and kindness and power Help us to be that, Lord. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.