The children, yes, we still have time for children's church, I think. And let's quickly turn to Ephesians chapter two. These is chapter two. We'll see if we get through these five verses this morning, but I I really think all of the books of Scripture are profound. Found. But this book of Ephesians, especially for the church, is it's in many of Paul's letters, there's a more personable element where he's saying you need to do this, but I really feel that the book of Ephesians is specifically written. Paul is talking to the whole church. That as a whole church, you need to listen and you need to do this church of Ephesus. Rather than specific individuals. And he has taken us really through chapter one on a hang gliding tour of God's plan for mankind. And we've soared over all of these wonders. Remember, we went through that long list of the inheritance, the blessings that we have in Christ. And then Paul continues to pray for the people of Ephesus, the people of the church there. That are still struggling. They're still fighting that demonic satanic presence of the occult there in Ephesus. And he prays for them three things: that they will continue to get to know God Jesus and draw closer to him in relationship. And also that they will have a better understanding that they truly are our Heavenly Father's treasure for God's people. It's true, we're his treasure, we're valuable to him. And then also that we would know the power of God in our our lives. And he gives example of the power of God through the raising of Jesus Christ from the dead and giving Jesus the authority over all things. The universe, all kings. And he also refers to the spiritual beings, many that rule with Satan. Paul says, Jesus is given authority and he has power over all of those. And you have access to that power. In your relationship with Jesus Christ. And folks, that was meant for our encouragement. I hope you left chapter one and just encouraged the people of God. If you know Jesus Christ this morning and have a relationship with with him. That chapter one ought to encourage your heart and lift you beyond whatever difficult situation you're facing, whether it be health or finances. or whatever. You're a child of the king. You have access to the power of God to help you through your struggles and your difficulties. And so he kind of at the same time it was like a hand gliding tour. Look at that over there and look at that blessing and look at what Jesus has done for us over there. And now he kind of goes in a little bit closer for a more detailed, though brief, understanding of the truths of the gospels. And even as in the book of Romans, Paul needs for us to understand, or probably for his audience, he's reminding them of where they've come from. Of the terrible condition that they were in, those believers, and they're uh they're following after black magic and demonic power and all of these things. And also for us today that before Jesus came and changed our lives in a faith relationship with him. Him that we were children of wrath, and we were in a terrible condition, and we needed the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. See, I'm convinced that I'm speaking to believers now that Paul includes this as a reminder to very Faithful. These believers in Ephesus are faithful. They're strong. They have a love for others. They're doing well. But folks, believers, believers may Many times we can suffer and be weakened and struggle in our faith and in our walk. And I think it's because we have many times spiritual amnesia over what God's done for us. We forget. The power we have access to in Christ, the love of our Heavenly Father for us , the sweetness of our relationship with Jesus Christ. Sometimes the complexities and the difficulties of life just kind of give us spiritual amnesia. We forget. And so Paul reminds us: hey, Ephesian church, remember where you came from? You need a constant reminder of the truths of the gospel and what Jesus has saved you from. You were dead. And now you have life. So we're going to see resurrected from the grave of sin, as Paul briefly reminds all of us of where we were. This should have, folks, a humbling. Effect on us. It really should. Because all the grace of God and mercy, and we praised Him for that this morning, we don't deserve any of it. We don't deserve his mercy. And yet he gives it to us freely. You see, we were in a terrible state. God's children were formerly dead in their sin, and we as dead, I'll put it this way, because the genre I think is still popular. I don't understand it. I don't understand why the zombie whole thing genre is so popular. It just kind of grosses me out. I don't like that kind of thing. But really, it is a good picture of what gee what Paul is saying here, that we were spiritual zombies. We were the walking dead, if I can put it that way. And we had a leader, and it was Satan himself. And he reminds us That we were walking dead zombies, and our leader was the prince of the power of the air, Satan himself. Let's look at verse 1 of chapter 2. Are you there? And you who were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. That word trespasses means offenses committed against God conscience, conscious and willful actions of disobedience and rebellion against God and his holiness and his character. Are sticking our finger toward the eye of God and saying, I will not follow you. Folks, that was who we were were. We gladly trespassed against God's holiness and his law, and we were dead in our sins. Oh, we were breathing and we were walking around, but we were the living dead. As our destiny was for eternity of death in a place called hell, a horrible place. Paul says, all of you before you trusted Christ, remember, this is where you were. Verse 2, this is how you walked, this is how you lived your life. Following the course of this world, this has the idea of the whole span of the world age and the evil characteristics and all of the injustice and all and all the immorality of the and all of the just gross sins that this world is capable of. We supported all of that, folks. Before Jesus changed us, we were comrades in arms with the terrible iniquity and rebellion of the world. We cheered for that team, if I could put it that way. We were all in with the course of this world. And who was then our leader? The prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now still at work in the sons of disobedience. Of course, this is referring to Satan, the prince of darkness. And Paul in the first chapter already alluded to spiritual powers. I don't know if you remember that from when we studied that before. But in Paul's description of Jesus having authority and power over all, in that description was also the idea. in the truth that Jesus is over all demonic power and demonic authorities. And the people in Ephesus certainly would have understood that there was something evil in their presence, a whole metropolis dedicated to evil and magical arts and incantations and the incult. Folks, there was a demonic presence that was leading all of that. Be assured. And Paul says Jesus is more powerful than all of that. But you used to follow along. Those demonic powers and Satan himself used to be your leader. They used to be Satan used to be your king And he says that spirit is now still at work in the sons of disobedience. But those that have not trusted Christ, they're still, that's still their team. They still are under the influence of those powers. Satan is still their king. And that would be us. We'd have the full gear, the hat, the the pennant waving it around for the way of the world. If not but Jesus. But Jesus did come and he did sacrifice and he did shed his blood so that we didn't have to be a part of the accursed world and dark kingdom any longer, but we could be resurrected and have life anew through a relationship with Jesus Christ. He did all the work. We depend on him. And so folks, even before I go any further, there certainly may be some some folks here where you're still on the wrong side. You're still rooting for the wrong team. You're on the team of the ways of the world. Satan is your leader and you may not even realize that yet. But I call on you to turn from that and recognize that you don't have to serve Satan, that you don't have to be a part of that dark, sinful, immoral way of life. Any longer, but that Jesus came and died for your sin and shed his blood so that you could be removed from that and you could be reborn and given new life. And so you could be on the team that's going to win for all eternity. Because Jesus is going to return. And all of us that are on his team, we are going to be the winners. God's word is clear. And folks, you want You don't want to suffer the punishment of those who rebel against God and who live in this dark age and this Dark world. You don't want to suffer that punishment for all eternity. But we call on you. That was our past, but our glorious future, through our faith in Jesus, can be that we're we're renewed, that we're changed, that we're given new life, and we can be with God forever through what Jesus has done. If you haven't made that decision this morning, would you turn and accept Jesus As your Savior, even now, even by the end of this message. I pray that God would give you a better understanding of the darkness that you're living in and how you can be delivered from that. And walk in newness of life. That is my prayer for anyone here who does not have a relationship with Jesus. So come talk to me. I'd be glad to share further with you what that means. But folks, again, for all of us that have a relationship with Jesus Christ, we need to be humbled and remember that we used to be on the other team, and Satan used to be our leader. And so what did we do? Verse 3, among whom we all lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the mind and the body, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of Mankind. We did whatever we wanted to do, whatever seemed best to us, whatever evil came to mind that seemed good to us. We were glad to be a part of that in a general sense. And even our moral sense, where we try to do good, ultimately we would fail. Because the only righteousness that matters is the righteousness of That we have through Jesus Christ. God And we cannot be righteous on our own. And so we were carrying out these sinful desires of the body, our thoughts, what we would think, and also our bodies, and carrying out That's a dark picture, is it not? And yet again, folks, that was each of us here before Jesus came in and changed us. You. That ought to humble us. We were children of wrath. What does that mean? That we were facing the wrath of God and eternal punishment given our That was prepared for us because we were following Satan, who that lake of fire and that hellfire was prepared. Prepared for, we were following him gladly, and so we were also children of wrath as well. Our sinful state and condition destined us to face the full wrath of God. We don't like to talk about the wrath of God, but the wrath of God really, folks, is only this: it is true. Truly righteous, right anger that must be poured out on sinners for justice to take place, for God to be a just God. He has to deal with sin. And he will. And so that phrase, children of wrath, really means. that we have a closer relationship to God's wrath than to God himself. We used to be as wicked as the wicked that we tend to disdain. But if you have trusted in Jesus, you're not a part of that life anymore. That's not your family anymore. You have a new name Praise the Lord that that's the case. You were just like the rest of mankind, except for this, that God's children were resurrected by his grace because God saved us Because he loved us. Verse 4. But God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we are dead in our trespasses. Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Folks, this morning, if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, Christ, if you are one of God's children, no matter what your financial situation right now, no matter what your four oh one K plan, no matter what you have facing in the future, you need to remember you are rich in the blessings of Jesus Christ. Christ. And that is what matters above all else. We're rich. And we're rich because God had mercy. That beautiful word mercy. The equivalent in the Old Testament of the word Hesed, that God showed his loyal love to his people, his faithfulness and care. That word is throughout the book of Ruth. It's a beautiful book of Ruth. Book. It's a beautiful word. And it means that God in His mercy is faithful to us when we had no desire. We were children of wrath. We had no desire to be faithful to Him. He was faithful to us all the same. He provided his son, Jesus Christ, so that we could be redeemed. In his mercy, all because not anything, not any beauty or honorable thing that was in any of us None of us were worthy in and of our own merit or accomplishments to merit God's grace and to merit the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Put those thoughts aside, folks. It was all because of the great love with which he loved us. You today, if you are a follower of Jesus, you are no longer a follower of Satan and followers. Following the ways of the world, not because you did something honorable and mentionable in any way, or that you even had a desire to want God God, but it's because God loved you. Folks, that makes each one of us valuable. Because God loves us. Maybe you're Struggling right now with feeling valued. Maybe you've had some friends or family that have disappointed you. Maybe even your dog doesn't really like you right now. Who knows? Well, folks, those that are the children of God through faith in Jesus, you are valued in a wonderful Way. The great love with which he loved us. And then Paul remember reminds us us in verse 5. Now remember, God's great mercy, his love, but you guys were dead. So just keep that in mind. Dead people can't help themselves, is Paul's point. It's nothing you did. It's all God's mercy. You were dead. You're walking zombies. You couldn't do anything about it. But Jesus did all. He made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Charles Spurgeon said this. He loved us when we could not have been further from him than we were, and God loved us anyway. And sent Jesus to die for us. But Jesus didn't just die, he was resurrected He overcame sin and death and hell. And now because of that, he can give us new life. The new life that he talked about, that Jesus talked about with Nicodemus in John 3, where he said to Nicodemus, You must be born again. You must be made new. That's possible through the power of God, through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. We can be resurrected from spiritual death. We can be made new, reborn, so that we're not facing as walking zombies in eternal punishment. And hell, forever apart from God. But no, praise the Lord, as Mike said this morning, hallelujah. We are saved and we will have physical resurrection and we will one day to experience the full results of that resurrection. New bodies that will never ache or have pains or have cancer ever again. And we will live with Jesus Christ. And then Paul reminds us as we finish up this morning, but remember it's by God's grace that you were saved. And that word saved refers to a completed action with continued results. What Jesus accomplished, he accomplished one Once and for all, you can bank on it. You can fully put your trust in the fact that that salvation was accomplished, but it will have continuing effects. In our lives, we'll, as the Holy Spirit works in our hearts, will reflect more and more of the character of Jesus until that day when we'll be with Him forever. That salvation means so much. And all of that God was willing to do to zombie-like creatures who was walking in death. Because he loved us. It's remarkable, folks. We ought to be amazed every time we reflect on these truths All of this I still have time for a story. There was a news article a number of years ago that I found very interesting. My own father-in-law was a Vietnam veteran. He's a Marine. And he was wounded in combat and many medals. So this story interested me. The 18-year-old Marine Corps first private private first class fell with a bullet to the shoulder during a savage firefight with the enemy outside. Dozens of Marines from what came to be called the Ghost Patrol perished there. At first Ridgeway, that's his last name, was listed as missing in action. Back home in Texas, his old school Sam Houston And high made an announcement over the intercom. But his mother, Mildred, had a letter from his commanding officer saying there was little hope. Saying he was dead. And so on September 10th, he was buried in a National Cemetery in St. Louis. A tombstone bearing his name, and the names of eight other missing from the battle was erected over the ground. Grave, his mother went home with a folded American flag. But as his comrades and family mourned Ron Widg Ridgway actually sat in a harsh North Vietnamese prison for five years, often in solitary confinement, mentally at war with his captors and fighting for a life that was was technically over. He was 17 when he signed up with the Marines in 1967. He was 18 when he was captured. 19 when his funeral was held. At about 9. 30 in the morning of February 25th, his four-man fire team charged an enemy trench line. A skip ahead, but most of his four-man fire team and others were killed as the Vietnamese got the advantage on all of this They had been getting closer and closer to he and his friends. It says here, as he and Geller ran to the rear, this was another uh friend of his, they came upon Willie Ruff, twenty of Columbia, South Carolina, who was lying on his back with a broken arm. We were in a hurry, Ridgway said, but we stopped. He was wounded. As the other guy knelt beside Ruff, a bullet hit the guy in the face, leaving a terrible wound. Then Ridgway was struck by a round that went through his shoulder. All three men were now down. All we could do was lay there and play dead. He said, we were in the wide open. Ridgway passed out. When he woke up, it was dark, and American artillery was pounding The area. Ruff said that he had been hit again and begged Ridgway not to leave him. Ridgway said, I won't. But at some point that night, Ruff died. Ridgway was awakened the following morning by someone pulling on his arm. He thought at first it was a fellow Marine, but when he looked up, he realized a north young North Vietnamese soldier trying to pull off his wristwatch. After the firefight, the shattered survivors of the patrol made it back to their combat base, and the dead were left on the battlefield. A rescue mission was deemed done wise by the higher-ups who feared losing even more lives. When finally a startled North Vietnamese soldier locked and loaded his rifle when he saw Ridgway alive. Ridgway expected to be killed. You don't hear about prisoners being taken, he said. But he was bandaged. Bed and marched away through Laos and into North Vietnam. And he spent time in several jungle camps held in wooden leg stocks, and he eventually wound up in enemy prisons. He eventually ended up in the notorious Hanoi Hilton prison. And as right about that time the captors announced that the POW is working To be freed as part of a peace agreement with the U. S. withdrawal from Vietnam. When the list of POWs being released became public, Ridgeway 's Name was on it. And back in Houston, his mom banged on a neighbor's door and said, Ronnie's alive! Ron Ridgway was released on March 16, 1977. He was 23 when he was released from prison. He came home, he got married, and he went to college. I came back in one piece, he said. I came back to live my life. We went over with a job to do. We did it to the best of our ability. Several months after his return, he and his wife Marie went to Jefferson Barracks to see his tombstone. Which was later replaced. It brought back memories, he said. The loss of life of those that I knew. It was a solemn experience. Carved in the surface were the words, Ambush Patrol died in Vietnam, February 25th, 1968. Folks, Ron Ridgway in that moment stared at a grave that stated that he was dead when he was alive the whole time. And as we meditate on these truths, we stare at these truths that we were truly dead. But in Christ, hallelujah, we are truly alive forevermore. And that To give you motivation to serve Jesus Christ with all of your days. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this humbling reminder of what we all Were. We were rebels gladly running from you. And yet you loved us enough to send your son And provide us new life. So that we that were formerly dead, walking zombies, staring at a tombstone that was real, we were given new life because Because of what Jesus accomplished and our dependence in his work. Lord, help us to remember that In the midst of what we face, in the midst of what we struggle, in the midst of financial crisis, in the midst of cancer, in the midst of health difficulties. Disappointment, discouragement. Help us to remember where we've been and what Jesus has accomplished for us, and that we are living a new life that will end in glorious eternity with you forever. And let that be our motivation to serve you faithfully until Jesus comes. And Father, if there is still someone here who doesn't have a relationship and they are on the other side Other teams serving Satan's side. , I pray that today they would switch teams. That they would move to the winning side through faith in Jesus Christ. That the Holy Spirit would show them their need for Him this morning. Folks, you meditate on these truths as the piano plays this morning.