Ephesians chapter two. And as we just sang and reported the rejoicing of God's work in our midst, that's what uh this passage from Ephesians is supposed to cause within us. A thankfulness, gratefulness, joy of all that Jesus has done for us That first chapter, we're still in the early stages of our study of Ephesians. The first chapter, Paul just goes through again this fireworks display of all that we have for those that have a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. You've trusted in his work and not your own works and his death and suffering and shed blood on the cross and his resurrection that gives us the power over death and sin If you've placed your faith and trust in Jesus and His work, then you have marvelous resources and blessings and an inheritance to look forward to now and certainly in the future and for all eternity. So Paul tells us about that. But then in Ephesians chapter 2, he starts to, it's kind of like he's hang gliding and looking all the beauties, kind of like that skit that we just saw A little bit. Um and now he comes in for a closer look at our of the truths of the gospel. And we were reminded last week that we are undeserving of any of these blessings, of any of these gifts, that we were rebels, we were dead. In our trespasses and sins. And folks, when Paul says that, we were truly dead. We were dead dead. Fully dead. Walking zombies, as we saw, and we were destined because of the wrath that we literally had, the results of our wrath against God was being carried out in our eternal future. But for Jesus. And so Paul reminds us that we all need to be humble in this thing, because none of us are worthy. None of us were chosen by God because we were worthy, and He wanted to make sure that He got us, we were on His team so that He could benefit from us. No, we're all unworthy. We're all children of wrath. And yet, because of God's election and his great work and the death of his son on the cross, we are the children of light. And we are rich in mercy. And so we need reminders that we were dead. But now, as the children of God who have trusted Jesus, we have true spiritual life, and that means things. There ought to be things going on in our lives. People ought to know that the Holy Spirit is at work in our hearts. They shouldn't have to guess that. We shouldn't look still like walking zombies on the outside because we're not dead anymore. We're living and all because of the mercy and grace of God. We have a new position. and status, we're an actual union with Jesus Christ, guaranteed in this life not fully realized yet, but it will be. So all these beautiful blessings, this is much folks to rejoice about this morning. And I'm glad then to talk about the fact that we're resurrected to walk in God's works. That because we're living and alive and we're no longer the walking dead, people ought to see things going on in us. The works of the Holy Spirit ought to be present and real in our lives. So let's go back to the first verse of chapter 2, read back through what we were, and then we'll get to verse 6. we're starting actually the end of verse five. But it says, and you were dead in the trespasses and sins. You were dead, dead. Really dead. Everybody get that? In which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. We were followers of Satan himself. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, there's still a powerful working, spiritual working within those who have rebelled against God. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. Again, that means we just did whatever we wanted to, and we were happy to do so. carrying out the desires of the body and mind. And because we did whatever we wanted to, we were destined. We were children destined for wrath. Like a uh someone that is waiting for the designation in a court of law, they're destined for punishment because of what they've done. We're by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. But God being rich, overflowing in mercy, in his loyal love. See, it's all about God. Nothing that we merit or have done, but because of the great love and great love alone by which he loved us. And then Paul reminds us, because you were dead dead. You were dead in your trespasses. Even when we were dead in our trespasses. No full humility here. No merit of our own. But God, because He is mercy, because He is love, He made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And Paul's going to continue in these next few verses to constantly impress and emphasize that. It's by grace, it's by grace, it's by grace. By the end of today, folks, you'll understand he's really trying to impress us with something. It's not anything that we have done But in his love and in his mercy to us. When we rebelled against him, he resurrected us to walk in God's word. We are therefore resurrected to be victorious with Christ. If you have placed your faith and trust in Jesus this morning, folks, you have a certain destiny, you can count on it. There's no need to doubt that you will reach your final destination with God forever and you will be made new. And you are raised up to reflect your Savior Jesus Christ, and you will do so. It's guaranteed in some form or fashion. You will be a reflection of Jesus Christ. Because we were raised up. We were given, made alive together. That is the language of resurrection. And for us, it's spiritual. For Jesus, it was the real physical and spiritual. body that was raised from the dead and because Jesus was raised from the dead now we can be raised spiritually and one day physically yes that is coming But right now, Paul's focusing on the spiritual aspect that we were raised to be able to please God with our works through the power of the Spirit, not anything that we do. And so even as he talks about this, back to verse 5, made us alive together with Christ, and verse 6, raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Paul is speaking of a relationship with Christ where we are in union with him, where folks, I'll just be candid here. As a pastor, I can Preach and I'm thankful and I'm so grateful to be able to share these truths with you. But it's almost a type of mystical understanding that's really hard to fully explain the fact that we are one with Jesus Christ and in union with him. Oh, praise God, that's the case. And that we will reflect more and more of him in our own character. But how that all comes together is the mystery of God. And yet we are in union. We're made alive together with Christ. So what this means is when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we are actually in union with his physical death. This is what baptism is a representation of. We are in union with the death of Christ, even though we're living, breathing this morning We have solidarity. We are in union with his death, and we're also in union with his spiritual, with his resurrection. Our spiritual man. And woman has been resurrected to be able to carry forth the works that God wants us to do. The dead people that walked around and couldn't obey are now through what Christ has done fully able. To obey, in a sense, we're not perfect, right? I'm not saying that. But we have ability to follow and obey and do the works of Christ. that we never did when we were dead. Because dead people are dead. But we are alive in Christ And so that resurrection that was his physical resurrection is tied to the fact that we also spiritually are raised to newness of life. We are literally born again spiritually. Even though we still await that physical aspect of his union. And that's the thing we all have to look forward to, right? Is that as dead people, we were destined for the wrath of God, eternal punishment in hell? But as living, breathing, new life people in Christ, We look forward to the day. Even if we pass away in this life or whether Jesus comes and we're resurrected, folks, we're going to have a new physical body just like Jesus did. And it will last forever. It's never going to run out. When you receive that new body, when Jesus returns and when we're with them for all eternity, folks, you'll never need a hip replacement. Praise the Lord. You'll never need shoulder surgery. You'll never need any of these things. It'll be renewed forever, and it is the resurrection of Jesus Christ that makes us alive spiritually now, physically for all eternity. What a wonderful thing to praise and thank the Lord for. There was the scholar Harold Honer that said this way. I liked how he put this The believer's spiritual resurrection is in conjunction with Christ's physical resurrection. As he died physically, we were dead spiritually. So also he was raised physically. We were raised spiritually. This talks of the believer's positional resurrection and not their future physical resurrection. That's coming. When Christ was resurrected, all power was given to him. So too, Christians identified with Christ. and those in whom Christ dwells presently have this same power in them. You, as believers in Jesus Christ, have the power within you. that raised Jesus from the dead. And folks, there is no excuse then why we shouldn't be living lives that are pleasing to God. Oh, imperfectly, yes. We're still broken in many ways, but the resurrection power of Christ works in all of those who believe. And there ought to be something going on for the Savior in each of our lives. There's no excuses. The work of God can have its way because the resurrection power of Jesus made us alive in Christ. Wonderful truth. Just take some time, folks, this week to meditate on your union with Christ. You'll be encouraged. You'll marvel. You'll never fully be able to understand. Maybe this side of the Of heaven, but we are one with Jesus. That is remarkable, and that is worth praising and celebrating our Heavenly Father. So again, here's the blessings. Our resurrection brings assured victory. We're raised up and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. so that in the coming ages he could show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. All of this, our victory, and our eventual reigning with Christ and the authority that He will give us are all a result, again, of God's grace. It's remarkable. Again, verse 6, the fact that we are seated with him in the heavenly places in Jesus Christ. Remember. Paul has already said that God has given Jesus the right of authority. He sits on his right hand. He has the authority of the Heavenly Father to do what He will. And the amazing thing is that we that were, again, not to be repulsive, but we that were walking zombies Have through Jesus Christ been made alive, and we will sit with him in authority in heavenly places. Folks, even as you hear that, would you not agree with me? There's no one here that's worthy of that. We were all rebels. And because of God's mercy, we will rule and reign with our Savior Jesus Christ. Remarkable! That ought to dissipate any gloom and any frustration and any discouragement that you're facing today. To know that in the end we are on the winning side and will rule with the winner, the victor. I love this verse 7, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. You know what that's really saying? Remember show and tell when we were kids? And you always wondered who's going to have the better show and tell, and you thought, well, maybe if I bring this in, oh, I've got the best one. Everybody's going to remember my show and tell, and then some other guy brings us something that's better, and no, everybody forgets about yours. Well, if I could put this In a sacred way. What that verse means, look at that verse again. It's saying that we folks are God's show and tell to the age of were his remarkable trophies of his grace. And that includes in the current place in history where we are right now, but also all of history and the end times. We're going to rule when reign with Jesus Christ. And it's not going to be because of anything good that we've done. No, we're just going to be there with Jesus and God the Father is going to say, look at my trophies. Look at what I did. Isn't that amazing? People that were dead in their sins, and now they're reigning with my son. That was me. That's my show and tell for all eternity. And we get to be a part of that. Is that arrogant? No. God is fully deserving of all of that glory. And we will be representations of all of his mercy and grace on people that did not deserve it for all eternity. Folks, that is a marvelous thing. And if you're humble And if you remember where you've come from, you'll be amazed and just overwhelmed That God would use us as his trophies and his show and tell in that way. For all eternity, God will point to us and say, Look what I've done. Look at the riches that are even We 're unable to measure. Look at my grace shown to those that were unworthy. In kindness towards us. That just means someone who has a loving and caring disposition towards us. Our Heavenly Father has that, folks. You can't find that in this world today. You can't find that type. Isn't that something that all of us would seek after in some way or another? Is someone who just cares? Somebody who will just listen and be really sympathetic or really joyful over what we've done because they care about us, those kinds of people you have to admit are hard to find. Even in those that are closest to us. Sometimes we're not so sure that as we tell them things and things that are going on in our lives, you're thinking, do they really care? Are they really listening? But folks, when Paul says in kindness towards us in Christ Jesus, it means that our Heavenly Father cares and he's interested in us. and he will do what's best for us because he's kind. As a side note, folks, if you are um maturing in your relationship with Christ, Can I ask you to be a volunteer, to be a kind person in this world today? Kindness is a commodity that just is not found very often in our world today. People that just are caring and concerned. The waitress or the waiter at your restaurant, the person that is behind the counter or the cash register at Walmart, of course, most of that's all automated now, but the person that's looking over all the automated systems there at Walmart. Do people know that you actually care about them? That you are a kind person because of the work that Jesus has made, has worked in you. We out of all people ought to be kind to others because of the kindness that's shown us. And again, Paul says, this is in Christ Jesus. This is no merit and work of your own. But we will be God's show and tell. We will be his treasure. Look at what I have done. Remarkable. I read a few years ago an interesting story, a news article, and it said treasure stashed worth over one million found in Rocky Mountains after decade-long search. A New Mexico treasure hunter revealed that his chest of gold, jewels, and other valuables worth over $1 million has been found. Ten years ago, Forrest Fenn gained a cult following when he announced that he had hidden the chest somewhere in the Rocky Mountains. Maybe you heard about this. He wished to remain, oh I'm sorry, he inspired tens of thousands to set out in search of his treasure, the treasure of Forest Fenn. That sounds like a good movie. But the prize eluded everyone until now. This was 2020. I guess people had more time to go treasure hunting back during our COVID year, Fenn revealed to the Santa Fe, New Mexican on Sunday that a man who wished to remain anonymous had discovered the chest a few days ago. The unnamed hunter sent Fenn a photo of the chest to confirm his discovery. Fenn originally designed the treasure hunt as a means of leaving behind a legacy. In 1989, he was diagnosed with a terminal form of cancer, but he managed to recover. He claimed that he hoped to tempt people to venture into the wild and give them an old-fashioned adventure for riches He listed the contents on the website, claiming that the chest contained pre-Columbian animal figures, gold nuggets and coins, Chinese jade faces, emerald rings, and many other exotic items. And he hid the treasure in 2010 and shared clues to the treasure's whereabouts on his website and even in a poem he published in an autobiography, The Thrill of the Chase. Fenn ch told the New Mexican, the news uh reporter, that an estimated 350,000 people people tried to find the treasure, some quitting their jobs outright to search for it, and even a few died in the search. So people were really serious about this. Now the website has shown an orange banner reading, Fenn 's treasure was found in 2020. The chase is over. It was under a canopy of stars in the lush forested vegetation of the Rocky Mountains and had not moved from the spot where I hid it more than ten years ago. Fenn, now 89, said in a statement on his website, I do not know the person who found it, but the poem and my book led him to the precise spot. Fenn 's website suggested a number of possible next steps for the hunter who discovered the treasure, including how to sell the treasure or even suggesting to re-hide the treasure. His only request from Forest Fenn, whatever you choose, keep the thrill of the chase alive and continue the legend. I think that's a neat picture of someone who totally out of grace hid all of this valuable treasure. for someone to find and value and he wants others to value it as well. There was amazing treasure and yet folks God, the Father, in His grace, has provided us a treasure that's not hidden. He's given the full access through His Word. through our faith in Jesus Christ, of where we can find this eternal, lasting spiritual treasure. When Paul says, uses the word riches in seven , Verse 7, that has the idea of unlimited resources and capacity of love and mercy. So God's unlimited mercy and kindness showers his treasures. spiritual treasures and the um the fact that we will one day live for eternity in real bodies All of this God lavishes on us. And just like finish or or forest fen, we need to treasure and value what God has given us. Just as Forrest Fenn wanted his treasure to be valued for future generations. Folks, do people, do future generations, will they know that we value what God has given us in his son? Do your children, do your grandchildren know that your greatest treasure is Jesus Christ? They should. Far better than some hidden treasure that some people died for and never found. This treasure is readily available through Jesus Christ. And all because of God's grace. Well, he's not done yet. We were resurrected as well to be examples of the work of God. And Paul reminds us again before he says this. He says, you cannot do good works that please God on your own. Verse 8, by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift. Of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. By grace we have been saved through faith. I love to ask young people many times: what's faith? We had a good description of it in our Sunday school lesson this morning. Appreciate Dr. Erickson describing that. But what is faith? And sometimes young people say, well, it's believing. Okay, what is belief? Well, it's trusting. Okay, what is trust? And you kind of get the idea of where the conversation goes from here. It's like they just kind of res Cycle the whole thing. Well what is it? If this faith, again, this faith is not a work, and Paul is making clear, he says this multiple times in these verses. This is not a result of works. It's not a work. But it is a recognition that Jesus has done all of the work. And so this faith, even as we describe it, shouldn't be described as some kind of work that we have to work up. But folks, it's trust, belief. I think the best way to describe faith is at its essence, its reliance and total dependence on someone else. On Jesus Christ. That's what faith is. Faith must have an object, and that object must be Jesus. We're not just impressed that people have faith in things, are we? At least we shouldn't be. When people tell you that they have great faith in their politicians or in sports stars, I hope that doesn't impress you very much. Because the object of their faith will fail them. Or some people just seem to have faith in faith. It's really kind of bizarre and metaphysical. Like what do what do you What do you mean by that? No, faith has to have an object, and that object must be Jesus Christ. It's our realization of the need for Jesus. And you know where I get that? John 6, 68. You don't have to turn there, but do you remember Jesus is describing himself as um needing to be consumed and that they would drink of his blood and he had a lot of followers at that point. When they heard that teaching, many of them said, ew, I don't understand that. I'm not following him anymore. And they turned away. Now Jesus was talking about a symbolic commitment and consuming of his message and of his person, not a real consuming of him like vampires or anything. Anyway, that's beside the point. After these many disciples walked away in verse John 6, 66 Many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him, so Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God So Jesus says to the 12, he says, are you going to go with them because you don't understand? And Peter gives a beautiful illustration of faith by basically saying this, where else are we going to go? All of our hope, all of our goals, everything in our life is based, it's all in with you, Jesus. If you were somehow a fraud or you weren't real, we have no hope. That's faith. It's our faith and trust and dependence in Jesus that there are no other options, that there's no way that we can do enough good works in order to please God, but it's all in Jesus. Jesus, we are fully dependent and trusting in you. You're the only option that we have. And folks, he's the only option we need. And you can count on that and be confident in that. I love Peter's response there. That's faith. And again, look at Paul's words here as we finish up this morning. Paul mentions that it's not any kind of merit or work at least six times. By grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It's the gift of God. It's not a result of works. Why? Because you'd be arrogant and you'd boast, and you know that each of us would. If we could somehow please God on our own, we'd be boasting and we'd be arrogant. Because we would think we wouldn't need Jesus. For we as workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God hath prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Multiple times here, Paul says, This is not a result of anything that you can do. Folks, what is he saying? Let it be clear. Paul blows up the whole idea of religion and doing things that could please any sort of deity. Well, certainly God. Paul just blows that up. He obliterates that whole idea that any of us can do anything to please God. It's a gift of God. It's not your own doing. It's not a result of works. We're his workmanship. We're created for him. We ought to never struggle with that again, that truth, by reading these verses. Religion is useless relationship with Jesus. Is salvation. Isn't it true that one of our great sins in our lives is still, even as believers , Is attempts of reliance on ourselves. We're still broken in a lot of ways. Even as God's children, we get up every day, and many times we rely on ourselves. I can do it. We don't give a thought to prayer. We don't get a thought to starting our day asking God to help us to do his works and to help us submit to the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit change us and make us more like Jesus Christ. No, we get up and we immediately default into I can do it all myself mode. I can depend upon me. And God in his graciousness very quickly says, no, you can't. And he lets us fall and he lets us make mistakes so that we're reminded, oh yeah, I can't rely on myself. You ever think really what was the sin that Adam and Eve committed against God? Back in the garden. Was it just eating a piece of fruit? Well, we don't know. Notice I didn't say apple. We don't know what kind of fruit it was. But was it merely just God said don't eat this fruit and they ate the mango or apple or whatever it was and oh they ate the fruit so they disobeyed. No folks, it was much easier. Deeper than that. What did Satan say to Adam and Eve? He said, So that your eyes will be enlightened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. I'm convinced that the sin was actually that Eve And later Adam thought that wouldn't it be nice to live life without having to depend upon God? We will be able to know and do for ourselves. Maybe they thought in a positive sense, so God doesn't have to do so much work and we kind of live life on our own. But it was that fallacy. That in eating the fruit, they could gain wisdom that somehow they wouldn't have to depend and rely on God anymore. And that is the same fallacy that we struggle with on a daily basis today. At the end, folks, as we finish up this morning, let's remember what Paul has so um taken such time to emphasize so many times. That we were children of darkness, that we were dead in our sin, and that it was only the grace and mercy of our Heavenly Father and the grace and mercy of His Son who died for us, that allows us to have our sins forgiven and be able to, through the Holy Spirit's work, do the works of God in our lives. and will allow us one day to reign with Jesus forever. All of that is God's grace. And we came to that through no work of our own. Only through the work of Jesus. But folks, we have to live that way afterwards as well. As believers and as children of God, we have to live every day dependent on Him. And not being self-reliant. We'll see as we continue in verse 10 next week and in the continued studies. That we were created in Christ Jesus for good works. We saw in Psalm 1 in Sunday school this morning, the Lord knows the way of the righteous. God has prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Again, we will do the things that God has called us to do if we are children of God. He's ordained that to be the case. But we must be reliant on him. In order to live lives as the children of God and pleasing to him, you must be reliant on Jesus Christ Are you fully dependent on Him today? Are you still relying on your own effort and your own ways to get get through life. If you don't know Jesus this morning, put aside your dependence and your reliance and put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. If you do know Jesus this morning, stop living your life. Without depending and relying on Jesus Christ, so that you can be the proper example of the treasure of God the Father. And people will know that you are loved. And then he is doing a work in you. Don't we all want that testimony, folks, in this world today? I know I do. The testimony of those that are resurrected. To have our character become more like Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you that we have the promise That you will do, as followers of Jesus Christ, you will do the work of God, your work in our lives. And that you will help us to live more for Jesus Christ every day, and that we're promised that. But help us to depend on you. Father, we have such a difficulty in relying and depending upon you on a daily basis. We have such difficulty treasuring what you have given us, like that treasure from Forrest Fenn, even more so than earthly wish riches. We have trouble treasuring The riches of heaven that you've poured out on us help us to have a better understanding of all that Jesus gave so that we could live and be alive and reign with him forever. And appreciate what you've done. And Lord, if there's someone here who doesn't yet know Jesus as their Savior, I pray they would come and talk to me or some others and know more about how they can trust and put their faith in Him. Not in anything they've done, but in the work of Christ