The book that should be the most important thing to us. And of course, that's what we preach from and what we live from. And And we're thankful for that and it should we should treasure it all of the time and honor it. And so we're going to do that this morning, and I trust, pray that my preaching will Certainly honor God's word, and that we will honor it together by listening and heeding what it has to say. As we finish up today, the book Of Philippians, final message here that Paul has for us. And he's taken us through a lot of issues. And a lot of different things in this book. It's interesting. There are three verses that are certainly probably the most well-known verses in Philippians, maybe some of the most well-known verses in the New Testament. Maybe in the whole Bible within this passage, but a lot of times we tend to take these out of its context and apply it, which Most of the time were accurate, but there are sometimes some of these verses, and I can give them to you here real quick. The verse 11, not that I speak of within respect to want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am there Verse 13, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. We all know that one. Can recite it in our sleep. Verse 19, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. But sometimes, well, many times I think we can forget the context of these verses and sometimes maybe misapply them in certain circumstances. And Paul is actually finishing up the letter here, interestingly enough, with uh addressing a financial gift that he received from the Philippians. And in the context of that, we have these famous verses. And so we need to go through this together and understand what Paul's doing here. He finishes up his letter a little abnormally by addressing at the end of the letter the issue. Issue that brought about his opportunity for writing the letter in the first place. And that was, remember Epaphroditus? Remember him? He delivered a monetary gift to Paul from the church at Philippi. Paul received that. Epaphroditus gave him the report. And remember, Epaphroditus almost died, was sick unto death on the way, and yet he continued. He pursued on. And So he made it and gave this gift to Paul, told Paul what was going on in the Philippian church, and Paul then wrote this letter addressing some. Issues. And Paul had many, many things on his heart that we have gone through, but at the end he also wanted to address the financial gifts. Paul's very thankful for this gift that they had given him. It's probably a nice surprise. But not necessarily for the reasons that we might think that He was thankful for it. He's gonna take, he's gonna be careful to explain to them why he's so thankful. And that is the spiritual profit that adds to the wealth of the giver. We're going to see here that he's concerned and most focused on the spiritual profit that they will gain in the gift that they gave him. And so the title of this message this morning is Spiritual Profit That Accrues from Our Giving. A lot of financial terms in here that Paul uses, and his focus is on what we receive. as we give and what our act of giving should be before God. Let's read this passage together and then we'll get into it. Chapter 4, verse 10. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last your care of me hath flourished First again, whereon you were also careful, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be concerned. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Notwithstanding you have well done that you did kill Communicate with my affliction. Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me. me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. And even in Thessalonica you sent once and again unto my necessity. Not because I desire a gift, but I desire a fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all and abound. I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet Smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches, in glory by Christ Jesus. Now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen. Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. Jesus, the brethren which are with me greet you, all the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Lord, thank you for your word. Help us as we go into this now to understand the purpose for our giving and the spiritual reality that you That takes place when we give and the reasons why we should give. Father, help us to be encouraged by this, to know that we can never outgive you. That even as we give That you give back in abundance. And so we can give with joy, knowing that you control all things. Help us to be encouraged in this, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Paul is describing the gift now that they had sent him through Epaphroditus. But in this, as he's describing this and thanking them for it He's also pointing to the spiritual prophet that they receive and he receives as we give. And the first thing that he's going to talk about here is God provides us the gift of contentment. As we give, and or even as we don't get but we give, we can be content Content in all kinds of circumstances. And Paul wants us to know that here. He's rejoicing in the gift that they have given them. He wants them to know that he is thankful. But he wants He wants them to know why he's thankful and for the right reasons. Some scholars have looked at this passage and said, well, you know, Paul doesn't really sound that thankful. He sounds like Like, you know, he's kind of been waiting a long time. Even let's read verse 10 together here. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly. That now at last your care of me have flourished again, whereof you also were careful, but you lacked opportunity. You just read that, and it almost sounds like he's saying, Well, it's about time. I rejoice in the fact that I got your gift, because it sure took a long time to get here. That's not at all what Paul is saying. In fact, he's saying the exact opposite. And a couple translations things here that will help us. Paul is obviously rejoicing with sincere joy in the fact as he received this gift, probably by surprise, and Epaphroditus gave it to him. him. He was joy welled up in his heart. But not for the reasons that you might think. He was glad to see it says, At last your care of me hath flourished again. What he's really saying there is that I see you've revived your concern for me. It's not the amount of the gift, but it shows me, Paul says, it's an act of your love to me. It shows that your concern for me For me. And I rejoice because of that. I'm thankful for that. He says, You were careful, but you lacked, or basically you had no opportunity. He says, I know that you've wanted to give in the past. And he's saying, that's fine. I understand. Um the Philippian Believers, they were a solid church. We're gonna see here in a little bit. It seems like they had a special arrangement with Paul financially, um, that they wanted to help support him in a unique way that No other church did. But they weren't a church with a lot of finances. You remember Lydia in the book of Acts, how she was one of the first converts. Now she was a wealthy woman, but one wealthy person in the church Doesn't make a wealthy church. And this church was not wealthy in a lot of ways, and they didn't have opportunity to help Paul in the way that they had liked. And Paul says, I totally understand that And that's okay. That makes this gift all the more special because I know you sacrificed and I know you love me. This he understood This was a sacrificial gift. This wasn't something they just threw together. And everybody said, Oh, yeah, we've got a lot of excess wealth. We'll just send it over to Paul. He could use it. But he knew. This took a lot of sacrifice from them to be able to send this. So the joy in his heart as he received this overflowed that they would do this for him. But he wants them to understand something, even though he's glad to see their care for him He wants to show the other side of the coin too. And that's here is one again one of these well known verses, verse eleven. Not that I speak in respect of want or being in need, not that I had a great need, that I was in need, for I learned in whatsoever state or situation I am in, therewith to be content. Now this is where Paul almost sounds kind of heartless or cold, where he says He says, yeah, it was nice of you to give it to me, but I really didn't need it. But thanks anyway. Not what he's saying here, but he wants them to understand that he wasn't sitting around looking at his watch, if he had a watch, and you know, waiting for somebody to to communicate with him. When is that money going to come that I need so much? Paul says, it's never been like that. I appreciate the gift, and I'm going to use it for further ministry, and I'm glad for it. But whether I get your gift or not, Paul is saying here, I want you to know I'm content. I have faith that God's going to work whether I have money or I have none. I'm not in need. Because God has taught me in whatever situation I find myself in, I can be content. And he wants us to understand that too. You know, this is so important. I can tell you, as a senior pastor, having seen uh other men Ministry situations in the past. I never want to be um a pastor that in any way comes across like I'm more interested in the finance Or the money than in the ministry. And any pastor or leader that comes across that way is really damaging his testimony with his people. And I you you can't know people's hearts, but I've seen few leaders in the past where I've thought, why are they really doing this? Are they really doing it for the ministry and because they love, or is it just kind of for the paycheck? Each person has to address that in his own mind. But Paul is making it clear here, I'm not in this for the money. Because whatever situation God allows in my life, I'm Content. And we know this, right? Paul has faced and endured all kinds of circumstances. Read in the book of Acts, read in his other letters, being stoned. Being put in prison, being beaten, without, and he's going to talk about this later and all the things that he's been through. Paul's been through a lot. And through all those things, Paul says, I can still be content. What a difference from the world that we live in today. It's going to be a big game on tonight, and one of the big things that everybody's talking about is the advertisements. That will be on during that game. And unfortunately, there's some moral issues more than ever with some of those ads. But besides that, there's also ads are to remind you of the things that you don't don't have that you should want to have and so if you've forgotten them here's an advertisement to remind you oh that's right I needed that. I'd forgotten about that. So I'm gonna go right to the store. I'm gonna go on Amazon or whatever And I'm going to order that because I'm not content with what I have. They feed, the world feeds us discontent and feeds off our discontent And so Paul, right at the beginning of this, as we look into this passage, he's reminding us: be content like me No matter what happens to you. Don't let the world feed your discontent and always look for better situations. I I will tell you that some of the most miserable Christians that I have seen interacted with are those that just can't learn to be content. Always wanting more. Bitter at God because He didn't give them this or didn't give them this amount of money. Or put them in the situation. And Paul, who's been through all kinds of situations and is now in prison with limited mobility, says, I'm content. And so thank you for your gift. But just so you know, I'm doing okay, and God's going to see me through regardless. What an incredible truth. That we need today. What are you going through? What difficulty are you going through? Where you've talked to the Lord recently and said, Lord, just remove this, or Lord, I really want that. Sometimes it's little things, sometimes it's big things. I want this trouble, this difficulty out of my life. I want the new iPhone. I want new car, whatever. Not content. Paul reminds me. It's okay to pray for needs. It's okay to pray for things. But don't get bitter at God if He says, not right now. This is what I have have for you. Be content. And Paul says again, verse 12, he's going to remind us, I know what I'm talking about. And you guys know I'm in prison. But I know how to be abased or to be brought low. I've been humbled, Paul says. I've had some circumstances that have brought me very low. Emotionally. Physically, Paul understands. Maybe he's even talking about the temptation for depression here, being depressed. He says, I've been brought low. I know that And I know how to abound. He said, I've been in situations where blessings are overflowing and joy and all of these things, and just God is seemingly giving me So much wonderful things and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things. Interesting word here. I have learned the secret is what that word means. I have learned the mystery. God has instructed me to learn the Secret both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. It almost seems like us sometimes a mystery of how in the world when we're so discontent how we can be satisfied. And be content. How can I ever achieve that? It's like a mystery that I can't even imagine. And Paul says, No, I've learned the secret. Because God's humbled me and reminded me that all things that He's given to me are blessed. Blessings. Probably talking about here as well, reminding me that the only thing that he and we really deserve is eternal punishment and hell. And we have Jesus Jesus through faith in him that has given us new life and will be with God forever, and everything else is just the extras. Paul says, it doesn't matter how many extras I have. I've learned the mystery. I've figured it out. God has shown me about how to be content. No matter what I'm going through, whether I'm hungry or not hungry. Abound or have great need. And then he has this second well-known verse, verse 13. You know what? Let's just say it all together, okay? Ready? I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Now in context, this is going to help us here because a lot of times we just kind of lift this right out and apply it to any situation. And it almost comes across like a Christian manifesto, like the world says, if you can dream it, you can do it. And we say, well, that sounds too worldly. So we have this verse that says Says, if I can dream it, God can do it. I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me. Now, is there some truth to that? Well, certainly But that doesn't mean, however, that every idea we have or everything that we want to do, God is automatically going to bless that and wants us to do that. We have to be careful, again, not to lift this out of context and say, everything that I want to do, God can help me do it. That's not what Paul Paul's saying here. What is Paul saying then? He's saying this: Whatever situation I find myself in, I can do all things. I can go through whatever Situation God puts me through, I can go through that with His strength. He will strengthen me. No matter the dark, the hard situation that I find myself, that God is allowing me to go through Through, I can go through it because it's not my own strength, Paul says, but it's the power of Jesus Christ that helps me to go through that And truly then, he and we can all say, whatever situation we're facing right now, today, this week. Whatever situation we faced in the past, God helped us to get through it. God will help us, will strengthen us to get through it as we trust Him. What a marvelous truth, especially when we understand the concept. Context. Whatever you're facing today, Jesus will help you through it. He promises strength. Not always to get out of it. That's what we really want, right? Get me out of this. You have the power, get me out of this. And God says, No, you need to go through it a little bit more. But I'll give you the strength to go through it. And he will. Paul reminds us of that. Paul reminds us God gives the gift of contentment. But another thing God gives, He provides the need. And then in the general sense, this is what he's going to talk about next. Verse 14 Notwithstanding you have well done that you did communicate with my affliction. Communicate with my affliction. What is Paul trying to say there? I could sum this up. Another translation says basically, yet it was kind of you to share Share my trouble. Paul's going back and forth on both sides of the coin here. And you know what? It is a little awkward at times for pastors to be talking about giving. Um and or at least I think it it kind of sh should be. Um I never want to come across as a pastor that's like, boy, Bill 's chapel needs your money. And so you we we you guys haven't been giving well enough lately. And We need you to give more because I don't know what we're going to do without it. Now, Paul reminds us, you know what, regardless of what money we get, God's going to take care of us, and that's fine. And I know that God will strengthen us to get through and that's um certainly as a pastor I look to that. Whatever resources we bring in on a weekly basis, God's gonna take care of us. At the same time, Paul says, it was really kind of you to share in my trouble. He says, I don't want you to think that I'm not thankful or grateful for because I know the sacrifice. And it was very kind of you to share in this in this way. Paul wants them to know basically That he appreciates their gift. It's as they had benefited from Paul's ministry, so now they desire Paul to benefit from their generosity. And it points out here that it's It seems as if throughout the evidence we have in the New Testament that Paul did have a unique financial supportive relationship with this church that he had not established with any other church. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, he talks he is actually kind of encouraging the Corinthian church to give in a very careful way. And he points to most likely he's referring to the church in Philippi that has been giving to him in a special way and how much he appreciates So there is this special ministry partnership that they have with him in a unique way. And Paul is thankful for that. And as he continues, He reminds them the fond memories that they both share together of how God used them in ministry in the past. Verse 15. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel. Remember when he first re went to that area, when he first got to Philippi and was giving the gospel. When I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated or the idea of entered into a partnership financially With me as concerning giving and receiving, but you only. He said, We've had a special relationship, and you've given to me in a unique way since the very beginning of my ministry here um in Greece. And then he continues on. For even in Thessalonica you sent once again and again unto my necessity. After I left and was traveling, you guys still found a way to send and help keep me uh meet my needs financially. And Paul says, don't misunderstand. I am grateful for that And as your pastor of Villas Chapel Baptist Church, let me let you know that we are grateful for when you give your sacrifice. And we understand that. And we're thankful. And I'm thankful for that of your sacrifice and your giving. And I don't want to ever make light of that as we continue on here together. I'm thankful, as Paul says here. But then it's like he goes back to the other side of the coin yet again. And he says, verse 17, not because I desire, or this word has the idea of seeking after or seeking a gift. I wasn't seeking a gift from you. I wasn't waiting around in prison saying, oh Man, when are that those Philippian believers going to send me that money? Don't they know how tough it is here? Can't even buy a cup of coffee around here or whatever. I I need money. Paul says I wasn't seeking after your gift. What was he seeking after then? Here's what I desire. Here's what I was seeking after. Fruit. That may abound, or in this this has uh financial terms that those of you that love to work with finances would appreciate. Fruit that may abound or increase to your account or to your credit. He's saying, I'm not thinking about the blessing, the money of what it was to me. The value it is to me is certainly there, but he's saying I'm so much more thankful. For what I know God's going to do, give you, and what He's doing through you. He says, This offering that you gave me is a tangible evidence of the work that God is doing in you. And so I'm rejoicing not in the amount of money. Wow, that was more than I thought they were going to be able to give, but it's wow, an amazing God is still working in their lives. Even as I'm writing this letter and concerned about your spiritual maturity That you continue to be faithful. , Here I have this offering that tells me God's still doing a work in their lives. And I know that, and that's the fruit. That's the spiritual prophet that most interests me. Because I know that God is going to bless you. He's going to put spiritual profit, he's going to accrue it, if I could put it that way, to your account, to your credit. And it's a reminder that as we give God will give to us as well in His time with His blessings. Can we ever outgive God? Paul says no And I'm excited for what God's going to do for you and what He's doing in you right now. See, that's the right attitude to have. That's the right attitude that I want to have as a pastor. As I encourage us to give for Reasons of worship. I want it to be for the spiritual reasons and the spiritual benefits that you receive. Now that may sound like a tricky pastor thing to say to get people to give more. Yeah. All right, we understand. You you're you're foc you're not focused on the money, you're focused on the spiritual aspect. Yeah, all right. But really, as Paul is being sincere here, I can understand, and I'm being sincere as Paul. Well, it's not about the money, but it's about the spiritual benefit and the tangible evidence that God is working in village chapel. Baptist Church that gives me joy. Paul goes again, verse 18 here, but I have all. You see He's kind of doing this delicate thing back and forth. Really glad for your gift, but don't misunderstand. I'm doing well without it. Verse 18, I have all in abound. The idea here again, another translation, I have received full payment and more. I am full or well supplied, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were supplied Sent from you an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. Paul is saying, With this that you have sent me I am full in my spirit. I've received beyond what I expected as far as blessings. And I am full. I am well supplied through this. Because, not just because of the money. He is pointing out here the money will help, and I'm glad for that. But I'm really full in my spirit of this evidence to see Jesus working in your lives. And then at the end of this verse, an odor of a sweet smell, or a f this has the idea, this is pointing out a fragrant offering. Paul is saying here That when you give, it is a sweet-smelling sacrifice to God. It is a wonderful, savory, sweet-smelling act of worship Toward God when you give. And that ought to be our final, our motivation for giving it all. In church, to giving it all to God's ministry. Is not, I don't want to ever again portray the fact, please, we've got to have your money because we really need it as a church. No, God's going to take care of us, but you need to have the um the uh experience of worshiping God with your money I need that. It's a sweet-smelling savor. Paul says it's an act of worship. I think that's the best, the healthiest thing that we can view when we give is not to Oh that church is asking for our money all the time. No, we don't. But we want you to be able to worship God well with what you have and offer it to God Him. But Paul says, in case, in case you're that makes you nervous, in case you you have given sacrificially, and I am Understand that. And I am full, and my heart is full. All my needs are met. But I want to remind you that God has blessings for you too. Again, God provides for the needs of all believers in this wonderful verse, verse 19: But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Again, what's Paul saying here? He's saying you can't outgive God. He will give back to you tenfold. Now, that's It's not he's not saying, you you know, you give and God's gonna double that of some sort of financial um um agreement uh that you have between Between you and God. But he's saying God will provide blessings that are far beyond what you can imagine as you give to Him. I remember A leader, ministry leader, um that had a particular Christian organization that had received a financial gift, and I was there as this person was letting him know this gift And it meant that a number of probably over a hundred, maybe now it was about fifty to sixty, I guess, um, young people from a local public school were going to be able to To be involved in this ministry because of this large financial gift this person was giving. And that meant that young that teenagers would hear the gospel. And he broke down in tears, and it wasn't because of the amount of money, although it was a large sum. Oh, thank you for this large sum of money. I just it is so wonderful. But he was breaking down, he was crying because he realized that this would allow young people who had never heard the gospel before to hear God's word. And that's why he was crying and weeping. And that should be our motivation. To give with that same thing, knowing that God is going to use this. In a mighty way. And you know, when Paul says that he abounds, I think really he's referring to this: that he abounds in spiritual blessings. Because of what they have given. And I think ultimately that is his main focus here. Paul can't pay them back, but God can. God takes care of you when you Is God a miser? No, he's not an Ebenezer Scrooge. He'll take care of you when you sacrifice for Him. He'll supply all your needs, but that one word is the point, right? Your needs. Paul doesn't say all your wants. Well, that would be nice. There's a lot of things that we may want that God says, that's not your need right now. But I'm going to give you what you need. And here it is. And he supplies it for us. Well, how can I know? How can I trust that God is going to supply? And by the way, not just physical, but spiritual need. And Paul's already talked about that earlier on. Think of the things throughout this letter as we finish up today that Paul says that God's going to provide for them. Power for their unity. Steadfastness in the midst of suffering. God's peace rather than a grumbling and complaining spirit. Joy, spiritual maturity, all of these things, God will supply them. And much more. Those are things to rejoice about. And Paul rejoices about these things. Well, how can I trust that God's going to do that? Well, Paul says it's according to his riches. In glory. You ever stop and think what really that means? I have to admit, as I was studying through this, I again realized I had to stop and think. What what is Paul saying with that? According to his riches in glory, God is going to supply. And as I studied, I think he's saying this We can trust God's powerful working in our lives, get this, because of the magnificent way He has bestowed His glory. Do you remember earlier on in the book of Philippians where Paul described the sacrifice that Jesus gave for us? And then he said, and now he is high highly exalted above all. And Paul says the power that will exalt Jesus Christ in the glorious riches of God is also the power that God will use to bless you. Blessings that you need. God will do this according to his riches. His riches are great. And Paul says this as well, I think, as we finish up here. Paul has tasted of God's glorious things, right? And he counts all the things that he's done in the past as lost. How can he say that? Because he has tasted of the riches That God offers in his glory. And Paul says, all the things that I pursued in the past, ha, they're nothing compared to the Rich is in glory in Christ Jesus. I'll leave that all behind. I love this quote. It's one of my favorite quotes from CS Yes, Lewis, because so often we get involved in things, we pursue things in our lives that seem important to us, but as Paul reminds us, Minds us here, they're so valueless in comparison to the riches that God offers us through Jesus Christ. And C. S. Lewis in In his book, The Weight of Glory, described it this way. It would seem that our Lord finds our desires not too strong, interesting, but too weak. We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and worldly things and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum. Because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the sea. We are far too easily pleased. Paul says here, don't be pleased with the things of the world. world. Seek after the riches of the glory in Jesus Christ and God will give those as you give. Don't clutch your money saying, God, it's mine like an Ebenezer Scrooge, but give it in worship and trust that God will show you things that are far better than the things that we seek after. And then it's as if Paul again can't help himself, and he just breaks out into this doxology for God. To our God and Father, be glory forever and ever. Amen. And one of the commentaries that I was reading, this has been a very helpful commentary on Philippians by a man named Gordon Fee, and I love the way that he put this. He said, This is our way of acknowledging that glory to God forever and ever is the way it will be and is, no matter what we do. So let us, God's people, in all times and climbs join the chorus. Jesus will receive glory. Let's join in and be thankful for all that he does. He'll provide contentment. He'll supply all of our needs. He'll give us the strength to go through Through the things that he allows us to go through. Let's give him honor and glory. And Paul says this, and it's just like he's thinking there for a minute. Ah. He thinks, you know, I probably ought to finish this letter though. So two more verses. And God says uh he points out God also provides grace to live faithfully. He says, greet or salute or greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. Who would that be? Well, it'd be Paul. Timothy, Aphroditus at this point, maybe Luke, the writer of Acts, and the Gospel of Luke. He might be, and others as well. And he says, all of these brothers. greet you and want me to let you know they said hello. You ever do that when somebody else is texting somebody or responding to an email? Oh, hey, let them know that I said hi to It's almost like this group with Paul says, let them know we said hello. We greet them. And then he says, all of the saints greet you. All of those within my ministries Fear, the mature ones and the not so mature ones, they greet you too. But then he throws this in, different from his other greetings, especially those of Caesar's household. And I don't want to jump over that as we finish up here. Why is Paul being imprisoned for his gospel witness? Why is he encouraging the Philippians to go to keep on because they are now serving a Lord that is different from Caesar and that brings persecution. Following the gospel brings persecution They're being persecuted for the gospel, and yet what is the power of God doing? The power of God and the gospel is literally spreading the gospel, and people are getting saved within season Caesar's own household. Can Caesar stop Paul and the gospel? Can Caesar stop the ministry of the Philippians? No. God says, I'm gonna see people saved Even that live in your own palace, Caesar. And people are becoming saved and becoming believers. And Paul rejoices in this. And then he reminds us the grace that we need for all of this to live the way that he's described throughout the whole letter is through Jesus Christ. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. How can we do what Paul's called us to do here? All of these things? Whether it's financial giving or going through suffering, sacrificing, rejoicing, it's through grace. That's why we can do any of it. Without God's grace, we can't accomplish any of this. But through His grace His grace, we can do all. And Paul reminds us of that. You know, God's not impressed with our wealth. Some of you may say, well, that's good, Pastor Brock. He's not impressed with that. But he is pleased with our sincere, devoted sacrifices of time, of money, yes, and of service. We want to stress, and as a leadership, we want to stress not just the monetary advantages of giving, that's certainly there, but it's So much more important, the spiritual blessings. That's what's important. And that's what I hope as the leader, as a pastor of Village Chapel, is to emphasize the spiritual blessing. So trust him. Trust Jesus through all the circumstances of your life. And then as Paul did, give him glory for the glorious blessings that we do and will receive as his Children, and we will have joy, rejoice for eternity. Father, thank you for your word and the reminder that we cannot Give you in the context of these very famous verses that we can be content, that we can go through all kinds of things that you allow us to go through, and you Will strengthen us, and that you will supply our needs, and that we can trust you, and we can't outgive you. can So help us to confidently give As an act of worship toward you. And rejoice as we see you working in and amongst us together. And may we see the benefits Of those spiritual benefits, even throughout this year, Lord, in our ministry of the Village Chapel Baptist Church. Help us to be faithful. Help us to be confident in the power of Jesus Christ and in His Grace and all this we will do in the name of Jesus that we pray.