That's a good question, isn't it? How will he find us? And Something that we must give consideration to, and is the reason the Lord brings Troubling times, times of oppression, desperate times in our midst is to remind us, to point us towards Him For those that are unbelievers and have rejected God, unstable times and tumult should point them of their need for Jesus Christ in a relationship with Him. Him. For those believers that have made false professions, it should motivate them to make those professions sure, to make them sincere. That this isn't a game where God is messing around, but that judgment is coming. A friend of mine called our times today the tremors of the last days, and I think that's a good description. We don't know when Jesus will return. But it sure makes it feel like it's going to be really soon. And it is Emma. He is coming. And so we need to live in that way. For those believers, Who don't have a real relationship, now is the time to come to him. But folks, for believers, that reminder is supposed to be encouraging to us. Turn to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And we're in the series. It'll probably last another week. But I've called God's truth in desperate times. And it's interesting but not surprising, in the midst of very distressing times, like the year 2020, people in general Not just believers tend to think in a popcolyctic terms of worldwide catastrophe and judgment. And there's all kinds of movies m being made in the last couple decades even of the end of the world, and all these things are on people's mind. Believers can get caught up in this, but not in the right way. Even believers can fear and tremble about what's coming. And folks, That's one of the reasons, by the way, that we need eschatology. That's a big word. Why do I need that, Pastor Brock? Well, if you don't know, that's the Bible doctrine of the end times. It's vitally important that believers have an understanding of what Jesus, what God is going to do in the end times. He's already written the end of the story. Well, he's written the whole story already But he's led us in, especially in the New Testament, about what the end of the story is going to be. Eschatology is important for us to understand, but for true believers It is a motivating factor for us to remain faithful, but also motivating us toward joy and the thought that our Savior will be returning soon. That's what the end result ought to be of that. Paul includes discussions of end-time events And his purpose is to motivate and encourage believers that Jesus is coming soon. It can happen literally at any time. There are passages in Scripture that indicate the rapture. And what is the rapture is that time where Jesus will come And he will draw us together that could happen at any moment, we don't know when, in the clouds, in the air. But that doctrine, that teaching, that truth of the rapture is drawn from many multiple New Testament passages. In fact, did you know that the word rapture is not even found in the Bible? But we have evidence for it throughout, especially the New Testament, and it's clear enough. But unfortunately, with the need to study and understand eschatology, there is all kinds of confusion and misunderstanding and all kinds of different positions on what the end times is going to look like. The Holy Spirit and the writers didn't intend for this kind of confusion, but it's there. I could throw out some positions here, and hopefully you know what we are as a church, what our end time position is. Do you know that? You know that we're pre-millennialists? Or does that surprise you? Because there's also post-millennialists and omillennialists, and I'm not even going to go into all that today. That'll take too long. And you should know that we're also pre-trib, that we believe that the biblical evidence best fits a pre-trib, pre-millennial position. But not everybody is pre-trib. There's also mid-trib and there's post-trib. I remember my freshman year of uh college and a Christian uh rooms divided up into sections and we had a hall leader that was in charge of keeping the whole hall um in order and making sure everybody was a fulfilling their responsibilities and things and then you had a prayer leader for every four rooms And my first prayer leader was a guy that didn't believe in the trib or I say the tribulation in the rapture. And he thought that Christians were going to have to go through all of the tribulation because he said we've just been too sinful and God's not going to let us get away that easy. That's a post-trib position or mid-trib. I think he was post-trib. That's the first time I'd ever been experienced or exposed to somebody that believed that, and my immediate thought was, why would anybody want to go through the tribulation? Brother, if you want to go through the tribulation, that's fine, but praise the Lord. I'm thankful for the truths that the Bible says about the rapture. And I'm looking forward to being taken away from all of that in God's grace. Paul gives the truths that we consider important about the rapture And some of those are in the letters to the Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians 4, in fact, Paul includes some of these truths, and he's exhorting believers that the rapture could happen Excuse me. He's encouraging believers in chapter 4 that their loved ones who were believers but have passed away will not be forgotten by God. In fact, they will be called first before the rest of us. Now, that doesn't really bother me. I'd still much rather the dead can go first, that's fine, because I'd much rather be raptured than have to experience death first. So I would gladly let them go on ahead But there's there's confidence and um security in knowing that the dead that have trusted Christ Will be raptured up as well. In chapter 5, Paul is not encouraging as much as exhorting believers that the rapture could occur at any moment, and thus believers need to be found ready and faithful We don't want to be embarrassed, found doing something that we shouldn't be doing, and Jesus calls us up. Oh, well, I'm glad I'm going, but that's really embarrassing. I wasn't being as useful as I could be in that moment. He says, no, be steady, be stand firm. Now we get to the second letter of the Thessalonians that he wrote. probably not too long after the first, and he found it ready to write this because his teaching on the rapture and tribulation was being distorted. And leaving the church worried and confused. In fact, there was somebody probably from what we can tell here as we look at this passage that was purporting or passing themselves off as Paul and sending a writing around that looked like it was written by Paul saying somehow or some effect that there wasn't any rapture, or that believers had missed the rapture, and now they were facing God's day of judgment, the day of the Lord, and people were very worried. And frightened by that. And they were looking around them at the suffering and the intensity of the oppression, the oppression that they were facing at that time, and saying, My, could it be? Could it be that we're in the middle of the tribulation, which is Daniel's 70th week, if you remember the prophecy? And that tribulation, that final time of judgment, the last seven years, and thinking that they'd somehow missed the rapture, because looking out and all the instability around them, could we have missed it somehow? And fearful of that. Well, that was their fear back then, but folks, do believers today get fearful and anxious about that same thing? Well they do. In fact, I see it quite a bit. It almost becomes like a superstition. Superstitious fears of last-day signs. and occurrences that can even paralyze God's own believers with anxiety and terror. Theories of Antichrist And focus on dates and signs that still abound today. Especially one of these that comes most to mind is the fear of the mark. And even in New Hampshire, I've talked with pastors who are trying to assuage fears of people in their congregations that are looking to things like wearing masks. as a possible sign of the Antichrist and even a vaccine that may be coming out, and I kid you not, there is a theory that somehow there the vaccine, the vaccine that will be promoted will somehow have some sort of effect that we'll be forced to take it, first of all, and that somehow it's going to represent the mark of the beast. Now, I haven't heard that in our church at all, and I'm glad for that. And I hope that you're not assailed by any of those fears. But believers can still be fearful that somehow They've missed the coming of the Lord and they're facing the day, the all-important, the final day of the Lord of judgment. So Paul in 2 Thessalonians 2 reminds his readers in the early church, and he's going to remind us today as well. That fear for the believer should not be response to the last days or even the tremors of the last days, but rather we should be encouraged and we should have confident hope. Gary showed me last week a note from his grandmother in his Bible that marked what that word hope means And he had mentioned that he's probably told you this before, but he used to think of that word hope as not one of his favorite words because hope in our English today means, well, I hope the Patriots win today. Or I hope so-and-so gets that job that they want. It's like I'd really like it to happen, but I really don't know if it's going to. But folks, that's not what hope means in God's Word. It is a confident hope that God has given us promises and that they're going to take place. And so Paul wants to remind us in this chapter of 2 Thessalonians that God has given us promises. And that we can know the end of the story and be confident and stand firm in the midst of oppression. Today's message is stability in the midst of oppression. We'll just read the first, actually we're going to read the last few verses of chapter 2, verses 13 through 17. But we are bound to give thanks always to God for you, brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth. whereunto he hath called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which you have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God, even our Father, which hath loved us, and have given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. Lord, let this be the effect of these truths today In our church and in churches around the country that are fearful, that are scared, let us be reminded. That the coming of Jesus is something that we look forward to. And it should strengthen us and encourage us. And so If we are in the tremors of the last days, Lord, and you're the only one in the end that knows that, but if we are, we can rejoice that Jesus is coming soon. But also get to work to remind others of that fact. And to remind them that all of this points to what you're going to do in your plan. Let us be reminded a little bit more of your plan today and be motivated to serve you even more faithfully, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well again, Paul is dealing with folks that have received wrong information that have distorted his teaching. And so now he finds himself pleading with these folks in the city or the town of Thessalonica. to remember the truth of what he's told them, and that is that God is sovereign over all the enemy's plans. God is in control of all of this. And so let's look at chapter 2, verse 1. Now we beseech you, brethren. And Paul here beseech means pleading. Brethren, I am pleading with you And what is he pleading with them about? By the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and by our gathering together unto him. He's pleading with them to remember the truths of what he has recently taught them. And it seems as if Paul was in the habit of teaching about the end times, even early on in his ministry. 1 and 2 Thessalonians were two of the first letters that Paul we have in our scriptures that Paul wrote. Galatians is probably earlier. The only book that's earlier than that is the book of James. Somehow the gospel of Mark fits into all this. But these are early letters. And Paul, early on in his ministry then, has been teaching folks what to expect in the last times. And he says, here, I plead with you, are the coming of our Lord Jesus. Remember the truth of that. And here it seems in verse 1, he's already referring to the rapture. Our gathering together unto him. Remember, when Jesus returns for the rapture, it will not be a time where he returns to earth. That's important. But that he'll meet believers in the air, that will be caught up with him together in the clouds. That's different from his second coming after the tribulation, where he will come and defeat the enemy and establish his kingdom. And Paul here then in verse 1 of chapter 2 is referring to that rapture time. And he says, I plead with you, remember the truths that I told you about the rapture. The comfort that that is to you, because, verse 2, that ye be not soon shaken in mine, or be troubled, or alarmed. Neither by spirit, nor by word, or by spoken word, nor by letter as from us, as to the effect that the day of the Lord, or the day of Christ, or the day of the Lord, is at hand. Paul says, my teachings have been distorted. There's being some false teaching or letters or something. Somehow you folks have heard wrongly that you've missed the rapture and that the day of the Lord is now approaching. And it's shaken you. This word for shaken means it's a word of intensity that describes people being shaken to the core by fear and worry. And the whole point of him giving the truths of the rapture was so that they wouldn't fear. They wouldn't have to be shaken in times of oppression. So Paul says, remember the truth. Your fear is coming from false teaching being spread by someone. That's claiming to be me. Remember the truth of what I have said and reject if it's a false letter, if it's a false teaching, if it's a evil spirit or whatever, reject teaching that doesn't match up with what I gave you. Verse 3, let no man deceive you by any means or in any way. Let me remind you then what's going to happen. And he gives two events. For the day shall not come, except there come a falling away. A rebellion comes first. And the man of sin or the man of lawlessness be revealed, the son of perdition. Means they're the son of destruction. Um one of the highlights of uh attending college at Pensacola Christian College was to be under the min ministry of a man named Jim Shepherd. Jim Jim Shetler, excuse me. He was a good shepherd. He shepherded the college students and the church folks there in the church there at Pensacola Christian College. And um he he had a dynamic way of speaking. But he also had a care and concern for people. And so I really grew under his ministry and was thankful for his ministry. He's not there any longer, but he was at the time that I was attending there. And he had a lot of illustrations. If you've ever heard Jim Shetler speak, he is very good with illustrations and stories, and you remember them. Some of many of the messages I remember to this day are his stories about different things. But he was also a bit of a jokester, especially when he was younger. And he had gone through, he had graduated from Pensacola Christian College, and he had just kind of stayed there, and the Lord had worked it out for him to be the youth pastor than the pastor. But he had gone through the whole thing and he had been a hall leader, like I mentioned earlier, for a number of years, and he liked to he he was known as a jokester that liked to play practical jokes on people. And he got this idea one time, and he he told this in one of his messages, so I think it's okay to pass it on. And it makes the point of how even believers can be fearful about this whole truth about the rapture. There was a man, there was a young man that worked a certain job on campus and didn't get back till about halfway through the prayer meeting, the prayer time at the end. If you know anything about Pensacola and Bob Jones, Bob, they used to do this anyway. I don't know if they do anymore. But they had a prayer meeting before everybody would go to bed. Share prayer requests, they would sing. And this young man always had to come late. It wasn't his fault because of his job. So Jim Shatler got the bright idea. He said, guys, Let's make we'll just call his name Paul or call his name Mark. Let's make Mark think the rapture's already happened. And so he said, let's do this. Everybody, and this is everybody on the whole hall, both sides. He said, I want a number of you to take your shoes and let them out and then drop some clothes near them. I want some of the rest of you to um leave a shower running over here and you over here leave a faucet running. And he said we'll leave we'll we'll even leave a couple of umbrellas out here wet and and just everything that he could think of to make even like um uh the beds and the blankets that were situated such like somebody had actually been in them and had disappeared. And he said, now we're all gonna go and we're gonna hide in both of the stairwells. And he said he could hear the guy, they could hear the guy come in and they were snickering and laughing and his footsteps and he got to his room. And they said all of a sudden, you know, the door opened and then quickly they could hear the door open again and they could hear some running and he was running around they knew to the different rooms and Pastor Shetler or he was a pastor at that time peeked out and he could see And he knew that he'd gone too far. He probably should have realized that a long before they ever tried this, right? When the young man, after looking at a couple of rooms, he fell on his knees and he screamed out, Oh no, I've missed it. And they all came in at that point, he said, guys, we better help him out. And they all came running in and they tackled him, and he was very relieved that that had not taken place. Now, I would never recommend doing that. That's a horrible um joke to play on anybody, but folks, it does show that even believers can be fearful about this doctrine Rather than be encouraged, what is Paul's hope? We don't have time and the time that we that we do have, and it's already slipping away from us, for me to go through all of eschatology and all the prophecies and things. We're going to have to go through it quickly. But Paul has a point in bringing up these end-time truths for these people. And he doesn't give us these things so that one day a number of scholars could come up with some really cool charts about what the end times is going to look like. Not that I don't mind charts or that I'm being negative about them. I used to be an artist and I have a real appreciation for somebody that can come up with a real nice um understandable chart about the end times. They're very helpful. But that wasn't Paul's primary goal. for um that to take place, but it was for the people in the end to be encouraged, and we missed that many times. And he wants the people to be encouraged in the midst of this. So he reminds them again in verse 3 as he gives these plans. God is sovereign over the enemy's plans, and God is able and will restrain the enemy's plans. Till God wants them to take place. God will restrain the enemy. These things must happen then in verse 3. The day shall not come, except there come a falling away, a rebellion that comes first. This has the idea about a worldwide apostasy. This must take place before the day of the Lord. And remember, in case you didn't know, the day of the Lord is the all-important description in the Old Testament and the New Testament. For the horrible end times judgment that will take place. And the tribulation falls into that. He said it won't take place until this apostasy, which will include, seems mostly falsely professing Christians, that will, after the rapture takes place, realize what's happened, and they will utterly turn against God. And there will be a rebellion against God in the world. And this will then usher in the arrival of a man named the Antichrist. And we've heard through him many times throughout Scripture. And he's talked about here again. Let's look at continue at the end of verse 3. That's the man of sin or lawlessness be revealed. The son of perdition or destruction. This is a man who cares nothing for got for morality or for God's law at all. He is utterly enmeshed in sin and his own agenda, and we're told right away that this man will uh become prominent and he will rule. But Paul wants us to know he's already destined for destruction He is evil, he is wicked, and God has already put his mark on him that this man, even though he will do much damage and cause many people to fall astray, he won't be able to do this forever. He's already, Paul wants us to know. Marked for eternal destruction. Well, what does this man do that's so evil? Who opposeth, verse 4, and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped So that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing or proclaiming himself that he is God. This man is so arrogant that not only will he oppose the worship of believers and the one true God. But he will oppose any worship of any religion at all. By the way, this is another sign that we haven't seen the Antichrist yet. There have been, as you, if you're a student of history, as I like to be. Through history, there's been many people that have been proclaimed, oh, I'm pretty sure that's the Antichrist. Even in the last century. Hitler, Stalin, many more. All of these were considered, well, that that person may be the Antichrist. And there are still those today. There are many theories about people today that could be the Antichrist, and we won't get into that or name any names about what that could be, all right? But you've heard plenty. But a mark of the Antichrist is not just that he's arrogant toward God, but he won't tolerate any religion at all. And that's a lot different from what we have today. Even the people that are most arrogant and want the most power in this country still will make much ado about all religions being respected. But the Antichrist will have none of that. He in his arrogance will say there's no other religion, there is no other worship of any gods except me And he will literally establish himself in the temple of God, proclaiming himself that he is God. If you know anything about the end times and about prophecy, the Antichrist will eventually make a covenant with Israel, and he will be acknowledged as the peacemaker. And he will be established as such, but then he will literally turn that around and have turn it into a form of self-worship Where it seems that he may not just establish himself in the temple, but he may very well establish himself as God in the holy of holies, the ultimate sacrilege. In the temple of God. This is the Jewish temple that will need to be completed one day again. And he will proclaim himself as ruler of all. And that's why Paul has already said this man is destined for judgment. Because he has an arrogance far beyond any other individual. And of course, wow, how is that? Because he's controlled directly by Satan himself. And Paul says verse 5, remember ye not that when I was yet with you I told you these things? He's frustrated. Folks, you're all worried and worked up. I've told you these things. The ever-ongoing plate of a pastor and a teacher who teaches and who proclaims God's word and still talks with his people and talks with other people that have heard that word proclaimed, and that you can tell. They just haven't gotten it yet. Paul says, I've taught you these things before. Why are you shaken in your spirit? Let's go on, verse 6. And now ye know what withholdeth or is restraining him that he might be revealed in his time. This evil man that will establish himself in the end times, in the tribulation times, as the one true God is still being restrained by the one true God. And God will not let him reign and will not allow Satan to let him reign until God says it's time to do so. That's why I believe throughout history that Satan has had ready many individuals that could have stepped into this role as the Antichrist. And again, we're not going to give names of people that we think could be that in our modern times, but God has always said to Satan, nope, not yet. Not yet. But one day the church is going to be raptured, and God will say, Satan, it's now time. I won't restrain you anymore. Verse 7, for the mystery of iniquity Well, I actually just I think yes is already or the mystery of lawness is our lawlessness is already at work Only he who now letteth will let, or restrains it, will do so until he be taken out of the way Paul is reminding us, and this is important for us today as well, the mystery or the spirit of lawlessness, this rebellion that will one day come, does operate today. If you're sensing even this year of a rebellion and an oppression against the people of God , And and incredible arrogance with certain people that raise their fists to God and will do whatever they need to do to be in power. And we've seen a lot of that this year, right? That is all what Paul is saying here, the spirit, the mystery of lawlessness, about rioting and destruction. Have we seen that this year? Yeah. That spirit is with us. We can all attest to that. And yet. Nothing's going to happen until God allows it to happen. And now he's getting more specific. Who is he that restrains until he be taken out of the way? Well, as you can imagine, there's all kinds of theories about who this is. But I'll just give you the answer here from all the biblical evidence that seems to best fit. He's talking here about the Holy Spirit That the Holy Spirit, and I think through the church and through believers, we are all, God is using us as a restraining influence. And when the rapture comes We 're gone. Now the Holy Spirit is deity. It doesn't mean that he's somehow taken away from the world seen. But he's not operating in the way that he did before. And Satan will have full reign to do things the way that he wants to, but not until God says it's time. God restrains the enemy's plans, but in these next few verses we also see that God contains the enemy's plans. He's only going to allow these horrible things to happen. for a small period of time. And let's quickly go through these things. Verse 8. And then shall that wicked or lawless one be revealed. Whom the Lord Jesus shall consume or kill with the spirit or breath of his mouth, and shall destroy, bring to nothing with the brightness of his coming It's like the description of this Antichrist is so disturbing that Paul says, now I'm going to give you more information about this man, but don't worry. Because in the end, Jesus is going to come and he's going to consume or kill him. He's going to take him out. And it's not going to be a long battle, but literally with his breath. Picture of all Jesus has to do is And he's done. So as powerful and as terrible as the Antichrist in his reign will be, folks, remember our Savior. Is so much more powerful and ready. And his timing, when his father says go, to take him out, and he will deal with him Once and for all, that word for shall destroy means bring to nothing. He will bring to nothing. He will take out all of his power. And He will eliminate all of his plans and all of his influence in a moment with the brightness of his coming. Won't that be glory when Jesus returns? and alleviates the mess that the Antichrist has made. Even him, and now he goes into more detail about who the Antichrist is. whose coming is after the working of Satan. Here we have the power. How can this man be so powerful? Because in the end times he's going to have the power of Satan, and he's not going to be restrained with all power and false signs. And lying wonders. We think we have deceit and lying going on in our media today. Folks, that's nothing compared to what's going to happen in the tribulation when the Antichrist rules. And then it continues on. And all the deceivableness of unrighteousness, that just means wicked deception, and then that perish. The deception that we see in our world today is certainly of Satan. It has satanic influence, but it's going to be even worse Especially for those that are unbelievers, because they receive, they refuse the love of the truth, that they might be saved. We as believers embrace God's truth But there is a large group of people in our world today that hate God's truth and raise their fist against it, and God will one day say, Okay, you've rejected my truth, you've rejected the gospel, now you will have what's coming to you. They rejected the vehicle, the path toward salvation. They rejected Jesus Christ, the gospel. Verse 11, and for this cause God will send them strong delusion. That they shall believe a lie. God will finally say, You've wanted to reject me and believe falsehood all this time. Now go at it. You're free to do that Talking about people that believe the lie, we have evidence of that even in the um the theories of evolution, don't we? If you've ever heard people that are really strong adherents to evolution, if you ever talk with people about this, that it's really important to them. Which, by the way, evolution is a um it has to be believed by faith, just like Christianity does There's in the end, evolution. There's eviden there's no evidence for how matter comes out of nothing and all these things. It's as much, I think it's more of an exercise in faith than belief in God. But you hear people that believe in evolution and many times they'll let it slip, well this has to be the truth. This has to be what's going to happen, because the only other option is that there's a God, and there's no way that there's a God. So I believe in evolution. That same spirit will be fully entered into in the time of the tribulation. That, and here's the end, a sobering end for these people, that they might all be condemned, who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Folks, this ought to sober those of us that are believers, that one day those that reject God and follow a lie now, if they don't hear the gospel, they'll be condemned for all eternity. That should motivate us to want to give them the truth. There's a lot of people believing a lot of deception right now. Do they have the truth of the gospel? This is a warning for those that have rejected God. But now, here in the last few minutes, Let's have the encouragement for God's people. This verses 13 through 17 is the reason why Paul is going through all of this. And that he wants to show that God aids his own in the midst of enemy plans, even in the midst of oppression, in the midst of difficult times, God is still blessing and enabling his people. God has saved and is sanctifying us. 13 and 14. But we are bound, or we ought always to give thanks always to God for you, brethren, beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you. as the first fruits in some translations to salvation through sanctification of the spirit and belief of the truth. Folks, just To sum this all up very quickly, believers don't have to fear the eternal punishment that Paul just mentioned. We don't need to fear that. We need to instead, in fact, we have a responsibility, he says they ought always, the responsibility should be to thank and praise God because he chose us. There's that picture of his election. And is choosing us for salvation and for sanctification, that process by which we become more like Jesus Christ And then we have the other side of the coin. He also says, but it's through our faith in the gospel. God choosing us, but the vehicle is our faith Having faith in the gospel. This glorious truth, God has called us to this. And so, what does that mean? We can be confident, folks. Listen That we will escape the tribulation and rule of the Antichrist. We won't be involved in that. Because we've been gloriously saved And will be taken from it. That ought to, instead of living lives of fear right now, oh, what's that mean? What's that sign mean Oh, I think that might be the sign of the Antichrist. Well, what's a good answer to that by the way? And I've been taken in by that even in talking to some fellow pastors, and they say so-and-so um says that this might be the mark of the beast, and I'm I'm thinking Oh yeah, you know, I never thought about that before. That could mean I'm like, wait, wait, wait a minute, no. I'm not gonna be here when that comes up. I'm not gonna be forced to take the mark of the beast because I'm gonna be raptured And somebody that brings that to you, it might might be interesting, you could have a dialogue with them, a believer, and say, oh, okay, well if you're going to be forced to take the mark of the beast, so you're either a mid-trib or a post-trib You don't believe in the rapture? Oh, I believe in the rapture. Well, brother or sister, there's nothing to worry about. We're gonna be gone. by the time people are forced to take the mark. Whatever it is, whether it's a vaccine or I don't get the mask thing, but whatever. Uh uh we we joke around about having a chip implanted in us, right? Well folks, we don't have to worry about that either. Remember the plan as God gave it to us. We look forward because we're saved and we're being sanctified that we'll be taken out of all of this. And then God is strengthening and comforting his own, is the last bit of comforting truth in this, 15 through 17. Therefore, brethren, stand fast. Stand firm and hold to the traditions. Be obedient to God's word, which you have been taught, whether by word or our epistle. Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God, even our Father, which hath loved us and have given us everlasting comfort, And good hope through grace comfort your hearts and establish you in every good word and work. What do we do then in the midst of oppression that we currently face, even this year? God 's truth in desperate times calls for us not to be shaken, not to be fearful, running around like everybody else. What are we gonna do? But we stand firm. In the stability of our calling in Christ. Folks, hold fast to the truth of God's word. Jesus is going to supply all that we need to stand firm and faithfully serve Him. You want comfort? You feeling uh let down, you feeling discouraged? God's word says, comfort your hearts. Jesus will give you comfort You want strength to faithfully serve him and literally everything that you do and say, Paul says it's there God has called you to salvation through your faith in Christ. You have a relationship. You're going to be raptured one day. So for now, don't be like all the others and fearful and trembling. But stand firm. Remember the truth of God's word. He's calling the people that he's writing to. Remember what I've told you, the truth of God's word. Be firm. Be stable. In that, ask for Jesus' comfort, ask for his strength, and he will give that to you. So folks, even as we feel those last-day tremors, as my friend told me recently, that's not a cause for us to fear as believers. So that's a cause to think, oh, you feel that? You hear that? That's Jesus. He's going to be returning soon. Stay faithful. I'm not going to be moved. I'm going to be stable and a testimony to the world. Of the confident hope I have in Jesus Christ. Father, help us to remember these truths That we, no matter what others may fear and are concerned about the apocalypse and all the different things that's happening even this year, help us to be secure and stable in the truth of God's word Lord, what a blessing to know that we are going to be removed from all of this before the great tribulation, the great day of the Lord, and that we won't have to experience that. but that we will be with Jesus, rejoicing and fellowshipping with him, and will be enjoying that for all eternity. Help us. Help that thought To be the motivating factor for us to obey you faithfully and our comfort when we are tempted to be shaken. Help us to be stable in the midst of oppressing times, Lord. It's in Jesus' name we pray, Amen