Well our children need to go to children's church. It's kind of a shame though they're going to miss a great message, but we understand. The rest of you turn to Ephesians chapter six. Jesus chapter 6, the whole, all of the singing and all that we've done this morning have led to this, so it's no surprise. And we started two weeks ago with this theme, the final great theme within the book of Ephesians that will be Finishing up literally here in a few weeks. It's been good to have our college students home with us. It's good. Arden is a week late. It's good to have him with us this week and singing in the choir as well. It's a blessing. Uh for those of you that don't know, Arden 's our oldest son, so. Ephesians 6, and we'll be starting in verse 14, but we need to back up because we need uh verse 10 To remind us of the introduction to this theme. And that is putting on the armor of God. And so two weeks ago, we started in verse 10 of Ephesians chapter Chapter 6. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. To stand strong. You know, those that think that the Christian life is kind of a picnic and there's no hardships and no No difficulties. Well, if you've lived the Christian life for very long, you know that's kind of a fool's dream. But especially when you read passages And you realize oh actually that the problems that we have ultimately some God allows for testing, but there very well could be m very many problems where We are actually in a defense position against the great enemy, Satan himself. And that might cause us to say, you know, I'm not so interested. I'm just gonna hunker down. In in my Christian bunker and just kind of wait till wait out the end without really serving because I'm I'm not much of a soldier myself. But no, folks, we we don't Get that option. We're going to see that clear today. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if you are a part, a child of God, a part of this church, guess what? Folks, we're all soldiers. We all have a part in this battle. And none of us can hide out in the bunker and then just wait to see what the results are. First of all, we know what the results are. We have a victorious king who is the ultimate warrior, Jesus Christ, who is sitting at the right hand of the Father. And he will come and deal the fine with finality with his enemies and our enemies. And the great enemy, the devil, who has many schemes Who has many tricks up his proverbial sleeve, who is a powerful, a powerful person. For sure. Personages. But with that, he is already a defeated person. Defeated entity, because at the cross, and with Jesus' resurrection, Satan was soundly defeated. Defeated folks for all time, for all eternity. And so if the call to be a warrior intimidates you this morning, remember We stand against a foe that's already been defeated. And one day will be cast away in eternity to an eternal place of punishment, far away from God's children. He'll never bother us again. Oh, praise the Lord. May that day come. But until that day comes, we have a responsibility to stand, take up the whole armor of God. To withstand in the evil day, to stand firm. And again, most of this picture is a defensive picture. We stand. We don't have to lose ground. We can defend our position while our great God goes on offense. And battles our enemy. But it is intense. And we must give our all. That's what that means, having Done all. We must give our all in this battle, even though Christ has already won the day. Withstand folks in this evil day And this truly is an evil day. Right? Wars and rumors of wars, all kinds of atrocities, almost on a daily basis, in our news headlines Lines in this country and around the world, unspeakable things that are being done to innocence. It truly is an evil day. And we have And so we need the whole armor of God for this battle. And I emphasize whole because we can't be satisfied with just part of the gear. Well, I'll I'll take this. Take the breastplate of righteousness and the shoes. Man, I don't know. That sounds like the gospel. Maybe I won't put the shoes on. Got the shield of faith. No, folks. We need all the whole armor of God to be to have an effective defending stance. And God gives all of these pieces of armor. To us to use, because they're the very pieces that he uses. Described in the Old Testament. Really didn't fit. No, God gives us armor that fits and we're able to use by His grace and strength. The evil day that Paul talks about certainly includes these days as well. And so we need to gear up, depending upon God's power, as the one that is on the offensive The Lord's power, but yet we stand with him against the enemy. It's all we can do. Stand in the armor of God And folks, we're called to do it, and it is enough. So let's look at this armor this morning. Be ready with the armor of the Lord. That these first pieces that we're going to look at allow for effective ministry. And the first of these is truthfulness. And Paul encourages us to put on truthfulness as a way of life to stand. To be ready and prepared for an offensive tack attack by the great deceiver. And isn't it quite a contrast Against the liar and deceiver of this world to stand girded in truth. The truth of God's word and hold that ground. To defend the truth of God's word. So look at verse 14. Stand therefore Get ready against the assault of the deceiver. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth. Now, what is this referring to? Much of this you You could pull up a picture from Google of a Roman soldier. Don't let that distract you this morning. But you could do that. It'd be easy to do. Or maybe you even And it seems best to think of when Paul is talking about the armor of God, he has the picture of the Roman soldier in mind. Because in Ephesians, he's writing this from prison, and he has great familiarity with those soldiers. sees them quite a bit in his imprisoned state. And so to use them as examples of this is brilliant and wonderful. But even more More interesting is a reference from Isaiah 11, we'll get to in just a minute. What is this belt of truth? Well the belt or it was referred to To in Greek times as the girdle of truth. It was a large belt referencing that the Roman soldier had an apron. And many of you have seen the These pictures before, not like apron. a cooking apron in the kitchen, right? But a apron of loose strips of leather for protecting his thighs and his mid And it was an important part of his armor going out to war, protecting um these this area of his body. But it is interesting as well that it's described in Isaiah chapter eleven as the Messiah. Wears this belt of truth. And it's referred to in that way. So long before the Roman soldier ever had this garb. And came into being, the Old Testament describes the coming Messiah as having many of these um These pieces of the armor, which again then emphasizes he is certainly capable, folks, of providing them for us. Right? Well, again, what is this belt of truth? I think there's two aspects to it. I think it first of all describes the fact, Paul has emphasized this many times, that That we need to know well. We need to be well versed, no pun intended, all the verses in the Bible, but well versed in Scripture. We need to know the truth of God's word and know it well so that we can commit our lives to defending it. We were talking in Sunday school this morning in June of in the book of Jude and studying that and the need to defend the faith, contend for the faith. How are we going to do that? How are we going to contend for the truth of God's word? Folks, we don't even know it. Oh, the pastor will do it. And um maybe some of the leadership, as long as they know God's work, they can defend us. No. The The context here is that all of us are soldiers, and so we all need to know the word of truth well so that we can defend against the great deceivers. When Satan comes with his lies. Wasn't that the first battle? Wasn't that the first offensive by Satan is that he came To Eve with lies. And he twisted the truth of God's word. Oh, God did not say. And then he went on. And Satan bought his line, hook line, and We must do better, folks, in knowing the word of truth. And our minds must be committed to the reality of God's truth rather than falling for the world's destruction. Let's be candid. Too often God's people fall for the deceptions of the world. The world holds up all kinds of things as the most important thing. To strive for, whether it's sports or whether it's entertainment or whether it's wealth, and there's all kinds of lies and rabbit trails that the world can get us to go. Go down, and we can embrace this is what's most important. This is what I need to do in my life to truly be satisfied and fulfilled. The world and the ruler of this world has so So many lies available for us, but as God's people, we should know better because we're girded by this belt of truth that in many places In many ways, holds the rest of the armor together. And so we must be committed to that. Well, how do we do that? How do we actively portray the truth Or the garment, the belt of truth. There's two aspects. Know God's word well, I've already mentioned that. But I also think live in an honest way. With each other. The way we act around God's people versus the way we act the rest of the time. I think the belt of truth also has that we are honest with people where we are, and they see Our struggles. Not that we have to tell everybody every struggle that's going on in our hearts, but they know who we really are. As a pastor, that's one of my Desires is that you see me not as some um untarnished um you know unaffected Person who gets it all right all the time, but that I I am I have the same struggles that you do. That I need Jesus Christ in my life as much as anybody else Else. I'm not Teflon, but I'm vulnerable and living out the reality of who we are. If we have struggles , Find someone else that can pray with you. Be honest about the struggles that you have with someone who can help you We many times as well espouse fidelity to the truth of God's word. Oh, I believe in the truth of God's word, but then many times again we just give in to the decision. I believe in God's word. Yeah, it's the truth. And yet we live our lives as people shake their heads and say, how are they so How were they able to follow down? Couldn't they see that they shouldn't have done that or they shouldn't have pursued that The belt of truth, knowing God's word, his truth well, will protect us from the dangerous deceptions of the world, but folks, also our own heart Because let's be honest, our heart deceives us and leads us astray so many times. If we go by just, well, it's what I want, it's what my heart wants. You know, a dream is a wish your heart makes. Oh, so nice. But is that really biblical? No, we need the belt of truth. We need God's word. We need a commitment to the reality of how things really are. See, people look at Christians many times and say, man, those folks don't live in the real world. They have no idea what the real world's all about. In actuality, that's totally um that's totally Wrong and not correct. What is reality is that as believers, as Christians, we know the reality of the world better than the world knows it. And we should Because we should know God's word that well, that we know what the real world is all about, and we know the dangers and um the concerns that we have. We're not naive. If you are holding on, if you are using the belt of truth, you're not naive any longer. But we know how to use God's word and have honest living in the face, defense position against the great deceiver who revels in lives. So we We uphold truth and we revel in the truth. That's the first part of the armor. We have many more to go. And having put on, the end of verse 14, the breath the breastplate of righteousness, that's an interesting description Again, this is another, even though the Roman soldier had this, this is actually description, the description all the way back in Isaiah 55. Of the Lord as our warrior. It says he put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. We'll hear about that helmet of salvation. Very soon. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds, he will repay wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies. They shall fear the name of the Lord. Our Lord knows how to wield his armor and how to use it effectively, and he will Help us to use it effectively as well. What is this breastplate of righteousness? Well, again, back to the Roman soldier, right? It was comprised of a leather covering with a blah a brass breastplate or coat of chain mail. And it was a very important, obviously That protected the most important parts, the heart and all these things, uh the innards, so to speak. Um he needed it in order to go into battle, certainly to be on So, what does this have to do with us spiritually? What is it describing? Well, there's two aspects of righteousness that we need to understand The righteousness that is referred to here that we need is the practical outworking of what Christ accomplished on the cross. Why would I say that? Okay, follow me here. This is important, but it gets a little in depth. You guys can understand this though. Jesus, we were never able to obey God's law. We are sinners through and through. All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned everyone to his own way. We are sinners without hope, apart from Jesus Christ, because we can't meet the standard of excellence of Complete obedience to God's law. Take the Ten Commandments. Sooner or later we break one of those, or two, or three, or five, or ten. We're breaking God's commandments all the time. But Jesus came, the Son of God. God, he came as man, a hundred percent man, and he was born, and he lived his life, and Jesus was able to obey God's commands and perfectly Meet God's expectation. The Greek word for God's standard is righteous. See that? And Jesus was Able to obey and meet that standard. And the beautiful thing is because he was, as is described in Scripture, the spotless Lamb of God, never having sinned, he was then able to offer himself up for us and take on all of our sins. The one person who never sinned was willing to take all of our nasty, yucky, terrible sins. On himself. And he took the punishment on that cross, the brutal treatment, the death, the shedding of his blood in a way that's almost incomprehensible. In a certain way, his blood can cleanse us from our sin because he took that he was the sacrifice that dealt with that fully sufficiently And now, folks, what is the result of that? He was raised from the dead. He conquered sin and death and hell. He had victory over it. So he is able now to give us that obedience that he earned. Does that make sense? And in accountant terms, when God, when we put our faith and trust in dependence of God Jesus, we get his righteousness, and we're put in the book of life, and our sin is cleansed. , It's covered. And we are written in the book of life as righteous before God. Because of what Jesus has accomplished. Again, it's all his work. And we just give in and we relinquish and depend Depend upon that work in faith. And we are declared righteous before God. So if you are a child of God this morning, if you have put your faith And trust in Jesus Christ. Great news, marvelous news. You are righteous before God. But here is the other aspect of that: because we're his children, He can then work out in us righteousness because Jesus is his power is working within us. And we receive the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity Within us to do things that are right. We're not perfect. One day when Jesus returns, we will all receive a glorified body. We will perfectly meet God's standard in our experience. Right now we struggle. But it is true that as righteous people, through our faith in Christ, we can live in a way that's pleasing to God. To God. And that goes back then to the breastplate of righteousness. Because of Jesus' righteousness, we can live in a right way that's pleasing to God every day. Wearing that breastplate of righteousness, we can obey God and not fall to Satan's temptations. We don't have to give in to the lies and be deceived by the lies of Satan. We don't have to give in to his temptations. We can live in a way that's pleasing to God. And God provides the armor and provides the weapons. We cannot please God. We cannot be righteous on our own. But He provides that ours. So that we can do deeds every day that are pleasing to him. And then he gets the glory for it. It's a beautiful picture. But again, we're just kind of getting started here. Let's continue on. Verse 15. And as and as shoes For your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. So we've seen so far with the armor that we put on truthfulness as a way of life. We can live in a true and honest way every day. But we can also put on righteous living as a way of life. And this gospel of peace, yes, folks, all of us can be ready to be ready evangelists, ready to share Jesus Christ. It's not just a gift for the few. But in our own way, all of us Can be gospel bearers in this footwear that's so much more important than Nike or Adidas or whatever. I don't even know if Adidas is a thing now. But we can put on the piece of the gospel. Well, the soldiers, here's the the uh parallel here. The soul the soldier's sandal was called a kaliga. And it had soles, interestingly, made of several layers of leather that were studded with hobnails. Doesn't sound that comfortable, but somehow they made it work. Maybe I should have had a picture of the Roman soldier up here. That would have been helpful. But you can you can find these online. seen these before. The soldier with his uh his sandal and then the wrapped leg with leather. I'm sure you've seen these before. That was all a part of the shoe that he had to wear. And this is described as shoes that are the readiness given by the gospel of peace. Isn't that an interesting description? Shoes that bring peace. Shoes that are ready. If you have the right shoes, you are ready to move forward. Now, most of this armor is described as a But it does seem in this description that we are expected to move, be ready to move forward, but with the gospel of peace. The gospel that provides peace for People's lives. In case we've forgotten, it is only through a relationship with Jesus Christ, folks, that we can have There is a Jesus-shaped void in everyone's life in which they must in faith trust Trust him and trust in his righteous sacrifice in order to truly have peace. So many people call for peace in this world today, and there's been so many Many songs over the years, pop songs and otherwise, calling for peace. And yet people miss the fact with that with Jesus there's peace. Without Jesus, There's no peace. Peace comes. Pointing people to the way of peace. We point them to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And in this way, I think we're looking at a more n instead of defensive, a more offensive posture because as having these shoes Of the gospel of peace, we move forward. We're ready and looking for opportunities to proclaim the only means of true peace to a world that desperately seeks it. For a world that rejects God and rejects Jesus, there sure are a lot of people that want his peace. And they don't know how to get Get it. And God, I am convinced, folks, that in your sphere, as in my sphere of living, that God brings people People within that sphere that need to hear of the way of true peace through the gospel of Jesus Christ, and it's a matter of our being aware of Those around us? Are you aware there are other people in your life? Are you aware of your neighbors? Are you aware of people in Walmart? Are you aware of people that you work with? Even being aware and talking with them and having conversations with them. Ready, Lord, if you provide it, I'm ready to talk about Jesus. Ready to do that. Now I'm not Saying in an offensive way. Don't misunderstand me. Offensive means we're ready with the gospel. And that means, folks, that truth Truly, we need to know the gospel. Now you may have heard this before that an effective means of sharing the gospel is sharing your testimony about how you were saved, and that is true. And if that's all that you Can do, praise God, share your testimony, tell people how you came to know Jesus Christ. But I want you to encourage you not to be satisfied with that, but to continue to learn Learn God's word more so that you can more effectively present the truths of God's word. I just did a few minutes ago, talking about Jesus' righteousness and how He took our sin This is a proclamation of the gospel. We need to be prepared in this darkness. world with the feet of the gospel, the shoes of the gospel, to point the way toward true peace. This highlights our need to be prepared to proclaim and explain the good news of gospel to our community. So important. Ready at a moment's notice with the armor of God. Reminds me many years ago. When our kids were very young, uh what we would regularly our our I have I have wonderful in-laws, just bragging a little bit. Uh my father-in-law is a Marine, reminded many times You don't say former Marines. He was. He is a Marine. He was in Vietnam. Many medals for his valor, and we're thankful for his service. Uh but they also every so often they they regularly provide us the opportunity. They have a timeshare, they have a place in Hilton Head, South Carolina that they go to and they invite us. uh to come with them on a regular basis. Well one time we went with them and we're enjoying um just being near the ocean and everything and my father in law wanted to go he wanted to revisit a special Special place in his life for all of you that Marines, you probably remember, Paris Island. And so, you know, that would be interesting. And Leslie, I don't think she'd been there before, so you know, we crossed And he's telling us pictures as I believe there's there's the bridge, you cross over the bridge, and he was telling us, excuse me, stories of grown men, big guys, that were all in a bus together across Crossing over this island, and the sergeant or whoever was in charge was standing in front of the bus, and he was telling them things that literally had them in tears. a bus Grown men crying about what they were About to face. We get there and we saw the training and how they worked these men almost mercilessly. Probably mercilessly. And amazed at what they could do, but they were pushing them, pushing them to be ready at a moment's notice. I mean, these guys are are gonna be Marines. Of course they're gonna get the full treatment. That even extended though into um the the cafe where they ate. Um we actually my father-in-law wanted to eat there and so So uh we we got tickets and it was uh some sort of buffet or something. They had certain items you could you could get and and eat, a lot of different sorts So we got some and we sat down and we noticed about two tables down there was a whole group of Marines in training and they were eating as well. So we're eating our food. Well here's the disconcerting thing that really got awkward after a while. Every so often their commanding officer, whoever that was, would stand there and he would yell something very loudly and they would have to stop their talking and their eating. And they would have to sit and just stare straight ahead at us. And here I am trying to eat my food, and they're staring at me. I'm like, this is really kind of awkward. And what was the purpose of all this? I asked my father-in-law, who, by the way, had no problem eating in front of them. In fact He acted like he was enjoying it even more, relishing it. Oh, this is good. Because he knew he had to be been through that before. And he knew the point of all this is they were readying them to be ready at a moment's notice. Even in the midst of a meal, you've got to be ready, attention, focused on the mission at hand. Folks, that's what we need to be doing with the gospel. So often we're intimidated by sharing our faith. So often we feel lack of preparation for this. And that shouldn't be. The shoes of the gospel of peace show us that we should be ready to share Christ. And you know what? If we don't do it quite as well as what we think we should have, we can always try again. Be ready. The most important aspect of your lives. We're about ready to celebrate Easter. For many of us, Easter is the most glorious celebration. One of the things we look forward to, the highlight of the year. It's so important Important, our salvation, the work that Christ has done. Folks, we need to be ready to share that most important event with a world that needs peace. So the peace of the gospel, verse sixteen, in all circumstances take up the shield of faith. With which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And now we're being ready with armor that defends against the evil one. The other pieces really allowed effective ministry, effective gospel ministry. But these weapons, these this armor, excuse me, excuse me. me talks about our defense against the the wicked one against Satan and be prepared with faith when the end So, look at that again, verse 16, the shield of faith. Be ready at all times. So for the Roman soldier, this was a large object made of two wood planks and covered with canvas. and then capskin and then metal on the top and on the bottom fixed it and brought it all together and it was large enough to cover That whole soldier's body and it was capable of protecting a standing soldier as an effective tool of resistance. He could stand behind it and be fully secure and safe Interestingly, the more warfare developed, you had uh enemies that would then light their arrows on fire, and it would would hit the shield and then the shield would go up in flames and then you wouldn't have any shield. That wasn't very effective. So then what the Roman soldiers would do was they would wet their shield down to quench the fiery darts of the wicked. Does that sound Familiar in our scriptures? So they would douse them with water, and the arrows would hit these shields, and they would make the arrows useless. Well, what is this a picture of? Satan is constantly firing, shooting off fiery darts, fiery arrows our way through. Folks, we hide behind the shield of faith, and that is confidence in God and His Word, strengthen faith that can quench the doubts That Satan brings. Eve didn't really use or have that shield of faith when the doubts, the darts of doubt came her way Folks, when we doubt, or when we are tempted to doubt, or we see attacks that are from Satan, maybe it's circumstances, or maybe Satan is using people. We have to stand confidently that God will give us the power to get through this trial and will help us. And we must be confident the more our faith is strengthened, the more Satan's fiery darts just go and they're extinguished. And they become useless. A really good prayer is the prayer that the man mentioned to Jesus in the Gospels, Lord, increase our faith, the more confident you are that there really is a God and that he really did send his son Jesus Christ to die. For us. And that He's living and will one day return and will enable us everything we need to defeat Satan and Satan's attacks. The more confident you are in that, the better you're able to use that shield. Does that make sense? It helps us against Satan's Continue. Also take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. What is this helmet? The helmet, soldier's helmet, would be worn only as danger deemed necessary because it was awkward and it was hard sometimes to see with this helmet. But when danger was approaching, you the soldier And so it was generally made for the Roman soldier of bronze fitting over an iron skull cap lined with leather Paul uses this to signify the experiential realization of our Father's love and assurance of our salvation in Christ. Christ in our daily lives, the helmet of salvation, the assurance that we are God's children, the confidence, again that word confidence. And faith that we are truly God's children, that Jesus has saved us, and the more we're confident in that, the more the helmet of salvation protects us. from the intensity of Satan's attacks. Satan folks sometimes, or whether it's Satan or his demons or our own flesh, they sometimes get in our head and cause us to doubt. Is all this real? Is God's word real? And the more confident of you are you are in the gospel and of God's salvation, that helmet protects you Satan from getting in your head and causing you to doubt. God has given us protection from the enemy. It reminds me many years ago when I was a teenager, one of the things that a lot of our teenagers don't get to experience anymore is shopping, is walking around around in a shopping mall. You remember those days? And uh I remember, you know, just sometimes parents taking us there and um shopping and walking around the different stores, um just lots of of of great memories. Um but one day in particular my mom found us all was taking us out of the shopping mall and it was a very scary incident where we were walking down the sidewalk and And this guy in a um uh a convertible pulled up with another guy beside him and he s he just quickly sped up to where we were, screeched to a st a stop and started yelling at my brother, Scott, and said, I know you did this, look what you did and he got out of his car and he made he made toward my brother and actually I heard almost grabbed him and said, you get in with me, we're uh we're we're going to the police. And we're like, what in the world is going on? here. Now we were all scared, but my mom was probably scared too, but at that moment somebody was messing with her kid. And so she said, you get your hands And the guy said, Well, there is a burn mark in the back of my convertible here. Car and somebody threw a firecracker in there and left this burn mark on my upholstery, and that group of kids over there said it was your son that did it. And my mom was trying to be as calm as she could. She did a pretty good job. But she just said, well, did it ever occur to you that maybe that group of kids that sent you over here were actually the kids that threw the And all of a sudden you could realize it dawned on him. But partly that was was because he realized that my Mom was protecting her kids and she wasn't going to let an attack or a false accusation win the day. And he tore her off then after that group, and you you already could see that group was scattering quickly. She was protecting her own. Folks, how much more will our Heavenly Father protect us? He won't Leave us in the battle without the protection that we need to fight Satan. He will finally give us a sword as well. Look at verse the end of verse 17. Salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. And this sword is actually for the Roman soldier. It was a short sword or dagger with a double edge blade. It wasn't a big old thing with a double edge Edged blade, like many times we think, but it was actually something worn close to the vest, close blade close to his personage person, so that he could quickly use it, get it out, and be ready in a defensive way. It was placed in a sheath Attached to the belt on the right side to be clear of his shield bearing left arm. So yeah, left bearing arm and then here and he could quickly pull it out. And this is referred to To as a sword of the spirit, that is fitting that it's found in the belt of truth. Isn't that interesting? And this, in the midst of that defensive stance, folks is an offensive weapon because it's the spoken word of God against Satan's attacks. Do you remember one that used that so effective? Effectively our Savior Jesus Christ. Matthew four one through four. Hungry, the tempter came and said, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But Jesus answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Jesus used this sword, the Word of God, as defense. But he used it in a way to topple. He's not we're not talking here about some sort of magic spell or recitation. We're talking about God's word and the power of the Spirit that is able to drive away the deceit and the doubts of Satan himself. Oh, Jesus used it so effectively. And we can do that too. God gives us that sword, that dagger. A scholar has said this. I think it's helpful. Now, if our Lord and Master selected this true Jerusalem blade of the Word of God, let us not hesitate for a moment, but grasp and hold fast this one true weapon of the same Trust not in human eloquence, but arm yourselves with the solemn declaration of God, who cannot lie, and you need not fear Satan and all of his hosts. Jesus selected the best weapon. What was best for him is best for you. And we are called then to take this armor and to take part in the fight. But folks, not as an individual. Remember, this is The call for the whole church. All of us need to have this armor. All of us need to be ready for battle. The battle that Jesus has Fought and already won, and will finally win in the resounding last battle that will finally defeat Satan and all of our enemies. And so all we must do is stand firm. One other scholar said this I think this is helpful. With such adversaries growing in the fear of the Lord will not be a smooth process. Instead, it will be the path of warfare. We must hate our own sinful nature, and we must hate Satan. To accomplish these tasks demand the most powerful resources we have: the Word, the Spirit, and the Body of Christ. But we have all the resources we need to be effective in the battle. Father, thank you for this reminder From your word. You have given us all that we need to stand firm. And so, for those that have trust put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, let's Let them be ready to put on the whole apparel and be ready for the battle. But no, it's the battle that Jesus has already won. And Satan, our foe, is leading a limited life, already defeated, and one day cast away for all eternity. He is not a foe to be terrorized by, but he is a foe to be careful of. Help us to use our armor in these Ways, the gospel, the word of God. Give us faith and confidence. And Father, if there is those here today that don't have a relationship with Jesus, they're unpro Prepared for the battle. Help them to see their need for trust in Jesus Christ. They can have true peace. And they can be on the way winning side and enjoy that victory for all eternity. Folks, think on these things as the piano plays this morning