Can you truly say, Jesus, you're my life, my all? I belong to you. Whatever you say goes. It's a glorious sense of freedom when we're able to say that, of our Lord and Savior, who has commissioned us to give the message of the gospel to us To the world. Our kids are headed out for children's church. We're so thankful for our children's church teachers. You may turn this morning Now you might think I'm going to say Ephesians, because that's what I've been kind of building up to the past number of weeks, but actually I want you to turn to First Corinthians. The best laid plans of even pastors are subject to To how God leads. And we are gonna be looking at Ephesians, Lord willing, soon. Start a study. In that glorious book. But this message this morning comes actually out of my personal devotional time with the Lord. past couple of weeks. What what I've attempted to do over the years is study one book of the Bible in depth with a commentary or two of choice. Work my way through that. But also regularly be reading through the scriptures as a whole. And so the Lord has been leading me recently to the book of 1 Corinthians. Corinthians and as I was studying this book, the Lord just impressed upon me some truths that it's not that I never heard the truth Before, but it would impress upon me in such um uh giving it such weight that I'd never given it, and maybe an understanding that I'd not had before. And I just sensed The Lord wanting me to uh impart to you that same sense of understanding. And so we're going to be looking at First Corinthians chapter Chapter 1, starting at verse 18. The title of this is Strange and Saving Wisdom. For those of you that were in our adult Sunday school class, I so appreciate Mike's emphasis in the book of Philippians. It's been a couple weeks um since he'd been able to teach, so he kind of did a a summary of what he taught so far. And it really So, those of you in our adult Sunday school, you're kind of pre-prepped for this message, and I'm so appreciative of that. Uh do pre- Pray for the Ericssons, uh for Ruth. Uh Mike said us nothing serious, but he did uh go ahead, he left this morning. She's not feeling uh well, and so he just wants to make sure that she She's doing okay, uh though he says they'll probably be back with us tonight, but be praying for Ruth today that she feels better soon. Uh I know a lot of folks are struggling with illness and things, but we're thankful To be here this morning. One of the things that uh Dr. Mike said this morning was he was talking about the simplicity of the gospel message and how we shouldn't be Um afraid or intimidated to share the truths of the gospel. He mentioned that sometimes you hear People say things like, Well, I just don't think sharing the gospel is my gift. It's not my spiritual gift. And Mike made it clear what he felt about that when he hears that. Particular comment, you'll have to ask him. But there is reasons, and it is true, folks, really, when we want to share the gospel, it is in essence a simple thing. But it is very profound. And on the one side of it, it is true, as we heard in Sunday school this morning, it is something that we just need to do. We need to know God's word well enough that we're able to share the truths of the gospel. But what I want to show you this morning on the other side of that coin This is sometimes a struggle that we don't fully embrace or realize. And that is that the world, when we give the gospel, it is going to Going to sound weird. It's gonna sound strange. It's gonna sound bizarre. Because the way that God has chosen from eternity Eternity past to save us is not anything that we would come up with in and of ourselves. And recognition of why Christ had to die and all of these things, it is glorious to those of us who put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. But it It can be intimidating because we have to go into the reality as we share this with a darkened world that this just is gonna not make any sense at all. It's gonna sound And Paul has said this from the beginning in First Corinthians that the truth of the city is a very important thing. The gospel would sound strange, and yet that strangeness is what is saving for us. Wisdom that sounds Bizarre, and yet is our pathway to salvation. First Corinthians one eighteen For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart. Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach, through the folly of what we preach, to save those who believe. For Jews demand the signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles. Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. So I want to share with you these things that the Lord has placed on my heart. Let's go back. Well we're going to try to cover all the way through 31. Let's go back to verse Verse 18 and look at this again. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to those who are of us who are being saved, It is the power of God. It's interesting here, sometimes Paul describes our salvation in terms of something that is ongoing. That may sound strange to our ears. He says, to those who are being saved, like it's still in the process of happening. We tend to think, for those of us that know Know the gospel well, that when we put our faith in the truths of the gospel, that we are gloriously converted and we are saved from our sin, and all of that is true. And our names are written in the book of life, and it's a done deal. Nothing else that to take care of. And all of that is true. But folks, what Paul is describing Here is a process. Not that that once we're converted, once we place our faith and trust in Christ and we're saved, we are guaranteed that we're going to Heaven, that we have new life. But it is a process of over time of us recognizing the truth. We're growing in our maturity. So you have conversion. Sanctification, you have glorification. The final end of all this when Jesus returns and we receive the glorious fullness of our inheritance because we Are the adopted children of God. And our bodies are glorified. That is when we will experience the final end result of our salvation. And so that whole process, sometimes Paul can refer to that whole thing as being saved. It's being worked out in us. So I just want us to have That understanding. And all of that is the power of God working in our lives. He quotes in verse 19, Isaiah 29. He quotes from Isaiah, and in our Bibles it's Isaiah 29:14. I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and the discernment of the discerning. I will thwart. You see, all that is salvation, or conversion, are as uh we heard a Sunday school this morning. The imputation of the righteousness of Jesus Christ onto our account so that we are recognized as a child. Child of God , the maturity and the Christ-likeness that God is growing and working in us The new bodies and the eternal life that we'll experience one day, all of that package of salvation comes through a A very strange set of circumstances that to the world just sounds very weird. Perishing. Because God said all the way back in the Old Testament, verse 19, I'm going to provide salvation in a way Way that those that think they're wise, that those that think they're the smartest people in the room, I'm gonna provide salvation. I'm gonna do something that's gonna blow Their minds. That's going to make them scratch their heads. And that only those that my spirit works and gives them understanding Verse twenty. Respectably wise in our culture today. Those that people look up to, the philosophers , the intellectual Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? In Paul's day that would be the um uh referring to in a in a specific sense Uh those men that worked with Scripture, that studied Scripture, that copied Scripture, that were considered the wisest, most that the Intellectuals, let's put it that way. Whereas the debater of this age. Um my son Arden was recently able to To be a part of a competition, a debate competition. Many of you know this from this past week. He's been involved in a national group called NCFCA. It's a Christian organization that teaches young people how to speak well in front of others. Um and there's all kinds of opportunities. Um Arden has Lord has drawn him to debate and being A part of this. He has a debate partner, and they uh went up against some other uh debate teams, and it's very challenging. I went up for a day to watch him Because I just enjoy watching him be a part of this. Um these teams have their issues they've studied through, they've spent hours and hours. And days and days studying the issues and knowing every aspect because they might be called to present the positive aspect or the negative aspect and they have to be the ready to present either side. side gets to kind of tear apart their presentation. So it can be real intimidating. And you have to know your stuff. You have to be prepared. And so when these young people get up and they Express all this knowledge, it's actually it's very impressive. It's like wow, these folks know what they're talking about. Or at least they're able to act like they know what they're talking about. And it can be very actually Very nerve-wracking for the parents as they they pray for their kids. Well, debaters have a way of sounding very Very wise. I'm making it more general as Paul is here. So he's saying, Who are the wisest people among you in the world? The most respectable of wisdom in the world, and I'm going to put that versus God's wisdom. And we're going to see they're two entirely different things. Has God made not God made has not God made the foolish the wisdom of the world. You know I could describe that as basically Paul's saying, God in what he did through Christ in the gospel makes foolish, takes everything that makes sense to the world and turns it up Upside down. The wisdom of the world, how we live life, in politics, in sports, and entertainment Um in high society, success and how to get success, how to climb the ladder, all these different areas, um, you know Foreign issues and talking about uh foreign policy, the policy of nations. So much wisdom that's respected when people know their stuff. Journalists And those that are specialists and what they do. And yet, when it comes to how we can be saved through the gospel of Jesus Christ, Paul says God turns everything that makes sense. Sense to the world just totally upside down. And makes it sound just totally foolish. Verse 21 for since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach, the foolishness, the silliness of what we preach, to save those who believe. This is so fascinating to me because as I was studying this, the Lord impressed upon me the truths or the account of the book of Genesis. And do you remember how the serpent partly or part of the lie that the serpent imparted upon Eve to try to persuade her to take of the fruit? He didn't spend a lot of time talking about how beautiful the fruit smelled and looked. He spent most of the time talking to Eve about how wise she would be. In fact, she would be so wise that she would be able, she and Adam, to handle life on their own, apart from God. She would have access to And so she wouldn't need she and Adam wouldn't need God. Maybe she thought that they could give God some time off. He wouldn't have to always have to be bothering with them. I don't know. But the point was is that Satan Satan was presenting a wisdom, a worldly wisdom that could somehow be equal to God's wisdom. And here in verse twenty-one in chapter one, Paul Paul's saying that worldly wisdom that Satan promised is no match for the wisdom of God. So from the very beginning, Eve bought the lie. And mankind has been buying the lie ever since that apart from God we can be wise and have true understanding. No, that's what Satan tried to put on us, tried to sell us all those years ago. Go in the garden. And Paul says, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom. That wisdom, really, that Satan promised. But in order to know God and to be saved Saved, we have to subject ourselves and humble ourselves to his wisdom, no matter how crazy it sounds. What is that wisdom? Verse 2 You probably remember in the time of Christ Pharisees constantly asking for more signs, right? And Jesus in his time would work a miracle, and that wouldn't be enough for those religious leaders overall, in a general sense, for the Jewish People. It didn't matter what miracles Jesus came up with or was able to accomplish, and they were purposeful, they always wanted to see more. They wanted to see the visual. The powerful signs of God. And the Greeks seek wisdom. The Greeks were by the Jews considered the pagans, not just the rest. But here Paul's referring to the Greeks that love to debate and love to philosophize and love to talk about their theories of how the world works and how things came. into being. And they love to sound very knowledgeable and intellectual and they like to have, you know, degrees after their names. I'm kind of Bringing that in today's philosophy, right? In today's picture. But these Greeks loved their wisdom. And God says it If I could put it this way, forget all that. 's What I'm going to give you is your avenue for salvation is a crucified Messiah. But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to the Jews, and folly to the Gentiles. Why is that? We read this, I'm sure, I'm sure this sounds familiar to all of us. But think through that. Why was this such a stumbling block? This is so important Important to what I am presenting this morning. A stumbling block to the Jews. Because what did the Jews expect? What were they waiting for? A powerful, anointed one of God. That would come and relieve their subjectivity to an oppressive power, which was the Roman Empire, and that he would lead them To victory and his power and his signs. He would force and take captivity captive. And he would Set himself on the throne and be the king of the Jews. They wanted signs. They wanted power. The last thing the Jews wanted to see was their Messiah and Savior crucified in the most terrible manner known to man for uh as as the worst of all criminals. When the The Jews saw Jesus on the cross, they saw failure. There's no glory, there's no power in a crucified Messiah. Well, that's crazy And the G the Greeks. Oh, the Greeks looked at a criminal, a a prosecuted Punished criminal crucified on a cross. And they looked at that and said, that's ridiculous. Nobody wants a hero. That 's condemned for crimes of humanity. Bleeding, suffering there, being mocked. Nobody wants that kind of hero. That's not inspirational that doesn't motivate and so it's a folly to the Gentiles. In fact, it's interesting really to bring up the crucifix Fiction of Christ at all in civilized conversation over dinner or whatever was an embarrassing breach of etiquette. You just don't do that. You don't talk about crucified criminals when you're trying to sound wise and when you're trying to have civilized conversation with other people. At this time It was repugnant to do so. Something that's much less repugnant, but something that sticks out in my mind a story uh when I was a young adult um serving the Lord in a church in Central Florida. We would go out to eat a lot at different places on Sunday. I would go with friends and other families. We had a group in the church that loved to go out to eat. After the morning service. We'd go to Olive Garden and other places many times. And I had a wonderful wonderful um process where I I I didn't gain a lot of weight, but I was able to keep it off so I could eat whatever I wanted to at that time in my life, right? And it didn't show. So it's like Like, bring on the food. So I would always when we go to Olive Garden, I would order that wonderful um cream sauce, the Alfredo sauce with the breadsticks. Now I know folks, I know it's getting close to noon. It's already making you hungry, right? Um but I l I loved that. And at that time again, um it didn't really put on the pounds um because I was a young, vibrant guy so I didn't have to worry about that as much. Um so I ordered that one time and we were with a group and I was sitting next to the youth pastor's wife and I dipped my breadstick in that Alfredo sauce and enjoyed it. And I thought that was so good. I immediately went to dipping in again. And she stopped me. And I could tell as I looked at her, she was embarrassed. And she said, Oh, Brock, you don't You don't bite into your breadstick and then dip it back in again. That's double dipping. That's that's terrible. And I started to feel really bad about that Until I remembered that I had paid for that sauce. And that sauce was mine. She thought that it was kind of somebody else had paid for it and they were letting me me you know just do one time and I was taking advantage of that in actuality I was like I so I I turned to her and I said actually um and she was a very nice lady but I said that I paid for this This is mine. So it's okay. And she got a look of relief on her face, and you know, everything was okay after that. And then I let other people double dip into my sauce. It's like, I don't care. But I was reminded that there was a possible breach of etiquette that was really embarrassing to some people. And we were out together. Well, folks, this is what Paul is saying is that to talk about a savior that is crucified with people is a breach of etiquette. You just don't do that. And really, we can understand this, right? If you're out to eat with someone or you get invited over to someone's house, really, out of all the things that you want to converse about, probably Probably if there's a headline about some sort of gruesome murder and you know the terrible details, is something that you don't normally want your house guest to come in and and talk about in detail all the Gruesome aspects of a murder and that kind of thing that you just read in the paper. It's just kind of off-putting for civilized conversation, right? And yet, isn't that what we're called to do when we tell people about the gospel? Is to talk about a crucified Messiah that literally had to shed his blood so that we could have redemption and cleansing from sin. The gospel of Jesus Christ at some point forces us to go beyond On civilized conversation and talk about the blood of Christ. We may, people may hear us sing about the power in the blood. The power of the blood of Jesus Christ. And that may be for some of you some of your favorite hymns. And there may be some relatives in your family that hear us sing that or hear you sing that, and they say, oh, you know. That's always that's grandpa, grandma's favorite hymn, power in the blood. But you know, as and if they really were to think about it, what does that mean though? That there's power and and Somebody believing that's actually really kind of gross. You see, for us that understand the truths of God's word, it's It's glorious, it's sweet. But for a world out there who's rejected God, it's disgusting, really Verse twenty-four for those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom You see, what to the world is terrible and disturbing and awkward. For those of us Who have been sovereignly saved, who have been called to salvation by our Heavenly Father through the work of Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit has helped us to understand the truths of The gospel, oh folks, it's the sweetest message that we could hear. Of course, we would talk about a crucified Messiah Messiah, because through his death and his resurrection, we are gloriously saved. Our sins are dealt with with that precious blood. Of course we would want to talk about that. Of course we would want to sing about that and glory in that It's the power of God and the wisdom of God. And yet, verse 25: for the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is Is stronger than men. That word foolishness, actually in the Greek, some of you may know this, it has it's the same word that we get the more word moronic from. From moron. And it really describes things that just are nonsensical, that don't make any sense to us at all. And so So let's put that into the understanding of this verse for the foolishness, the things that don't make sense to the world. God uses those things. That's wiser than anything man can come up with. There's the answer to the lie that Satan gave to Eve. The things that seem the strangest and weirdest to the wisdom Of the world that confront the wisdom of the world is actually the things that are the most glorious and the most powerful. So take that, Satan. Take your lie back to where it came from. And the weakness of God is stronger than men. That word for weakness is feeble, lacking strength. It is something that fails to impress. It is a weakling and someone that you wouldn't ever look to for salvation normally. Someone that's not very impressive. Someone that in their speech Does not really have the power of persuasion. Someone who is weak. And God says these are the Things that I use, and through me they are powerful than anything man can ever come up with. God uses, if I could put it this way, God uses the things in our world today They they don't pull well. A crucified Messiah, one that suffers as a criminal The worst possible, the most terrible death that a criminal could face. Shed blood of Christ, and this provides salvation, folks. Is it a surprise to you that that sort of thing doesn't pull well in politics and in our world? And trying to gain success? It sounds moronic. It sounds feeble. Where's the power? Where's the glory? And yet God uses these things to remind that He is more powerful than the could ever imagine. And God uses very weak vessels to procla Proclaim this message. I'm going to go through the next few verses a little more quickly because I want to end pretty quickly. Verse 26. For consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were wise according to worldly standards. You're not the most intellectual. Probably no one in here is ever going to be recognized. As the greatest intellectual the world has ever produced. Probably none of us in here is ever going to get our face on Life magazine as the most important person. Of the year, right? Not many of you are wise according to worldly standings. Not many were powerful. Not many were of noble birth. There's no superheroes here. our perspective. We like we like the stor and the world likes the stories of the Greek gods and you know even modern day superheroes, the Norse gods and mythology. Where they come from royalty and they wear the robes and they have the power. And Paul says, God chooses to use none of those. That impress the world many times. But God, now this will make you feel good. You ready for a verse that will really up um your your your person Personal sense of worth. Read this verse. But God chose what is foolish. He chose the morons of the world to share in the wise. God chose what is weak in the world To shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. How's your self-esteem right now? And folks, yet you may not like that description, but that is a description of all of us. Because to the The world were nothings. We're of little importance. We seem feeble. We seem of little value And yet, God uses us to proclaim the greatest message and the most important message the world has ever heard. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being may boast in the presence of God. And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. Folks, why I'm gonna put I'm gonna put something out here that for your consideration, I want you to go away from this message. This morning, for those of you that have trusted in Christ, and I want you to feel a sense of importance but humble importance. And all Also a sense of reveling in the fact that God uses those of us that seem foolish and weak and moronic to the world. I want you to glory in your weakness because folks what Paul is saying here is through our weakness and our lack of ability, God is going to show those that think they are And those on the magazine covers, and those that have the power, God is going to turn their world upside down, and He's going to bring all that impressive wisdom of the world. And I don't know about you, but that motivates me to think that God could use somebody as weak and as Fable feeble as myself to overturn the conceptions of the world and one day for all the arrogant people and the arrogant rulers and the nations and all these things, for God to use us and show these people to turn their world upside down and see his power through us. It's a privilege to be a Feeble one. It's a privilege to be one of the weak. Because it's those kind of people who recognize their need for Jesus that God uses. In powerful ways. Verse 30: because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. Let's just quickly look at those those words. See, these are words that we wouldn't use if we were writing the story of our best hero or of of savior that we We think would be impressive. Righteousness, what does that mean? That means that there are no good people, and that we must have a righteousness dependent upon Jesus Christ. Christ, because there's not a one of us that can actually be good. There's not a one of us that deserved to be on a magazine cover for something great. Because none of us are good people. None of us have good hearts We need the righteousness of Jesus Christ, who was the only good person, who lived and followed and obeyed God's law to perfection because of his Death and his resurrection, we he took on our sin on the cross and we get his righteousness, but it's only because of what he's done. It's not anything that we can do. That doesn't pull well in our society today. That we're actually all really bad people that all have a great need for Jesus who is crucified. Is it a wonder that people look at us kind of strange? Or how about sanctification for the Christian? The realization that even though I've trusted Christ, I need to Depend upon the Holy Spirit every single day for spiritual growth. And if I try to live for Christ on my own without the power of Jesus Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit. Getting up every day and saying, Lord, help me to live life as you have me to live. That I if I don't rely on His power, that I'm gonna fail. That's not a very um exciting message for those of us that like to do things on our own and and like to be self-sufficient. No, I can't be self-sufficient at all. I'm Totally dependent upon the Spirit of God. And I better start acting like it. And then finally, redemption, the idea that we are all criminals that are in That are facing eternity in hell as punishment for our sins, and that we need Jesus to redeem us and to save us from that punishment Nobody wants to hear that they're a criminal worthy of the worst kind of death. And yet, Paul says here, this is the wisdom of God that we preach. And that we need to be reminded of. And so, really, folks, have you not heard uh many times, I think there's even a movie, when it talks about the glories of what Jesus did Many times it's referred to as the greatest story ever told. Well, that's inspiring. That's a wonderful way to put that. And we understand why it's the greatest story ever told. But folks Folks, we need to have a more discernment is that when the world hears that story of the death of Jesus Christ and all that he suffered and then his resurrection It's not the greatest story ever told to a world that's rejected God. It's the most awkward, uncomfortable story ever told. It's stran Strange and bizarre. And so we may look at this and say, Um, Jesus, I know that whole Great Commission thing. supposed to share the gospel and we're supposed to make disciples and it's all through your power, but this message is really kind of awkward and it's intimidating to share and it's it's Embarrassing. Why why would you choose this path of wisdom for us to proclaim our Savior through? Verse thirty one, so that As it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. And that's really where it comes down to is that when we proclaim When we tell other people, when we preach a Savior who is crucified and who is risen again, and people put their faith and trust in the truths of the gospel, we stand back and say Say that wasn't me. That was all God. Nothing I can boast in. I couldn't have come up with this story. I couldn't have come up with this way. Of salvation on my own. No, this was tirely of God. There's no pat on the back for me. So as we finish my meditations that came from a recent devotional study back to where I started. Folks, in the end, why is it hard to share our faith? Because Back to what Paul's saying here, I think many times it's just embarrassing. Nobody wants to sound foolish. Nobody wants to sound weird. Nobody wants to share their faith and then turn around and have their co-workers kind of sm uh snicker and mock and pfft, yeah, they're what what's that all about? Cleansing of blood, Jesus dying on a cross. It's really strange. It's the last hero I'd want to have. Certainly not my savior. See, we don't want to have to go And folks, in the end, in order to be a proper testimony for Christ, this is what we have to do. We have to resign ourselves ourselves to the fact as Paul's saying here that when we share our faith that it is going to sound strange and alien and bizarre to a world that 's a Rejected Jesus. And therefore, when somebody does respond, you know it's not anything that you did. It's not anything that I did. But you know the Holy Spirit is working in their hearts to help them to understand because nobody could understand this apart from the work of God in their lives. And I want that to be an encouragement to us. So often we depend upon the wisdom that we hear in the world. Whether in news stories or journalists or sports stars or Hollywood actors, and we hear all this wisdom and we tend to get drawn into that and say, see, this is This is the ladder of success. This is the way to success. And we have to remind ourselves, no, we've been called to point people to success and salvation. Salvation that they need through Christ in a way that doesn't sound very palatable and successful at all. But that's our calling. Next week is pray, Lord, help me to be bold. As Mike Erickson said this morning in Sunday school, just share it. Share the simple truths of the gospel. But then don't expect people to just be loud and amazed at your wisdom. Pray instead, Lord. Please use this gospel that sounds so foolish and moronic and strange. Help them to see the glorious reality of their need for Jesus and save them. Them through the power of the Spirit, not through my glorious presentation, but through the glorious power of the Spirit, help them to understand the glorious Foolishness of the truth of the gospel and their need for Christ. And I'm convinced when we have that kind of attitude, I think that sharing our faith might go a little easier. Well maybe not easier. But maybe it might embolden you to do better. To remind yourself, you know, they're probably not going to get it. That's for God to work. I just need to be faithful and sharing. And then marvel when God uses the foolishness and weakness of his servants. To do powerful things and to literally upset the world. Folks, don't you want to see the wisdom of the world turned upside down? I do. And one day that will fully happen when Jesus returns, but until that point I will gladly share the gospel and I'll let people kind of look at me strange because I know Their wisdom, matter from nothing, Evolution. and the right. I can be whatever gender I want to be. All these things are really, in reality, the real foolishness. But for those of us that are followers of Christ, we have the true wisdom, and we ought to boldly and gladly proclaim that to a world that destined Father, thank you for impressing upon my heart this truth, these truths this morning. Because Lord, I'll admit it, there's sometimes I get embarrassed. We don't. We're fallen, broken people, Lord, and we struggle with Wanting to look wise and great and um respected And yet that's the last thing that you've called us to. You've called us to humble ourselves in need to Christ. Trust in Him And proclaim him. That the fool that your foolishness would indeed triumph over the foolishness of the world And the lie of Satan about the wisdom that he promised would be shown for what it is: a lie and a falsehood. Father, give us boldness and confidence to share the foolishness of your wisdom with the world. And let you do the work through the power of the Spirit. And rejoice when people see the light of the truth of the gospel. Folks, either one or two things this morning. Before the piano plays, I want you to reflect on. Number one, have you trusted in the foolishness of the message of the gospel? Because that is the only way to salvation. And it is the only saving wisdom that you have. You must trust Jesus this morning and humble yourself before that message. Would you do that if you don't Know Jesus this morning, would you just humble yourselves before the truths of the gospel? And then for the rest of us, we really need to come to a moment where we Say, you know, I'm gonna stop trying to sound impressive and respectable and powerful. I'm just gonna share the gospel and let God do with it what he would. If people mock me, if people Tease me that's okay. It doesn't make sense to them. Of course, they would do that. But help me to be true to the gospel message. You work through these things and you Your heart with the Lord while the piano is played