Relationship and our faith in Christ we hold fast to the anchor that will that promises to bring us through that anchor that Sure and steady anchor of Christ. He will never be removed. And he will go with us and bring us into eternity and remove us one day from all the suffering and the pain. Pain. Believers all over the world and throughout all time will experience that wonderful deliverance. And so So we stay steady, we stay committed, we look for opportunities to share the faith of Christ. Move forward in strength and in confidence that he will work. Well, back to Habakkuk for one final time. Habakkuk chapter 3, looking through verses 13 through 13. 19 this morning. And as we finish up this book this morning, we need to do a quick summary, a reminder of where we've come. We need to do it quickly. But again, this book began with a unique set of circumstances or unique expectation. And that is that the prophet Habakkuk expected that God would answer his questions. Again, instead of God giving a prophet a message that he would give to his people, the prophet and probably message Many of the people that he served have a message and a question, had questions for God. And that first question in chapter one was, Lord, why do you allow your people to get away with sin? And do such terrible things to each other. Well, God's answer to Habakkuk was I have a timing. I have a timetable, a plan that's different from yours, Habakkuk. But in my time I will deal with my people. And I'm going to send actually this enemy nation, the Chaldeans, later we would know them as the Babylonians, unto Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar to come and deal quite extremely completely with my people. And they will know that the first time I was a very good idea. And so Habakkuk's second question is, Lord, how can you use pagan people who are arrogant and worship themselves to accomplish your purposes? That doesn't seem right. Unfaithful people who don't even name your name. You're going to use them as tools of discipline for your people? Seems like there should be a better way. What if the how are those people what if they think they get away with it, Lord, and they're arrogant and they don't recognize you? And so God's second answer in chapter two was a little bit extended, but he said, Habakkuk, I know that Those who are mine and those who are my enemies, and there will come a time where I will deal with my enemy incomplete In a complete and full way. And they will know that I am God. And so, Habakkuk's second question with Answered, and then he has he turns in this third chapter to this marvelous song and prayer where he humbles himself before God and says, God, I understand now. I'm reminded of who you are and that in your time you do all things well. And so it's a reminder for us that it's appropriate. We can go to God with our questions and our doubts. We need To. But we must not demand the answers that we want from him. We must listen to his responses through his word. And through the prompting of the Holy Spirit. And then we must humble ourselves in faith, believing that He will work all things out for His purposes. Because he is sovereign and as well for our ultimate good. And Habakkuk comes to that extent, that that position, where he says, I have heard the report of you and of your work, O Lord. do I fear. I'm in my right place again, Lord. I'm submitted before you. And God then gives him this uh powerful vision of God's appearing in the south and coming towards him. as a mighty warrior getting his bows ready. Remember this, the arrows ready and his bow and pronouncing oaths over them that they would hit the targets of the And we saw ver this very vividly described, and we'll continue to see that this morning. And we saw that Habakkuk trembled as the judgment, and the whole earth trembled, and the The mountains tried to move away as the judgment of God came toward the enemies of God. And then we were reminded last week as well that ultimately Ultimately, who took the arrows of judgment that were meant for God's enemies? Folks, Jesus took those arrows. And he took the Full wrath and judgment of God on Himself and offers us His righteousness and salvation from eternal judgment judgment. And we marveled at that and rejoiced in that. We'll turn uh we're gonna start again at verse thirteen as we finish today and Habakkuk continues. To give us this description of this vision of God coming in judgment. And He's going to show us that we can have strength in the day of trouble. Trouble was coming. And Habakkuk trembled as it grew as it came closer to him, and yet at the same time he was reminded that he could have strength in that day of trouble. And folks, no matter what we face we can have strength as well. In the end, as we see this morning, Habakkuk is going to ask us to do something. He's going to ask us to imagine some of the worst things That could possibly happen to us. Now we all have a list. Don't tell me you don't. Every individual in this room has things that you fear. And you You have a worst case scenario. Oh, I hope of all things this doesn't happen and this doesn't happen. We have that for our country even. Habakkuk. had that for his country. And he's going to challenge us with if those worst-case scenarios happen to you, could you and I still trust God? That's a question you have to answer. Because judgment is coming and we need to have strength to win. Wait on God in troubled times. God will save his people. Verse 13. You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointing. You crushed the head of the wicked, the house of the wicked. You lay laying him bare from neck to thigh. God would deal with the enemy and provide salvation. Salvation. And again, as we saw from the New Testament, that would ultimately mean that his son would take the enemy's punishment. And through Jesus Christ. God would provide salvation for our sin in a way that Habakkuk really couldn't have even imagined. He spoke more truth and wrote more truth than even what he understood. But folks, there will come a time in the future when the offer of salvation through Christ will come come to an end and judgment will come. Continue to read through verse 14. You pierced them. This is a very vivid description. I know we have the children with us today. You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You trampled the sea with your horse. horses, the surging of the mighty waters. Remember in our studies before how God um described these enemies as uh the Babylonians As pagan people who were arrogant, who trusted in no one but their own power, and had no concern for the enemies that they trampled over. Habakkuk reminds us of their attitudes in verse 14, these enemies came in power like a tornado to scatter us. And they rejoiced as they made the enemy suffer, as they made God's people suffer. The enemy in his arrogant ways rejoiced over that. They rejoiced in devouring those weaker than them. And Habakkuk then said God, how can you let these people do this and be successful? And now he says, I see the end. I see that in the end you Will deal with them in a very violent and dramatic way. They will experience your judgment, but your people Will be saved. God will save his people, but God will judge his enemies. The his description here in verse 15 is like a mighty flood. If you've ever historically heard of historical accounts or seen in the news about A flood or tsunami that literally wipes out everything in its path. This picture here is of God's power that's going to wipe out everything in its path. His plan to save his people. And so we get to verse 16, and Habakkuk, the man of God, is overwhelmed as you might feel a little overwhelmed. This morning, as you read through these passages of judgment and listen to this description of himself, I hear, and my body trembles, and my lips quiver at the sound Rottenness enters into my bones, and my legs tremble beneath me. This is a prophet that is greatly troubled, so much that it is affecting him physically. I think that's obvious in his description here. What would affect him so violently as he knows that even though judgment's coming on his people On God's people, God is bringing judgment on his people. Habakkuk knows that. Why is he so troubled in this? I mean, this literally describes Habakkuk as being shaken, almost And unable to stand. He's totally wiped out with fear and terror. What would cause that? Well, in one sense, it shouldn't surprise us as he is viewing the glory of God that he would respond in this way. Way. Do you remember in Isaiah chapter 6 how Isaiah responded to the vision of God's glory? What did Isaiah say? Verse 5 and chapter 6. 6. Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Folks, in the Old Testament, when the prophets were privileged of seeing a vision of God's glory, they were still sobered by it and in awe and respectful of it. And it caused a holy fear and incapacitation against with them. And so that seems very well what happened with Habakkuk. As he sees the glory of the Lord coming forth in terrible judgment, he withers. What do you do? So the question is: when God's people are incapacitated by fear, what are they supposed to do? What is the proper response to just continue to tremble and be terrorized? No, Habakkuk remembers the truth of God for his people. And he says at the end of verse 17. Verse 16, yet, yet in the midst of my fear and trembling, I will quietly wait for the day of trouble. To come upon the people who invade us. And so Habakkuk shores up his strength And find strength in the truth of the fact that even though judgment is coming against God's people and it will be terrible, remember the Babylonians would come and they would literally take God's people. The glory and the majesty of that temple would be through thrown into ruin by the Babylonians, and God would take his the people to a land far away, and they would be there many, many years. And they would go where they didn't want to go. So that would cause God's people to tremble. And we can understand Habakkuk being fearful. But then he reminds himself that God is in control and that one day God will make all things right and that The answers that God has given me is a reminder that these arrogant people that are acting in not acting in the best interests of God's people, the That don't seem to care, that seem to love to produce chaos and murder and maybe even genocide, those folks won't Win. But they will one day face the ultimate judge, the ultimate divine warrior. And Habakkuk says with that understanding, the fact of reminder that my God is just, I can wait. I may not like what God's gonna do, but He'll give me strength to endure and to wait for the final Salvation of his people. The first aspect of that, folks, would be Jesus coming. Jesus providing spiritual salvation for his people. But we still await another coming, don't we? We await the second coming in the midst of the brokenness of the things that we experience today that make us tremble and make us. fearful the right response that we must have is I will patiently wait for God's timetable I will not demand I will not arrogantly put my hand, my fist in the air, and demand that God do something that I want Him to do, but I will wait, knowing that Jesus will return. In one day, and we'll make everything right. Folks, are we willing to hold on to our faith in Christ in that way that no matter what happens to us Individually, or as a country, or as a nation, or in our world, that we can be stabilized and wait Habakkuk knew that he could have strength to wait on God in troubled times, but we still have more to look at here as we end this Book this morning, Habakkuk's gonna see not only that he could wait, but this is kind of mind-blowing that he could rejoice, that he could actually have joy joy in the midst of some of the world. And that's what he's going to list in verses 17 through 19. He's going to list some of the worst things that he and that he his nation could imagine. So let me just ask you this morning, what are some of the worst possible things that you could list that could happen to you? How about to our country? Can we trust God no matter what could happen to our own country in the future? Habakkuk is looking at the very um his very country being shaken to its core and being taken away from its homeland. What might Well, Habakkuk makes a list of possible scenarios starting from the least to the most concerning. So let's look at this. Verse 17. seventeen. Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines, the produce of the olives fail, and the fields yield no food The flock be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls. Now, those may not sound like things that really cause you to shake and be fearful about. But let's just very briefly discuss what's what he's talking about here. First of all, the fig tree should not blossom. Well, figs in the in the promise Promised land in the Middle East are a delicacy and a beloved treat. So there would be some sort of loss if they had no more figs, but it would be a hardship. It'd be a disappointment It wouldn't be earth-shattering. But then he says, no fruit beyond the vines. Probably refuse Referring to grapes and vineyards, and grapes from the vine were part of their daily drink. It helped as well to uh purify their water. Water. If they lost the their vineyards entirely, it would be a great inconvenience, but they could survive. So the loss of figs, the loss of vineyards. But then he says the field, the produce of the olive fail, and now it's getting a little more severe because losing an olive crop To the Israelis was a much greater concern because they would use that oil for cooking and lighting. And they would use it for many of their daily activities. And so to lose that not have access to the olive, that would be a much greater concern and a hardship. But he's not done yet. The fields yield no food. Now he's talking about loss of grain from the Fields, all of their crops gone in an instant. I think we can understand that that would be devastating to these people. It would be devastating. Here. And Habakkuk says, These are my worst-case scenarios. But he's not done yet. Even worse, and there be no herd in the stalls. And now he's talking Talking about the livestock that would make up much of the wealth of the Jewish nation, they were basically what? Shepherds and farmers. And sheep and cattle were used then for food, for clothing, manual labor, the preparing of the soil, planting. And we get to the end of this list. And I think we have a better understanding of what Habakkuk is saying here, or we should. You see, one or two of those losses would be hard. It would be difficult. But all of them at one time that would be total loss financially Catastrophe. Habakkuk in those few verses is actually describing the financial ruin of his nation. What What could be much more devastating than that, folks? So, what's on your list of greatest fears? Could it possibly Possibly be even the financial ruin of our own country. I don't need to tell you this. Increase of national debt, war on fossil fuels. The inflation of the dollar, the weakening workforce, higher taxation. If you really want to get um conspiratorial. A lot of food processing plants just kind of disappearing. What could happen in our own country? You see, we have our own list Of things that are important to us and that cause us great angst and maybe fear. In anyone's country, to lose their homeland would Be one of the greatest fears they could imagine. But Habakkuk is saying my trust should certainly not even be in my own national And folks, today Habakkuk's reminding us our ultimate trust shouldn't be in our own national economy either. Who should it be in? Who do we trust in the most desperate times of devastating loss? Well all you have to do, I think it's still on our dollar bill, is it not? of our dollar bills still give us the answer. Who do we trust if we lose it all? Our ultimate trust is in God. We trust. The warrior who will protect his people. But it's what's amazing here as we finish up is the Habakkuk doesn't talk about just trusting And hanging on. But look what he says in verse 18: yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. Okay, trust this one thing when the worst possible Possible things in our lives happen, but joy? Maybe Habakkuk was you know a little um suffering from the heat or suffering from just uh being fearful. Maybe he wasn't in the right mind. No, this is the Holy Spirit giving us this message through Habakkuk. And Habakkuk says here, this word for rejoice is really a jubilant exaltation. of the seeing of the defeat of one's foe. And the prophet said, Even if I lose everything I will sincerely rejoice because I know the end of the story and I know God will take care of things in His way, in His Time, and I then have an enthusiastic joy. This word for joy is with emotion that would cause one to twirl or get excited. Remarkable. That in the midst of his greatest loss and what he was facing, Habakkuk could say, and yet I anticipate with joy that God will come with my salvation. And folks, that's the answer then. Could we really have joy in the midst of some of the things that would be the worst Scenarios to what can happen to us and maybe our country? We certainly can. Because folks, our hope isn't ultimately even in the United States of America. Who is our hope in? Jesus Christ. And so this is a good reminder for us. As we tend to get things switched up sometimes and mixed around in our own minds, regardless of what happens this year politically, we have an election coming up, a lot of un We don't even know what's going to happen tomorrow, next week. We don't know how this year is going to end. Do we fear? Are we in a panic? Are we almost comatose? Like Habakkuk. Well, if we do, we need to remember that God is sovereign and that He will bring all things to right and to justice in His His time. And so what does Habakkuk say at the end of the book this morning? Take heart in verse 19. God the Lord is my strength. He is my dependence. He is the one that I rely on. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on my high places. And you may say, Well, I don't understand how being made to walk or run like a deer would really be that stabilizing, Pastor Brock. I'm kind of missing, I think I'm missing the analogy here. The analogy is uh a female deer in a high mountainous Place that God has enabled her or that deer to have the ability to be stable in the midst of a precarious, difficult situation. And so Habakkuk says here, make me to be stabilized in the midst of very difficult and unstable situations. Lord, make me Stable through a reminder of who you are and the salvation that you will bring, and that I can tread on the highest places, on the highest mountain. You will keep me sure. Footed and stable, even when all around me seems precarious and scary. There was a man named Diedrich Bonhoeffer. He was a believer, a Christian scholar, theologian in Germany during Hitler's reign. And he did not sympathize with the Nazis, but he did what he could to um oppose the Nazi philosophy and help the Jewish people. I don't have Have time to get into his story. I read his biography a few years ago. It's a marvelous read. But in the end, he was taken away from his family, imprisoned, and eventually Eventually, some Nazi enthusiast took his life and he went home to be with the Lord. Right before that happened, he wrote this maybe, maybe less than Than a year before he passed away and lost his life. And it's a reminder and it kind of sums up what we've talked about this morning. This is one Wonderful in its depth, he said, Should it be ours to drain the cup of grieving, even to the dregs of pain at thy command? We will not falter, thankfully receiving all that is given by the Thy loving hand, but on the other hand, should it be thy will once more to release us to life's enjoyment and its good sunshine, that which we have learned from sorrow shall increase us. And our life be dedicated as thine. And Bonhoeffer said, if I lose everything, I've lost nothing because I still And if He is merciful enough to deliver me from this present circumstance, then I will remember that and go forth. And every day I'm able to look at the sunshine. I will rejoice in Jesus Christ. Folks, whatever our greatest fears are, We can trust in Christ Jesus for our strength to endure and to grow us while knowing that his full eternal deliverance is at hand and we can depend on his strength. And yes, we can even rejoice that the Savior is coming. So, as you look at your list of worst possible scenarios. Are you going to tremble in fear? Or are you going to tremble in anticipation? That Jesus will one day deliver us. For those who have trusted in Him and have relationship with Him, He will bring us Home. We can bank on that. Father, as we end this book and marvel at the glorious truths Help us to remember, no matter what we face, that you can provide stability and keep us sure footed in the most tumultuous and chaotic of times. Habakkuk was reminded of that, and we need that reminder this morning. And folks, my prayer is that even as Leslie plays here now, Now that if you are anxious or fearful or trembling as a believer about things that are going on in your life, or you're not even you're worried about what's going to happen to the country by the end of the year. We understand. But don't let it shake you. Take time now to let the Holy Spirit deal with your fear and remind you of your stability in Christ. And if there is anyone here who still doesn't know Jesus Christ as their as their Savior and they have no stability, you have uh full terror and fear of the future because you You don't know how you're going to survive. Folks, today, let that be the day that you turn to Christ. Come talk to me. Come talk to some of our leadership around Here, Vitaly and others, and make sure that you know that how you can have relationship with Christ and be sure-footed regardless of what comes. And know that you will have eternity with God through what Christ Christ accomplish for us and provide forgiveness of sins. Let today be the day that you take care of that in your heart. Let's take some time to deal with our hearts as Leslie plays.