My voice to get stronger in Sunday school and then it I don't know where it went. I I did walk downstairs to see it downstairs and no I didn't have any More donuts, so here we go. But I tell you right now, I am not made for the platform, okay? So if you don't mind, I'm gonna come down. And I feel great. I do. So don't feel like I'm feeling terrible. I'm just glad that I got to be with you and it'll get stronger and stronger as we go. In fact, because it gets stronger While I'm preaching, I'm just gonna preach for four hours, okay? Um, I have three license in my pocket already unlapped, uh unwrapped. And unless I reach down and grab a button instead. When they're gone I'm done. Okay? Here we go. You don't get the button thing, do you? Didn't you hear about the preachers that put a button in his pocket? And uh he thought he had a cough drop in his mouth. And when the cough drop was done, he quit preaching. But he put a button in his mouth. And six hours later he kept Preaching okay, because it never melted down. Struggle. You ever struggle in your walk with God? Do you ever struggle with maybe consistency in Bible reading? Do you ever struggle in your prayer life? Is temptation to you a struggle? You know, so often we see this word, and we think, oh. He's a mess because he struggles. No. Struggle is a good word. If you're struggling, you haven't. Quit. If you're struggling, you haven't thrown in the towel. If you're struggling to walk with God, you've never ever given up. I wrestled in high school. And I still remember Coach Kane to me, we're gonna play a rival team. He goes, Hummel, um Saturday night, you're gonna wrestle the state champ in your wake. class. I said, do I have a chance? He said, nope, he's gonna kill you. But he said it's gonna be so close if you can somehow just Just please keep from getting pinned. And if you know anything about wrestling, you get points for reversals and takedowns and all that. I went out on that mat and I ran Until he couldn't catch me, and then I did everything I could to make sure that I and I did. I made it all the way through, and we did win the map. So if you're struggling, please. Please, don't quit. Don't give up. You say, Rand, sometimes I feel like I fall more than I get back up. The difference between A God-fearing, godly individual is not how many times they fall. It's how many times they get back up. Though just man falls seven times, he will rise up. Again, don't quit struggling. The grace of God that brings salvation hath appeared to all men. Do you remember that day? Do you remember the day You were overwhelmed with your own wickedness, and you cried out to God and you asked him to forgive you, and he did. For some of you, maybe it was a couple months ago. For some of you, I'm looking around, it could have been 120 years ago. But for s many of us, do you remember that day? Let me give you sixty seconds to turn to the person next to you and tell Tell him how many years you have been a child of God. Go sweet Okay, look this way. Sixty-four years you've been a believer. Wow. You're only sixty-five now. That was pretty young. Sixty-two rock Forty seven. Forty seven. You still get excited. I hope you do. And I shared this with the teens yesterday, but I gotta tell you. Just a couple weeks ago I was preaching In Canada, and it was a youth retreat like we did yesterday, very similar. But they had some visitors, and there was a girl from the Ukraine, she was 14. And And um her family was able to be over here for just one year, something to do with her dad's work, and then they had to go back. So we talked a little bit about the difficulties of living in Ukraine. And I asked her, I said, How long have you been a Christian? She goes, Not long. I said, How did you become a Christian? I and she didn't know English really well. She says, I I not know who God is or Jesus. I find Bible. I read Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. They tell me all about Jesus and what he did for me and I'm not kidding. Here's a teenager, 14 years of age. She started jumping up and down her toes. And now I get to talk to him every day. And I stood there so confused. Because I don't jump up my toes up and down because I get to talk to my Jesus every day. So sometimes we lose that Joy. But the grace of God that brings salvation, it doesn't stop at salvation. That grace, that divine enablement, that God working In our heart, it continues all the way through your growth or through your sanctification. See what it does? It teaches us now that Rying on godliness and worldly us, we can live seriously, soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world today, right now. The grace of God that saves us again. In God's unmerited, undeserved favor, He does the same thing to keep us living for Him. God is able to make all grace abound towards you That you always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. We're going to read this again, but when I stop, I want you to say the next word, okay? And God God is able to make grace abound toward you that you having sufficiency in things may abound to good work. Always, all every say, all always, all again, all just the ladies Just a men? Teens and kids Everybody. All always. All the time. Every time. Always. Folks, there's never, ever, ever a time. When God doesn't offer his enabling, his powerful grace to us ever. Whatever temptation we face, whatever trial we get put under, God's divine enablement. And what does that mean? Well, probably one of the best definitions that I know of grace is Philippians 2 13. It is God who works in you both to Will and to do of his good pleasure. What really, really pleases God? That God works in us undeservedly To will and to do. He will give you not just the to-do, that's the power, but the will. He'll make you want to do what is right. How many of you want to stay pure for your marriage partner? Let me see your hands. Sweet. That's not normal. That's not normal In our world today. Just your desire to stay pure is already the grace of God working in your life. Isn't that cool? He makes you want to please him and then he enables you to be able to please him. And our prayer obviously is the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. So if if you really believe in the all always all all every then my question is this What would hinder me from being a recipient of God's enabling grace? If God says, I'll give you my grace every time, all the time. Why do we fail so much? Why do we struggle and give in so much? There is an answer to this question Question Here it is. He giveth more grace. Wherefore he says, God resisteth the who say it. And he gives his grace to who Oh yes, I need another coffee. Wow. He gives his grace only to the humble. So what does it mean to be proud? And if we are proud individuals, if we're proud dads, proud moms Proud teenagers, proud kids, proud grandparents. What does that mean? He's already told us what he thinks about a proud heart. These six things that the Lord hate seven are an abomination. Whenever you read the word abomination, you should say hate, hate, hate. This is what God hates. A proud look. Shaking the head. Rolling the eyes, thinking, oh, how stupid can anybody be? We may not even do it out loud. You say, but Rand, I would never act that way But look what the next verse says. Everyone that is proud in heart is an abomination to the Lord. So what if What does it mean to be proud in heart? What does it mean to put ourselves above everybody, everything, including God Himself? When I went to the Wilds in New England, I had the privilege. My wife and I, Amberg, were at the Wilds for 30 years in North Carolina. I was program director. I love what I did. I was fifty-two. And somebody said, Maybe I'm getting too old for camping. Never knew that now at almost sixty-nine I'd still be doing okay. So we went to New England and I read a a book by a guy named Stuart Scott who's become a good friend of mine. And it was so convicting from pride to humility is the name of it. God resists the proud. He doesn't work with the proud. He stands back and opposes the proud. And so I sat down because I was really, really scared. scared. I'm going to New England. They said we want you. We have a piece of property given to us, but you have no staff and no money. It only takes a miracle to be able to pull this off. So my wife And I decided if it's a miracle is of God, so we can't fail. Okay, if it's to be, God will do it. But then I got scared that maybe I had Like secret manifestations of pride that would hinder me from being a recipient of God's enabling grace. Because I'm as normal as they come I came up with fifty-one for me. I'm not gonna go over all of them today. But there's a couple that maybe we have in common. Let's look at a couple of them. Number one is very obvious. Those who are self-focused all seek their own, and not the things which are Jesus Christ. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come For men shall be lovers of their own selves. This is obvious. What is life about? Do you wake up thinking about me? My My time, my hobbies, my friends, my TV, my golf clubs, my Facebook, my life And you know the old phrase of mommy happy, nobody happy. Well you can take mom and replace it with dad, kids. Does life revolve around My husband's not doing what really pleases me. My wife she's irritating me. My kids, oh If you're and I don't know. This is only what you guys would know in your heart of hearts. But if you wake up every morning and spend every day thinking about me, my time, what I need How to make me happy, how to keep me entertained, how to get my rest. And we don't even think of others. Then you're proud And God resists the proud. He only gives grace to the humble. Number two, having lack of gratitude Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful, but became vain, empty in their imaginations or thinking. The foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. The simple, simple, simple truth Of not saying thank you. What kind of people, what kind of individuals refuse to say thank you? Those who believe in this crazy world I deserve this. In fact, what I'm giving is not just what I deserve. I probably deserve a little bit more. And who knows what it could be. It could be finances. We normally go to that. It could be things, but maybe not. Maybe it's your family situation. I don't know. I didn't have the joy of many of you. My family was one of the most abusive families I know. Finally mom left us when I was only eight. I was one of those kids that again I'd have to hold the pillow of my head so I didn't hear mom scream while dad beat her. I was raised by my grandparents And I fought my way through and I worked hard. In my later teen years, even when I went to college and went to work at the wilds, I actually believed I believe this. Life is not fair. How come everybody has these perfect families and and they were raised in the perfect way and nobody wanted me? They just threw me away. And my at least my grandparents helped me grow up a little bit. I never, ever, ever heard the words I love you growing up, ever. And I Struggled with that. And you almost get to where God, you owe me something. No, He doesn't. Jesus came into His own. And his own received them not. And he was perfect. And he came to die for them. And still he was rejected Teens and probably eighty-five percent of my preaching is a teens. So question do you ever just like thank mom for a meal Mom, thanks for cooking that. It was really okay. But really, Mom, thank you. It actually didn't taste that good, but it was okay. You know. Dad, thank you for just giving us a home to live in. I deal with kids in New England who have never touched a Bible, I deal with kids who have never had a dad, ever. And many of them, once they understand that they have a heavenly father Who sometimes brought maybe stepparents in or something like that? Oh yeah. And other times, like Psalm 2710, when thy mother and father forsake That's what God did for me. He just reached down and orchestrated my life and and I married my high school sweetheart and we've been married 47 years and I got to go I was going to work maintenance at a camp and then they asked me to speak. I said I can't. They should do it anyway. And I have for forty-seven years I love getting up every morning and going to work. Everybody can't say that, can they? And I still don't deserve that When was the last time you thanked God for sending Jesus to die for you? You teens and kids with been to camp. You've heard me say it a thousand times. Thank God every single day for your salvation. And I encourage the teams to have a good morning prayer, even before you get out of prayer. bed. I did it this morning. You wake up. Good morning, Lord. I'm really tired. I need you today, Lord. I already got my grumpy pants on. I know. I really, really need you today. But Lord, thank you. Thank you for saving me every morning. Get in heaven as you pray around the breakfast table. Because if you think the world owes you something, if you think teens your parents owe you something, man, if you think your wife owes you something, if you think this world Or even God owes you something. I'm sorry, you're proud. And God resists the proud. He only gives his grace to the humble Do you know laziness is a sure sure sign, manifestation of pride? See, the Bible says the sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can run We're not to be lazy or slothful in business. Fervent in spirit, serving the Lord. Laziness. And when we say laziness, normally what do we think We think of the art, we think of our rooms, we think of our not keeping things cleaned up or knee Okay. And that's important to teach discipline and all that. I got that But how many of you have become lazy in your devotional life? How many of you have become lazy in your prayer life? How many of you become lazy in your thought life. There's a lot of ways that we can become very, very lazy. Why do you do what you You do, I already know. You do what you do because you love what you love. Yeah. I already know how consistent you guys will be in your prayer life and devotional life three years from now. I already know. How do I know? Because you do what you love. And if you really, really, really love God and you love his word, you're gonna open that Bible every day and you're gonna pray. But if you just love you and you love your sports and your Entertainment and your free time and your busyness, then your devotional life will really be a mess. If you become lazy in your life Life, God says, that's being proud. And remember, he resists, fights against the proud. He only gives his grace to the humble I usually don't even have to say anything on this slide. Proud and haughty scorn God is actually calling names. Proud, haughty. He that is of a proud heart stirs up strife. Only by pride comes contention and with the well advised is wisdom. An angry man stirs up strength, but a furious man abounds in transgression. Are you an angry dad? Are you an angry mom? Are you an argumentative wife, an argumentative teen, an argumentative husband? Only you know. I have no idea about any of you. But you know your heart of hearts. And wives, come on. Often why Why is it you have to question every single thing your husband says? Is that really necessary? You both could be right, or you both could be wrong. But you certainly could maybe maybe be right in what you're thinking, but wrong in the way you handle it. How do you deal with an angry argument of spirit. There's one simple word that has a different word in the Old Testament. It's the word patience. But in the Old Testament, what is the word in the Old Testament for patience? Anybody tell me long suffering. It literally means to be of long nose or to be of long breath. It does. In fact, right now everybody take in a breath, take it in Hold it. Now let it out. So your little brother does something to irritate you. You want to knock him into the middle of next week. Watch me. Could you put that stupid back in your pocket and stop acting like that, okay? Your wife says something to really irritate you You almost feel like it's an attack on even you. Watch me. Honey, could we talk about that? That's all it takes. James had it well Oh let every man be what? Swift to hear, what? Slow to speak, slow to wrath. Yeah. You Only you. Well, no, I shouldn't say that. Because if you're angry and argumentative, everybody in your home knows it. And even as we sit here It's kind of fun to be a speaker at times because I put something like this on the screen and I watch people do this. They're not gonna move their heads, they're not gonna blink, they're not gonna move bec Because he knows that she's right next and they just had an argument last night. Yeah. Are you struggling through it? Don't Stay down. Give back up. Ask for forgiveness and go on, okay? But if in your heart of hearts you say I could care less, what my wife, husband, parents I don't care. I'm right. Don't tell me I'm wrong. If that's your heart, folks, you're proud God resists the proud, He only will give His enabling grace to the humble Being devastated or defensive by criticism, unteachable, a wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scorner hears not rebuke. Counsel and receive instruction that thou mayest be wise in the latter end. Does it really irritate you when somebody at work has to correct you? Man, how do you do when your wife is at least bold enough to question or ask you to change a little bit? We get pretty depressed offensive don't we? Teens and kids don't you want to scream out when mom and dad are correcting you? Don't always tell me what to do on Not a baby. The problem is if we get defensive by criticism, we're acting like a baby. I I'm telling you we are. Why? Because if you have a mom and dad that loves you enough that is able to look at you and say, hey, this attitude's gonna really hurt you. life forever even when you're gone from home but um even if you hate me I'm gonna love you enough to point this out and that's hard for parents to do It really, really is. Because most of us think it'll just pass away. But it doesn't. And if we catch ourselves sitting in the service and the pastor's preaching. And he's in Ephesians 4 and he says, Be kind one to another, tenderhearted. And you're thinking He doesn't know the people I deal with. Then you're unteachable. I know this is real life. I know this is not fun But I don't want you to go all the way through life without the divine enablement of God to help you get back up every time you're knocked down. I want you to keep struggling. But you can't do it without God's grace. Believing the secret sins are no big deal. It's a surefire manifestation of pride. And even as I write, what is the sin of Sodom? I know what most of us think. And our mind goes to the immorality that was involved in that city. That was not their sin That was only a fruit of their sin. Here's what the Bible says: Behold, this was the sin. This was the iniquity of thy sister's son Pride, fullness of bread and abundance of idleness was in her and her daughters. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy. They were haughty, committed abomination before me Therefore I took them away as I saw good. Pride, fullness of bread, abundance of idleness. They were selfish, they had everything they needed, and they had nothing to do. That is a recipe for disaster, not just for our young people, but in this crazy materialistic society that we live in today. We don't just have everything we need, we probably have Two or three of everything we need. We don't have to depend on God to eat. Because we got freezers, we got refrigerators, and we got money to go out to eat. So the whole concept of fullness of bread and abundance of idleness. This abundance of idleness had nothing to do I mean it used to be we'd work on the farm and that took your day to where you were tired when you came in. You went to bed tired. Now by time you take out the trash and maybe clean your room. Room. Well, there's fifteen minutes. And what else do we do? Grab our phones. Turn on the TV The concept of abundance of idleness, I encourage you with young kids, teach them how to play some kind of a musical instrument. Okay. Could be violin, cello. Could be an accordion. Do you know what the difference between an accordion and a lawnmower is? You can tune a lot more, okay? All right. Just and you say, Rand, why would the music be the thing? It is not necessarily the music and maybe they're not even musical But it is the forty-five minutes of practice every day that builds character in our life. When we learn to do what we need to do, it should do, even if we don't want to do it, you become a much much stronger person. It's kind of like come to church. I hope you don't come here because you have to. I hope you don't come here because ooh God won't bless you Bless me if I don't, it doesn't work that way. You want to go to church because you want to. And when you do come to this church, it's more than than just coming, sitting down in your favorite pew. When I visit churches sometimes, I like to sit where some of the old people sit and just sit there till they come in and Find someone to serve. Teens go around all these no offense, old people Find out how their day's gone. It's important. You come not just to get, but you come to give. Because when we live with this abundance of idol, idleness we get bored and we quote unquote have nothing to do. I meet kids all the time who have no concept. I'll pop the hood of my jean Get a bunch of counselors come over and say, What's that? I don't know. A battery? No, it's an Alton. Okay. What's that? I have no concept. Some have no idea how to change a flat tire. So we I don't know why we get so busy and then what do you do parents you love it when you can throw an iPad in their lap so you get an hour of free time That's life today, isn't it? After this message I'll probably never be invited back here and breach again, okay? I'm telling you this because I love your kids And if we believe that because we've reached this level, if we have all this stuff and we have all this free time and we're living a selfish life We're only two steps away for some other kinds of sins that are very devastating. One more. Neglecting to ask for Forgiveness is a sure manifestation of pride. Therefore, if if you bring your gift to the altar and you remember that your brother hath anything against you You leave your gift before the altar. Go your way. And first be reconciled to your brother. Then come and offer. If you come into this church and you're going to sing and you're going to give And you're going to worship, and you have aught against any. You know what God says? Don't sing, don't pray, don't give. Go make it right with that person. If you don't, all you're doing is pretending So I have a question for all of us today. Is there anyone on this earth that you refuse to forgive? Think about it. Is there anyone on this earth you refuse to forgive? I have no idea. Some of you could be in your second or third marriage, and your heart is still filled with hate. Maybe some of you grew up like me, where you were kicked out of your home, had no parents that really cared. And you Hate even the thought of thinking of them. I'm telling you. If you refuse to seek forgiveness You're being proud. Forgiveness is not always easy. And I was raised, which I thought was a biblical truth. Forgive and To say it. Forget. And I knew I could never be right with God. I mean, I really love God. I trusted Christ when I was six. I had a heart for God, but I knew I could never be right with God with God because I'm telling you there's some things you don't forget. My life with teenagers, do you know how many you know how many teenagers I have counseled who have been physically And verbally and sexually molested, and I'm sitting with a 15-year-old girl, this has happened for three years, and she's supposed to forget what happened to her. I'm sorry, it doesn't work that way Because there's some things you never, ever, ever forget. The Bible doesn't teach forgive and forget. When you got saved Don't answer out loud. Did God forget your sins? Normally when I ask for an outside or a response, everybody says yes. No, he didn't How do I know? Because God is omniscient. That means he knows everything in the future, in the past, and in the present. How can anyone that knows everything forget anything? God is immutable. That means he is unchanging. He is unchanging in his love. He doesn't love us more when we're really, really good or less when we're really really bad. He's unchanging in his knowledge. He never is Increases knowledge or decreases knowledge. Therefore he cannot forget. Heaven with David's adultery and Peter's denial for everybody to read forever and forever. Never says that he forgets. Here's where we get confused. The Bible says, I have separated your iniquities as far as the evil Is from the West, and I will bring them to my remembrance no more. God doesn't forget He promises never to bring it up to us again. Romans eight, there's no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. Because we think forgiveness Means, oh, it's no big deal. Yes, it is a big deal. And our sin sent Jesus to die, a horrific death on the cross. Sin is a really big deal. But God chooses not to hold it against us anymore. Forgiveness is not forgetting. Forgiveness is a promise. You say, Barand, how do I do that? This preaching, I don't remember when. A couple came to see me after the service. They were both in the mid-sixties. She was crying. I said, How can I help you? She said, I've never forgiven my father. I think she was 66 years of age For what he did to me when I was young. But I can't forgive him anymore. Why? Because he's dead. I said, well let me ask You this when you think about what your dad did to you, do you constantly try to share this with other people to try to get them to feel sorry for you and literally try To get them to hate your dad for what he did to you. Yeah. Then you haven't forgiven him. Because forgiveness means I will never bring it up to you tomorrow. myself or anyone else again. Got that? I will never bring it up to you, to myself, or anyone else again. It's gone. Mercy is more we saying, we're not gonna get to heaven and a hundred years later go, ah, I remember what you did. Now you're in trouble. No, God's not gonna do that. His mercy Mercy is everlasting. It never, ever, ever, ever quits. You say, but Rand, how do you deal with people who have hurt you really, really bad? I teach the kids to turn their hatred, their anger, their vengeful spirit. You you Turn this bitterness and this anger, you turn it into pity. Pity is disappointment wrapped in love. And you can get to the point where you literally pity those who are so addicted to their sin. You pity those who are so weak they can't say no to the drugs or the alcohol or the porn. They're so addicted, you literally feel sorry for them. My father was a very intelligent, hardworking man He was a gender in a bank and he kept it real clean. He could have been a great guy. If he could come to a church like yours and make friends with some of you guys He could have been a great guy, but he didn't. And because of that, he pushed almost everybody that would love him away. I literally pitied him My mother ran off with our preacher. He threw away his family and his entire ministry. Now it took a couple years. I'll be honest, I was a normal teen kid. I wanted the guy to go to hell and stay there forever. I got my mid to late twenties and I thought, ugh. I kind of feel sorry for him He feels like a loser. He's living like a loser. He threw everything away that was precious, his own family, his own ministry, for something sinful For sin. I actually learned to pity him. I put my hands on his shoulders and say, I want you to be part of my family. I want you to be part of my kids' family. I hate to say that. And he pulled his shoulders back and walked away. He would not, but I would have. Kind of like when Jesus stood before Jerusalem. I would have I I I would have loved every one of you if you just come under my wings, I'll take care of you. But then those words, but you would not. God would but some choose to reject him still. And all I'm saying, if if there's somebody on earth you refuse to forgive and you don't deal with it You're being proud. And God resists the proud, He only gives grace to the humble. So as we close, what about the humble? Can I be one? By God's grace, yes. One verse. I love this verse. The end of Isaiah, God's saying this to this man, why look? Even to him who is Poor or humble, and of a contrite spirit, and trembles at my word. In other words, this is the kind of person God is looking down to Maryland right now Just maybe an hour away from Baltimore, and he's looking around at people and he's saying, This is the person I'm looking for. He who is humble. I must be God dependent in all times and remind myself of my I need to depend on God every single morning. Lord, I need you. Thank you for saving me, but I need you today. I cannot do today without you. He who is contrary I must crush the word contrite means to pulverize. I must crush my selfish attitudes and be broken to the point of denying self and consistently putting God And others first in my life. He who trembles at my word, I must recognize that God's word has a final say, and I should tremble Tremble at even the thought of purposely disobeying it. This is the person that God is looking for. And regards of your age, whether you are ten or ninety-nine, don't stop struggling. Get back up Remember the difference between a godly and ungodly person is not how many times they fall, but how many times they get back up, keep struggling. And you'll be victorious by the grace of God. I'm gonna give an invitation, and I want the invitation to last for six months In fact, all the way till Christmas. I dare you, I double dare you to go home and make a List for yourself. You don't have to show it to anybody. This is you and God, okay? Make a list of any manifestation of pride you see Your own life. Make it. And when you're done, say, Lord, oh, I can I can't, but I can through you Because when I'm weak, you're strong. When I want to give up, all of a sudden I don't want to give up anymore. That's your grace. And when I'm really, really weak, the power of God is on me, and then I can do what is right. cool way to live. Okay. Write out your manifestations of pride. And then just take like one a week and ask God. To change your heart, find some scripture that deals with that issue and ask God to change you. Sure. We could set up counseling and I could meet with you every week. I would rather Rather you learn to go fish and fish for yourself. I could fish for you and feed you for a meal. You learn to go fish, you can learn to feed yourself for a life. And every single one Of us can do this, okay? Every one of us. Stop. Just refuse to give up. God will empower you to do this. do right okay let's bow our heads out and pray for us father thank you we know sometimes we just need to be reminded of some tough stuff And I and I thank you for the opportunity, even that you gave enough voice to get through this. Father, we know, we know We know that pride turned an angel into a devil, and a king into a wild animal. We know that it's because of pride that people Defiantly rebel against you. Please help us not to be proud people. Crush us Humble us. Help us to seriously tremble at even the thought of disobeying your precious word. And Father, I'm going to thank you ahead of time for this church body right. Here that many, many, many of these people who truly love you will seriously look at manifestations of pride in their life. And then by your grace Seek to grow and to change out of those. So thank you for doing the work in our hearts. Lord, I thank you for yesterday and this church. working so hard to bring so many kids in. Father, I thank you for this church, sending kids to our camp so we can love them to you and teach them how to turn into change and to get to know you better. Thank you, Father, for your goodness to us. As we pray in the wonderful name of Jesus. Amen. Pastor