For this morning. And I'll give I'll give a little bit of a heads up this morning. If you felt like the Apostle Paul was getting a little too meddling in the message last week, uh you're gonna find that's the case today, too. In fact, he's Going to address some things that are, I would say, epidemic in our church culture, but many times we t tend to gloss them over. But Paul has no desire to gloss over sins. He wants to remind us that the power of Christ does not gloss over, but it deals with With our sin in finality and completely. So if Jesus is able to do with that, folks, we need to be willing to deal with the sins that the scriptures call to mind. This isn't anything that I've come up with for this particular hour, but this is straight from Scripture as we've been Working through this wonderful epistle that really, again, the focus of this is effective ministry with people Because again, ministry, I know this is simplistic, it's elementary, but ministry is supposed to be done with people. That's the purpose of it. The Great Commission. is to go and proclaim Christ and make disciples. And so it involves our relationship with people. Remember effective ministry then is us directing toward Christ, those that don't know him, and fellow believers that we worship together with, that we direct Direct them over and over again towards Christ that they could continue to grow. That is discipleship. A sphere of people that God has put into our lives, unbelievers, that God has allowed you and I to make connections with, that brings effective ministry. But then also discipling, helping disciple each other that we're growing in spiritual maturity together. And again, Paul may get a little personal this morning. He's thankful, as we heard read this morning, of the great gospel wave, the believers of Thessalonica that are sharing the Their faith in that great city, but also in the surrounding region. And Paul's rejoicing. But now he's exhorting. Paul never wants to leave us where we are. He doesn't want us to get comfortable with where we are. But he wants us to continue to grow. And so there are things in our lives as a church and as believers that we have to examine. And make sure that we are growing and that we are pruned to look less and less like the world and more and more like Christ. When we Are committed to spiritual growth, that will be the sustaining factor in effective ministry. Every ministry, every person can have effective ministry for a while for the Lord and then sometimes it just kind of die it kind of it kind of dies out and we don't see that reflected in their lives for a while or it can even And the sustaining of that effective ministry with peace As we direct them toward God is making sure that we're growing spiritually. Because here's an important factor when each of us become Careless in our spiritual walk, we'll become careless in our relationship with Christ, and we'll lose our love and our passion for Him. And so Paul is going to continue to encourage them to grow. And we're going to see the sustaining of effective ministry again as we look at this chapter. So first let's Thessalonians chapter 4, starting at verse 9. And Paul mentions again, as he has throughout this letter, that love is essential to sustain effective ministry. Love among each other, the brethren is here focused on specifically, and it must be modeled in our church as we disciple and encourage each other. To grow in the Lord. Look at verse 9. Paul says, Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write to you. And since Paul's the one that's writing , He's saying, You have no need for me to write again to remind you of this, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. And verse 10, for that indeed is what you You are doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. Now this word for love, well, let me just put it out there. As we think of And and this church has had much wonderful spiritual teaching over the years. Um the the not so common, the very uncommon Greek word for God's love Love is agape, right? And so when we hear in the text uh we see presented in the text here, brotherly love, and it's a love That God is working amongst fellow believers, we might think that that word is agape, but actually this is the word for fill this is the word Philadelphia. And no, it doesn't have anything to do with the Liberty Bill Or cheese steak sandwiches or pretzels or I I know we're getting a little late here and it's almost dinner or lunchtime, but bear with me. It doesn't Doesn't have anything to do with that metropolis just up the road from us really. Except for the fact that that was the initial uh name of that Philadelphia does mean brotherly love, right? Right? And that is what we have translated here, brotherly love. And what Paul is describing here is referring to the love among the brethren. In a general sense, uh In a well, in a powerful sense, he was referring to God's love as in in in the earlier part of the book, as they were describing um the gospel going forth. And showing the love of Christ to a world that needed to hear that love. But now he's talking specifically about the love shown amongst the brothers of Christ. And sisters in Christ in the church. So let's be clear. Paul is saying, now let's talk about the love that you're showing to each other. And thankfully, in this ministry that Paul's addressing, the Thessalonian church, they're doing very well. They're showing a They're showing a care and concern for the needs that each other has. They're showing a concern and a sympathy and a burden to help each other in need. To help bear each other's burdens. They're showing a desire to help encourage each other to grow in their relationship with Christ and to proclaim Christ. Christ. All of these things would have to be involved in this description of brotherly love because it's what Paul's been talking about throughout the whole letter. So Paul's saying, in essence, and not just to this church well, he's saying to this church or or to the Thessalonian church, good job. But what we need to ask ourselves is, as we continue in this description, would he say that to us today? Would Paul say, Good job, Upper Crossroads Baptist Church, for the brotherly love The love amongst each other that you are showing, your people know that they are loved and taken care of because the people of the church Here the members are showing that love to each other. Would Paul be happy or pleased with that among us today? It's a good question, isn't it? Brotherly love is refers to the love of God working amongst the members of the church. We sometimes You might sometimes hear, well, agape refers to the love of God, and it's the most powerful form of love and used in the New Testament. And for the most part, that's true. But folks, this This word uh love, brotherly love, Philadelphia, is just as powerful because it describes the working of God's love amongst his people to be kind and Considerate and caring toward each other. So you know what that tells me, right? That whole concept of Being kind and caring and considerate and loving toward the members, toward each other here in this church is possible Because it's the love of God working in us. At the same time, it's hard and it's frustrating. Paul is in this in this verse, he's pointing out that they're doing so well he really doesn't have to bring it up again. And that's that's great. Um praise and recognition from Paul. Now he is again ultimately he's recognizing that the love of God, the power of God, and Jesus Christ are working amongst those people. And so they are loving each other in a right way. They are showing kindness and concern. He says, I don't need to say anything else because you're doing this well. We'll get back to this, but again, that question remains unanswered. How well are we doing here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church in that this morning? But I love what he says here in this next phrase, verse 9. For you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. And what is Paul pointing out here? That Greek word taught by God is actually one Greek word and it's used rarely in scripture and it means being taught directly by God himself. And this was going on, not that not the the members of the church of Thessalonica were teaching each other uh God's word and the Holy Spirit was working through them directly. And what Paul's really describing is is, you know, I was trying so hard to get back to you, sent Timothy back to you to see how you were doing. And I really I was really concerned for your growth and for um your further spiritual maturity and yet God is doing that apart from my Being there at all. The Holy Spirit is working through His Word, and as you are teaching and as you are helping each other to grow, God's taking care of all this. I think in this regard that this was kind of this is this may be partially my opinion here, but I think God is showing Paul in this that Paul That God could accomplish his work even without the Apostle Paul being present in that ministry. Almost his worry and his great concern for the people and wanting to get back with them soon. And Timothy brings back this report, and it's almost like Paul is reminded, yeah. God doesn't need me there. He can do his work without me. And he is. He is powerfully without my presence. He is directly teaching them his word and this important principle to love one another. God could accomplish his work with or without Paul. He used him, he moved him on, and people had learned from Paul's example and from the example of the others, and they were discipling each other. They were proclaiming Christ and Paul wasn't even there. You know what tells me? This is a good part of the preaching message for the pastor. None of us are irreplaceable. Sometimes we think of certain ministry leaders, what would happen if this person left, or if we lost this person, or what would happen You know, how would the church continue on? Well, folks, Paul makes it clear. God makes it clear how it happens. Because regardless of who's in Charge, or regardless of who's leading in any ministry, it's the Lord Jesus Christ that's doing the work. And so we need not tremble in fear. When um God moves on or someone retires or the pastor's away on vacation, now don't worry, I'm not saying I'm going anywhere. I'm just saying We don't have to be traumatized by that because regardless, it is God doing the work. And You know, some pastors may take it as a compliment that that when they hear it said, Well, I just don't know how the ministry could go on without them. I don't know how things would continue to happen. I really don't want that to be my testimony in this church. Paul reminds me that whether I'm here or not, God is going to continue to work. And I'm thankful, and we pray that the Lord gives us a long time in this ministry. We do pray that. But I don't want it to be all about me or on me. If God can work without the Apostle Paul's presence in a particular city, then he can work without any of us. And yet he graciously chooses to do that. So if you're hung up on a particular leader or even someone that's your favorite speaker and and you you find out that something happens to them they're involved in some kind of s of sin or maybe it's your favorite um podcast speaker or these types of things or your favorite pastor from another ministry or whatever and they disappoint you. Remember folks don't Don't be discouraged, don't give up. It is God working through His people, not just one person, that in which ministry takes place It also tells me this: we need all of you. We're going to do our part. Leadership's going to do its part, but we need everyone's participation in ministry. God works directly through us and through the leading of the Holy Spirit. It's a good reminder that all of us are responsible to show love toward each other. Each other. It must be modeled in all of us. I remember um uh a long time ago now, but I was uh involved in a ministry And he he was committed to ministry and he loved the Lord and he did ministry well. But one of the things that he had a weakness in is Is that he as he worked in people's lives, there just there wasn't a point where where he felt he struggled with just drawing a line and saying at this point I've said what I need to say, now the Holy Spirit can work from this point on. He would continue to needle and to bother people all the time with things that he thought that they they needed to do and things that um they needed to do in ministry and things they needed to participate and be a part of. And it got to the point where some people just got a little bit irritated. And I remember one person Saying one time to this particular individual, you know, you're acting like you're the Holy Spirit in my life, and you're not. What does that mean? It means that as leadership that we have to be careful to proclaim God's word to lead, but there comes a point where the responsibility is on all of you to go forward. There's only So much that I can do. And the Holy Spirit's much more powerful than any leader to be able to help us to grow and to lead us. And the pastor And the leaders in the church and the people all need to remember this as we go forward. God will do, and He'll teach us through His Spirit how to love and how to take care of each other through his word. And he said then, again, verse 10, indeed, that's what you're doing, not just in Thessalonica, but throughout the whole region. The testimony of your love is going forth. Praise the Lord. And I know you don't need me. God's shown me that. He's working mightily in you. But it's almost like then Paul can't help us. Himself. He still throws in at the end of verse 10, but you still got to keep trying to do it better. With the help of God, with God's help, we urge you, brothers, to do this more and more More. You're doing great. You're showing love to each other, but don't ever get complacent. Don't get comfortable. Continue to show more and more. I think Paul recognized, as we need to recognize, and I think we We do that, you know, when when brotherly love within a ministry is strong, and sisterly love too, God's working in our our hearts to again direct people to grow in their relationship with Christ among the brothers and sisters of Christ. When it's strong, it's a beautiful thing, folks. But even in a ministry like the church Of Thessalonica, things can get in to damage that very quickly. Things can get into the ministry of Upper Crossroads Baptist Church to damage the brother Brotherly and sisterly love that we're supposed to show each other, and we need to be on guard for that constantly. All the time. Says, don't be satisfied with what you are, where you are at now. This vibrant Christian love can be damaged if we're not vigilant. And so Paul says, Don't be Satisfied with where you're at, but continue to destrive to display God's love more and more. In fact, I love this. He says in verse 9 Uh we urge you, or verse 10, do this more and more. Really, he's describing there is to go all out. We're gonna have this Saturday competitive games with the teens. We're going to explain those games and they're going to get into them and there are going to be many teams that just go all out. They give their all. They're going to leave it all in the gymnasium uh next week, and then we'll give them some snacks and we'll feed them and we'll see. send them home to rest. But uh teens in these environments, they love to do their best and to go. And it helps that we're going to be giving them uh some prizes and some awards afterwards. That always helps. But there's gonna be many that are just are gonna do their best and and and give of their best to win. And that's a description Paul's saying here. He's like, go off All out. Don't leave leave it all on the field in your efforts to love each other How often do we think about that when it comes to each other in ministry? I need to go all out. I need to give 110% by God's grace and that The power of Jesus Christ, right? It's all through Jesus Christ. But I need um to give my all to make sure That my brothers and sisters in Christ know that I love them and that I care about them and that I am there for them when they need me. And maybe even when they think they need me don't let's be honest folks I don't think we have that mindset very often. Wouldn't it be great? I love it if some Somebody came up to me and said, Pastor Brock, I've been uh encouraged by your message and I'm gonna do more to show make sure that the people of this church know that I love them. And someone else comes up and says, No, I'm gonna do more. And they both say, no, we're both gonna do more. I'm like, oh great, this is great. Do your best. Go out there and do it. Don't argue here. That would be a wonderful problem to have. Pastors don't get that very often. What ends up happening a lot of times? Petty things get in the way. Gossip. Silicious stories, things that maybe even are mostly made up, personality conflicts. All of these and more can get in the way. People don't think that someone's doing something, the leaders or whatever, in the right way, and so instead of going to the leaders, they just foment amongst them. themselves and all of a sudden that brotherly love that we're supposed to be striving so hard through Jesus Christ to show to each other, it just dies. I find it interesting, folks. I think it is one of the plights of human nature, even among Christians, is that many Many times we can be so um passionate and vitriolic for certain things that you think ought to be done in a church. And yet the things That the Bible says so clearly ought to be happening in church, we just totally miss many times. You may get angry or frustrated or bitter about something that you think should be happening in the church or something that happened and that bothers you um and you may even uh go on a a tirade or I remember Stan used to talk about getting on his soapbox, and it always comes to mind. I'm not thinking of Stan Craze, but I am thinking about the soapbox thing. And we get up and we get all And we get frustrated and we want to let everyone know. And that thing may be important to you, but if you go to scripture to find scriptural backing for that, it It may be sparse. And yet the things that are very obvious in Scripture, like try to outdo each each other and showing love to each other. Hopefully, maybe one day I'll get to that. But I've got my issue Don't we do that a lot of times? Pastors can do that too. Folks, we need to be willing in this area. I'm not going to get to the second thing today because I just want us to focus on this this morning. It's only been a couple verses. And in the next couple weeks, we'll have Brother Rand with us next week. In two weeks. If you think this is meddling, look what he's going to be talking about in verse 11. Aspire to live quietly and to mind your own affairs and to work with your hands as we instruct Paul is very nicely, gently there saying, church members, we need to do better at minding our own business. So yeah, Paul gets very practical. in this in this passage of scripture as he is wont to do. We're gonna cover that in a couple weeks, but I just don't want us to gloss over this folks because I've seen so many Times where Christian relationships can be permanently damaged, and we lose sight of this important truth that Paul makes so clear. Remember, many years ago I've been a y I was a youth pastor for a long time, so I've seen how youth interact with each other for a quite a while now. I think it's almost thirty years of teen ministry in some form or fashion That the Lord has enabled has allowed me to do. Even as a senior pastor, we're blessed to be able to minister to teens on Wednesday night. And what a what a blessing and just a joy to our hearts. That is, I remember seeing a very close teen friendship, two young ladies that were very had grown up together, very close friends. Their families would go on vacation together, do all kinds of things. They would spend the night at each other's homes and they would talk and they always knew that that friend that that young lady that was their friend they'd grown up with her in this in this relationship together this friendship and they could share Things that were bothering them, and it seemed like it was a it was a beautiful thing that a lot of people would like to have. Well, it got to a certain point in high school and they both had Relationships, and I'm not promoting relationships among high school students this morning. If you know anything about my ministry, you need to be careful about that. But they both had relationships with young men. Dating relationships. And one of the dating relationships went sour, as is want to do in youth groups many times. Um actually Actually they both did, come to think of it. And yet they were still together, they were still encouraging each other, and then the young man that was interested in the one young lady started to get interested in her best friend that we just described. And they started developing a very, very close friendship. And when that young lady Lady told her best friend that that was going on. Friendship over. 911, it's a crisis. And what happened happened in that was not just two friends where their friendship blew up, but it was the people around them. It was the best of the friends of the one girl were now talking about Um the other girl and they chose sides and there was division and animosity, and a beautiful picture of friendship that had gone on since Childhood the other thing. was like a nuclear explosion and sides were taking place and there was no love. And as far as I know, that friendship never was reestablished again. They were at odds For the rest of their lives up until this point. Can that happen among church people in our ministry as well? What cort sorts of things can can get in our way? What can get In the way of a marriage, uh a close relationship, struggle with children, the loss of a child. Um Things within the marriage that you find out about that person after the fact, after you're married, which happens, and things that don't get addressed and they they snowball, they get worse and worse. And That marriage, where it once started out so close and loving to people that wanted to serve God is divided, exploded, and there are all kinds of issues. In a church , this can happen as well when things come up or someone doesn't do something, a leader doesn't do something that one person thinks ought to happen. And so uh They get upset and there's division formed and sides formed. You guys know this the the the uh the um story on this. You know how this happens. There's so many things, little And and uh great things that can get in the way of the love that the church ought to be showing towards each other. Even a thing like world pay Pandemics, right? Remember 2020? How loving was the church in a general sense towards each other during that year? It was all kinds of division. Like we needed any more More division, right, within the church. And that comes, and there's even more division. There's arguings about how things should be done and what you should do here and how church should go on. It was A feeding ground for disunity. It's almost to the point, folks, where we expect that and we just say it's a part of life. People are just there are certain people in the church that's aren't going to like each other. There's certain people in the church that are just always going to be at odds. That's understand To think that way. It's natural to think that way, except for the fact that Paul won't accept that here as he is speaking to us today. No. Whatever we face, whatever divisions, whatever concerns that we face for Folks, we must do the extra effort. We must go all out in our relationships within the church body to make sure that their result To make sure that there's reconciliation, to make sure that the brotherly love of believers, the sisterly love continues because it is all important. People are watching. For the Thessalonian church, they were doing great, and it was spreading throughout the whole region how well they were doing. I don't know I haven't taken a survey lately, but it would be interesting to find out if we're known even in this community on Green Road and the community, maybe not even the whole Harford County, but in this region. And are we known as being loving? The love that we show to each other and the care and concern. Folks, we can be If we're willing to address and reconcile. The next time someone comes to you with a disgruntlement about someone else, first thing we ought to do. As always, is say, have you talked to that person? Have you worked it out with that person? Paul says that the brotherly and sisterly love within the church is so important that we ought to be going the other Extra mile to working it out. Are you doing that? Well, let me help you. I'd be glad to help you. I'd be glad to go with you. Let's because this is my business too. Because this is My church. And I'm committed to this kind of love. So I will go with you and seek reconciliation. If we were that committed toward brotherly and and sisterly love amongst God's people in this ministry, I don't think maybe we'd have well we'd be a better testimony, right? And this is something that our church just has to look inward and say, is this us? How are we known in the community? Are we committed to this kind of Philadelphia love. I love cheesesteaks. I love pretzels. But this kind of love is far more important. than anything that's connected to a metropolis up the road from us. Are we showing the love of Christ amongst each other? And are we committed to doing it better all the time? Let's think on that and pray together. Father, the love of Christ Christ constrains us. And as we think about all that He has done, we've sung about the sacrifice that Christ has made. That He gave His lives, He sh Shed his blood so that we could have forgiveness of sins. The gospel has been proclaimed this morning in many ways. And Father, I pray that for those that are trusting in Jesus, that are member true members of the church, that we are properly representing The power of the love of Christ amongst the brethren here. That we are a powerful testimony of that brotherly love, so that truly someone would say of us, We have no need to say anything further. Because the power of Christ is working obviously among us. Father, today let us desire that. Let us long for that kind of testimony. Father, if there's someone here today who doesn't know the love of God , Christ. May our church present him in such a way that they understand their need to trust him and seek him And that he will offer his forgiveness and cleansing of sin to all of those who will believe and trust in what he has done. Lord, if there's someone here today that still needs Christ, I pray that they would come to me, that they would come to someone else in this church, and they would seek out how to know Him as their Savior. But for those of us who know him well, let us not be satisfied with a tepid or weak love amongst each other in the church. But let us Let us outdo one another in our desire to get things right and to see you work powerfully And folks, as I prayed that this morning, we're going to take some time, as Leslie prays, to examine our hearts. Do we have this kind of commitment? Do we have this passion to see brothers Do we have a passion to see people saved for Christ? You reflect on that. Come talk to me if you need to know More about a relationship with Christ. Come talk to Brother Brett or others. And let's all commit, as Leslie plays, to doing a little bit more Better than showing Christ's love to each other