Some of you have been talking and been asking me, you know, you you really appreciated um and the Lord really blessed in the Christmas service Last December and you said, I really miss the choir. Well, we we've missed singing in the choir, and it was a blessing to be able to worship the Lord in that way. Um and we are looking and The next few weeks, just as a report to encourage you. We're looking at some special music options and some different things, even with our children. So we're hoping to incorporate more of that And and choir as well as we can. There's two, well, maybe small hindrances. Well, one is that it is hard at this point in our ministry with the schedule the way We were able to do it for Christmas and and hopefully for Easter. But it is hard. So we've got to do that. And then I'm I'm not the world's most accomplished director either. So we have to find music that I'm able to to lead in my limited capacity as well. So you be praying about that too. Uh there are hindrances the Lord can help us overcome. And I know it was a blessing. So we look forward to having more of that hopefully in the future. So in the meantime, go ahead and turn back to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and we are seeing here the sustaining of effective ministry as we continue to Look at a very fruitful, effective ministry situation that God allowed Paul to have. Um God worked powerfully in all of Paul's ministry endeavors , but we have to agree that uh that There were different levels of success from from a human standpoint in in Paul's ministry. Uh one example, the Corinthian church, although they met together and were together, they had a A lot of issues to work out. Other churches that Paul had to admonish to be careful about the gospel. But this church in Thessalonica is one of those that is very dear to Paul uh because he was there working with them for for actually not as long as what he wanted to be. He pretended to be there longer than He was able to when they were forced out. But he saw as he was giving the gospel and discipling, he saw the fruit, as he sent, remember Timothy back, they continued in their travels, but Paul Paul was worried about the believers in Thessalonica and how they were doing, and he sent Timothy back to check on them. Timothy comes back with a glowing report. About how the gospel is being spread throughout the city, throughout the region. People are being disciples, discipled, and they're following Paul's initial Pattern that he gave them, and they're doing it well. And that's encouraging to Paul. And it's the same sort of pattern that as we look What is then effective ministry as I've been describing it and as it has been described for us In 1 Thessalonians, the book that we're in. Remember, effective ministry directs the people around us to Jesus Christ. That's it. It's really simple. It's those that don't know Christ, and as the Lord allows us to become uh acquainted with them and get to know them better, that And for those of us in the church family, that we don't just get together on Sundays and worship and say see you later, but that we We're looking how to encourage each other, how to help each other grow in the faith and direct, yes, even God's people to further trust in Jesus Christ. We just sing of that. That isn't something that the pastor and the singers up here should just be thinking about, but we should all be directing other people To only trust him now. To only trust Jesus Christ. And then we will have effective ministry. And we will see fruitful ministry. In hopefully ways that we never even expected. So, how are we doing on that? Are we effectively looking at the people around us? us to show them how to point them to a stronger relationship with Christ. We need to. And that's in last week I mentioned to you that drove my thinking as I was I was thinking on Paul's love for the people of God and his intensity for that. Again, as you read Paul's love and his concern, it's almost embarrassing. How much we lack that love today, as Paul is addressing that. And it made me think, you know, and I mentioned this last week. One of the Most important questions beyond what will we do with Jesus, because I believe that's the most important question for each of us. What will we do with Jesus Christ? The next important thing is Is what will we do with all these people around us? God has a purpose for them. They're not random. We don't believe in evolution that we just fought and we were we we somehow made Well what do we tend to do? I gave you this list last week. week. Here in our fallen natures, when it comes to people, we have our own tendencies. Again, this list, first of all, sometimes we tend to avoid them, or we just hang around the people to make us feel comfortable and everybody else we just kind of ignore, right? That's avoidance in a way. The second one I said we manipulate people. I'd like to change that. I think about Better uh that's a more um uh completed picture of that second one is that we try to please people. We're trying Try to be people pleasers. Whatever makes people happy, or whatever I can say to get a smile from them and make them like me. Now that includes manipulation and it includes flattery and different And then as well when it comes to people, we also may try to control or demand from All of those ways are normal ways of dealing with people, but they're not biblical, are they? Really? What's the biblical way To handle people is again, we guide them or even shepherd them toward Christ. Do you know you can be a shepherd in your sphere to carefully guiding people? That means that we're firm on some things. We're lovingly firm as we have to take a stand on some things and against sin. We're not angry or bitter. Or vitriolic, we're lovingly firm, but it also means we're gentle, we're caring, we take time to understand where people are coming from and their perspectives. But when God Also shows us the way and makes it clear and calls us to something that we firmly stand where God wants us to be. That is how we should be interacting with each other. That's the best way. That's the best option out of the four, right? And that will help us to point people toward Christ. Because we can't point people to Christ if we're avoiding. Them. And really, we can't give the full gospel with folks in a in a sense if we're constantly trying to please them, because hearing about their sin and their need for Christ isn't always that pleasing. And if we're trying to manipulate and stronghold and command people to do what we want, well, that's not an example, a loving example of Christ. But if If we're carefully and firmly guiding them to the truths of Christ, that's the way to go. And that's what Paul does. And that's what we need to do. Well, Paul Paul in the first part of this letter has been really rejoicing over the ministry multiplication that's taking place in Thessalonica. But in this Second part, and we turned last week into the second part of the book. He turns from rejoicing to exhorting people. Because even as well as they're doing Telling their community about Christ, letting the it growing through the town, it growing through the region, the message of the gospel of Christ, there is still Still, things that they need to work on and change and do better in their lives. They haven't arrived. Just like today, there are things that each of us need growth in. And things that we need strengthening in. And Paul's going to get very specific today on some things that we need to do a checklist in our own life. How am I doing in this area? And one of those we just touched on last week. But first of all, look at let's go ahead and start again at 1 Thessalonians 4, and we'll read. At verse 1. Kind of get us going from where we stopped last week. Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul there is pleading with them to go a certain direction and to make changes in their lives, but it's all in their relationship with Christ. In other words, I'm asking Asking you to do something that's strange and hard, strange for the world and hard for you, but through the power of Christ in your life, you can be successful in the Lord Jesus. And it's something that I taught you already. You received from us how you ought to walk, how you daily ought to obey God in your walk with Him. And how to please him, just as you're doing. You're doing what you what we told you to do. You're pleasing to the Lord. And yet, don't we at that point, if God brings us to that point where we're pleasing and we're doing what He's called us to do, sometimes we get comfortable. And or we look at others and say, those people don't have any need for change. Look what they're doing for God. Well, I need to get on the ball, but those people they're they're on another level of spiritual attainment. They don't need to change them. All. No, Paul says, even though you're doing really well, there's room for more growth. You need to do so more and more Don't be content with the stage of spiritual maturity that you've attained, folks, in this life so far. Don't ever be content. Because Paul says, no, desire that more. More and more. Desire to read God's word more and more. Desire to be more gentle and caring and And loving, the desire to actually care about people more and more. Don't be comfortable at the level that you've obtained. He says, Verse 2, for you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus. He says this came direct from Jesus, so don't argue with me. Don't argue with the Savior. He's the one that gave it to me. I'm not making this these Things up. And then we get to verse 3. This is the will of God, your sanctification. We struggle many times with that. Well, maybe struggle is not the right word, but we qu Question sometimes. What is God's will for my life? And young people ask that many times as they're looking to the toward their future and where they're going to go to school and maybe um The young person that God would have them to marry? That's a big question. What is God's will for my life? Well, here it's partially answered. Answered. What is God's will for each of us? Your sanctification. What is sanctification again? It's that Progressive spiritual growth that we continue to attain throughout our lives. Paul is saying here: here's the will of God, no matter what age you are. Child, young person, middle aged, beyond that, this is God's will that you continue to grow in your spiritual maturity. You're saying Folks, that never ends. And if we're comfortable with the level that we're at, we're not going to be successful enduring Christians till the end. until Jesus returns. Comfortability in our Christian lives really is a usefulness killer because we always regress. And we always turn back to selfishness if we're not careful. Always desire for more growth. Because that's Now, as we read that word at the same time, that is a broad category, right? That includes everything. So I could just say, just keep Growing in your spiritual lives, folks, and end of message, let's pray. We're done. But thankfully, Paul gives us some more specifics. We started this last week. He says, now this is one area, some areas of spiritual growth that you need to be aware of. And I think this first issue is something that Paul read Regularly admonished people that he worked with and ministered to because it was so prevalent or prevalent in their culture, and that is that you must abstain from sexual impression. Morality. Let each of you know how to control his own body, his own vessel in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God So he's saying, I know that in the world today, with the Gentiles, they don't worry about this hardly at all. And We do look at our world today, folks, and think, well, it's more evil and it's it's worse than it's ever been. It's terrible. You know, I always well I don't laugh. I I'm never quite sure how to answer when I have uh some older people come and tell I don't think it I don't think this question has been posed to me recently by any of you all but every so often you get someone that says boy it must be hard raising children in this world today. I don't know how you do it. I never have come up with a good answer to that. Well you're right. I wish I didn't have to raise children I wish there was something I could do about it. No. God's called me and called us to live in this world even with its brokenness and its terrible and its evil. But this is something that was prevalent even during Bible times, and that's why Paul is bringing this up now. Do you r remember again that many cities, including Thessalonica were tied their very success and their commerce were tied to the false worship of idols, and that false worship of idols very often included the first time. Sexual immorality. It was a regular part of life in the culture. And there were even statues exalting the goddesses of these things. Um and things done within the temples, it was actually a lot more sordid than we sometimes realize. So uh Paul, if he could be here today uh wouldn't put his hands up and say, well you guys are right. This is terrible. I don't I don't know how you're gonna get through. Paul would have said no today. You make sure that you uh Abstain from sexual immorality as well. That each of you have that control in your body in holiness and honor. Um, not in the passion of lust. I read that already. But verse six that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. Because the Lord Lord is an avenger in all these things, as we told you solemnly, or we told you beforehand, and solemnly warn you. And we talked about this somewhat last week. I think it's quite clear that Paul has no room in his teaching here for following your sinful heart and desires. And that a believer can't adopt the same mentalities of the world, we know better. We have God's word to tell us. And I think sometimes we look at uh being immoral beyond uh and and really it is Taking advantage of being immorally active and going beyond the bounds that God intended, um sex and those things around it. within the bounds of marriage to go beyond that and to be involved in immorality in any way. One of the w many times we look at that sin and say, well, there's a lot of harmful And so of course I would never want to be involved in that. And I know God says that I shouldn't be involved in that, but we don't always think about how these sins are going to Affect others. be And I love what Paul does here. He doesn't say anything about us as individuals being involved in this. We shouldn't be involved in this. What he's saying is you need to be aware of the effects it has on other people. On the people in your community. Your testimony for God is destroyed for a while. And God has grace to Patch all that back together. But it does have an impact on others, as he points out here. It does transgress and defraud and wrong our brothers and sisters in Christ. I used to um tell our teenagers uh rem when we got to passages like this And I was encouraging them to be pure and walk in a pure fashion. I would um take the the guys aside and Leslie would take the girls. And one of the things that I would tell the guys is, young men, you need Need to be careful to hold young ladies in honor. Because until you marry them, you don't know for sure that they are the one that God has for you. And we would have some fun with this, but I would say, how do you know that a young lady is God's is is the one that God has for you and that she's the one that you uh should marry? Or vice versa, with the ladies and the guys And they would have different answers, and I would say, no. It's when you um are finished with the wedding ceremony, and the pastor pronounces you, the minister pronounces You could say there's no going back. That doesn't sound very promising. That's when you know. Until that point, you be careful. You treasure that young lady and honor and look at her As a treasure that God has given to her, and young men don't take some of that treasure in immorality in any way And take and steal from her what God has given for her and one other person to enjoy. Don't take liberties. Don't steal. Honor those young ladies. And one of the things that we've uh I've been uh teaching our boys as well is that you look at young ladies as an opportunity to be a brother and A brother in Christ to them, to look at them as part of the family of God. Until God makes clear that specific person and you're married and you're pronounced man and wife, you treat them Because God says here, when we don't do that and we take liberties in this area of immorality That we are defrauding and we are sinning against another person in the faith. That's common with the world. They don't care about each other. They're just trying to seek out what satisfy their own desires and lust and you know in the end if it doesn't work out it doesn't work out. We understand that's a part of the world, but that shouldn't be a part of the church. We're responsible to love each other. Other and to care for each other spiritually. And when we take advantage in this area, we literally defraud, we wrong. We transgress against our brothers and sisters. And here's why that ought to sober us. The last part of that verse: the Lord is the avenger. Of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified, or we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. God God said or Paul says, you need to be careful because if you're willing to sin against a brother or sister in Christ in that way, I think I think I could sum it up. He says, God takes it personally. And he will be an avenger. Our culture and society loves movies with superheroes. And there's all All kinds. There's way too many right now. There's a glut of movies about uh superheroes and this word avenger, we think of people in in in capes and saving the world or whatever. Well that's obviously a fail a fantasy, but folks, and that's kind of um like I said, a pleasant fantasy in some ways, but this is no fantasy when Paul describes God as an avenger, that ought to sober us and say, I don't want to be the party that he's avenging for or against. I don't want to be the one on the receiving end of that avenging. But I want to make sure that I am helping my brothers and sisters in Christ. Christ in honoring them. I don't want God coming against me for wronging someone else in this way. Paul saying, We warned ya. The Lord has to come as an avenger, it will disturb, it will shake you. It's no fantasy. We don't want God after us for disobeying. in this way. When I preached this many years ago, it was still the year of COVID, and y you you all know there was so many so much brokenness to related to COVID, the year 2020, and really terrible stories that as I continued to watch the news, I don't know why it was like the end of 2020 and this seemed at the beginning of twenty twenty-one there seemed to be an excess of stories of family members um brutally murdering or taking the life of other family members. And it was disturbing and um it it really bothered me and as re you read these things you almost say how how could a family do that? And I'm not even going to try to answer that question, but some of the some of the killings and some of the slayings were so terrible that almost defied explanation, except for the fact that we just live in a broken Broken, terrible, sin-filled world, and that's the that's the explanation that we need. But whenever we hear a story like that, don't we tend to read that and say, how can how's that possible? in a family of all things, that they could do that to one another. Folks, we ought to look at sexual immorality within the church in the same way. How could they do that to one another? How could they bring that kind of devastation and damage? To a spiritual family. It is a serious thing. And Paul tells us that it shouldn't be a part of our lives. But let me give grace Grace here as well. Because I've been involved in many ministries over a long period of time, and I know this sort of thing happens. I think Paul is also saying here for those of you involved in it, seek help from God to have victory over it. God has grace for you. If you'll repent He'll have grace to heal. He'll have grace to heal the damage. He'll have grace for you to continue on and be a useful tool. I think that's part. Because this This was so prevalent, I think this was happening a lot in the church, and the temptation was in the church. So Paul says, if you're doing it or involved in it, stop. Be better than that by the power of God. Of Christ. And that message of grace is for us today. Through the power of Christ, we can have victory over this in our lives. Well, Paul continues on. It's not just that very act of immorality. But he says in verse 7, for God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. And impurity is a broader word that uh really touches on every aspect of immorality beyond just um the act itself and to other Other aspects like pornography and um other t types of things, content in in movies and different things that we know that we shouldn't fill our minds with. Movies, even you know, uh music content sometimes, all of these things, certainly pornography, these are things that can stain us in our mind and keep us Impure. And so Paul broadens this out and says, Any connection with immorality in this way, you need to be cleansed. You need to ask for forgiveness for, because We should not be involved like the world is in impurity, not just what we like and what we're tempted by, we give into. But we're supposed to be different. We're supposed to be holy. We're supposed to be pure. And in our lives, even apart from this church ministry, our Are we um projecting a testimony of people that are pure? Or Or have we been caught by co-workers or others or family members involved at looking at something or watching something That doesn't match up with the testimony of holiness that we're supposed to have. This reminds me the boys when they were younger. You know, think now that we've come back we kinda look out in the backyard and we kinda have memories of things when they were smaller. You know, you you do miss those years. For those of you that have smaller children when One day you're gonna miss those years. We do. And there was a lot of activity out in the backyard and in the woods, and they were they were making, they made this thing called Secret City. They made their own City out in the woods. It's still there's still remnants of it today. You can do an archaeological dig out there and find all kinds of cool stuff that our boys did. Um and uh there were some Some things that after we left for the first time had had to be uh dealt with and and some holes that had to be filled in, but they had a good time out there. Well, uh they had a lot of different tools that They would use. But every so often one of Leslie's kitchen utensils would go missing. Or a cup or something that was not intended Now they were diligent with this and they worked well with it. Um but as I was walking around outside, maybe uh mowing the grass, I and that was the worst when you mow the grass you'd hear a noise. And all of a sudden you're like, what is that kitchen utensil doing out here in the grass? Now we're gonna have to buy another one. And uh so we would go to the boys And remind them that there are certain tools. We're thankful for your industry and all the things that you're doing, but there are certain tools that aren't appropriate for that kind of work that we don't want to get dirty. because they also were we work with our food and we don't want the dirt in our food. We want these vessels to be pure. So they shouldn't be used um in in dirty um Enterprises and activities. And we would remind them of that. Well, that's a very simple illustration, but that's exactly what God reminds us. That we as his children are tools that are supposed to be pure to be used for his work. And it's not appropriate then for us to be involved in the dirty We're set aside. We're holy. We lose our effectiveness, or sometimes our usefulness all Together if we're involved in impure things, folks. Now, does God have grace for that too? Oh, yes, He does. We're all jumping Of clay, we're all instruments that are earthly, and yet God cleans us and renews us And so the grace in even this exhortation, folks, is a reminder that no matter what you have done, no matter what it is That God can cleanse and He can renew and He can make you useful for Him again. So there's no impure activity that you can get involved with that That God says, Well, that's it. They're done. Run the lawnmower over them. You might as well, because we can't use them anymore. No, God, God um delights In using weak vessels for his purposes. And he will cleanse and he will make pure again. There is not one person in this auditorium in the sanctuary. Today that has lost their usefulness to God if you'll repent and just turn from these things. Your background, what you've done. And Paul calls us to that. But he says you must take this um this exhortation seriously Because verse 8, therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man but God, who gave his Holy Spirit to you. If in some of these issues of impurity it seems like a small thing to us, can't we get the mentality of, well, it's just too prominent? You know, I just I see it everywhere I go. You know, the temptation at work or whatever is just too strong. I just I have to give in. Paul says that's Not correct. What you're doing is you're just basically disregarding the power of Christ in your life to work and to change you. The power of Christ Is there. Christ will do a work, a cleansing work in your life. You can have victory. That's a promise. But if you won't believe in that in disregard Just ignore or just make light or not believe that God's power can work within you. Be careful. Here's another warning. Paul says, you're not disregarding my words. You're not disregarding my admonishments as a man, but you're literally disregarding your heavenly Father, who has said that in Christ we have the Holy Spirit to protect our purity. Statement is an act of unbelief. I don't believe that God, the Holy Spirit, can enable me to have to be pure To cleanse my vessel of impurity. And so I'm going to continue on in my ways. Paul says, look out. Don't Don't disregard. God will deal with those that are not willing to ask for forgiveness and to be pure. Well, as we continue, we're going to see next week as well. Paul isn't done. If you think he's nosy in this area, just wait till next week. He's got some other areas that he wants us to be careful. It has to do with with laziness and gossiping and busybodies and all these things. Yeah, Paul's got a pretty good list here when it comes to things that he wants us to be careful of. But isn't interesting, I think. A lot of times we go to First Thessalonians, and it's true even at the memorial services that we had recently, um some of the passages of encouragement that I gave to our our folks to those that were there were from first Thessalonians about the idea that we will see our loved ones again and about the the the eschatology the future future events, the future plans of God. We often think of First Thessalonians in that light. But what we're finding here throughout this book is it's much more focused on our Relationship with people and how we interact with people, with those that need Christ, and those fellow believers Who need a stronger and deeper walk with Christ. Paul's greatest deep concern in this book is for discipleship ministry. of believers in evangelistic ministry of the loss. Can you see Paul's burden at this point in the study? I hope that hasn't escaped you But folks, we must take this and it must be our burden as well. A burden to show and direct people to Christ must be one that all of us are willing to take on. In order to have effective ministry. If each of you are willing to do that, we'll see this church grow. We'll see God do amazing things. But we We all must be committed to guiding people to Christ. I hope that's your burden today. If not, we can pray and ask God to help us. Have a greater burden for that. Let's do that now and pray together. Father, we do pray. Lord, we know as as we read These things, and we understand we we fall far short of where we need to be as far as having a burden for effective ministry and having a burden for people. Father, we ask right now that you would help us to repent of our lack of concern for the people who you've put in our path. And Lord, our lack of concern for a pure testimony. Father, we're grateful that you know that we are weak, that we are but dust. And Lord, the temptations are so great. It almost seems impossible when it comes to this area of morality and purity in our lives. It almost seems impossible to be able to live in that way, and yet we have heard again that the power of Christ is sufficient to keep Keep us in the right way, and to keep us pure, and therefore proper testimonies that can point more effectively to Jesus Christ. When we are involved, Lord, in the sin of immorality and or impurity, remind us that we are not useful for Christ and that we are we are Um, we have to be able to do that. Remind us that other people are being hurt, and that it's not just the gratification Of our own desires. Remind us that when we sin, it does affect people. And it affects you. And you will deal with it. Help us to be willing to confess and repent, that we might, even as we heard stated this morning from Hebrews, sense the loving chastisement, but the loving grace.