So I decided instead to go to continue on the Thanksgiving theme. And I'm glad I did this anyway, because there's sort of some neat tie-ins. We're going to the book of Isaiah, chapter 51. Tonight , some tie-ins with some things we've talked about in the past. And also a tie-in Sunday mornings when I return, I want to do some Christmas themed messages and we're going to look at the prophecies of Jesus coming in the Old Testament. So we're going to be looking at Isaiah 53 in a couple weeks. And this is kind of a precursor to all of that. And I think it'll be interesting and it'll certainly be helpful for us tonight. Again, a reminder of the blessings that God has given us. Given us and our need to be thankful to offer thanksgiving to Him. So we're going to be looking at Isaiah chapter 51, the first eight And Isaiah is a big book, right? It's the largest book of the prophets in the Old Testament. And obviously God gave Isaiah a lot to say, even though we read Really don't know much about Isaiah the prophet as a man. We find out very little about him in Scriptures. We hear, we read a lot of what God gave him to say, and so there was all kinds of things Within Isaiah, um prophecies of the coming Messiah, certainly judgment oracles upon um the their enemy nations, a call for Israel, for the northern kingdom, and for the southern kingdom to repent and to repent Return to God. You start to get toward the end of the book, though, and especially in these last chapters. And it it just seems as you're reading that the prophet starts to get more, I would use the word anticipatory. He's anticipating something happening. And expectant as we get toward the end of the book. And he also begins to identify one that he refers to Refers to is God's servant. And as he starts to identify this in the end chapters, it seems originally that he's talking about the nation of Israel. But then he's talking about how the servant will fully fulfill and be obedient to him, and he points out that Israel has failed in that obedience, so you start to get. The idea, well, okay, then that although Israel is pictured as a servant of God, there's somebody else he's pointing to and referring to as he continues. We're going to see more of the character of this servant tonight. His character and his program. God's plans for him. Something powerful is going to happen. God's righteousness Will be shown. And as such, we have a prophecy for giving thanks tonight. Let's read the whole chapter or the whole passage together and have a word of prayer. Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seek the Lord, look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence ye are digg Look unto Abraham, your father, and unto Sarah that bear you, for I called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him. For the Lord shall comfort Zion. He will comfort all her wasteplaces, and he will make her wilderness like Eden And her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein. Thanksgiving! And the voice of melody Hearken unto me, my people, and give ear unto me, O my nation, for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light of the people. My righteousness is near, my salvation has gone forth, and my arm shall judge the people. The isles shall wait upon me, and on my arm shall they trust. Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath, for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner But my salvation shall be forever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished. Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness the people in whose heart is my law fear ye not the reproach of men, neither be ye afraid of their revilings. For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool. But my righteousness Shall be forever, and my salvation from generation to generation. Father, help us tonight as we Look upon this prophecy that pertains to your servant and what you will do through him. Help us by the time we're done with the study tonight to again Again, give thanksgiving and proclaim joy and rejoice in what we know now on this side of things that your servant Has done and the righteousness that He offers us through faith in Him. Help us to be thankful And grateful for the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And let this passage move us on to remember that throughout this Thanksgiving week. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray Amen. So here Isaiah at the beginning and throughout this passage that we read tonight. Night three times he calls to us to pay attention. Pay attention. Hearken to me. Hearken unto me. Three times in the King James is translated. That way. And really, what's going on here is that same kind of picture when a parent has something really important that they want their child to listen to. And so they get very serious. And the tone gets to that tone where the kids know it's time to listen. And maybe even they might grab their face a little bit and they might say, listen to me. Hearken to me. Here we have Isaiah recording these words that we need to listen to as God's people. But something else that's interesting as well. We have what seems to be God's servant, the servant that we're still kind of trying to figure out who he's referring to. to actually speaking in chapter 49. And it seems as if that that servant, God's servant, is now speaking again. may very well be God's servant, as Isaiah is prophesying. He's prophesying what God's servant is saying to us. And God's servant, again, this is not Israel, but it's one that he will send He wants us to pay attention to him. And first of all, he wants us to pay attention to God's plan for his people. As many other times throughout Isaiah, we're going to hear here a little bit of the plan that God has for the nation of Israel But it also can apply to us in the fact that he calls to all of those, ye that follow, after righteousness. What he's referring to here as we talk about righteousness is man's pursuit of righteousness, of what God says is right, and man's Testimony of being faithful and sincere as one of God's servants and following after God. And this righteousness is what he's referring to. here, man's attempt to be faithful to God. But we know that in the end that ends up being imperial. Perfect. All of us here, I would hope, have a desire to want to be right before God, to live rightly, to live a right testimony to the world of who Jesus Christ is. But we're all going to fail sooner or later. But here he taught, he refers and he calls to us who desire to live in that right way. That seek after the Lord, that want the Lord's best for our lives. I might go a little further here, and we're talking about Israel. Is that in the big picture of this prophecy, uh Israel didn't really do a good job of following after righteousness, did they? Of seeking after After God. There were faithful people throughout, more in the southern kingdom than in the northern kingdom, but God had his remnant within. But sooner or later, we know the judgment that came from the nation of Assyria for the northern kingdom, the bab the armies from Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar. That eventually he brought judgment upon the southern kingdom. And many scholars, and I think it's probably correct, that at this point, Isaiah may be referring to the remnant. That remains, that was carried off to Babylon, and one day will return. And the speaker here is referring to them that after their humbling After what God has done in their lives, they're ready now to follow his righteousness, to seek after him. They're humbled They've been through a lot. And now those that want him, God says, you'll find me. But remember your humble beginnings. Israel came, God's people came from unremarkable beginnings. It says, look under the rock when she are hewn, into the hole of the pit when she are digged. The people, the remnant of God's people that had been carried off to Babylon, they may have been tempted to think, where is God? Are are we does God still have a plan for us? Is he still going to do something through us, or are we washed up? And the speaker here reminds them, look, you didn't come from very remarkable beginnings, like a rock or a hole of a pit you are digged. There's a lot of rock around New Hampshire. There we're learning that the granite state. And uh and there's some beauty to that, and there are some significant things that have happened with that granite in New Hampshire's history, and of course, I've thinking of the man on the mountain and the time when that fell and really I I I hear people talking about that like they're still in remorse. And after six Seeing pictures of it and seeing it on my license plate all the time. I think that would have been really cool to see. You know, so there is something majestic about rock, but on a normal basis, if We're in the middle of an exciting, energized conversation, we're not normally talking about rocks. It's not something that really gets us all excited. Let's talk more let's talk about rocks. Is something that's like, yeah, it's there, we understand. And so the speaker here is reminding Israel you came and you the the the your beginnings are not much more rebo remarkable than a bunch of rocks or a hole in a pit that was digged And then he goes further: look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bear you. Two people. A couple, an older couple, that wanted a child. Significant to us, but to the world, not so remarkable. Not a big deal And yet, the speaker says, I called him alone, when he was even by himself, him alone, and I blessed him and increased him. Him. What he's saying here is, I can take the unremarkable things and do amazing things with them. And so you, Israel, the remnant that's seeking after me, finally. Don't despair. I can take unremarkable things, and I'm going to make amazing things happen from them Just like I did with Abraham and Sarah. And Israel will experience then remarkable regeneration Look at verse 3. For the Lord shall comfort Zion. He will comfort all her waste places, all of the places that were destroyed in Israel. Jerusalem wiped away stone upon stone. God says, I'll comfort her, even in that. I'm going to bring you back, and there'll be comfort. I'll restore Jerusalem. Him again. You'll have a temple. You'll have walls. I'll take care of you. Isn't it wonderful on a side note that we have a God that even when He has to discipline and chastise us, that He comes That's grace. And God loves us. He's not like the harsh, false gods that again that pagan people have to comfort Constantly appeased because they're constantly angry with them. No, even when God has to be give correction, there's grace, there's comfort involved With that. So he's encouraging them. And he's going to replenish their waste places. But then he goes further, and he will make her wilderness like Eden. This wilderness that's barren. I'll make like the Garden of Eden and her desert like the garden of the Lord. And here he seems to indicate that one day the curse will be removed again. And so what does this do? This expands the promise of his comfort, not only to his nation. But when he removes that curse, guess what? All those that follow after God will benefit from that. Through Israel, through the promises that Israel will was given. Some which are still were waiting to be fulfilled, the whole earth will be blessed. When that curse is removed, what a wonderful, wonderful thing that will be when Jesus comes to restore his kingdom and make things right. The curse will be removed and everyone will benefit from that. So not only Israel, but all the rest of us, the Gentile believers as well, we should then have joy at the end of verse 3 and gladness be found. Thanksgiving, there is our thanksgiving word there, and the voice of melody. We ought to rejoice. We ought to have a song in our hearts as we think about what God's going to do. Pay attention, the speaker says, to God's plan for his people. But also, in the second part here, pay attention to God's plan of salvation, verses 4 through 6. God is going to send his salvation not just to the nation of Israel, but to the whole world. Hearken unto me, my people, and give ear unto me, O my nation. Now pause for a second here. Obviously, in this he's referring to the nation of Israel. But in that first part there, there's a broader term used, my people. That can reflect not just the nation, but all of those all over the world who recognize God as their God And so now the speaker is literally speaking, in essence, to the whole world, to all the followers, not just to Israel. But to us as well. What is he promising now? For a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light of the people. God says, I will make my ways, my laws known, and they will proceed from me. But then, what does that mean though? A law shall proceed from me. How does that happen? Or I will make judgment to rest for a light of the people. He's saying, I will reveal my word in such a way that That it will be a light for the whole world. Well, how could that take place? Verse 5: My righteousness is Is near, my salvation is gone forth, and my arm shall judge the people, the isle shall wait, the island shall wait upon me, and on my arm shall they trust Here's how God's going to accomplish his salvation through his righteousness. And he says it's near. In the first part of the chapter, he talked about the righteousness that men Then the men were trying to, seeking after righteousness, something that man is trying to do imperfectly. But now God is referring to his own righteous, his own perfect standard of righteousness. And he could be saying it this way: you're seeking out After righteousness, you'll see my full righteousness. It's near. And through that, many will experience salvation, and they'll experience my strength. Mine arms shall judge the people. And really the isles here, he's talking about the whole world. Even he would say the whole world, even the people that live on the islands. The whole world will see my righteousness, my salvation. And on my arm they shall trust. There will be many, many people all around the world that will see The one true God that they need to put their faith and trust in. Pay attention to God's plan of salvation here. Well, what is that? What is he referring to? See, I think this is the servant talking. And the servant, we're going to find out when we study Isaiah 53. In a couple weeks, we're going to see the suffering part of the servant, the things the servant would have to go through. I think you know his servant here is referring to the Messiah, to Jesus Christ. Through Jesus Christ, God's righteousness is near and salvation will go forth. And so I couldn't help myself, and it certainly seems appropriate here To go ahead and go quickly to Romans chapter 3 and verses 21 through 26 describes this Romans. Righteousness. And it's almost as if Paul is thinking back on the passages in Isaiah about God's righteousness. Because look at verse 21. He says, But now the righteousness of God. Just like in Isaiah, God says, My righteousness. This is the righteousness that only God has a or is or has obtained without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. At the beginning of that chapter, we had made mention those that are sort of Seeking after righteousness, but those humanly speaking that were seeking after it could never meet God's perfect righteousness. They couldn't obey the law perfectly the way that God demanded that To be obeyed. And God knew that. So even back in Isaiah's time, he said, I know you have a heart to obey me, but in the end you can't Can't provide salvation, you can't obey my law perfectly. But my righteousness will come. And Paul is describing this now Righteousness of God without the law. Not having to for all of us to obey the law to experience this righteousness because we'll never reach that. But being witnessed by the law and the prophets, and here we have again, I think he's referring to maybe even this prophecy from Isaiah that we're looking at tonight. What kind of righteousness is this? Verse 22, even the righteousness of God, which is what? By faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. For there is no difference. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So you see, even here in this prophecy in Isaiah, salvation is being offered, but it's not being offered in a universal sense. And saying God's just going to save everybody just because of what Jesus has done. But salvation will be offered to all. And we find out in Romans, the fulfillment really of part of this prophecy in Isaiah 51, that when we put our faith in And trust in the servant, in Jesus Christ, the Messiah, that then we have access to his righteousness. God's righteousness is his standard That none of us could ever meet. No matter how hard we try, none of us can meet God's righteous standard. We all fail in that regard. Even the best person, and some of you as I'm looking out here tonight, are some very nice people who seem to be very good people. And we've been very thankful to get to know you. Good testimonies. But even as nice and as Faithful as you are, we know that none of us, the pastor included, this righteousness that God's referring to here, none of us can reach that or obtain that. We don't have to, because Jesus did. Through obeying God's law, fulfilling God's law perfectly, he earned righteousness And because of his death and resurrection, he now offers that righteousness to all of us who have sinned and come short. of the glory of God. So what does that mean? That righteousness is a transaction. We put our faith and trust in Jesus God credits his righteousness to us. When God looks at us, he doesn't see our sin any longer. We're cleansed. He sees Jesus Righteousness. Jesus took all of our sin on himself, the great transaction, all of our jealousy, anger. Dissension, fighting, all of the things that we do is on our record, on one side of it Jesus record, perfect obedience to God, perfect fellowship with God the Father. And when we put our faith and trust, those are a switch. Jesus takes on our sin record, we take And so even back here in Isaiah's time in chapter 51, this looks forward to that when that will take place. And he calls people to listen and to rejoice because he's going to provide a righteousness that will be fully Complete that will be fully effective for those that are truly seeking after righteousness God says, I will provide that. So verse 6, lift up your eyes to the heavens and look upon the earth beneath For the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell in there shall die in like manner. That's not the sound in a in a prophecy that's supposed to be encouraging. These things don't seem very encouraging. Look around you. It's all going to vanish away. It's like smoke. It's like your breath. You see it, and it's gone. The earth is going to wax old. Isn't that the uh one of the biggest lies about evolution is that the world continues to get better? And better and better. And all we have to do is look around us. People get so easily deceived. All they have to do is look around them and see You know, things aren't getting any better. Our society isn't getting any better. Death, disease, all of these things. It's going to continue to get worse. It's the exact opposite of evolution. Things are winding down. The earth is going to wax old, it's going to get old. And they that dwell in there, they're going to die. Where's the encouragement in that? Well the servant says, but my salvation shall be forever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished And this has the idea in the Hebrew about almost kind of the idea, believe it or not, of being shatter resistant. Um you have all these uh ads about these different uh cooking utensils and and different things and and the men uh we We have tools and different things that we use as well that are supposed to be shatter resistant that you can do a hundred different things to. Your kids can play with it and beat it up and it won't ever break. Wow, that's amazing. Well, how much more amazing is God 's salvation, his righteousness that can never be destroyed, that is ultimately shatter-resistant. Nobody can do anything to abolish it. God 's righteousness will be complete. And unlike the things of the world, it will be everlasting. That's something. To rejoice in too. Pay attention to God's plan of salvation. But finally, pay attention to God's plan for eternity. Verse 7. Hearken unto me. Here we have again that admonition. Listen to me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law. What does he Referring to here? Here he seems to be again giving prophecy that people that will truly know righteousness, again, how will they know that? Through one day, through faith. And trust in Jesus Christ. And that righteousness that they've sought after will literally be in their hearts. They will be made righteous through what Jesus, the servant, will do. And he's pointing toward that. You want righteousness? You're going to receive one day a righteousness that will be ingrained in your heart That God will enable you through His power to obey and to be righteous, you're going to actually have that, have access to that So then, because of that, fear ye not the reproach of men. See, the vances and the threats of the enemy are temporary. Neither be ye afraid of their revilings, the enemy that seems so intimidating to Israel or especially to the remnant because they've gone through it. They've been pulled away from their home country and been for seventy years in a pagan country. And yet God took them and cared for them through that. But there was a lot of people that didn't like the Jews, even over there. And we have the book of Esther to remind us of that. The reproach of men being afraid of their revilings. There was a lot of evil people that didn't like God's people, and there are people today that don't like God's people. And we can be fearful of that at times. But those that know Jesus' righteousness, we don't have to be afraid. Look how he describes it verse six or verse eight. small as a moth, just wipe them out. I can take something as small as a worm to eat them up. That's what they're that's what they look like to me. Says God. Says the servant. I'm not worried about them. You don't be worried about them either. But instead know this that my righteousness shall be for Forever and my salvation from generation to generation. Those times of difficulty will pass, those enemies I will deal with in my time The sufferings and the difficulties that you're going through are for a brief time. They're for a limited time. But God says, My righteousness, that's what's important. That's what endures. What lasts forever. And that's why we proclaim Jesus Christ. Is because people need a righteousness that not of their own, but one that the servant can provide Them through faith in Him. And then as we finish, what better thing can we rejoice in than Jesus' righteousness? So as we go this week and go to Thanksgiving, and all that we think about, remember the Last week we talked about the need even for confession of sin and how that brings us to Thanksgiving. That should be a part of our week this week. Week. And also rejoice in the fact that Jesus provided righteousness for us that we couldn't provide for ourselves. And rejoice And be thankful for that and hearken and think on these things. Father, help us to be a thankful people. We go through difficulties and we go through hardships and we don't have as much as maybe other people. People do, and things can start to look gloomy and dark even as the weather tonight. But help us to remember the value of the things that we have. That we can't lose. For those that have trusted in Jesus Christ, we are promised, we have your righteousness. We are made righteous. And that is for all eternity So that we can rejoice and be glad. Even on a gloomy night with nasty weather, we can have warmth in our hearts, rejoicing in what you've done. Help us to go through this week. May each of us here Village Chapel Baptist Church, be reminded this week of the privileges and blessings we have in our relationship with Jesus. Thank you that you sent your servant And that he did come, and that he did provide righteousness that we also desperately needed. Thank you, Lord, for your love for us and providing our Savior Jesus Jesus Christ. And this we're grateful and we're privileged. In Jesus' name we pray.