We have been doing in really an introduction on this whole series to the book of Ephesians, and now we're kind of jumping into the actual material. And there was an important purpose in presenting it the way that I did with that introduction. Because I really wanted you to see what was going on in Paul's ministry with the church at Ephesus before we took a deep dive into the actual book itself. And what we found is we've just kind of a summation of the past number of weeks. Is that Paul really, if you think about it, Paul spent the most time in the city of Ephesus with the Church of Ephesus than he did in any other church ministry that we see recorded? He spent a lot of time there. There were people that Paul got to know very personally. As he spent time. But it wasn't just Paul. If you'll remember, the first time Paul entered Ephesus on his second missionary journey, he didn't stay long. He said, guys, I got other things to do. So here are some people that I've been discipling, and they're going to stay and help S give the gospel and see this work grow, and if Lord will and I'll be back. Well, he did come back in his third missionary journey and uh did stay there, Paul did for quite a while, but he didn't stay there forever. Eventually He moved on, and they had other people in that ministry that stayed there, people that Paul had discipled to continue the work. So eventually, we saw a couple weeks ago Paul makes one more trip. He doesn't actually go to Ephesus, but on his way to return to Jerusalem at the end of his third missionary journey. Third missionary journey. journey. He meets the elders of the Ephesian church, and these are men that are leading house churches within the church of the city of Ephesus. There isn't a nice building with a big steeple in Ephesus that everybody knows. We go to church in this sanctuary building and we have church. and we worship together and everything. No, the church at this time was composed of house churches throughout, especially large cities like Ephesus. And these elders that met up with Paul were the local pastors of each of these, but they were considered together as the church in Ephesus. And Paul reminded them that he had given his all in gospel ministry there. And that then it was their turn to continue that ministry work that Paul had helped them and discipled them to do. And so again, I don't want us to miss that emphasis, folks, even before we start back into the book of Ephesians is that Paul didn't work alone. He had many, many others. You see, in the early church, as it continued to move and God continued , It wasn't just a few key individuals, the Apostle Paul and those that were lucky or blessed enough to be with him and travel with him. Paul discipled many who continue to disciple others. And so the church was filled not with just converts that God had allowed Paul to direct them to Christ. But with people that had trusted Christ from hearing the gospel from many of these folks that Paul had decided to trust And so today, the church shouldn't be comprised of just a few people that do all the work. That's not what is characterized for us in the book of Acts. But it is many. It is the church body going forward and sharing Jesus with others as God leads them That keeps the church strong and keeps it growing. Now, this is all the work of God, and Paul is going to emphasize that in Ephesians. But folks, we get the wonderful privilege, all of us, of being a part of that work. See, it's not just a privilege for the pastor. It's not just a privilege for a few in the church, but it's a privilege of all. to proclaim Christ, to disciple others, to help them in their walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. And also to be discipled ourselves. I thought it was interesting as well. There were times where the church, you remember, um Paul had some difficult struggles in Ephesus And one of them was that huge riot after the gospel was going forth with Paul and others, and people were coming to Christ, and it was affecting the whole financial and paganistic system of Ephesus. And people got in an uproar and there was a riot and they grabbed some of the believers and Paul was upset and wanted to help and the church said, no, Paul, that isn't right for you to do. stay back. You see, the church also had to tell the apostle Paul, Paul, in this instance, uh, you're not doing what's best. So it is the whole church. that ministers and we're all a part of this work that God is doing together. And so Paul then, let's go back to Ephesians. Eventually Paul gets to Rome after going to Jerusalem and he's imprisoned. And he's writing, writes many of the New Testament epistles, these letters from prison, and this is one of those, Paul's in prison now, writing to a group of faithful people who have continued on. Without Paul's presence, because they've been trained to do that. They loved Paul, but they didn't need Paul right with them Because they've been trained to disciple and do the work of the Lord even if Paul wasn't there. And so he's writing them to now as a church of people and elders that are mature in their faith. So look at verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. That could just sum up the whole church. All of these that have been discipled under Paul and have discipled others and are continuing in faithfulness to Christ Jesus, that is a glowing testimony of the church in Ephesus. Grace to you. and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then Paul gets into the heart of the letter here. Well the letter in general six chapters worth. So what is Paul's purpose then as we dive into this in writing this letter? Now we'll see as we continue in Ephesus. Ephesus. In Ephesians, that there are many broad sweeping themes. And so in one sense, it's hard to get specific. It does seem though, because of the the maturity of this group in the church that Paul doesn't have to address any particular concerns and that's no small thing. If you've read Paul's other letters, you know many times that in writing he makes it clear that he's writing them because he has some concern. The book of Galatians makes that clear. He's afraid that people are straying, are moving from the gospel. Certainly the book of 1 Corinthians, Paul has some things to say of concern. to the people that he's writing to there. And even as we're finishing up studying Philippians, Dr. Mike Erickson at Sunday school, Paul addresses some concerns that he has with With a couple people in the church. But you'll notice throughout the book of Ephesians, there's none of those concerns expressed. And so it gives us an indication that this is a healthy, thriving church. It's not that Paul won't give admonitions later on, but it does seem that there's nothing specific that he's concerned about because they're vibrant. and they're growing. And so what he does want to do then without specific concerns is he wants to point them to their the power and the prospect of fruitfulness Ministry and growing in their faith because of their relationship with Jesus Christ. In fact, I think one of the key phrases in the book of Ephesians is in Christ. Because throughout this book, and especially this first section from verses 3 to 14 Paul talks about all the blessings and the benefits that we have about being in relationship with Jesus Christ. And so he wants this faithful, thriving church. to be reminded, continue to focus on all that you have in Christ. There's a lot of distractions in that city of Ephesus. There's still a focus on the goddess Diana and magic. and the things of the world. And don't you lose focus on the one thing that matters, and that is you are in relationship with Christ. And you have immeasurable eternal blessings that ought to fuel and motivate you for service. Don't lose sight of those. And so he's taking time really to contemplate all that God the Father has done for the church. And thus With that meditation, all that God the Father through the Son is doing through the church, has done for the church, then the church responds in gratitude and says, We want to serve you and we want to be. And so throughout all this, Paul begins this letter right off the bat. No basic concerns, but it's a type of eulogy. Pronouncing a blessing that God is worthy of praise for all the blessings He has bestowed on the church. Reminds me a couple years ago. Many of you know that we have a connection with the wilds of North Carolina, the Christian camp that we've taken our teens to many years, and also the Wilds of New England, same organization in two different places. And God has used that camp powerfully. Well, they recently celebrated 50 years of ministry. That's no small thing. um for a big camp like that. And they did it in an amazing way. They pulled out all the stops. And so as they as they looked at all that God had done and the hundreds, thousands of people that had come to know Christ through their ministry. They made a big deal of it. They I was told, I wasn't able to be there, but I was told on the actual day or that weekend that they gave prizes out and they had memorabilia out and they had all former uh staff there um and they had invited a bunch of people a big dinner um there were prizes offered and different things and at the end of the end of the night they had a big fireworks display. Well why did they do that? What were they emphasizing? Were they just prideful about all that they had accomplished? No. They were looking at all that God had done and the fruitful ministry that God had given them and all that God had been to them, and they were celebrating that. And I really think that's what Paul is doing here. He wants us to look at all that Jesus Christ has done for us. All that we have in our relationship with Christ. And he wants us to be willing to celebrate that, to be overwhelmed with joy, and to celebrate all that God is doing in our lives and in the church. And so verses 3 to 14 is actually, if you read through this, and I'm going to ask you, I don't always assign homework as your pastor, but I'm going to do that this week. If you would read through Ephesians chapter 1, verse 13 Verses 3 through 14. And what you're going to do is, if you notice carefully, that is actually all one sentence. Wow. I mean Paul has a lot to say, and I don't know if you've ever written or tried to text something out and you realize, you know what, this one sentence is getting a little long. Obviously Paul didn't have that concern here. But this is one long sentence from verse 3 to 14, 202 words, many clause, phrases, and expressions. And there's a lot of themes. In fact, I know one pastor that spent 80 minutes in one service preaching on verse 4 alone. Now I'd love to say that to see if any of you start to get nervous. All right. That's not my style. I could do that because the the the depth of the things that Paul is is bringing up here are so important. But we won't have to take that kind of time to get to what we want to get to. But Paul is making sure that we understand all that we have in Christ. Um I don't know if you like to go with your family to museums and things. Um I do enjoy museums, I enjoy battlefield. We were able recently to take our family to the Smithsonian, some of the Smithsonian Museums in Washington, D. C. the National Museum of American History. in the National Archives and some others. And it was again fascinating. I was in my element, you know. National Archives, there was a line, you know, I wanted to see the Declaration of Independence and some of those other documents that were there. And there were crowds and they were telling you, no, don't congregate too much around the documents so that everybody else can see them but it's like well how with that many people how can you not congregate around these documents and so uh we're my family and I were trying our best to see and I want to make sure Sure that the kids could see. As you know, they're in those special cases and special lighting and all those things. It's kind of dark, but it's just wonderful. But I couldn't get as close for as long as I wanted to. side of one of the boxes where I could just step up and nobody else was there. I thought, well, this is this is nice. I'll just step right here and I'll be able to look and read. And that lasted for about four seconds until one of the guards came over and told me actually You're not allowed to stand there. I'm like, okay, that's why there's nobody there. Um and so then I had to go back to the throng. But it was it was frustrating to me that I was so close to these documents and I wasn't able to take the time that I wanted to take to be able to read and to take it all in. That history and that blessings that that describes for our nation. I finally just had to resign myself to kind of leaning over some other people and taking a picture with my phone and saying, well, I guess I'll read it later. Um but it was a it was a wonderful thing. And I love to do that with museums. Well folks, um whether you enjoy that or not, what Paul is doing here is he's saying Take time to know and to enjoy all that you have in your relationship with Christ. It's important. You need to know. Enjoy the journey. As we go through verses 13 through 14 together, I think there's a number of ways thematically that we could see this passage. It could be divided up in terms of the Trinity, the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit. It could be divided up as far as thematically the blessings of the church in the past, present, and future. But I'm going to keep it real simple, I think, for this study, and that is in this long sentence that Paul gives us, we see God's election. Jesus' redemption and the inheritance of the Spirit. We see the work of the Trinity that provides us the blessings that we should be marveling over. Now, if you were going to make a list of all the blessings that you have in Christ, I wonder what would be at the top of your list. You say, well, Pastor Brock, how can you even make a list? If you as you're listing all the things that the blessings that you have in Christ You might start with some different things. You might start with redemption. You might start with the cleansing that we have from the guilt of sin. You might start with justification. But what's really interesting here is what Paul starts his list with. He starts his list with that topic that a lot of churches find rather disturbing. And kind of awkward and concerning. And yet, as Paul begins this list and talks about election and God's choosing of his children. Folks, let's understand Paul means this to be of an utmost encouragement, not a divisive or feared topic. Paul isn't just one of these guys that just loves to get into the most divisive topics possible. And hey, let's just put this at the top of the list and have it out there. No, when Paul, as he begins this list and he talks about election, he is meaning it to be an employee. Encouragement to you and to me that God has chosen us before the foundation of the world. So that we know that we can be holy and blameless before Him. And we're going to see then the blessings, let's say the fireworks display of God's chosen children. And God's election, the choosing of his children, is a spiritual blessing, and we ought to see it that way. We are blessed. Because he's chosen us and we have relationship with Christ. Now I will say before I go any further, and just to uh alleviate a little bit, we'll only be looking at probably verse 4 this morning with the time that we have. But folks, if you're here this morning and you're hearing me say words like, in Christ, having a faith relationship with Jesus Christ. Knowing Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, and you have no idea what those things mean, then you're going to have a hard time understanding and celebrating with us all that we have in that relationship with Jesus Christ. Paul's going to mention this later on, but I just want to from the start, again, if there's anyone here, maybe a member that's been here a while or a visitor. And you are trusting in all kinds of things to get through through life, but you really don't know once um once you die what's going to happen and what's going to be a part of your eternal destiny. Let me encourage you that the Bible says that you're a sinner in need of Jesus' saving grace, and that he died for you and shed his blood for you. That you could have cleansing of sin, and that you could have restoration with our Heavenly Father, and that you could live all eternity with God and with our Savior Jesus Christ. and escape the curse of sin, which is eternal punishment in hell. And that in just three seconds, well I guess it was 30 seconds. Seconds. And my description has just described a number of the blessings that come from relationship with Christ. So again, my question is for everyone here this morning: do you know Jesus. If you do, if you're trusting in him and him alone by faith, then folks we have much to be thankful for. Look at verse 3. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Note that it starts out with God the Father. That Paul puts God the Father as in the hierarchy, that he is the one that above all that we need to be focused on. And that these things Yes, there's a good part of this book that talks about Jesus Christ, and that is appropriate. But we must not forget the importance of Keeping God, our Heavenly Father, above all. He is the one working and moving through Jesus Christ. and through the spirit. And so Paul makes that clear. Now you might read this and say, Blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You might say to yourself, Well, how can we like bless God? Because we think of a blessing as something That we bestow on someone who needs encouragement or somebody who's done something important, we want to acknowledge that. But how do you bless the God of the universe? God the Father? Well, it's not that we're bestowing something on him that he has need of in one sense. But when Paul says blessing. God the Father, what he's saying is it's a term of worship that we're offering him praise for all that he's done. That's all that that means. Do you realize this morning as we were singing and as we were Even now as you're listening to the scriptures being taught, that you are offering blessing to our Heavenly Father. For all that he has done for us, and that is worship. He blesses us by giving us gifts and benefits. We bless him by offering him praise of gratitude and thankfulness. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for all that you have done for us. And these blessings were regular aspects of Jewish worship. And Paul is going to focus. He's going to offer thanksgiving to God right at the very beginning for all that God has done for us. And so we praise God because he has blessed us with all the spiritual benefits that we need to be his children and to serve him. Look at that second part of that verse. We praise, we bless God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is very important obviously in all this, the Son. But God the Father has blessed us in Christ, in relationship with Him, with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Folks, even before we go any further, do you understand that you have every blessing that you need to be productive and be useful? And live a life that is filled with joy and power. And Paul's saying you have everything that you need in Christ to live this life effectively. And yet, so many times as Christians, we act like God hasn't provided us everything that we need. need. Like there's something that's missing. What really gives you joy What really gives your life meaning? What activities? What pursuits? Folks, let's be honest, many times we are searching this old broken world for the things and the joy and the contentment that can only be Only be found in the spiritual blessings of heaven that God the Father gives us in relationship with Jesus Christ. I'd like to suggest that if you're here this morning, you're struggling with some different things. Struggling with disappointment. Struggling with financial concerns. Struggling with anxiety over illness or different things. And your contentment level is at a low rate, a low percentage And maybe you're hoping that you might come to church and you might say, well, if the worship is just right and it's dynamic, well maybe that'll lift my spirits. Or maybe, you know, if if if the pastor was really dynamic today in being able to preach in just the right way, or maybe if if God would just, you know, um Provide me with a load of cash or money or whatever, if he would just get me out of this situation, then my life would be better, and I would be content. But what we're finding, and what Paul is reminding this faithful church and reminding us today is that everything, folks, that we need for contentment is found. in God's word. Because God lists the blessings that we have in Christ. And as we read these things, His election, adoption, redemption, forgiveness of our trespasses, which he lavished on us in all wisdom and insult. Folks, the more we reflect on what God has given us through Christ in His Word, we become motivated. The spiritual treasures that we have access to far outshine anything that we could see in this old world. And so, if there's something in this world that energizes or is more important to you than the truths of God's word and your spiritual inheritance and what Jesus has done for you, your perception is off. And you need to realign with the truths of Scripture. Paul says you have everything. Each of us here have everything that we need to be a success spiritually for God. And we ought to thank him for it and rejoice every time we get together. Spiritual blessings, these are blessings given by the Spirit, which Paul will elaborate on. And he says that we have a direct supply line to the heavenly places that we were cut off from before. You see, when we trust Jesus in faith, we then have Access again to these many, many blessings that Paul is going to describe for us. But it's through our relationship with Jesus Christ. One uh theologian that many of you may recognize, Dr. Martin Lloyd Johnson Jones has a great quote in this idea of being in relationship with Christ. He says, We are a part of Christ. We are so bound to him by this organic mystical union that whatever is true of him is true of us spiritually. As he in the heavenly places, so are we in the heavenly places also. The blessings we enjoy as Christians in the heavenly places because they all flow out of Christ who is there. And therefore that phrase, in Christ, I think is really maybe the most important phrase in the whole letter. Because our identity and our hope and our joy and our contentment are all linked to Jesus Our death to sin, our resurrection to the things of God, our righteousness, our sanctification. We talked about sanctification in Sunday school this morning. God making us more like Jesus. All of these are linked to our relationship with Jesus Christ. And all of these things God has purposed to give us just out of his grace. Not because we were worthy or meritous in any way. And that's what verse 4 says. We're going to finish up this morning with verse 4. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him in love. He predestined us. We'll continue that next week. But let's focus then on that specific aspect that we are blessed because we were chosen before creation. Now, a lot of scholars and a lot of Christians over many years have tried to explain what that word chosen means, verse 4, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. And we can get mixed up in our minds. What is this choosing? Some people say that God knows. He could, of course, we would say that he knows what's going to happen in the future, right? And so he knows who's going to accept him. And so his choosing is just knowing and preparing for that person to trust Christ. And yet Paul doesn't want us to have that understanding. Paul totally wipes that idea from our minds, or should anyway. As he adds to that word, he chose us in him, he says, before the foundation of the world. That takes care of any idea that election or choosing could take place in the future or that God knows the future and he just chooses those who he knows are going to trust. him folks this was a phrase that Paul is using here that meant all eternity past not just before creation But in all eternity past, God chose us. That kind of takes the debate out of the whole thing, right? It's pretty clear, even though it just blows our minds. Have you ever, I know as a child I used to do this, and I just don't do this anymore, because you know the small circuits in my brain just go After a while. But I would think about eternity. Eternity past. Okay, that God was just continuous and continuous and continuous. And then I would think about eternity future. I think one day I'm going to get to heaven and there's going to be no end and we're just going to keep going on and on and on. And I would kind of freak myself out because I just I can't imagine eternity It's hard for us in this mystery to even understand what that means about eternity past, but folks, it does mean this, and that word chosen just really simply means chosen without qualifiers. God didn't know how good you were going to be one day and then just choose. No, it it really just means chose This was always his plan. And it was to be through his son. He planned eternally before creation. You know, one thing that encourages me. About is that God doesn't make last-minute plans. I don't know about you all, but I get frustrated when I make my plans and they get changed by last-minute events. And sometimes I might show that frustration with my family. It used to be when I was younger, you know, and maybe not so wise father and we were planning a long trip and w I I we had to get out by a certain time in the morning. We just had to. Couldn't tell you why in the end, why we needed to get to that destination at a certain time, but it just we had to get done and and the kids and all circumstances would just totally circumvent all that and an hour later or maybe two hours later we're on the road. road and I'd be so frustrated. I don't like to have my plans change. Now there's one caveat to that. When I'm the one that changes the plans, then it's okay. And why is everybody else so irritated? Because I'm allowed to do that, right? Folks, as a whole, we don't like it when people make last-minute plans. Well, here is one part of this election to encourage us, this whole on this topic of election, that God doesn't make last-minute plans. He doesn't react to our oopses and our sin moments. He doesn't say, well, I wasn't expecting that, but I'm God and I can handle it. No, he's already knows and he's got it all under control from the very beginning, even before eternity. Now there's more we'll say about that next week because time is short. But election has become a fearful topic. And I think part of that is then a realization that salvation comes from God, and even the Bible is clear, even our faith comes from Him. And really, when we think about it and all that that means in our faith relationship with Christ, there is a mystery, there is a wonder to it. But the encouragement in this is that God is intentional And that intentionality then ends up at the end of verse 4 that they should be holy and blameless before him. You see, folks, for those of us that have relationships with Jesus Christ. God intends for us to look like his son. And even as he said in Philippians, he who began a good work in you will be faithful to you. to complete it because we know of his election and his choosing of us, we can be fully encouraged that he will produce in us what he plans to. Don't we get discouraged by our sin and our failures so many times? And yet the doctrine of election reminds us that just as God God chose us that He also will see us through to the end. That we will be all that we need to be. That He is working that work of sanctification in us. So we can't lose our salvation. For those that are truly in relationship with Jesus Christ, he is intentional that you will reach the end. And that you will be glorified one day and be with Christ forever. He is intentional that you will continue throughout your life with a lot of bumps and a lot of difficulties many times, but you will intentionally be the witness for Christ in some form or fashion that you need to be. Because it's all a part of his plan. And all of this, look at those last two words in verse four. In love. The doctrine of election Ultimately, folks, points us to the love of God the Father. That He loves us so much that He would provide all of this For us. So as we finish this morning, don't be freaked out or terrorized or disturbed by God's choosing of his children. But be encouraged and overwhelmed that He loves us. And that His love is with you. If you are one of His children, you are infinitely loved for all eternity. By the Father, and he sent his son to show that love. That's a good thing. That's the ultimate positive thing. And folks, that's just the start of a whole line of blessings. That Paul is going to give us so that we can leave from here and say, wow, look at all what I have in Jesus. I may not have all the financial um wealth that I would like, and I may not have all the friends that I I would like, and you know, the pastor does tend to go a little bit long in the service sometimes, but man, I've got Jesus. And that's all that matters. And that is enough. And I am thrilled. That he loves me. Because he chose me as his child. Folks, if that doesn't jazz you And give you joy and encourage you. There's nothing else in this old world that's going to do that. God loves you. He sent Jesus to die for you. And if you have faith relationship with Him, you have all the treasures of heaven to be useful and to make life worth living, to make life meaningful. You have it all. And if there is one here today that doesn't know the Lord Jesus Christ in faith, would you turn to Him today? And you will receive, when you trust Jesus, all the blessings of heaven that you need to make what life worth living. Father, thank you for these glorious truths. And Lord, we've just scratched the surface. We have so many more As Paul produces this fireworks display to this faithful church to encourage them that they have all that they need in Jesus because the Heavenly Father loved them. And he loves us. From eternity past, mind-blowing to consider. And yet it is Is true. So Lord, help us as we come to the end of this service to exalt you forever and ever, the ancient of days, God of eternity, your wondrous in wisdom, majestic in glory. Folks, let's think on the truth of who our Heavenly Father is, even as we end the service this morning. If you don't know Jesus as your Savior, come talk to me. Think on your need for that now. Leslie 's going to play and give us some time to prepare our hearts to again worship God at the end of the service.