In your heart this morning, as you reflect on all that Jesus has done for you, do you willingly give him all of your life in service? He died upon that tree. Will you die in living service from him and offer up your life? Our kids are going Going back to children's church. Have one of our moms that are helping to teach that this morning. We're thankful for those folks as well. But the rest of us. No, we're not going to Proverbs. Proverbs 31 today. We're going back to um our introduction to the book of Ephesians. And I told you, I kind of prepped you, right, that this is Because the book of Acts, which is uh the book that Dr. Luke wrote as the sequel to the life of Christ, And it is the uh the power of Christ moving and working through his followers and how the gospel is spread to the known world. That's the book of Acts. And it has much to say about how Paul encountered this church, these people of Ephesus, and how God used him to start this church. In this ministry. And so I just want us to have that understanding before we get into the book. It helps as we read Paul's letter to this church to know the history of the founding of the church and the things that happened. Now some of you are better students of history than others, but this is exciting stuff. So if you look in Acts chapter 19, try to try to get through verses 1 through 20, we're going to see a lot of exciting things, amazing things. That God does through Paul's ministry in this major city of Ephesus. And as we hear of these things, we're gonna Maybe be tempted to think, wow, God works so powerfully in the early church. Boy, I'd love to see some of that power and some of those signs today. Some of those Miracles. That would be really awesome. That would be really cool. So I want us to take close note out of all the things that happen in this passage as Paul now comes to Ephesus and he begins his ministry. The ministry that eventually, as he's thrown into prison, would culminate in the letter to the Ephesians. Notice what this passage emphasizes is the most powerful and most important thing of all. I'm going to ask our sound booth to go ahead and bring it guys. You can bring up the map that we had last week. It's there. There we go. We see Paul's second missionary journey highlighted there. And then we saw that Last week, that Paul didn't do ministry alone. Paul didn't think of himself, and he uh motivated others to not think of himself As necessary from the standpoint of that he was vital, Paul trained others to do ministry alongside of him. That was his ministry model. So as we begin the topic of the ministry there at Episodes, we f we found that Paul briefly went to Episodes and then left because he had other things going on. God wanted him to do, but he left people that he had discipled there in Ephesus that were fully capable of carrying on ministry apart from the Apostle Paul. Yes, there were many. Beyond the Apostle Paul's ministry that God used to bring people, to lead people to Christ. And we saw that with Aquila and Priscilla, the dynamic duo. Of witnessing power that gave further testimony to a vibrant, dynamic speaker named Apollos. And so people that Paul discipled, helping disciple other people. And the reminder is that, folks, it's not all in the pastor or the leadership of any church. All of us need to be looking for discipleship relationships. And how to disciple other people. Well, as Paul came, Paul continued, God led him back on what we call his third missionary journey. If you see um to your right there, um below the yell the red line is that whole area, God led Paul back to that area to kind of help encourage the church. Churches that he had helped start already. And God eventually does move Paul back to Ephesus. And so that's where we find ourselves in action Chapter 19. Now again, there's going to be a lot of powerful things that happen, but the most important thing is I want us to see the mighty power of the proclaimed It happened, ver okay, chapter 19, verse 1, and it happened that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the inland country and came You could say back to Ephesus. And there he found some disciples. I should give a little bit of background on Ephesus. Again, for those of you who love history, you'll love this. But this is important. What was the city of Ephesus? What was the city that Paul would eventually write to with this letter to the church there? Well, it was Ephesus. actually a very important commercial city that was included, we have um we have characterized today um in our history book Seven wonders of the ancient world. And one of those was in the city of Ephesus. And that was unfortunately, it was a place of pagan, ungodly Worship to the goddess Diana or Artemis, they had constructed a huge temple to this false idol. Again known as Diana, and she was considered a major goddess in the heathen worship at this time in Greek culture and in Rome. And so Ephesus, uh not wanting to be outdone as a major city of commerce and of respectability, had the largest Temple to this goddess. This goddess, known as Artemis and Diana, was considered a nurturer and provider of fertility and reproductive power. We'll talk more about her next week. She was the exact opposite of what we promote, being a godly mother and godly woman, this false idol, she wasn't even real, obviously. Was the exact opposite of everything that we treasure in our mothers As they teach us God's word. And so this was a major center of false idol worship. It was also the capital of the Roman province of Asia. You notice it's so Situated on a major trade route east of Rome because it's right there on the water. Um and because it was a place that people entered often, uh there was Hundreds of people that lived there, not unlike I don't know, Chicago, New York City, that kind of thing. But it was very special. It was conceded, it was considered a free city. A seat of Roman government government because of its status and its power, and that meant that it could govern itself and had its own Senate and assembly. Included amongst all this was a large Jewish population because the Jews had much freedom in that city and area to be able to worship and live, and they had been scattered From Jerusalem to the known world, so there was a large Jewish population there. They worshiped together. The population is considered for the city as a whole as a quarter of a million people. People. That's a lot of people, folks. And Paul now comes, God makes it clear it's your time, Paul, to minister in Ephesus, and he sets his sights on the promise of gospel. Witness opportunity in this major city, and he ends up staying for almost three years, twice as long as any other city on any of his journeys. So this is a very Important city in Paul's ministry. It's important to note that before we dive into that letter. So he comes to as remember our friend Apollos. Was further versed in the gospel by Aquila and Priscilla, and he continues his gospel ministry. Notice in the corner there, the left corner, Corinth. Apollos goes there. Now it's Paul's time To minister at Ephesus. And he finds some disciples. Disciples are those that follow after God. But just like Apollos, these disciples need some help. They don't have the full picture or the full knowledge yet. And so Paul, when he said to them, he came to them, and of course, when Paul realizes that people don't have the full knowledge, Of the gospel, you know, right? You know the apostle Paul is going to go right in, jump right in, and give them the gospel. And he said, Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed? And they said, No, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit. He said, You guys are followers of God? Okay. You must be followers of Christ. You must have I just want to check the Holy Spirit within is the sign that we are true believers in Jesus Christ. And they're like, uh, we don't know what you're talking about, Paul. Um, who's this Holy Spirit Holy Spirit. And Paul's kind of incredulous. He's like, well, what why did you you you trusted Christ? You were baptized? And they said, Yeah, but we were baptized through John the Baptist. That's what it means when it says John 's baptism. It's talking about John the Baptist. So here were followers, sincere followers of God, like Apollos, that didn't know all the potentials. Particulars of Jesus' coming and his resurrection. And Paul said John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one Baptist ministry was important. He he taught us that we needed to repent of our sins and be prepared in purity for the coming of Christ. But the Messiah Has come. His name is Jesus. And on hearing this, uh it seems it it's kind of all summarized together here, whether they needed to trust Christ or not still at the This point. They're trusted in Christ. And then something amazing happens. And while Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, the very Spirit. Now they know the Holy Spirit that Paul's talking about, do they not? Oh, wow. And it came in a powerful way that they began speaking in tongues and prophecies, and there were about twelve men in all That's a pretty remarkable way to begin any ministry in a new great city, the city of Ephesus. What was this Speaking in tongues and prophesying. Well, folks, in in the book of Acts we have specific um miracles and signs that take place that let us know that some Something new is happening. And we'll get more into this in just a little bit, but God there were specific groups of people when they trusted Christ, when the Jews Jews, uh, the population of Jews in Jerusalem trusted Christ. There were others, but they spoke in tongues, remember. The gospel then went to the Samaritans, and the Samaritans spoke in tongues in property. prophesied. And remember that tongues is just speaking in another language that you don't that you haven't studied. And so they're able to give the gospel And speak the word of God in languages that they've never studied before. And so it's an amazing miracle. And that prophesying is prophesying the truth of God's Word. And so at special times, at this time at the beginning of church, the book of Acts records different people groups, when they put their faith and trust in Jesus. There's this miraculous speaking in tongues and prophesying. And wouldn't it have been neat to have been a part and be able to see all that? But I want to ask you this even And in this, what is the thing that is most emphasized? Is it the tongues and the prophesying? Is it the miracle that the Spirit does during this time? What is really being emphasized here is the most powerful aspect of Paul's encounter with these men. We'll get back to that. Now we continue with Paul's Ministry in Ephesus. And he entered the synagogue and for three months spoke boldly, reasoning and reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God. And but But when some became stubborn and continued in unbelief, speaking evil of the way before the congregation, he withdrew from them, and took the disciples with him. He gets into Ephesus. He's preaching the Word of God. He's already got people following him. He's already mentoring and training others and helping disciples. Disciple them to grow in their faith. It's what Paul did all the time. See, discipleship shouldn't be something that sounds strange to us. It's something that should be naturally happening in every church. And it naturally happened in Paul's ministry. And so he reasoned with them. This is in another area, the hall of Tyrinius, that's separate from the synagogue. And he reasoned and he explained the gospel daily. And this continued for two years. And look at the powerful effects. So that all the residents of A Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks. Now you realize when it says all the residents of Asia that you expand beyond Ephesus into that yellow Area on top and to the east, that whole area begins to hear of the gospel. And there's powerful effects because of not just Paul's ministry, but the ministry of his disciples as well. So we see the power of God's word in that he explains and he gives full testimony to those that have incomplete teachings. And the continued here in verses eight through ten of the power of God's word proclaimed, in those verses, the whole emphasis, the main emphasis. Emphasis is on the proclaiming of God's word and the powerful nature of it. It also gives us a little hint, a little picture. Into how Paul would handle his ministry. And that is, he would always go to the Jewish synagogue first in any city, and he would give the gospel to the Jewish synagogue. People. Now the Gentiles were invited to listen in as well, but that was his regular habit of what he would do because he felt that that was necessary, and that's what God invited. But unfortunately, so many times the people of God of the Old Testament, the Jewish people, were stubborn and they wouldn't believe. And then they began to speak evil of him. Go back to verse nine. It says they were speaking evil of the way before the congregation. So what does that mean? Well, this is interesting. At this time, this tells us that there was a unique way that Christians were referred to. And they were referred to as the people of the way. That they were following the right way of Jesus Christ. And so they were called the people of the way. And And unfortunately, as Paul is ministering to the this Jewish audience, they begin speaking evil of the people of the way, of the Christians. And they start to turn people And so Paul, as he many times had to do, he had to withdraw from the synagogue and said, I've done my part, I've given the gospel, you've rejected it, it's time to move on and give it to the Gentiles. And so probably this man, uh Tyreneus, uh, was one um that owned this lecture hall, which was probably Probably what it was. Um they loved in these cities back in this day to debate and to philosophize and all these things, and so they had these lecture halls where you could do so. And maybe this type of Ireneus had trusted Christ, and he said, Paul, come on over here to my meeting hall. We'd be glad to have you here. We'd love to hear more of the gospel. Every day he's sharing Jesus in this huge meeting hall, probably in the center of this huge respectable city, Episodes, and God is Moving and people in the whole region hear of the word of the Lord. That's the gospel, both Jews and Greeks. The gospel is for all folks. And all are hearing it. And so the power is here. Paul has a full commitment to explaining God's word, and he maintains that commitment Even when he's opposed, you're not going to stop the Apostle Paul from teaching and proclaiming the truths of the gospel. He's just going to find another place to do it. Because he knows Of the power of God's word. But even with the power of God's word, there are some pretty amazing things that start to happen here. Look at verse Verse eleven, and we see the power of God's word prevails. And God, through the preaching of Paul, gives some special displays of his power To mark Paul as God's man, and that people need to listen to him. These are pretty these are remarkable. And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul. So that Even handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his skin were carried away to the sick, and their diseases left them, and the evil spirits came out of them. Wow. Handkerchiefs and aprons. What are those? Well I think we know what handkerchiefs are, and they're basically not to be gross here, but among other things a handkerchief is something That you use when you need it, right? Allergies, whatever, when you have a cold. But they were also sweat rags for the head and for the torso that would have had context Contact with Paul's body. And yet people were realizing that they were seeing God's power work. Somebody, I don't know who was the first person. Who was willing to do this, but somebody touched one of those sweaty old rags and they were healed. And they were feeling better. And so word got around. Hey, you know, the handkerchiefs that Paul carries and the aprons, you know, yeah, they're full of this sweat and everything, but they they heal. You need to try this out. Uh I remember a team Teaching this in New Hampshire in 2020. And I made the point that you know Paul was not being respectful of social distancing with this miracle, right? Here's my old sweaty rag. It's gonna heal you. I don't know. I don't know if he distributed these or if they asked for them or whatever. It's one of those things, you know, maybe we'll know more details one day. Why would God even allow this? It's kind of gross. And yet you have to admit, it's amazing. People are healed, and when these sweaty rags Would touch um those that were filled with demons, the demons would be scared to death and come out of them. Sweaty rag and the demons, oh and they they Out of that person. It's kind of weird. Why would God do that? Well, I've studied this And I think something we need to understand about the culture of Ephesus that we're going to continue to see throughout this description. The culture of Ephesus was entrenched. In pagan worship, and they were enamored and fascinated with black magic. That is a key of the culture and the society within Ephesus For whatever reason, they and when we say magic, we're not talking about magicians and pulling a rabbit out of their hat and all that kind of fun stuff, you know. We're talking about satanic power, right? You understand that And these folks were dabbling and dealing with satanic power, that kind of magic and black demonic arts that were trying to Call up spirits. And of course, maybe that's why they had so many demon-possessed people in the city. Is because they had become too familiar with the power of Satan. So here's God's plan. He just says, You're so enamored by the power of the evil one, watch what I can do. I could take a sweaty rag and heal you. I could take this gross sweaty hand Handkerchief of falls that he's just used, and I can look how powerful God is. He could take a nasty old used handkerchief and he can make demons squeal and howl and run the other way So don't be enamored by the power of Satan. Be amazed by the power of God , the power of the gospel. And folks, don't we need that reminder today, too? Satan's presence is so obvious in our world. In so many ways. And yet God takes human beings that are lowly, that are humble, in the eyes of the world, maybe they're like Sweaty rags, and God uses them for powerful ways to make His presence known. So don't get overwhelmed by Satan's work at this time, but call asked the Lord to be used as a powerful vessel for his purposes. Not that we should start taking out handkerchiefs and sneezing into them and then you know giving them to others. Oh this will help Hillya. Okay. You're gonna get some weird looks. That's not at all what we're trying to what I'm trying to explain and proclaim Here in the passage this morning. We'll get back to that in a minute. But it is, it shows the power of God is much more powerful than the power of Satan, and that's what these folks needed to hear. And so then you had some unbelieving Jewish exorcists that were so impressed. Wow, look at that. Paul can Heal people with these handkerchiefs. Maybe we ought to try that. And so these unbelieving Jewish exorcists try to explain Expel people in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ who they have rejected, who they don't know. Do you think that's a good idea? Some of these verse 13 Of these itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, Hey, you know, it worked for Paul. Look how impressive Paul's power Is let's get on the act here. Let's get in on it, and maybe we can make some money. And so they come up to these folks that are are demon-possessed and they say Say, I adjure you by the power of Jesus, whom Paul proclaims. We take the authority of Jesus, whom Paul proclaims, who um parentheses, we We don't believe in, but we'll try it anyway, and you come out. Now how do you think the demon's gonna uh react to that? Verse fifteen Evil spirit answered them, Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize. But who are you? No, I the demons themselves say we recognize The authority of Jesus, and we recognize the authority of Jesus on Paul's life. But who are you, schlubs? We don't know you. You have no authority. You have no power. And so So um Oh I I I skipped over a pat a a verse here. It gives a little more um information to these exorcists. They were Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Skeva who were doing this. So, sons of the high priest that ought to know better. And the evil spirit answered them: Who are you? And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, mastered all of them, and overpowered them, so that they all fled out of the house naked and wounded. were a little humiliated, wouldn't you? I don't think they tried this again. Seven big guys and one demon-possessed guy says, Who are you guys? You don't don't you know? I know who you are. You don't know Jesus Christ. You don't have his power and rah he overtakes them and humiliates them and gives them the beating that they'll Remember. And again, it just shows to the people of Ephesus that are so entranced in satanic power, all of this says the power of God is Superior. You need to listen to the words of this man Paul because the power and work of God are superior to anything Satan can do. All of these miracles Miracles and these things show them that. All of these miraculous events are pointing people to listen to the Word of God by the Apostle Paul. Does that make sense? And so verse 18, verse 17. And this became known to all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. Yeah, I would say so. The rumor mill And things got around. Did you hear? Did you hear those seven sons of Skeva? Um, they tried and they were attacked by this demonic man, and uh they were they were taken. And it says, and fear fell upon them all, both Jews and Greeks, and the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled, because the power of Christ Christ was superior to the power of Satan. And so look at the results of this. Also, many of those who were now believers came confessing. And divulging their practices, and a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver. That's a lot of money, folks, in today's terms. That's a whole lot of money. But notice how it ends with all these miraculous things. The most Important thing. Verse 20. So the word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily. So they see these Jewish sons of this high Priest that got beat had been beaten up by this demonic presence, and people were impressed, and they said, Wow, that doesn't happen to Paul! The man who's preaching God's word, there is a higher power than the one that we've been introduced to so for so many years. And this had such an effect that People took their books of the magic arts and all of these things that were dedicated to the power of Satan, and they repented because they realized that there was A greater power than the one that they had been following. And so they repented and confessed their sins and confessed their reliance. on the power of Satan. And they had all these magic books that were obviously very expensive. Some of the most expensive books that you could own. And they all came and they burned them in a public And that testified of their desire to follow after Christ because they realized that the power of God through Jesus and the gospel is more powerful than anything that Satan could come up with. And notice again, all these amazing things are going on. And at the end of this passage, what does Their focus continues to be on? that mean? The word of the Lord continues. And people are listening because they've seen the power of God Paul displays the superior nature of God's truth, the power of God prevailing mightily over demonic magic and fire. Financial concerns. So what do we do with all this? Fascinating stuff, right? Interesting stories. Well, kind of gross Gross, actually, that whole handkerchief thing, but it was powerful, it was amazing. What's the purpose of all this? It's to remind us as we go through these things, folks We may not see these types of miraculous signs happen today, but we need to know that God's power is still active and he's just as powerful today as But Pastor Brock, I would love to see those seven sons go running the other way after being beaten up by that demon, and Paul standing there saying, Hey, they didn't get me. I would love to see the prophesying in the tongues. I'd love to see people healed by those rags. All of that would have been amazing. Well folks, with all those amazing things, what was most excuse me, what was most emphasized in all of that Every one of those accounts, the word of God is emphasized the most. All of these things that happened And it ends with emphasizing the importance and power of the word of God. It is the power of God that enables people or the number Of believers to increase is the power of God that is working in people's lives. Not all these healings and miraculous things, but it's the power of the God. And folks, we still have that today. So we don't need to see all the other things because we have the power of God's word right here. You're holding it in your hand. We've been singing about it all morning. Back to those miraculous things and the other miraculous things that happen, the signs in the book of Acts. What do we Well we need to remember that the best interpretation of those things is that God had just instituted through Jesus Christ Christ, a new entity, and that was what? The church. And the word of God had not been fully written yet. And so God God, through the power of Jesus, was allowing these miraculous things, these speaking in tongues, these healings, to announce and show the power of this new entity of the church. And that people needed to listen to them and listen to God's word and listen to the gospel. It was all to point to the messengers and their Message of truth. Not just to continue and to continue to wow people up until the present day. Once we had God's word For us, there was no more need for all of those extra signs because we have all of God's word. God was using those miraculous events to say, hey, here's a truth. Church, you need to listen to my leaders, you need to trust in Jesus. But once God's word is written, we don't have to rely on all those things or look for all those things. We have the power Of Jesus Christ in our Bibles, in God's Word. That's all we need. Sure, it'd be nice to see some of those amazing Things that are talked about. But again, God's word points out the greatest power is his word proclaimed, and we have that in entirety today. The full canon of what God intended us to have. We don't need to rub dirty handkerchiefs on People. We can just pray for them and give them God's word. So that's all the point this morning as we get ready to hear From the book of Ephesians is that we need to listen, that it's powerful, and God's word does powerful things. Do you believe that? Do you believe that all you need for God Work powerfully in you is to read his word, is to trust in his word, trust in Jesus Christ, and let his Holy Spirit do his work in you. As you learn more of his word and submit yourself to his word, that's all the power we need. And it's more than enough. So, mothers, You have all the power you need to make it through another day. Some of you still have small children. Some of you have teenagers. Some of you have child That are getting ready to spread their wings and go on. Some of you moms are facing a lot of difficult things that you can't even share. And maybe you're saying, boy, I'd like to see God work in a powerful way. Well, how often are you reading His Word? Believe. Trust. Trust that God's word is powerful and that the Holy Spirit can do powerful things through you as you learn more of His Word and apply it to your life on a daily basis. You can continue on, moms. You can have the strength for the next day. And by the way, that's for dads too. And all of us. We need to rely on the mighty power of God's Word. That's all that we need to get us through until Jesus returns. Let's bow our heads together. Father, we're so grateful for this reminder in the midst of all these amazing miracles. Things that happened to Paul and how you used Paul, that we even have we have a greater resource today, and that is the finished, completed Word of God And it's all we need. And that gives us blessed assurance that Jesus is mine because we have the gospel. And the Word of God to lead us on, as we sang earlier. Book divine, precious treasure, you are mine. My call for you today, whether it's mom 's or dad's or anybody listening to this this morning, is that you again will Reacquaint yourself with the necessity and the need and the power for God's word in your life. Do you believe that the Bible that you hold In your hands is God's word, then folks, we must act and believe that it has the power to change and to move us And to make us better testimonies for Jesus Christ. Ask God to help you this morning have more of an appreciation for God's word And if there is someone here this morning that doesn't have a relationship with Jesus, like those Jewish exorcists that use Jesus for their own purposes, maybe you've been using Using the name of Jesus for your own purposes. And folks, I call you this morning, if that's the case, to put your faith and trust in the name of Jesus. Not just to talk about him and use his name. But to trust in the person of Jesus this morning so that you can better evaluate and have appreciation. And for the power of his word. You think on these things this morning as the piano plays