And God directs us to come to him. Jesus reminds us that we need to come to him. If we're relying on ourselves or relying on somebody else for our help and our strength, well it's just going to fail. That's why Jesus in his words said Come unto me. Last week we looked together at an important question: who's in charge here? And hopefully you understood through looking at God's word that it's not the senior pastor ultimately. It's not the deacons, Sunday school teachers, or anyone else. Jesus is the head. That's why we should go to him for all of our needs. Well, today we're going to ask another question that you probably have your own opinions about, some thoughts about, and we're going to hope Answered that this morning. That is: what are the indications of a successful church ministry? What do you look at when you look at a church and say that church is a success? Now, we all may have different opinions about that, but ultimately we need to know what God's Word says about a successful church. And then we need to strive to be that Through our not through our own strength, but through the power of Jesus Christ. So we're going to look at this morning. The title of the message is The Walk of a Successful, in quotation Church. If you'll turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 through 21. Not a lot of verses this morning. But in the hands of a pastor who can preach a long time, we'll see. No, I hopefully it won't be too long today I'm going to go ahead and read the passage and then we'll pray together and look into God's Word. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Whereby Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is, and be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess. But be filled with the Spirit, speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting yourselves one to another, In the fear of God. Lord, help us to have understanding from your word this morning. Help us to see truly your expectations from your church and how we are to show the love of Jesus to this world, to our community, and how we are supposed to be testimonies Of the holiness of God where we work in our communities, in our neighborhoods as well. Help us to do this, but help people to see That there is a love that passes all understanding that comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ. And embrace that as we give the message from your word. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, what is then the walk of a successful church? What do successful churches do look like? You might have a lot of your own ideas, certainly out there in our culture today. People would say numbers, certainly. If you've got a lot of people coming to a church and you know you have to they have to have their own parking attendance and even police cars there to help people to park in the right spaces. Well, they must be doing something right. That's got to be a sign of success. Or maybe something more dear to my heart if you have your own coffee shop within your church. That would be somebody started raising their hand back there. I don't know if we're gonna be able to do that anytime soon, but we can pray. That would certainly be a sign of a successful church. Or that uh that people just really love their pastor, and that's always a good thing, right? Or love the the the teachers and and the people there involved and just really enjoy going to church. So that would be in a lot of people's minds a sign of success. But I want to look at this morning what from God's Word, what I think. And again, it's not what I think. But when I look at it, what village chapel ought to be, that this is what we ought to be doing. Okay? And one of the first things we're going to see is we must walk in God's wisdom. Now, Ephesians in particular, in fact, I looked at Ephesians last week, we're looking at it today, so you could kind of almost term this as themes in Ephesians. I don't know if we'll be in there next week as well, looking in in the book of Ephesians. But Ephesians is written. All of Paul's letters are written to the local church. But Ephesians in particular from my study is referring to the church in every aspect of what it's talking about. In other words, when Paul's telling us to do something, he's not just speaking to an individual. in Ephesians, he's saying the church as a whole ought to be doing this. The church ought to be doing this in their community. So Paul is expecting churches, even like Village Chapel, that all of us are going to be doing what he's talking about here as a church family. And when people look at Village Chapel Baptist Church, they're going to see us doing these things corporately as a group. So what does he say? Well, God's church, the people in God's church, first of all, must walk in wisdom. We must walk wisely. And that's obvious, right? Verses 15 to 17. 16. See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. That idea of walking circumspectly, another version says, look carefully then how you walk. Being careful, not being distracted. What is that supposed to look like, Pastor Brock? When you're why is Paul and he will refer to this a lot in the book of Ephesians about walking in the right way. Well, he's using something that we all should be able to understand, right? What is walking? It's taking one step. In front of the other, to get to a particular location, to be mobile, to move, to function. And he's saying, be careful in a spiritual sense of every step that you take. In your life, in your daily life. Walk carefully. Think of how you're walking. The way really, this is what he's referring to in the end, is the way we conduct ourselves through. Life. And he's calling us to analyze every step that we take, walking carefully and wisely. What does it mean to be wise? Not as fools, or again the idea here of not as unwise. Don't walk unwisely, but walk in a wise way. This has the idea of knowing God's word well and being able to apply it to every decision, every situation that we come to come to in our lives and being able to accurately know what God's will is. We're going to get into God's will in just a minute. Wisdom in Proverbs, of course, is filled with verses about God's wisdom is knowing how to correctly apply God's word to every aspect of our life. And we can do that through the power of Jesus Christ. We can walk, and every step literally that we take in our lives can be wise. But we can't depend upon ourselves to do that. We have to depend upon the power of Jesus Christ. Walking carefully. This reminds me, I like to read books about history. And uh, you know, what Civil War, World War II, whatever. It's all of interest to me. In Maryland, there's a lot of Civil War history. Um and we've enjoyed going to Gettysburg and different things. I think they were still um perfecting the science of the landmind, if I remember correctly. And these soldiers many times would have to go, whether whatever war it's in, they would have to be very careful if they were concerned about a field that looked like it might have landmines in it. They couldn't just run through, or if you do, you would have been a a very foolish soldier to just try to run through and see if I can make it. That's a pretty big gamble. But they would carefully step, having people check ahead of them in different ways, and measuring every step because it was that important. Their lives were at stake. Another maybe example of this is a judge or a lawyer looking carefully over the details of a specific case. So that he knows what he's getting into and he can accurately provide advice, give opinions, and give judgment about that case. That's the kind of walking wisely, being careful that we need to do in our lives, analyzing every step that we take. A story came to mind as I was studying. For the message this week. And you know, you do a lot of foolish things when you're a young person in college. Maybe those of you that are out of college now, maybe you weren't as foolish as I was. But uh I had some friends I we thought there'd be some certain things that'd be fun to do. We I went to uh Christian college for undergrad and it's in the Panhandle, Florida, and we found out about this old fort. I think it was like an old school Civil War fort. It was really, really old. And we thought wouldn't it be fun to go there at night and and stumble around and try uh I think I don't think we'd ever So go to a fort that we'd never been to and do it in the dark. That would be a great idea. And there was a group that was walking around with a a leader, a guide, and they had flashlights and everything, but you know that wouldn't been any fun to follow that. be a So we thought it'd be better to make our own trails and just figure out things on our own. And we did have a lot of adventures that night. But one thing, we got to this wall, and there was this square hole that obviously was a tunnel, and it was about four feet wide, and maybe about four or five feet high, and we figured out didn't take us long that we could get through, we could crawl through that tunnel if we just kind of crouched down and all I think it was either four or five of us guys, we would walk in a line together. Oh, that makes sense, right? In a fort you've never been in before, in the dark, why not just walk into a tunnel when you don't know where it goes? Makes perfect sense So we and we gave one guy obviously at the front the light. That seemed like the right thing to do. He had the flashlight. So we're going through this tunnel. Isn't this fun? I don't have any idea where we're going here. you know what's gonna happen. And um we get a little bit further and and some of the guys start getting a little claustrophobic because you know you're kind of in there kind of tight. And the guy at the front, all of a sudden, the only light that we had, it vanishes. It just turns off. And he says, Uh-oh, I'm out of batteries. Oh man, what are we going to do now? Well, you can't, you know, for college guys, you can't back out once you've gone back in. You've got to see it to the end. Well, let's keep going forward. Well, in the midst of this tunnel, there was this brick overhang that kind of came down a little further that none of us could see. And it was about three inches that came down a little further at some point in the middle of the middle of the tunnel. And the light went off right as the guy in front of me was about ready to um come to that particular spot. And of course he was going pretty fast and bam he hit his head on that brick overhang there and oh at that point I'm like oh I feel so bad for you but I'm glad it wasn't me. Glad it was you that was in front. And we got toward the end and uh the guy in the front that had the light all of a sudden it miraculously we got to the end. It was just it was just this flat brick wall of nothing. It's like totally uh disappointing. We never did figure out exactly what that tunnel was all about. Maybe they had explosives in there at one point or something. Don't know why it was there. But we got to the end and he miraculously turns the light on again. And he'd been fooling us the whole time. He actually had he just turned the light off because he thought it'd be funny. Well the guy in front of me wasn't actually that that that he didn't find it that humorous what the guy In front had done. Well, we were having an adventure, and we did a lot more foolish things I don't have time to talk about today. But we weren't walking in wisdom, right? We were walking foolishly. We were in a situation we didn't know anything about. We were going in a place where we we didn't know where we would end up or what was about us, and we gave the only flashlight To the wrong guy, who obviously wasn't the guy to be a good leader and to help us get through. He was the jokester. Probably everything about that situation was walking foolishly. God calls us to not walk foolishly, to be careful, to analyze a situation before we just jump into it. To be careful, if I can put it this way, who we give the flashlight to, who we allow to lead us, who we allow to teach us. We have to be very careful. You know, Paul here gives us some good wisdom about walking wisely throughout Ephesians. And we're going to look at that real quick. Just turn with me quickly to chapter 4, verse 1. And Paul in numerous places here in Ephesians talks about how we need to walk. Chapter 4, verse 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Walking worthy. Of our relationship with Jesus Christ. When we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God calls us to serve him. And we should walk worthy of that calling, of that vocation, with all lowliness, humility, and meekness that has the idea of gentleness, of strength under control. Most of us here probably wouldn't look at the word meekness and say, that's what I want to have in my Christian life. I want to be known as the meek person. But meekness actually has the idea of great strength. under control. We all have gifts. We all have strengths in this room. Are we willing to submit those and put those under the authority of Jesus Jesus Christ. If you're willing to do that, you're meek. Okay? You're humble. With long suffering, being patient with other people, even those people that it really is hard to be patient with. Especially when they're irritating. You see them from a distance and they're coming towards you and you know they're going to talk to you, and you're like, Lord, please give me long suffering for this conversation. By the way, just so as a reminder here, we are all, each of us, irritating to somebody else in this world. It's just the way It's just the way human nature goes. So be careful. Be gracious when you meet someone that irritates you, all right? Long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the Unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Walking worthy of the calling of the child of God to serve God and minister the love of Jesus Christ to our world. And how do we do that? Again, through these things, being patient, being humble. That is walking wisely. Paul tells us to do that. Walk worthy. Let's look at another one. 417. Paul says, This I say therefore in testifying the Lord that ye henceforth n walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. And then he goes into a long section describing the Gentiles, those who have rejected God, who are pagans. Paul says, don't walk like them. Don't walk like the Gentiles. Now don't be insulted. We're all Gentiles. Well, actually, I don't know that. There might be some people of Jewish descent in here I just haven't met you yet. Let me know afterwards if that's the case. But I'm guessing for the most part we're all Gentiles in here. And this isn't a dig at all of us who aren't Jewish. This was a picture that the Jewish people had of those that had rejected God. It was a term they used for pagans, for those that um That weren't interested in following God. And Paul says, don't walk like them. Don't walk like the world. And if you want to read through that this week, he gives us a really good description of what that looks like. It's not my goal here today to talk through all of that. But I think we understand when Paul says, don't walk like the world, what that means. We need to be different. We're supposed to be a testimony of Jesus Christ. And therefore, if we're acting like everybody else around us who isn't following God, what kind of testimony is that? It's not a very good testimony. Don't walk as the Gentiles. Chapter 5, verse 2. Again, these themes of walking. Paul says, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling Savior. Walk in Jesus' love. It's Jesus' sacrificial love is the reason that we're believers in the first place. His love allowed and drove him and his love for the Father to sacrifice himself for our sin The abundant and self-sacrificial love is in the very nature of God Himself, and therefore it's in our nature too, because we're New creatures. And we need to walk in love and be an example, just like we talked about last week. Alright? Be an example to our community of the self-sacrificial patient love of Jesus. We need to walk in that as we go through our day. Makes sense, right? Let's look at chapter 5, verse 8. Here's another thing that we should another description of how we should walk. For ye were sometimes darkness. But now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. That same idea described differently, that we don't want to walk as the world walks, as those that have rejected God, that have rejected Jesus Christ, because they walk in darkness. Like me and my friends did in that tunnel. We had no idea where we were going. The light was out. We couldn't see anyway. That's a horrible way to live life. And yet those who haven't put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ are stumbling around in this world trying to figure out what they're supposed to be doing, and they need the light of Jesus Christ to awaken them and show them what truth is and how they're supposed to walk. So certainly our light should be strong. We shouldn't have a light that's almost like uh that our batteries are so low that it's barely big Beaming and it's dim, it's not a good representation. Walk in light, Paul says here. And so you might say, well, Pastor Brock, how do we do that? That's hard It's hard to walk in that way. And I know each and every one of you represents throughout your daily week a little bit different circumstances than the rest of us. Okay? You all have your own circumstances God has put you in where you're supposed to walk wisely. And that's hard sometimes. How do we do that It's through the power of Jesus Christ. And this is a great opportunity to talk about the gospel And isn't it we should all always be excited about an opportunity to look back at the gospel, right? As believers, it should never be old to us. And Paul tells us the gospel way back in Ephesians Ephesians chapter 2, if you'll turn there real quick, 8 through 10. These are verses you know well, so we don't need to spend a long time today. But whenever we have an opportunity to talk about the gospel, let's do it. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And then not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. It's God's grace. He saves us through Jesus Christ. There's not anything that we can do Do. Notice how Paul emphasizes that more than once. It's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God. A gift is something that you don't have any part in except to take it. But then he says, in case you didn't get that or didn't understand that, it's not of works, lest any man should boast. It's not anything that we do, because we'd be arrogant and we would boast, and people that follow after religion. What is religion? It is a system of works whereby one tries to please the God that they're serving. And that is a miserable way to live, by the way, because we're not capable. Of that. But those that would follow that have pride in the fact that they've obtained a certain level, maybe above other people. And there's no pride in a relationship with Jesus Christ. It's all humility Because Jesus has done it all. For we are his workmanship. When we through faith, and it was clear in verse 8, it's through faith. It's not anything that we do We believe in what Jesus and His work and what He's done. But then we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto what? Unto good works. Which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Once we accept Jesus Christ, Jesus has a plan for our lives that involves good works. We couldn't do enough good works before. To be saved, but after we're saved, God has a plan for us to do good works, to do God's plan, to carry out God's plan on this earth, and he enables us to do that through the power of Jesus. So how do we walk in this way? By depending upon the power of Jesus Christ. But it starts with those that have put their faith and trust So, even though I'm pretty certain that everybody here has a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, I haven't had a chance to talk to everybody one-on-one. There's always a possibility that somebody might be giving false testimony to their relationship. So let me encourage you again, as we should on a regular basis, if you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal savior. That's where this all starts. Put your faith and trust in him today. He's done all the work. Verse 13, real quick. Now in Jesus Christ, Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, were made nigh by the blood of Christ. How are we saved? Through Jesus' sacrifice, through his shedding blood. Jesus did all the work. We put our Faith and trust in Him, and He has a plan for us to walk wise to be an example of the way that God wants us to live. I hope that makes sense God will show you as believers how this should look in your daily walk. I've talked with a number of you even this week. You're all in different circumstances. There are those of you that have been There are those of you that have worked in warehouses this week. There are those of you that have worked with young people, children. Teens this week. That's your job. There are those of you who have worked in really nice coffee shops. Okay. In each circumstance, God has a plan for you to walk wisely and to be examined. Of Jesus Christ. I may not even, not being in your circumstance, I may not be able to tell you fully how that works. How you're supposed to do that. But God can Analyzing every step, we can walk wisely and be the example that we need to be through the power of Jesus Christ. So as we go from here today, as we go out into the world, be ready to depend upon Jesus and walk wisely. As Village Chapel Baptist Church, all of us need to be doing that. We must walk wisely. We must walk in understanding as well. Okay, verse 17. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. Okay, here's a big question. How can we know God's will for our lives? And let me tell you, a lot of believers have a lot of different answers for that. A lot of teachers have I actually have a series of messages that I hope before too long to be able to share with you all that goes into detail about everything about God's will and what it means to follow God's will. But I'm not going to do that this morning because we're already halfway through the message. So I'll just give you the highlights. It's really a matter of a difference between God's sovereign will. And God's moral will. God's sovereign will, and the fact that he's in control of all events. And his moral will, what we read, what he tells us to do in his word. If I can share it this way, I got this illustration, I think, from Dr. Jim Byrd. The helicopter or the satellite view versus the driver's view in traffic. Traffic is a horrible thing. Right. It's one of the ways that you can most easily lose your testimony as a Christian. Especially when you realize that you've got to be somewhere quickly and the people on that end are waiting for you. They're not going to be very gracious if you're late and somebody's gotten into an accident and now you're you're backed up and you're happy having to wait and you don't know how long you're gonna have to wait. And you don't know if you're gonna have to turn off on a road, if it's gonna be a detour, and all of these things. But the guy that's doing the traffic report in the helicopter, or in these days, even the satellite, right, that can beam down to your GPS and tell you somewhat accurately, somewhat. if there's traffic. They have the air view of everything and they can see everything that's going on and they know or they have a good idea anyway. of how long it's going to take and where you need to go. And let's use the example of that GPS. Many times the GPS technology has gotten so good that it can reroute you around traffic and if you follow it, many times, not every time You can get around and maybe shave off a few minutes and get there, if not on time, close to that. But you have to follow somebody else's direction Because you don't have, you don't have that knowledge. That's um the difference between really between God and us when we're looking at His Will and his sovereign will. God knows everything that's going to happen to us in our life, but we don't. And unlike in the Old Testament prophets' time where God would give them uh the would give them what the uh uh message of future events many times and they would give that. God has given us his word now. He doesn't operate in that way. He's not going to tell us future events before they actually happen. So if we're looking for God's will, here's the point. If we're looking for God's will, a single young person, God, I really want to know who I'm going to marry with. one day. Really praying that you would let me know that. Um God's not going to let you know that until you're down the aisle and you actually have the ring on the finger. And the pastor then pronounces you man and wife. Because until he says that, you know, there's also kinds of possibilities, things that could happen. We've all seen the Hallmark movies and the things that happen at the last last minute or whatever. But we know it's God's will once it happens. Oh God, I really want this job and I really want to know if I'm going to get it. That's God's sovereign will. You'll find out when you actually receive it. See when that job works out. We shouldn't expect to know that aspect of God's sovereign will ahead of time. We shouldn't ask him for that. He will reveal it in his time. Okay, then how am I supposed to understand God's will? We can understand God's moral will. It's what He's told us to do in this book. And so when Paul says, understanding the will, redeeming the, or excuse me, um Be not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is, that means that we need to understand God's word well and work that out and obey that in our lives, and we're doing his will. None of us have to wake up in the morning and think, you know, God, I'm going to pray and ask. Finances are a little tough. See the TV bank there across the street. God, should I go over and hold up the hold up that bank and take that money We don't have to pray about that. We know what God's will is. A wife may say, you know, I'm just getting tired of my husband and what he does, and he's really starting to irritate me. God, should I divorce my husband? Well, we don't have to ask for God's will on that. He's given that to us. Well we know what his will is on that. And we may not do things like that, but maybe every once in a while we would wonder, you know, I wonder, you know, I've given a lot of ta of money to pay for my taxes. And I think just I'm going to withhold a little bit more this year and cheat on my taxes a little bit. Nobody will ever know, really. Of course the IRS always knows. Or there's a person in my church or in my life that has just hurt me too much, and I'm not going to forgive them. I'm going to hold back. God, is it okay that I do that? All of these things we know God's will because He's told us in His Word. And so walking wisely means obeying God's word and applying it to every aspect of our life We can walk in understanding. So, we must walk in God's wisdom. And then finally here, the second part of this, we must walk in submission to God's Spirit. Verses eighteen through twenty one. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Paul here gives us another example of something that we ought to not we ought to know not to do as Christ. Christians, and that's not be drunk with wine, to be under the influence of alcohol to the point where we don't know what we're doing, and we're doing things that we shouldn't be doing. And if you've ever seen someone that's been under the influence, you know how that works. When I was in high school, I went over to a friend's house and some of his relatives and maybe even his mom. I wasn't sure that they were saved. And well I knew some of them weren't saved. I wasn't uh sure. I think he was a Christian. But he had some relatives that had some real struggles. And I came in and I asked his mom, I said, Is is Todd here? And she said, Um, well just wait over in the living room for a minute. minutes and I'll go get him. And so she went to go get him and I sat down in the living room on the couch and all of a sudden I realized that across the way, standing up against the wall, was this angry older man. that was red in the face and mumbling and he saw me and he immediately looked at me with the most one of the most angry faces I've ever seen and just started cursing at me And yelling at me, and I'm thinking, how what's the quickest way to get out of here? Go that way. I can't go that way. He's standing right there. And it was it was really a terrifying situation. Well, the mom came back and she said she saw that he was there. Oh Brock, you this is Uncle Ned. I don't remember what his real name was. And he's just had a little bit So I'm sorry about that. Uncle Ned, you just need to calm down. Well I had first hand experience of what it was like to encounter someone. Somebody who was totally under the influence of alcohol in a way obviously they shouldn't have. He was totally inebriated, drunk, whatever. It was a scary situation. Paul says, that shouldn't be the testimony of a Christian. We shouldn't be under the influence of alcohol, but what should influence we should be under? Be filled with the Holy Spirit. We should be under the total influence of the Holy Spirit. Please understand Paul's not saying here that we need an extra filling that we didn't get when we were saved. When we're saved, we get all of the Holy Spirit that we need. But what he's saying here is that we need to be totally submitted to the Spirit. We need to give the Spirit all of us. We have all the Holy Spirit that we need when we're saved. But a total filling of the Spirit is us in total submission to the Spirit saying, whatever you want me to do, Holy Spirit, wherever you guide, that's what I'm going to do. Walking in submission to God's Spirit. We must follow the Holy Spirit rather than the flesh in order to walk wisely. Finally, we must be filled with the Spirit to honor Jesus. And he gives us some examples here. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. What does someone look like who is submissive to the Spirit, who is under the influence of the Holy Spirit? Well, one of the things is they have a song in their heart. They love to sing about Jesus. Hopefully, as Philip was leading this morning, your mind wasn't going on all kinds of things. I know that's easy to do, especially after a rough week. And you're singing and you're thinking about, oh, did I leave the crock pot on before I left? And you're thinking about your week. But we should be focused on the words of the songs that we're singing. And singing with joy for all that Jesus has done for us. When we are submitted to the Spirit, we'll sing in that way. I don't have time to get into the different descriptions here, but just a high fly. Speaking to yourselves in Psalms. Psalms has the idea of the Old Testament Psalms, the Psalms that are found in God's Word. Hymns has more the idea of songs that were written in a poetic fashion. to reflect God's truth. And we that would that would cover the hymns that we sing today as well. And spiritual songs are songs that are written under the of the Holy Spirit. Songs that are written not because I like a way something sounds or I personally like it, but because The Holy Spirit has led me to write that song. All of these, and there's more aspects to that, the church should be singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. But not just in the service. You should always have a song in your heart. That doesn't mean that everywhere you go in the middle of your workday, you can just break out singing, although that might be okay One of our boys, I won't embarrass them, one of them always has a song in his heart, and just anywhere that he is, wherever throughout his day, whether he's in a group of people or whether he's by himself, he just breaks out singing loudly. Okay My boys only have one volume um level, so they're singing it's loud. Like guys, let's try soft. They don't get that Yet. But he loves to sing. The believer should be so overwhelmed with what Jesus is doing in his life that he always has a song in his heart. What people that are filled with the Holy Spirit. That's what they do. It's just natural. How about this? Gratitude. Giving thanks always for all things unto God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Are you grateful? It's easy to be grateful sometimes and thankful. It's not so easy other times. I'm thankful to be here. I'm thankful that we follow God's leading. And we walked wisely, and he brought us here to Village Chapel Baptist Church. That's something I couldn't have imagined a year ago I'm glad a year ago God didn't tell me what he was going to do, you know, and bringing us here, it probably would have blown my mind. God's careful in how he lets us know these things. But we were following God's will. We're grateful to be here. But there are other things in our life that are hard, that it's hard to say, God, I'm thankful for this. And yet we still need to. Because God allows everything, the good things and the bad things in our lives for a purpose, right? So we can be thankful even in the hard times. God, I know you're bringing this into my life to work it out for my good Gratitude is a sign of somebody who is under the influence of the Holy Spirit. And then finally, mutual submission and reverence to Jesus. And if you were here for Sunday school, this reflects what Steve was talking about As far as deference to others, putting others before yourself, that doesn't mean that whatever somebody asks you to do after the service in order to be submissive, He will get into examples later on in this chapter, pictures of what submission looks like in a practical sense in marriage life. In work, on the job, with authorities. We won't get into that today. But the spirit, one that's under the total influence of the spirit, will give deference to others, will put others before themselves. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. That really don't that doesn't have the idea of being terrified of God. And really, I think in this context, he's not talking about God but Jesus Christ, but it's in awe and reverence of Jesus Christ. I am willing to defer what I want to help other people in the love of Jesus because Because I'm in awe of what Jesus did for me. And that motivates me to want to do right. So, as we're finished up this morning The question is not ultimately then merely what is a successful church. That was kind of a trick question in the first place, I have to admit. Here's a more accurate question: What does a spiritually healthy church look like? That's what we ought to be asking. Well, we've just seen in God's Word what it looks like. People walking wisely, walking in God's wisdom Showing the love of Jesus, testifying to people as God gives them grace and gives them opportunity to tell people about Jesus And that will look differently in each of your situations. But God will direct. Being submitted to the Spirit If we're doing those things as a church, then that will please, that is pleasing to God, and we don't have to worry about large numbers or comfortable worship or that extra cup of coffee at church. We gauge a spiritually healthy church by the gauge that God gave us. Are you walking wisely as village chaplain? Are you submitted to the Holy Spirit? If you are, then I'm glad. I rejoice. If we're small, fine. At least I know that we're doing what God has called us to do. And that in my mind, and that's also according to God's word, is a sign of a success. We'll be successful in God's eyes, but even more important than that, we will be greatly used of God in this community. That's what we want, right? Who cares if the rest of the world thinks we're successful? If God is using us, that's what's most important. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Help us to go from here and really think on these things. Help us to realize that numbers just to have the recognition as a large church and successful church, that that's Doesn't matter. Lord, help us to strive to be a healthy spiritual church in following after Jesus In walking wisely in the vocation that you've called us to daily, seeking your will. Seeking what Jesus wants us to do, being examples of Him, and being submissive to the Spirit, and having a song of gratitude and praise in our hearts. Let these things be our description and our testimony.