And normally it is my practice to read from the ESV , but since we're doing the Christmas story this morning, I just decided to go back to the King James Version. It's the one many of us know well, and I'll add in translations to have Help as needed. But in my mind, since I learned this through the King James, I'm just going to be tempted to go back anyway and say it that way. So it just seemed appropriate this morning um to read from the King James Luke chapter 2 verses 1 through 20. This is obviously a story that we know well that we could probably read Recite. And we read it, most of us, every Christmas morning. We had it read to us this morning. But sometimes, even as familiar as we are with a certain passage, the details and the understanding we can miss. We can miss the full intention of the author and what he's trying to portray. And folks, one of the most famous passages on the birth of Christ, it would be Be ashamed to miss any of the truths or misunderstand what's going on in this passage. And so it is my privilege to be able to work through this today. We talked recently in the past couple weeks from Galatians and other passages, and we saw that in the fullness of time, God sent his son, Jesus Christ. Christ. And we look through the unique aspects of history at that time and how God used them all. They were all a part of His sovereign plan, and just at the right moment Jesus was born a part of the eternal plan. The fullness of time had come, a specific moment in actual history. That's so important. Right? It did happen. Jesus the Savior was born. Well, Luke in his gospel gives us the details of the history Of when the event transpired. And his purpose in this, I believe, is in the Holy Spirit's. Is again another reminder that this really did happen. What do we have in our in our culture today by many, many cynics or many unbelieving scholars? They they tend to look at the Bible as a series of Fables and fairy tales and inspirational messages that man came up with, right? Well, Dr. Luke, remember he is a doctor. He wrote a good portion of our New Testament, by the way. Only Luke in the book of Acts, but Dr. Luke. Wrote all of these, and Dr. Luke obviously was a very precise person. It was his desire to get the details straight. But he was also a wonderful historian. And so he gives us these details to say, see, this really did take place at a specific Time in history. See, all those people that like to kind of refer to the stories of the Bible and of Jesus Christ as inspirational myths or fables. Well, what What do you do? A lot of times when you read fairy tales to your kids, starts out a long, long time ago in a place far, far away, there was a kingdom. You don't normally start fairy tales and fables with at a certain specific time in history at a specific place with two specific political rulers, does everything but gives us the date A this event happened at a very specific place that's still known to us today. No, that doesn't make for a very good fairy tale or fable. The details kind of blow up the whole idea that this was nothing less than actual history. So you're either left with two things. Dr. Luke is telling the truth through interviews and through his discussions with others. He was a very good investigative reporter, I think. Or he was an evil man who made it all up. Those are the only two options that you really have. The whole myth and fable option really isn't a possibility And Luke is writing these truths to show us, to remind us again that these things happen. The Savior was born. The Savior of the world in an actual time and place. And the events of the Savior's birth, then, as we look In the first seven verses, took place in exactly God's timing, and even the dictates of the government, of the politicians, were all a part of God's plan. He was in control of it all. And as a side note, then if that's the case in this narrative, then folks, that's the case today for our politicians. We don't like to think of it. We like to complain and we like to get pretty frustrated, understandably so, as many of our leaders in our country and around the world reject God's word and reject the things of God. But folks ultimately remember that they're And He will do with them even the worst, the slimiest politician. God will have done with them what He wants To have done, very simply put. So here we have the literal Caesar, the ruler of the world. Ruling over the most powerful government in the whole world, and these folks are merely simple tools in God's hands to accomplish his purpose. Purposes. Caesar Augustus thought himself a god. The people treated him as such. But he wasn't. He was merely A tool for the one true God to act and to do as he deemed appropriate. God's purpose, chapter 2, verse 1 Was to send his son to be born among mankind to provide salvation for them. And it happened, just happened. To be while a man named Caesar Augustus ruled the world, verse one, it came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar. Or Augustus, that all the world should be taxed. Probably better translated, registered. Because don't think of this as a tax, but do think of this as a dictate by a ruler who thinks that he is in control. And Luke reminds us, No, he's not. His dictate that he demanded upon the whole world at that time is merely a tool used by God. I think we get that right. Well, who is this Caesar Augustus that's mentioned here? Well, he was also known in world history as Octavian. He was a Roman emperor. And he was the ruler of the world at this specific point in history. He was the most important man in the world. And yet, again He's really not much more than a footnote in the story of Christ. But this man, Caesar Augustus, known as Octavian, he was the grandnephew of Julius Caesar. Now, you probably have heard of Julius Caesar Julius Caesar before, kind of a connection there. Julius Caesar was one of the most prominent Roman empires, uh emperors, who was subsequently assassinated. In 44 BC. And he had adopted this Octavian, this Caesar, that Luke describes or talks about here. Julius Caesar had adopted him as his son. His grandnephew, and after Julius Caesar was assassinated, this Caesar Augustus, this Octavian, was became one of three emperors. Emperors ruling on a board of three. Now I'm not gonna go some of you that are really into into history, you're really interested about this, probably the rest of you not so much. But I just want to point out this was a man that actually Lived, and these were events that actually took place there in our common history books, right? And um he was operating then with a group of three emperors. One of these fell from power, the other ended up in a civil war against Octavian himself, and Octavian won, Caesar Augustus won, and he was finally recognized as the full emperor by the Roman Senate In 27 BC and was then bestowed with this title Augustus, which means exalted or venerable one. You are the most important person, leader in our world. And yet he was the backdrop for the most important person, the Savior of the world. Well, some doubt whether he was an effective leader. Some think that he is, but he did establish a time of peace through force, as you would expect from the Roman government. He ushered in the Pax Romana period of great peace and stability. So his reign as Caesar was very effective, and he was known for keeping it effective. He was also one of these guys that's very organized. Was it type A person? personality or something and he loved to do organizational things. Right? He might have had his own Etsy account. I don't know if he lived Today. But he would take care of organizing and he conducted numerous census which were used as registration for tax purposes. Basically, he commonly He commonly counted the people in his emperor and made them go to places so that they could be counted and they could be organized so that they could get the most money out. Alright. So at this time, this is one of those times where Caesar Augustus says, I'm ready to reorganize again. And we're gonna have send everybody this time we're gonna send them to their hometown to be registered. We can count them and hopefully get some more good some more money out of them as well. I'm sure in the midst of this that the only thing Caesar thought of as uh the of the people was that they were pawns in his hands. And you might hear these stories and say, well, the people really didn't Have they were insignificant, they really didn't mean much, but caught up in all of these dictates and control-oriented things, there would be a man named Joseph and his betrothed wife Mary. That would be caught up and carried away to their hometown of Bethlehem. And all of this was prescribed In the Old Testament, God's plan was following at a perfect pace, all the details coming together, and the again the most powerful people in the world merely a backdrop for the story. Well, that's not the only important person here, verse 2, and this taxing was first made when Cyrenius or Quir Quirinius was governor of Syria, depending on your translation. Now don't panic. It's the same person. If you're interested, based on Basically, we have two different translations because many of the modern translations uh try to follow after the Latin tradition of this man's name. The King James Translators tried to translate their own unique uh phrasing of his name uh from the original Greek, and that's why we have two different names. Same guy. And the Bible doesn't tell us much about him, except that he was a governor of Syria. He was governor over that particular reason. region of Syria 86 and 7. Now for those of you that like dates you might think well that's interesting. Didn't know that before. Notice that Luke is giving it a specific ruler of the world, a specific ruler of the region. And Serenius ruled from 86 to 7. Now here's a problem. That some scholars like probably unbelieving like to point out. But wait a minute, the birth of Christ, from what we can tell about, actually took place in four BC. So if Serenius ruled from AD six to seven, uh Bible made a mistake. See it Well, first of all, we we believe and trust in God's work that the Bible Bible is true, but um through more recent archaeological endeavors and work there is some evidence that actually this man was governor twice. And the first So no panic. Everything took place exactly as God had intended in the The policy that he came up with and world. I guess Caesar approved was that everyone would return to their hometown for the census. Now this was unusual. This wasn't the normal But maybe Caesar Augustus was so excited about just organizing things that he wrote to Serenius and said, I've got a great idea. Let's just send everybody back to their home. Town this time. That'll help us uh get a better number so we can get more money. Well, who knows? Who understands really the operations of politicians even today? But they were all under the control again of God. And seemingly through these haphazard plans, Joseph and Mary, who really are more central to the story than and more of more interest to us than these politicians. They come in in verse 4. Verse 3, all went to be taxed or registered or counted, every one to his own city. And so that's That meant that a man named Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth, that was the northern region of the Holy Land of Israel. And they came south into Judea, where Jerusalem was located, the region, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. Well, that's a lot of details for this to be a made-up story, wouldn't you say? I'd say there's some accuracy. I'd say there's some historical Accuracy in here as Luke is recounting all of these things. This man Joseph leaves the region, the northern regions of Galilee, travels south to Jerusalem to Jerusalem. Judea. Bethlehem is known as the house of bread. He travels down to the house of bread. He travels from a real town to a real town. And we also find out something very significant that didn't have as much meaning at this time. But if Joseph had been born in a different era or a different time, he would have acted Actually, been in line to be a king because he was in the lineage of a king. And it says here, he was of the house in the lineage of David. Now that didn't mean anything really to those counters who were there in Bethlehem that were just kind of bringing people through, but to God's people, that was a distinction of great importance because This signified the grand fulfillment of the Davidic covenant that is about to take place through Joseph. And also through Mary as well. Mary accompanies him as his betrothed. What does that mean? That just basically means they're considered married, even though they're kind of in the engagement period. There's been no consumption consumption Consummation of the marriage. And so they're traveling together. And uh we had recently read for us in the Christmas service, Marcia read the story of Gabriel. Coming to Mary and announcing that she would be with child and it would be the Messiah. And just as God said, this woman, this Mary, as they traveled to Bethlehem, she sure Is great with child, just like the angel said. Just at the right time, everything comes together. It really did occur exactly as the angel said that it would It was a real pregnancy. This was no myth. Verse 5: to be taxed with Mary, his betrothed, his espouse wife, being great with child, she was ready. Ready to go at any moment to birth that baby. Thankfully, they made it to Bethlehem, right? And as they got there Just as Gabriel, just as God had in his cosmic plan, verse 6, so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, that she gave birth. Mary did give birth, and she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. There was no room for them in the inn. This was her first child. But it had nothing to do with Joseph, right? A child from the Holy Spirit. The only child Child ever born in this way, unique, special, the Son of God, born of a woman. We lose the The wonder of these things, don't we? And it's a shame to reflect that the creator of the universe, at just the time that God had decreed, would be born of a woman. Just boggles the mind, or it should. It'll boggle your mind if you really believe it. Folks are Too many details here, and eyewitness details, to think that this could just be a story. That's not an option. Mary birthed this child. She wrapped him up. The only thing that was available to her, these swaddling clothes, they were used many times as grave clothes, but they were also commonly used to keep an infant's limbs close together and protect it. It's still kind of a it's kind of a new thing again, at least it was when our boys were babies, which I guess was a little while ago now that I think about it. That's really sad. But we we actually got into the the whole it was new again to swaddle your baby and keep them tight and protected and everything. And so we would do that with with our Boys, and that really wasn't that new. It was done all the way back in Jesus' time and even before that. It was so that they would feel secure, they wouldn't hurt themselves with their hands, and they Would be protected in that way. Very practical thing to do this. But the only thing that they had available to them was a feeding trough. Now I would expect that Mary would have cleaned it out and done the best that she could. She was a good mother. But there was probably still some hay remnants. There was probably still some animals think Thinking, hey, what's going on here? I want to eat my food, and this baby's in my feeding trough. And yet she wrapped him in there. It was the only thing that she had available to her. Well, why is that Now if you've seen any children's plays or even a I think back to Charlie Brown Christmas, where I think it was Linus who the innkeeper, something like that. There was for a time anyway, in the children's Christmas plays, there was always an innkeeper. And the child in his bathrobe, Mary and Joseph would come up with the the baby doll in her hands, and the uh innkeeper would say, I'm sorry, there's no room in my inns Tonight for you. But in actuality, do you realize that there's no innkeeper mentioned at all in the street? Story, right? Then okay, is there an opening at the Holiday Inn? How about the Comfort Inn? Well, oh man, you know, Mary, we've gone to all these places. All of the motels and the hotels are booked. We can't get a room. Well, actually, most likely the real scenario that there weren't any professional inns or modern hotels, certainly. With managers and attendants at this time at all. When it says here an inn, it's probably describing a type of public house or a private two-story residence with a lower room. You could go to a place that was set up for people, um, and probably in somebody's home where they set up for people to For payment, be able to stay, but don't think of it as a hotel with an innkeeper who's just somebody's home. It might be more like an Airbnb actually or something like that. Or if you had relatives that stayed in the area, you could stay with them and many times in these homes there was an area in s in the side of the hill underneath the home where the animals were kept. Sometimes we don't have that picture in our mind I've known uh men friends that have gone to uh Israel on tours and have come back with pictures still of these homes. Very likely, this was kind of like the garage. area that we have today. So maybe it'd be better to think of Mary and Joseph having to spend the night in the garage below the house. Possibly a separate cave. Might might be in play here as well, but certainly a holding area with equipment and a lot of animals. Because there was a lot of people that were coming coming to be counted. Thanks to the big idea of Serenius and Caesar Augustus. Now, folks, as you think about that, you think about Mary and John. Joseph in that old-time garage with all the animals? You think of that baby being born, can you think of a greater distinction? From the glories and the honor and the prescription of praise in the heavens You read in Isaiah about the glories that God rightfully enjoyed and the praise of the angels. Can you think of a greater distinction as Jesus came from that to be born in someone's garage in a feeding trough. Could there be a greater distinction than that? And we get so caught up and sometimes um things that don't happen right for us and things that we had expectations on, and even at Christmas, I was hoping this was gonna happen happen and it didn't happen. And I deserve better. We get so caught up in things about Christmas, right? What a glorious example Jesus sets. He says, I was used to the trappings of heaven. But I was born in a feeding trough. I think your Christmas is probably going to be a little bit better than that. Even with those that are sick in these in these days right now, a greater distinction is hard to find. The greatest, the only, the true God of heaven, had the most humble birth of all. And all of this took place in God's timing. Well, we're going to see more tonight The event took place. But who would be the first recipients of the great news? Now, someone this important, the God of the universe that came as a baby and was born in this way, um, who's going to be told first? Famous statesmen, rulers, significant Religious religious leaders, celebrities, certainly the important people, the kings and the emperors and all these folks, they should be made aware of this most important birth. Right? Well, actually, we're going to see tonight that God in His sovereign plan chose to deliver the message first of all to the middle class people. The common people. I think we can kind of relate to them, can't we? And they would receive the glorious message and they would be charged then with Delivering that to the world. It's probably a good place to stop this morning as we think on this further The glorious message of the great God of the universe that was humble enough to be born in a garage in an animal's feeding trough. Has chosen the common people to proclaim his message. To proclaim that, folks, today? Are you have you meditated and pondered enough on the glory of the gospel that it has thrilled your heart so much that you You're ready to proclaim it, as we'll see tonight, like the shepherds did? Would you at least agree with me this morning this really Happened. Too many details for it. How could it not? This can't be a made-up story. These are people that actually live, things that actually happened, cities that are still with us today. No, it's true. We can believe it, and we must believe it, and then we must proclaim the message of Christ to a world that desperately Needs a Savior. Father, thank you for this reminder Of an event that really did take place. This is a historical fact. Dr. Luke, the historian, recorded it for us. We're so grateful. For that. Father, I pray this morning that all within the sound of my voice believe in those facts, but have personalized those facts and have Put their faith and trust in the Savior of the universe, the Savior of the world, who was born and whose birth we celebrate today and tomorrow. And that they truly have a relationship with that Savior through faith in him. Father, if there is someone who still today doubts or has rejected Christ, let today be the Today they embrace him as Mary embraced that baby that was born to her. Let us embrace the Savior. Trust in him. Him our own and tell others of him, as those shepherds did so long ago. We need your help To be able to do that this morning. And so let's take a few minutes, folks, to pray and ask God for the truths of the Birth of Christ to seep into our lives and resonate, and then ask Him in your seats That he'll give you boldness to proclaim. And if there's someone here today who still doesn't know Christ, come and see me. Come and see some of our leadership. Make sure that you know Christ.