In John 19, at the suffering of our great King. So turn there, starting at verse 16 And really, as we get to these reflections and we think about what the Bible has to say and what it must have been like. For Jesus to go through what he did. Really, I think for many of us it comes to the point the scourging, the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, we would all admit it. Is truly an awful thing. And to behold or contemplate it really for very long is almost too much for us. At the same time, uh throughout my Life. I've known many authors and been under many preachers who have taken time to go in and add a lot of the details Of what crucifixion fictions were like at that time. Uh the the Roman um creative um sense Sentence of a criminal, and really the most torturous way to die that human beings have ever devised throughout human history. Some speakers go into greater details about what Jesus suffered than what the gospels present. But I am I find myself thankful as I I read the gospels. Then I think this is true. I think this is why we're mercifully spared a lot of those details. We know from history and from historians what Jesus would have expected. Experienced. But even as we read in John tonight, we're gonna see that the the the terror, the horror of this is not Covered over, but it's carefully presented. There's lots that could be said that's not. And I think part of that is that it's as terrible as The physical agonies were that Jesus undertook in the sacrifice, many times we lose sight of the spiritual agonies that he endured. And what he was accomplishing a spiritual victory, and of course physical victory as well, through his shed blood on that cross. The spiritual aspects of Jesus in some form or fashion being um separated from his father were even greater than the physical One um theologian from the early part of the nineteen hundreds, also a pastor, G. Campbell Morgan, said this I think the Church of God has suffered more than it Knows by the pictures of the crucifying of Jesus, and sometimes by very honest and well intentioned sermons, trying to describe the matter on the physical side. Of its physicality, but the physical suffering of Jesus was nothing compared to the deeper fact of that cross. And we must not lose sight of that The suffering that he went through was also a spiritual suffering. John goes through some of these details, and we see here that the suffering of our great king involved actual criminal Criminal prosecution and crucifixion. He was tried, folks, as a common criminal. And he was sacrificed, or he was crucified as the most Vile of criminals as far as society was concerned, and yet he was the innocent, spotless Lamb of God. As a criminal. Look at verse sixteen. This is after Pilate's official delivering over of Jesus to be to the to be crucified, and it describes them A second beating that took place. Most likely there was two separate beatings that Jesus had to go through. Verse 16. Over to be crucified. And then if you'll quickly turn with me to Matthew 27, 27 through 32, Matthew describes What would be the second? And this was the most terrible scourging of all. In fact, one scholar says in Latin it was the verber ratio And it was the most terrible scourging of all, and one that was always associated with crucifixion. This one that Matthew 27 describes. Would have been accomplished by a horrendous leather whip with long strands, each with bone and metal embedded. And again Just to r remember what he went through, not to get too graphic, but he would literally as it came across the back, it would shed shred the back open to the point where even the inside of the Man might be seen. And many victims would die from this beating alone. And it also explains why Jesus would need help then carrying his cross to the crucifixion site. This was the second beating. The first came beforehand, and it was basically It was a more moderate beating that would have left him bruised and somewhat broken. But it would have been a warning because an Initially, Pilate wanted to let Jesus go. He wanted to let him be freed. But when he realized that wasn't going to be the case, and the people, the Jesus Jesus, the Messiah's own people, literally had a taste for blood. He realized that this second terrible beating would have to take place. Let's read it together from Matthew twenty-seven. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him, and they stripped him and put a scarf And twisting uh and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his hand And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, king of the Jews! And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped Him of his robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him. And this beating and this mocking was so terrible that Jesus could not get Get to the crucifixion site by himself. And as many of us know, we had he had to be helped by that. Again, the gruesome picture Picture of this that these soldiers would mock and spit and literally beat these long thorns into his brow is Terrible to contemplate. And then we go back then to back to John. Oh, actually, I'm Sorry, oh I I forgot Matthew 27, verse 32. As they went up, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his claw cross. Because again, the being This is what the most terrible of criminals would experience for their offensive. And so they took him then to the place of the skull. And we don't know really why it was called the place of the skull. There's two different sites. Traditional sites there. I've not had the opportunity to go to visit the Holy Land. I hope to someday to Israel. There, one of the traditional spots below where They think that Jesus was crucified. There is an overham hang of rock that does resemble a skull. And so some and many, many feel that that could be where he was crucified. But the text here doesn't indicate that it was because of what the place looked like. Could have very well been because it was a commonplace for executions. There were skulls lying around and that kind of thing. Regardless, turn back to John chapter 19 and look at Verse 16. So they took Jesus, and he went out bearing his own cross to the place called the place of a skull, which in Aramaic is Galgotha. And there they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. And John emphasizes here, it's important for John to emphasize that Jesus was convicted and executed as a full criminal. as the worst dregs of society. He was placed between two other criminals. Says just briefly there that he was crucified. Wherever this place was, I tend to think it was right outside the gate, right outside the walls of Jerusalem. It was a very Prominent place. And everybody in the city and those around could see what was going on. And could see the terrible things that Jesus was going through. Another uh well-known scholar, Leon Morris, describes what the gospels does not describe, and again, he doesn't go into terrible Detail, but it's important for us to know what Jesus went through. He says the gospel accounts are the fullest descriptions of crucifixion that have come down to us from ancient times. Crucifixion was a A shameful thing, and the writers of antiquity do not dwell much upon it. The victim was fastened to a cross with either cords or nails. Nails being driven through the wrist or forearm, not the hands, because that could not sustain the weight of the body, it would tear free. The cross beams were fixed so that the victim's feet were off the ground, but not necessarily high off the ground. There was a horn like projection on which the crucified person could rest. some of his weight, but this was not meant to relieve the sufferer, but rather to prolong the sufferer's agony. It's really not certain what actually caused the death of the crucified. Both the circulation and the respiration would have been affected, and this in a body already weakened by the vicious flogging Now subject to prolonged exposure in the cold. One suggestion is that the combination of these things would bring heart failure. Another possibility is brain damage caused by reduced supply of blood reaching it, or the effects on the lungs so reduced the air supply that the victim, in effect, suffocated to death in the end. These were the realities of how one would die when one was crucified. And they're terrible for us to consider But Jesus went through all of these things. And what does it say? What do the gospels say that in the midst of all this suffering. What did our gracious Savior say? Luke 23, verse 34. And Jesus said, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. In his grace, in the midst of that kind of terrible suffering, he still is there willing and ready to Offer forgiveness for the very people who put him on that cross. And then in the midst of this torturous process, and we What he's enduring isn't our master emulating in a wonderful way the expectations of his followers that he expects from us to love His enemies? Folks, how can we say no to loving our enemies and loving those that we're opposed to when Jesus went through what he did and said Still said, forgive them. There is no excuse. We have no excuse for not being willing to forgive the people that we need to forgive. What a testimony. Well, there's one thing that needs to be pointed out here. What is Jesus actually saying when he says forgive them? Is he absolving? Absolving them of all their guilt, basically saying as their sin of rejecting him and hanging him on the cross, that Jesus, even though they didn't ask for it, that he is forgiving and absolving them Of their guilt? Well, no. They didn't seek that. They didn't recognize him as the Savior. But what was he See, in a much more significant way, Jesus was pointing to the fact that his sacrifice would provide forgiveness of sin and Full cleansing of the very sins that put him on that cross. And the act and the suffering that he was going through had a glorious purpose and end. Then it would provide redemption for those that have sinned against him if they would trust in him and seek his salvation And also Jesus recognizes that as hate-filled and as terrible as their anger was toward him, they really didn't have a full comprehension. Comprehension, did they of the evil act that they were committing? They really didn't fully understand. They should have. The scriptures pointed to this of a suffering Satan In Isaiah 53, but so many of these folks, even his followers, didn't understand. They didn't get it. They thought that they were doing good. They thought that they were Doing, at least to some point, what God wanted them to do, they didn't understand fully. They were fully culpable for what they had done. But they didn't understand. And so they allowed their Messiah to be crucified in the most terrible way imaginable as a criminal. And yet, in the midst of this, God sovereign Sovereignty again, the most terrible event that ever happened in human history, and God's sovereignty is totally in control of it all, right? Notice that in the midst of being tried , As a worst-case criminal, he is also titled as a king. Look at verses 19 through 22. Pilate also Wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified Was near the city. And it was written in three languages, Aramaic and in Latin and in Greek. And this was actually a very common practice for those that were being crucified for a banner or title to be displayed above the criminal above their head so that all the passers by as they looked at this hill, they would know for certain what crime that person Had committed. And so this was a part of Pilate's duty to write this out, and he officially wrote out that Jesus was condemned and crucified. For being king of the Jews. Not for being a criminal. Or that he was considered a criminal criminal because he considered himself king of the Jews. He wrote it in three languages. Aramaic was the language of the Jewish population as a whole, Latin was the official language of Rome, and Greek Greek was the international language that was used by both Jew and Gentile. , It was the most accessible language at the time. And so all three of those three banners in different languages. That all stated, this is the king of the Jews. And so we can understand in verse 21 the chief priests of the Jews, they didn't like that. Wait a minute, Pilate, you messed up. They said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather, this man said, I am King of the Jews. They understood Where Pilate was going with this. And they said, that's not his crime. His crime is for saying it. And Pilate says, No, no, no. I've had enough of you folks. What I've written, I've written. Did Pilate have a full understanding? At this point, did he believe in Jesus as the King of the Jews? Well, it's doubtful. What was going on? On in his mind, we can't really know. The Jewish leaders were not happy. Perhaps this is most likely that Pilate was still mocking Jesus and the Jews Perhaps it was his last statement about the Jews' stubborn rejection to his own official verdict. Maybe he was saying something like this. These bloodthirsty, venent people, look at the bitterness and anger they have toward one of their own. Isn't this a terrible spectacle? Pilate may have meant all these things, but in God's sovereignty, what was actually going on? As Jesus was dying on that cross, he was Declared officially in three different languages that he was the king of the Jews. All of this was in God's timing, was a part of his plan. And God is even in sovereign control of the very words That Pilate and Caiaphas freely write and utter, God's in control of this whole thing. So, folks, what does that remind us of And point us to what great hope does that give us? That is, if the most terrible event in world history that ever took place, if God was fully in control of That and was able to provide our salvation, that was always his plan from eternity past. If he has um his own um goals and plans for these things, then whatever else we face that might pale in comparison, but is dark and deep for us, God has Has a plan and a promise and a purpose for whatever we would go through. You can't argue that He's in control of it all. Full sovereign control of every detail and will use it for his beneficial purposes. So the king of the Jews. Suffered criminal crucifixion, even though he was titled as the king, and he also suffered very meaningful loss. Verse 23: the soldiers had crucified Jesus. They took his garments and divided them into four parts, one part for each soldier, also his tunic. And the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture. Again, another part of God's sovereign plan that He'd already put into Scripture. Scripture hundreds of years earlier, they divided my garments among them. For my clothing they cast lots. Psalm 22. David The king was a prophet and prophesied that one day that one would come from his uh descendants and would experience Well, what was going on here? What's the purpose of this anyway? Well, I think it's it's emphasizing not only the um the uh coming true and the revelation of Scripture coming true and p and and um the truth of what's actually going on there What's been prophesied through Scripture, but it also shows that Jesus in his last moments had nothing of his earthly possessions, not even his own Clothes. Even the very clothes Jesus wears were taken from him. And this was in the Roman soldiers' eyes, this made sense. It was part of their passion. payment. If they were going to go through all the effort of executing a common a criminal like this, then they would get the clothing and it was part of what their compensation would be. And so they They would cast lots for these things, the outer cloak, the inner cloak, the belt, and the hat, and all of these things, especially the inner cloak, that was worn next to the skin. And so they didn't want to tear it. And yet they were willing to Willing to divide these things, and Jesus, in this greatest moment of his death and redemption of us, didn't even have the dignity of his own clothes. He also lost the relationships of those around him. Verse 25 The soldiers did these things, but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother Sister, Mary, the wife of Clopus, and Mary Magdalene. And when Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, behold your Son, and then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. Four women standing near the cross And Jesus looks at those women and he realizes again he's thinking ahead, his earthly relationship in many ways with his mother is coming to an end. Even when he's Taken and he's um he re appears again, he will be ascended, and the help that he can give, and the the support that he can give his mother This is the end. And so he takes time in the midst of terrible suffering to make sure that his own mother is taken care of. And John, of course, accepts Totally responsibility for Mary's care from this point on. And he did until the end, until she died, and the Lord took the apostle John home as well. You know what, this just stands out to me. I don't know about you. I I don't like getting sick. I really don't even like to admit when I'm sick. And my wife uh will notice or I'll tr maybe try to hide it from her sometimes, but she'll s she'll notice, well let's take your temperature and if I'm sick, she'll uh suggest very kindly that I need to go to bed or whatever and and rest. Like, no, no, I can keep going. I don't think any of us really enjoys being sick, but I I have, I will admit to you sometimes, I have met some people people who I think do enjoy the idea of being sick. Sometimes, in other words, they milk it for all it's worth. I'm sick and the whole world's gonna know about it. And I can't do anything because don't you see I have a cold. Or whatever it is. I've seen some people that sometimes I kinda well, are they really that sick? Look like they're almost enjoying it. Well, folks, isn't it interesting? And and all of us, when we're sick, tend to focus on ourselves. We tend to be a little bit more selfish and selfish. Self-focused. Let's admit it. Isn't it remarkable that as much as Jesus was going through, that he looked towards others and was still taking In his love for us, he forgave those people, and he looked to those closest to him and made sure Go ahead and turn one more time with me. We're almost done to Matthew twenty six. Because we need to end on this note that John doesn't give us, Matthew 27, 45. This is the spiritual reality. That were even greater than the physical pain that Jesus was going through. Now, from the sixth hour, there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Laman Sabakhtanai! That is, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And some of the bystanders Hearing it said, This man is calling Elijah. Well, what is going on here? Well, isn't it Not just sobering, but really beyond our comprehension, that the Father and the Son, two persons of the Trinity One God, three persons. And yet the Son can cry out from the cross with the sins of the world and our sins On him, and in that moment, somehow the members of the Trinity can experience separation. Theologians love to go around and around about what was going on here, but folks I'll just admit I I'm not I'm not sure how that's possible. I just admit that it 's It's the case that somehow, in some way, that two members of the Trinity, the Father and the Son, that Jesus experienced some sort of separation It couldn't be full separation because he had said earlier in John, I and my father are one, but there was some sort of spiritual agony involved here Where the sins of the world were laid on Jesus and the Father had to turn away, and it was far more excruciating than any physical pain. That Jesus experienced was that separation from the Father. We read all these These things. And don't we, in some way, even those that of us that have been Christians for a long time, don't aren't we tempted sometimes to marvel and say, Why would Jesus Jesus willingly endure all that. Why would he endure this horrible execution? One other scholar and man named Reveal Writes this crucifixion represented the peak of the torturer's art, atrocious physical sufferings, length of torment. The effect of the crowd gathered to witness the long agony of the crucified. The cross represented miserable humanity reduced to the last degree of impotence. Suffering and degradation. The penalty of crucifixion combined all that the most ardent torturer could desire Fire, torture, public ridicule, degradation, and certain death distilled slowly drop by drop. It was truly an ideal form Form of torture. Why? Because Jesus was fully obedient to his heavenly Father. And he had been sent on a mission to provide us redemption and to bring cleansing of sins and new life in eternity. With God forever. He was willing, in fact, to go on a mission to drink the full cup of the wrath of his heavenly Father for us. And for love of us. Love for his father, first and foremost. Obedience to his father. But also because he loved us and he wanted us redeemed. And for those who have trusted in Jesus Christ, or even if If you're here today and you don't have a relationship with Jesus, you haven't fully embraced what Christ has done for you even now, even tonight, you can choose. Pray and put your full faith and trust in this terrible thing that Jesus went through. But the glory of it is That our sins can be cleansed and we can have reconciliation with our Heavenly Father. That is the glory of this terrible That Jesus was willing to go through for us. Let's pray together. Father, as we Reflect and remember these things. Let us be in awe of the love that Jesus had for us to provide that redemption. To provide righteousness, his righteousness for our sin. To provide new life An eternity with the Heavenly Father. And he was willing and gloried in doing so Most importantly, to bring glory to his Father. Lord, as we go from here, let us again reflect on all that Jesus went through for us And his willingness and obedience with his father help us as believers to be willing to obey the Father and submit to him in every part of our life. Thank you for your sovereign plan and sending Christ to us. And let us never forget. The power of the cross. This we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.