Turn to the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter one. And if you have that sense of gladness, folks, then you are prepared for this chapter Because Paul calls us to be glad over all that Christ has done for us this morning. I'm thankful of Again, as I look out with our children as well, as we take a break from children's church, we're glad that they're with us and thankful that they've got patience. Parents as well. But they'll they're they do a great job and this is such a wonderful topic as we could And so Ephesians, and we're going to be focused on verses 7 through 10. And we've seen the blessings of God's chosen children as we've focused on the glorious topic of election and God's predestination. And again, as Paul rejoices with the church in Ephesus, a faithful church that is thriving. And he's reminding them of these truths so that they can worship more fervently. On this list of blessings that God's children have. has. Paul puts at the top of that God's choosing of his children. And so Paul's led by the Holy Spirit. If it's important to him, it should be important to us. And we've had a lot of Of time spent on what that means. And in Sunday school as well, with Dr. Mike Erickson and his emphasis on Philippians have been a great sinking of these truths. But Paul is going to continue. And if you'll remember in verse five, that theme of predestination that he determined uh before eternity passed even, that uh Who his children would be in the adoption, we now turn and have a focus on the adoption process itself, or the fact that we are God's adopted children. And all that that means, there's so many blessings involved with our being the children of God. And because we are adopted. So verse 5, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace. With which he has blessed us in the beloved. And so we ought to have a sense of that blessing this morning. That ought to motivate us. That ought to thrill us, folks. And in your worship this morning, I sense That as you're giving back to God the praise for all that He has done for us. Paul has swerved into this theme of adoption and we're going to tie in adoption with the concept of redemption this morning, that all important work that Jesus Christ Christ accomplished for us on the cross. Remember that in Roman law that the adopted child had all the legal rights of a natural born Child shared the new family's name, was given the status of the adopted family. Many well-to-do people that had great resources would adopt children. that that were from poor circumstances. And one of the interesting things was once that child was adopted in these times and under these laws, they were not to have any contact with their former family ever again. I think that picture is valid as we look at our adoption. We've been adopted and redeemed from the curse of sin and from the ways of the world. So we should have no more dealings in a very real sense with the world. We should not claim the name of the world any longer, but we should rejoice that we have a good, good heavenly father. And yes, the script Scriptures say that our brother is Jesus Christ. And he is also the head of the church. And so these are the things that That we need to revel in. It reminds me, I've talked with people over the years, young people, even in our youth group over the past number of years, that were adopted and had the opportunity. To God took them from certain circumstances and put them into a loving family. And they have indicated to me, a few of them, that um at the time when they were young children being adopted, they didn't really have a full understanding of what that meant and the blessings of what that meant. But as they got older and they realized um what uh privileges and um the benefits that they had in God allowing them them a new earthly family from what they had been in before, they had a much greater appreciation for that process. And we actually, our church has Had the privilege, many of our members, of being involved in the adoption process, and it's it's a beautiful thing, it's it's a wonderful thing. But folks, really, as we become more and more More seasoned in our walk with Jesus Christ, the fact that we are adopted ought to mean more and more to us. And we think back on the state of where we were before, the fact that we there are the adopted children of God and that we are redeemed as Paul ties these two things Themes together are to move us with joy and thankfulness. And so Paul is going to recount the blessings of God's redeemed children. And really, you could say in a real sense that if you would ask yourself, well what what does it mean that God gives me his grace and what does that look like? I could say in a real sense the summation of God's grace to us is is in Jesus' sacrifice and his redemption. You see, we are blessed because for those who have put their faith and trust in Christ. And are the chosen children of God. Folks, we are redeemed. And we should be glad to rejoice in that And praise God for that. Well, what does it mean to be redeemed? Well, I a while back I looked it up in a couple of dictionaries, and just so we have a better understanding of this word, since it's so important to Paul. Maybe we should read that verse verse, right? Verse 7. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us. In all wisdom and insight. In him we have redemption. It's a vital part of our adoption process that we have been What's that mean? Well, the dictionary or definition for redeemed, one dictionary definition is the gain or regain possession of something in exchange Exchange for payment or a type of ransom. Ransom as well in the dictionary and these two These words are tied together. They're used in Scripture. Ransom means to obtain the release of a prisoner. By making a payment demanded. And in the Greek and in this time in this time of Paul's writing, this had the idea of redeeming back from the marketplace. And yes, that was the slave marketplace. place. And so the church that Paul is writing to would have this picture of someone ransoming or freeing slaves. That were being sold on the market and providing them freedom and a new opportunity For freedom and a new life that they had not had before. And so this is the picture that Paul is bringing forward to us in him. Remember, that's in Christ. That phrase in Christ is so important throughout Ephesians because it's only through Jesus that we have any of these blessings. It's not by our works. It's not by some politician. It's not by other things that the world offers. But the only door, the only way To be adopted and be a child of God is in Christ. Paul says that over and over again in Ephesians. And so in Christ we have redemption. And we're giving it freely by God's grace. But it costs Jesus everything because he gave it with his very blood. Wonderful But sobering thoughts in reality, right? Well, I have to clear up a misconception. We think about ransom and we think about redemption and what I just said. So you you might think Well, okay then, if Jesus redeemed us, bought us back, so God had to redeem us from Satan because Satan owned us, some people might have that picture in mind. we think of Christ redeeming us in this process and this whole concept. Well folks, we need to back off from that. That would be unbiblical. It's not the idea that God has to buy us back from Satan. We were already under the curse of sin because of our sin, because we were born in sin. And we were naturally rebels from God from the very moment we were out of the womb. Well, even before that, technically. And so we were rebels, and all Satan did was take advantage of that. He is the ruler of the darkness of this world. But God is not buying us back or redeeming us from Satan in any way. And really, Satan in a real way doesn't own us at all. Right? God owns his creation. But Satan takes advantage of the fact that we are under the curse of sin. And so this really, what Paul is trying to point out here, effectively, Is that because we're children, that means that we have been freed from the sa slavery, from the curse of sin. See, we were slaves to sin And folks, if you don't know Jesus Christ this morning, you are still a slave to sin. And one of the things that we would call you to do is to experience the freedom from sin. the freedom from having to sin that all of us need to be redeemed from. And that's only through a relationship with Jesus Christ. And Galatians talks more about this idea. It's so clear. You can turn there if you want to. I'm just going to go through these passages very quickly. But again, because we all of us are sinners, and the Bible makes clear, there is none righteous, no not one. Soon as we're born, we're born into sin, all the way since Adam and Eve rebelled in the garden. We're under that curse. We face eternal punishment in hell that we can't escape apart from what Jesus was willing to do. do. And so Jesus was actually willing to become fully human, fully man, and live under the curse of the law and the curse of broken humanity. So that He could be the one to redeem us, to buy us back, to free us from its curse, and we could be free to be with God forever and have our sins forgiven through his shed blood. Galatians 3. 13. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law By becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hanged on a tree, who is hanged on a tree, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, which folks is most of us here. So that we might receive the promised spirit through faith, and we have the Holy Spirit that enables us to grow in our relationship with God. And in Galatians 4, 3 through 7, this explains this concept of tying adoption with redemption. In a good way. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. Paul clearly more clearly. fully fleshes us out in this passage in Galatians chapter 4. And he says in verse 6, and because you are sons, God has sent the the spirit of his son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father, so you're no longer a slave. You're no longer no longer under the curse of the law. You're one of the redeemed. You're a son and a daughter. And if a son, then an heir through God, and we have access to all the spiritual blessings that we ever encounter. Need to function well in this life and to enjoy heaven for all eternity, all because of the grace of God. Hebrews makes it clear that Jesus had to shed his blood so that we could be purchased, so that we could be freed. from the curse of the law. Hebrews 9. 22 says, Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no market, folks, there is no forgiveness of sin. Jesus had to die. As terrible as the thought even is, he had to be nailed upon that cross. He had to be beaten. had to be tortured. He had to shed his blood so that we could be released from the curse of the law. And all of this, remarkably so Was a part of God's sovereign plan from before all eternity passed. This was only the ever-only way to provide for For this. And we marvel. And we should be humbled. It's all God's grace, folks. It's nothing that we do. It's because he's a good father and he loves us. Isn't it strange to say that a good father would send his son? To the worst criminal death that's ever been imagined in world history. That's strange. And yet it's true And because of the death of Jesus Christ, we are redeemed. And we can be freed from the penalty and the curse of sin for all A former seminary professor of mine wrote a book Complete in Him. His name is Dr. Michael Barrett. This quote really uh describes all this process. Well. He says, we broke the law, but he, Jesus, became the curse. We deserved to die, but he died for us. Although Christ earned life by his obedience God imputed or counted the guilt of our disobedience to Him, and He paid the penalty of the broken law that that debt had to be paid. By his life and death all the demands of the law were satisfied, and all the impediments for us to be sons and daughters were removed. So how much did our adoption cost? Folks, as we know in this culture, adoption is very expensive. But in God's order of things for us. Now I'm adding my own commentary to his question. Quote here. For us it's free by his grace, but we need to understand it costs Christ everything, as he finishes this. He says, his life and death. And because the Son of God was willing to shed his blood for each and every one of us because of our terrible sin. Then, when we put our faith and trust in Him in dependence, we are freed from having to sin any longer. We're not enslaved to sin in the law anymore. But we can grow and we can have we have the Holy Spirit that enables us to have spiritual maturity and victorious progress. And victory over sins like jealousy, anger, lust, and so many other sins that we struggle with. Yes, folks, because Jesus Christ Was willing to be the Redeemer and suffer all, we can have victory over all. Through putting our faith and trust in Him. Folks, would you not agree that as the Redeemer ones, those who have a relationship with Christ, we are truly blessed indeed. Don't doubt that. We're blessed because we're redeemed. We're blessed because we're forgiven. Let's continue there in verse 7. Through his blood, that redemption through his blood, that release from sin's curse, we have forgiveness of our trespasses in all according to the riches of his grace. We are we have been forgiven all of our trespasses against God's law. And folks, those are many. You just make a list of how many times us last week, each of us had broken the Ten Commandments. You make your own list. Don't make a list for me. I've got a big list enough. But you make a list of how many times you've broken God's law. And it would get pretty lengthy, right? And yet, Paul reminds us here: through Christ and his sacrifice and his shed blood, we're forgiven of all of that. And again, it's because not anything that we've done, but he makes it clear, it's just because he's giving us grace, the riches of his grace. And then verse 8 it says, he lavished that grace upon us. That redemption, that freedom from sin, involves so much. One scholar, Martin Lloyd Jones, you may have heard of him, he said this redemption is ultimately Going to end in the glorification of my body, but it begins with the forgiveness of my sins. That redemptive process cleanses us from sin. It deals with our sin so that we're right before God and we have the righteousness of Christ. But folks, it will end in having a glorious new body. That will eternally function in the way that it always was supposed to. And all of these things we have to look forward to. So our experience redemption begins with our forgiveness. We're released from slavery for our trespasses and our offenses committed against God's law. And yet we look forward to the glorification when we will be fully like Christ and we will have new bodies, and all of this is part of that picture. Of redemption. You remember the Lord redeeming his people out of Egypt. And that moment that they left Egypt, they could say, We have been redeemed. We have been freed from slavery, but the ultimate experience of that would take place much, much later when they would enter the province. Promised land. And that is a picture of our redemption. Yes, when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we are redeemed from our sin. But we have a journey to go on, don't we? And that journey continues. And sometimes that journey is hard. And sometimes that journey involves our rebellion against God, unfortunately. But because of what Jesus accomplished, we will accomplish and we will be successful to the end of that journey. And we will receive the full blessings of that redemption one day. When we see our Lord Jesus face to face. Folks, this ought to move us, and Paul reminds us of that again, is that the words I just read in verse 8 That we need to remember we're the recipients of the riches and the vast fortune of God's grace He lavishes on us That word lavish means he just pours out in a way that we're totally undeserving of. If you've ever had somebody give you gifts at Christmas Christmas or on your birthday, and they just keep coming, and there's more gifts, and people just acknowledge how much you're you mean to them, and you realize at some point, you know, I , I just don't feel worthy of anything. of this. This is like beyond anything that I'm worthy of or that I could have imagined. That's the same feeling we ought to have every time we think of Jesus sacrifice. On the cross for us, that all that He's done for us, a freedom from sin , a journey that will end in being with God forever. And a new body that will never deteriorate. And as we think through these and many more things, we ought to just marvel, Lord, you're just lavishing. You're so good. All these blessings and more. And he's right to do this because it says in wisdom and insight, because of the sacrifice that Jesus gave and And gave for us. God in his wisdom and insight is able to show us this grace. And he's able to help us to understand in better wisdom and insight all of these things. In fact, making verse 9 known to us the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. And that second part here is that we are blessed because God has revealed his mystery. And God has given us a great privilege, folks. All throughout the Old Testament, they had an idea and they had pictures and they had representations of what God was going to do, but they didn't have a full understanding of our salvation and what The Messiah was coming to do, to offer up himself as redemption for our sins. But we in this day and age and in the church and in the New Testament times, With what we have written in the New Testament. We have a better understanding. God has revealed the mystery. We have the supreme privilege of knowing and understanding what He's doing in the New Salvation through Jesus Christ, then all the saints of the Old Testament ever had understanding. And all we have to do today is go through the many, many ways That we have access to God's word. On our phones, on apps, we can have multiple copies of His Word. We can uh watch uh feed themed presentations on on TV and and movies and all kinds of there's so much access to the data of God's word that we are more blessed to understand More of the mysteries of the Father than anyone has ever done before. And let's be honest, folks, because we have access to What is our tendency? Our tendency is not to have as much value for God's Word and the fact that He's revealed so much to us. We tend Take it for granted. to But Paul says these are wondrous things. He is lavishing these things upon us. And we need to be thankful. Our response ought to always be with praise and gratitude. Lord, look at how much you've given me. Yeah, I don't have all the money that I want. I don't have the respect maybe of some people that I wish I had. Um I I don't have access to things or I don't have the respect of the honor. Whatever. Whatever it is you think you're missing in your life. I don't have these things, but Jesus died. And because of my relationship with him, I have so much more than all of that. So I have all I need Jesus Christ is all I need. And I glory and I revel in that truth. And think about this, folks. Where is Paul writing this letter from? He's not free in a political sense or in a physical sense. No, he's chained in a cell, probably chained to a Roman guard. Paul in a prison cell is offering superabounding praise for all that Jesus has done for us. Now you think if a prisoner like Paul could do that, don't you think? That really all of us should be even more able? We can certainly offer Jesus that praise in the midst of whatever we're going through. of the financial, the political turmoil, the turmoil that's going on in the world right now that tends to trouble us. And yet we can still offer praise to God, just like Paul's doing here. So, let's get back to the verse here as we finish up. He lavished on us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will according to his purpose. And this again goes back to why is God so gracious in sending his son to provide us salvation? And he's showing us the mysteries. He's helping us to understand his word. Why is God so gracious and willing to be able to do this? Because it's simply a part of his purpose. It's a part of his plan. This verse really has to deal with his good pleasure. We should think of it this way, folks. Folks, as we think of our unworthiness, that we have Scripture, and that we have understanding, and that we have redemption through Jesus Christ, we ought to think this: this is biblical. God loves us, and He delights in offering us redemption through His Son and salvation through His Son. He delights in showing us the mysteries of his salvific work from eternity past. He delights in pointing to his son as the only way. God loves us and delights in showing us the mysteries and the joys and the experiences that we can have through his son Jesus Christ. And is it then the ultimate sin to reject all that God is giving, offering to each of us? He delights to have each and every one of us in this room cleansed of sin, forgiven He delights that we will continue to be made into the image of his son through the Holy Spirit. He delights that one day we'll have a new body that won't have to go through all the suffering That we have to go through now. God the Father, this He purposed, and this was a part of His plan, His good pleasure, that He would give us these things. And so we're blessed that God has revealed his mystery. But we're also reminded here at the end that God will complete his plan, that he is the ultimate administrator. Verse 10, as the plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. And we are blessed as God's people through relationship with Jesus that God will finish what he started. He's described here as the perfect administrator of his master plan for the whole world, the minister of salvation. If you work a job where you're working under someone else, you probably have a experience someone that administrates in a less than perfect way. Maybe your boss you get frustrated with. They have weaknesses. They have areas that they that that they can't Can't see things right, and maybe you work under someone that really is kind of inept, even, and you think there's no way that we can accomplish anything under this poor leadership. It's not possible. We've all had those experiences before. But folks, God is the perfect administrator. And he will accomplish all that he intends at the end of time. We can trust. And so when it says there in verse 10, to unite all things in him , That may just sound like a really nice verse on unity. And certainly it would involve uh the unity of the brethren and the unity of unity of the church, but there's so much more here than that. What Paul is saying is that in this word he's using it in the the sense of this that God will sum all things up. That He will make right all of the evil and all of the injustice and all of these things He'll make it right. In other words, when Jesus returns as our King, he will bring everything in line. Everything is going to be made right. All of the brokenness, all of the injustice All of the terrible things that we experience, folks, one day Jesus is going to come and he's going to tell the whole world, you get in line before me. I've come to make things right. I've come to unite all things in heaven and on earth. Think of what we face today: the chaos of nature. The destruction of nature, tornadoes, storms, the terror of fierce creatures, and the animosity that we Have with wild animals a lot of times, right? The warring of nations. Boy, we're seeing a good picture of that right now in the news. The rebellion of mankind. Paul is saying one of the blessings that we will have as God's children as we will experience one day Jesus coming back, he'll take all of these things and he'll say, Get in line. I'm back. There's no more of this. It's done. I, as the administrator, I will make all things new. Because I'm king. And Jesus as King will tell all of these things to get in line and will make all of these tribulations that we experience no more. So what should we think of that? Well folks name just name. Make a list of the things that you most worry and fear or are concerned about. Let's get real practical here. We all struggle when uh a family member or a friend passes away. Especially maybe it it's in uh circumstances circumstances where it has related to weather or terrible things, trouble with the IRS , fearful of what enemy nations, now that we're involved in this conflict with Iran, there's there's fear what's Iran gonna do back? How are they gonna respond? You know, there's even news stories still as far as fear goes, what's the most terrible thing that you could fear? The most terrible There's a lot of people that are anxious about asteroids plummeting to Earth and taking us all out. There's a lot of things that we can fear in this world isn't there? And they all have an element of reality to them. But folks, whatever you fear this morning, understand what Paul's saying here is Jesus will return and he will demand that all creation fall in line and bow the knee before him and we won't ever have to be worried about any of that stuff again. Because Jesus is going to come and make it all right. And we will live in peace and harmony and joy throughout eternity. Would you not say, even as we finish up with verse 10 this morning, that's a lot to be thankful for We may have started this and we may we may have gotten into the topic of election and predestination and Some of you may have had some struggles with that, but I don't think as we talk about redemption, I would expect that all of our hearts are, yes, we are so thankful for these truths. that Christ was our Redeemer. And yet, even with the theology that we know well, so often we get so regularly acclimated to it that it becomes normal. Becomes we we get apathetic to it. Folks, in just a minute, after we have a time of reflection, we're gonna have the opportunity to sing the song. Redeemed, how I love to proclaim it. Redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. And I hope you can sing that this morning with joy. And I'm not trying to be too cynical here. But I'm afraid sometimes if we were really to sing that song the way that we act act and the way that we uh react toward Christ's redemption, it would sound more like this. Redeemed how I rarely sing of it, I hardly think of it at all. Redeemed, even though he has mercy as his child distracted all the day long. We sing these hymns And we live lives that many times are so different. And so Paul is calling us this morning. Don't you see the blessings in Christ? You're redeemed from sin slavery. Forgiveness for all of your sin. Blessed to understand God's master plan through his word and to know that whatever you're troubled with and facing, it's not going to last forever because everybody at one point in the future is going to get in line under Jesus and bow before him and it will all be over and he will win. And for those that are the children of God that are redeemed We will be on the victorious side and be with him for all eternity. Isn't that better to reflect on than all the troubles and anxieties that we normally tend to think Think about. The pastor included. I've spent so much time this last week and even this weekend being worried and anxious about things. And I need to be reminded. But Jesus is going to take care of all this. So you just make sure that you're on the right side when he comes. And as his children, we can rejoice that we are redeemed. And we love to proclaim it. Let's pray together. What glorious truths, Father, we have laid out before us this morning. Lord, I know. I'm confident there are people here with great struggles, with great hurts. And I pray that this message has helped point them. and point us back to the glorious reality of your grace and love that you delighted in us and provided for us. The redemptive work of your son. Oh, you're not a stern judge that's ready to throw lightning down Lord, we know you will judge one day, but you delight in offering us salvation. You have chosen us to this. You have redeemed us through Christ. Father, let these truths overpower anything that's keeping us from worshiping you well this morning. That's keeping us distracted. That's keeping us anxious and fearful. And as Paul continues in this list, Lord, let these glorious truths reign and have victory in our hearts and lives. Oh, we look forward to the day when Jesus will bring every Everything in line and make everything right. Oh Lord, if it were today, how wonderful that would be. But in the meantime, help us as your chosen children. To go forward in confident faith and be attractive testimonies of Jesus' redemptive work So, folks, let's meditate on that, even as Leslie plays this morning. And if you still need to have a relationship with Jesus, I call you to trust Trust him today. Come talk to me. Be glad to share with you the gospel and how you can enjoy the blessings of a relationship with Jesus for through for all eternity. Let's reflect on this as Leslie plays.