Live in the right way with the right heart, your heavenly father will know, and he's the only one that you need to worry about knowing. Nobody else needs to know. And your father knows, and he will give good gifts, and you have to trust that. You have to wait and see. It's a trust game, isn't it, really? That when we do right, good things, that even if nobody ever knows on this earth, that God does know and he will Reward in his time. And we can have full confidence in that, folks. Our Heavenly Father knows our service. And in his appointed time, he will honor us. Sometimes he'll honor us in this life. Many times it won't be till the Next. But kingdom citizens are willing to wait and not seek the praise and adoration of others in this life. Well Jesus gives another example here, very helpful. When you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues. The street corners, that they may be seen by others. And truly I say to you that they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door, and pray to your Father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. I can't help. I always think of the movie, of course I've forgotten the title. At the moment, that came out a number of years ago were uh War Room, right? If you've seen it. And the devoted older lady that had her prayer closet and all of those prayer requests and line the walls of people that she was praying for. And the only reason that she told uh this one person that she was this one younger lady that she was disciple And mentoring was so this person could understand the value of prayer. I think of that example as I think of go into your room and shut the door. Maybe it doesn't have to be a food pantry or something. But you pray to your father who is in secret. You see, when we give and we're not worried about who sees and who And folks, when we pray and we're not worried about who sees us and who's gonna think we're really spiritual and religious. And pious, the prayer is much sweeter, too. And we seek God's face. And we pray for so many, for others, for ourselves, for our own needs. We actually will have opportunity after Christmas to Jesus will take us through the Lord's Prayer as it's known, and we are going to find out, be reminded again of Of all the different things that we can and should be praying for. And it'll be a good study. But right now we're just looking at prayer in general. And so you had these religious leaders and others who always looked forward to the opportunities to pray in public. There were um the synagogue was a house of prayer, and public prayer happened many times. It happened in the morning and the evening, the third and the ninth hours which was where the daily sacrifice times where the sacrifices were held and then midday prayers were also encouraged so there was a lot of prayer going on and that was good. God God's law prescribed that to his people. But notice it's not the prayer and even the times of prayer. prayer, but what is Jesus um castigating here for those that seek certain um public areas standing at street corners and making sure that people that they themselves as they pray are in the most prominent position so everybody can see and they can um bow The knee, and they can do all these things and prostrating themselves to get the notice of others. And Jesus says, That's not right. They're praying to want to be seen by other people. That's not the right attitude. And don't you have that attitude either? It was a purposeful attemptment attempt to be seen by others. And that was ugly and wrong. And so Jesus says rather than have that attitude and pray in public, just go home. Go to a closet. Pray. And be sincere and experience the power of real prayer. That's what makes the difference. Undistracted, sincere prayer will reap the Father's blessing. This is a prayer that Jesus is describing here, in which a desire to impress others is totally absent You could put it this way, prayer rewards come to those who wait. And so when we're describing prayer and privacy, it's without distractions because the goal is to seek God, not to seek the approval of others. I'm going to admit something here. Probably some of you could admit this too. There is a particular um channel that Leslie and I have enjoyed watching things over the years. Sometimes the boys do as well, whether it's documentaries or Dramas. I will admit that from time to time I do watch PBS. I'm not recommending nearly everything that's on there, but they have some good documentaries. And some of the dramas. There's one in particular right now. I don't want you to get distracted. You can ask me afterwards that we've been enjoying watching. But I remember when I was young. younger watching some of these PBS things, that I would have to wait an endurably long time for them to go through this list of all these people that had donated money. So and so's foundation and this foundation, it was before uh we had the D V R, so you just kinda had to just kind of endure all these names and it's just like, oh come on, I just Or sometimes remember they would have those telethons for the local PBS station and you would watch something you want to watch and then right in the middle here's a phone bank and people calling and these phones ringing And it was just so annoying. But the point was that people were giving so that other people could enjoy the entertainment that we were watching, and they wanted to be noted for it. Oh, we can understand that, as annoying as it was. Isn't it nice now that we have streaming services and things we can just get to it and not have to watch all that? Uh my point is though that those people paid a lot of money, thousands, maybe millions of dollars to have their name read just real briefly to annoy all those folks that just wanted to watch the show. And that was their glory. And that was their their reward. And folks, I think we understand that that we we understand, first of all, that that that happens. I don't necessarily think that that is always wrong. But we do have to examine our motives. But in the end, let me ask you this, as we think on the principle that Jesus is giving here. So how do we apply that? I mean, is it really wrong to give ministry recognition? We have missionaries back here. Their pictures, names. We have over in the Family Life Center. This as you go into the front here. And and get in near the office area as you go through the front door. Before you get to the second set of doors, you all know you have that those red bricks in the shape of a cross, people's names on them. Uh-oh. Some of you have your names on those bricks. Are you disobeying the Lord Jesus? Furthermore. We're going to get even a little deeper. On the second level, on the hallways, we have all of these awana uh lists and plaques that we've had for years, decades. That lists all these names. Has somehow the Iwana leaders and the pastor you know, I'm I'm part of this too, right? Have we allowed something that Jesus Is saying is a sin here? Should we never allow our name to be um promoted or not promoted but stated in regards to something that is done. Let's get again, let's continue with this. If I bring folks up here or I have people stand in our church congregation and I want to honor them for something that they have done, have I just sinned against God and this thing with public prayer in worship today we've had two people pray already and I'm one of them and we'll have Have one more pray at the end. Are we sinning? Are we sinning against what Jesus is calling for here? Well, uh, we need a little reasonableness in all of that. This right, is Jesus saying really in every action that we can think of that this is wrong, or is he rather saying, just watch your See, I don't think Jesus is negating the fact that people in ministry, that as a church ministry, that we can honor those Who have not sought honor, but have sacrificed, didn't Jesus publicly honor the widow that gave the mites In his speech. He didn't give her a plaque, but he honored her. No, I don't think in the end that it's wrong to have your name on a brick over here as a sign that you sacrificed. So that we could have a wonderful family life center that we all enjoy. plaques and to give them awards. I don't think it's wrong to honor people, especially those. As I said, as a pastor, I try, especially those that uh Don't want necessarily the honor. Maybe they think they're sinning against this verse. If I bring them up, we're not. But for those that haven't sought the honor, it's good for me. To, again, in the end, we don't honor the individual in the full sense, but we thank the Lord for that individual and for leading them and guiding them to give and to sacrifice. in that way. That is the right motivation. And when it's done in that way , I think it's totally appropriate and good to do that. I think public prayer is good to do. I think we're commanded to pray in worship. And as we already pointed out, there was much prayer going on in the worship in uh in in Bible. Bible times throughout every day. That was good. It's good for us to pray at the beginning of a service and pray that God will work among us. It's good for us to pray and ask the Lord. Lord to help us to be aware of gospel opportunities. It's good to pray and ask him to help us to worship Christ in the way that needs to be done. All these things are really, really good. I don't apologize for any of them. Where it's wrong is when our heart attitude craves that. That's where we go wrong. When someone honors us, or we stand, or we're giving something, and our heart says, Yes, this is enjoyable. I long for this Recognition. Jesus is saying, better for you not to have that recognition at all than for you to sin against God in that way. If somebody came to me and said, you know, Pastor Brock, um I've gotten an idea that you're giving this award, or even if I called for them to public pray to pray publicly and they said, you know, I'm really struggling right now with my pride, and I don't think I'm in a good place to accept this or to pray in front of others because I'm constantly thinking about what I look like and prayer and that I don't mess up. And I'm it's all about me. And it's not about God. So could we forgo this honor or this time to pray right now publicly until I get my heart Heart right. Folks, I'm not going to argue with that. As a pastor, you know what? I should be ready to do that too. As a pastor, if I'm in front of you praying And I'm thinking all my only thoughts are, I hope I don't mess up and look bad. Rather than um I'm leading our people to the Lord to to our heavenly Father in his throne room, then I'm sinning and I'm wrong. It's all about the heart attitude. And so in the end, we're back Back to where we started on this, that God expects our faithful service to match up with faithful devotion to Him. Does your faithful service does it match your faithful devotion or is your devotion all toward you? Where is your devotion as you serve? Is it for you or is it for God? Ministry service done for our own glory, would you admit with me is ugly and really, folks, it's blasphemous to steal We're glory steal stealers, we're glory thieves when we steal the glory that God deserves and take it upon ourselves. And that's not appropriate and ugly in ministry. God, who has given us these gifts? God has given us these gifts. And so for us to say, show all the glory to me as I give, even though these weren't mine in the first place, is Misguided and ugly. For me to pray and want all the glory when I'm supposed to be praying and focusing on God is totally inappropriate. Our devoted service for God should flow from a heart of love for Him and not for ourselves. It really is that easy. Do we serve with a heart of love for God? For Jesus? Or do we love ourselves? If we love ourselves, folks, we are hypocrites. We are Wearing a mask of piety, and we are great sinners underneath. But you know what, folks? Jesus died for great sinners Sinners. And so we can confess of this hard attitude today and act like the kingdom citizens that we need to be and say, Lord. Lord, I have been prideful. I have sought my own glory. Please forgive me. I know that those that seek their own glory and not your glory, if they don't repent, will one day have any will exp Experience eternal punishment, uh, those that have not trusted in you. And so I don't want to act like those individuals. And if folks there's possible today as we finish up this morning There's possible that there could be those in the audience that you are being a hypocrite as far as acting like you're have a relationship with Jesus and you're doing it all for the recognition. You don't have a heart for Jesus at all because you haven't trusted him as your personal savior. And you're seeking all the religious piety and glory for yourself and not for Jesus. You don't know him. We can repent of either one of those situations, whether we're God's children seeking our own own glory, or whether we are unbelievers that have rejected God and seeking our own glory, we can go to God and repent and we can trust Jesus and put our faith and trust in Him for those that are not that are hypocrites and not real believers and um we can have a faith relationship with Jesus and know what it's like to serve him with love. And gratefulness for all that he has done for us. We can do that through the power of Christ, folks. So turn to him today. And seek his help, to let go of our pride, and to gain again our awe and our love for Jesus and serve Him because of that. Father, thank you for a reminder that it is ugly when we seek our own glory and our own attainments. It's not that when we let people know of these things or that we are honored in some way that it's always wrong. But it's our heart attitude that is what counts. And so help us today to seek to be honest with ourselves. And if we are seeking our own personal glory and recognition, then help us to repent of that. And seek to recog or to show the recognition to God that He deserves. And Father, if there are those in there this morning who haven't trusted Christ and And they are hypocrites and faking, even being a believer. May they turn from that today and turn to Christ and understand what it means to have a faith. Faith relationship with Him, that they can serve Him in love and sincerity and awe for all that He has done for us. We need your help for that, Lord. And we pray that as we take time to meditate on On that now that you would help us to change and to do right