This morning, starting at verse eleven, and as we get Get ready our hearts for communion. The Lord just led me to take another brief hiatus from Habakkuk. We'll get back to that, Lord willing, next week. And just think through. It's always good to think through the sacrifice. Do we have all of our children that went down to children's church? Okay. good. They're coming back up in a little bit for the communion service. So thankful for the Hansons and their willingness to teach. This month as well. You think through, even as we remember today in communion, as we take the cup and remember the shed blood of Christ, and as you Read through the Old and the New Testament. We just gave our young people some study Bibles this morning. Hopefully, they'll get more into God's Word if they're not already, and they'll As we notice and as we read through, there is, you would have to admit with me, a great emphasis on blood. There's a lot of Bloody descriptions and a lot of talk of blood in the Word of God. And it can be almost, if we really think about it, almost Distasteful and something we shrink away from. So I think a valid question as we study God's word is: what is all this emphasis on blood? Why? What's the purpose of it? I don't know about you, but I'm one of those that could never have been called to be a doctor or even a nurse. Now, I have a great appreciation for blood. I have a a great appreciation for my blood. But that appreciation stands stands to having my blood within me and not outside of me. I like it where it's supposed to be And if any accidents happen or things like that and I have to view, I will even be candid here that even sometimes in the past when I've had to have shots and that needle gets closer, I I just don't look. Blood drawn. I I look away every time. I don't need to see it. I know it's happening. Don't need to look at it. Um I I have a natural I guess squeeziness maybe sometimes. Not all that changes when it's your wife and your kids, you know, then it kicks in, okay, well you're the husband, you're the father, you gotta do something, so put all that aside. Right, but um I think I'm not the only one that gets a little queasy. And really, as we look through the Old Testament and we see God forming a nation of people to Together and delivering them from Egypt and taking them to the promised land, and he took them a little almost like a sidestep, a side road to go to that huge mountain. Mount Sinai, and give them the Ten Commandments, but then also start to uh reveal to them, and as they continued their journey, about the sacrifices that were necessary. The bloody sacrifices of animals for the atonement, the satiation of God's wrath and anger against sin. And as we read that and as we if if you're bold enough to think through what that would have looked like, it really had to have been a terrible, a terrible picture. All those sacrifices, all that blood. What's the purpose of all of it? Is God just kind of cruel in that way to make so much emphasis on this? Well, certainly not. He loved us enough to send his own son to shed. His blood for our sin. He's not a cruel God, he's a loving heavenly father. But it does us good to kind of look back through. In Leviticus chapter 17, verses 10 through 11, God said, For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I have given it for you on the altar to make atonement for your sins, for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life. Now in a very practical sense, this this should make sense to all of us. Two necessary elements for us to live, and if we lose those, we eventually we um become comatose and we pass on very quickly. One, we need oxygen Right? And the other is we need our blood in us. And um if someone is in an accident or they're in a hospital for a serious and they Start losing a lot of blood, people become concerned. Obviously, you hear that from the doctors. Well, I don't know. They've lost a lot of blood. I'm not so sure they're going to make it. Because that is an obvious Example that we need our blood to live, right? Oxygen we can't see. But blood is a living physical testament to our living. And that's a picture here that God is portraying in the Old Testament that the life of the flesh is in the blood. You notice in so many of God's Commandments to his people. He called them to be very careful not to eat meat with blood in it, not to shed innocent blood and all these things, because blood What God was making it clear was very sacred to him and very important to him. It is the physical um picture Of life, and it literally is the life within us. So that's easy enough to understand, wouldn't you say? But then back to that passage in Leviticus. 17, he says it is the blood that makes atonement by life. The blood that makes atonement. What is that atonement? That is Something that we all need because we're all sinners. And God is basically saying, because of our sin, we are dead to new life. And Life has to be taken for our sins to be dealt with. That may seem harsh, folks, but it is the reality that God laid before us. And if you think about it, God warned man at the very beginning that if man chose disobedience and rebellion from God, that he was choosing Death, did he not? God gave man a perfect paradise, everything he could want. I don't know if man got up every But you know, everything and and communion with God and all the beauties that man could have ever asked For. me, I think that's a good idea. And the only thing, the only thing that God said was in relation to obedience to Him was: there's this tree, and it has this fruit on it. And we don't know what the fruit was. We don't know we we don't know if it was apples or pomegranates or whatever. But God said, Don't touch. Or you are inviting certain deaths. And then the tempter came and said to man, most of you know the story anyway. No, God didn't really mean that. He wasn't really serious about it. You won't die. And what he part of what he was saying is you're not going to bite the fruit and immediately keel over and pass away. But at the same time, God was serious. You disobey me. You reject my perfect paradise. I've given you everything. You can have peace and contentment. With me for all time for eternity. But if you reject that and go your own way, death is involved. And when man did that God was serious about that. And so death involved losing one's blood, and that whole bloody picture had to be in place for God. Then to say, because of your sin, because you rebelled against me, I gave you warning, but you went your own way, and now death has to be involved for man's sin. Sin to be dealt with effectively. And blood has to be shed. But not just by any animal. And we're going to see more of that here in just a minute. Turn to To Hebrews chapter 9, verse 11, and let's read. I'm going to give you a little bit of background here then. God instituted this whole sacrificial system in In the Old Testament. But here is one of the key principles in this message this morning. All of that was only a picture. God called um Moses and uh the priests, the high priests, to offer a sacrifice for the sins of the people, as he said in Leviticus 17 there. And he said, in order for me, for uh punishment to be satiated for sin, these animals have to be But folks, God wasn't saying in those pictures that the actual animal blood of those unblemished, and they had to be unblemished, they had to be the best that they could offer of the land Of the goats. God wasn't actually saying this will cover sin. But God was saying this is a picture of one who is the Come, who is my son, who is the Messiah, and his blood will be use a big word here, efficacious It will do the job. It will get the job done for forgiveness of sins. So we have Hebrews 9. 11 here. When Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation, he entered Entered once for all into the holy places, not by the means of the blood and the goats of calves, I'm sorry, the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. And the author of Hebrews is saying here, all those sacrifices for all those hundreds of years, probably over a thousand years, if my history is correct. Was nothing was was an important picture, but it was a picture of what Christ would one day accomplish in a more significant and super Much better way. The writer of Hebrews is saying here, Christ would do in a spiritual sense, in the tabernacle, the tent of heaven, what is Pictured here on earth through all these terrible sacrifices. Well, what did that look like? Well, I have just a brief summary here. For those of you that have studied and know a little bit more about these Sacrifices, you know, that God called the Levites as the priests over the nation to do the work of worship and to keep the tabernacle Tabernacle, which was where God's presence was, the tent of tabernacle. In fact, when Hebrews talks about the tent, it's talking about uh it's pointing back to an actual tent that God's people had to put together. Together where they would worship, and God would worship, or God would be present in the holiest place where they could not go, and where only one priest could go in order to offer sacrifices. and offer um ritual that would bring atonement for the people. And there was one of those priests, he was referred to as the great high priest, the Jewish high priest. That would have the greatest significance in that. On Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, which would be the tenth day of the seventh month. Very specific, God made this. Sacrifices had to be made for the sins of the people. Sin had to be dealt with. Be in God's presence, initial summary of all this, without their sin being dealt with. And again, we're answering the question: well, why did all these animals have to be sacrificed. Well, this is what would happen. The high priest, this high priest would actually start preparation seven days earlier from that day of atonement. And then as the day came, as he As it began, he would get up very early, he would perform ritualistic washings, and then he would do his normal priestly duties before concentrating on the special day of atonement. Atonement duties. And this is what those would involve. Those duties for the atonement would begin with his setting his hands on a bull that would be offered for his own sins and for the sins of his family. The priest also had to have an offering for his own sins. Blood had to be shed for the high priest and his family first, so that their sins were covered. So that God was satisfied with the punishment, the death that was offered. And people could Could have life. Then he would give a personal prayer of confession for himself. Then these two goats from the people were brought forward, the best of the best, and they were distinguished between the one That would be sacrificed and the one that would be a scapegoat and be released. And then this high priest would do us, would give a second confessional prayer. For the priests and their families. Then the unlucky one that was chosen as the sacrifice was killed. The blood was collected. Again, for those of you that are queasy, I know, but this is what The high priest then took a ladle of incense and a pail full of hot coals. He walked into the temple. He walked to that holy of holies that only one person That high priest was able to go through at special times, or literally, the priests and the people could lose their lives if they entered into that most holy place of God's presence with the Ark of the Covenant. Covenant. God's presence represented there. His presence was there. He would go in and he would He would walk through to the holy place. He would pass Cast the curtain, he would burn the incense, and then he would go back outside to retrieve a bowl of the bull 's blood, a bowl of the bull bull's blood, and then return to the Holy of Holies to Sprinkle that blood on that Ark of the Covenant. Then he would go out, leaving the bowl of bull's blood in the holy place and retrieve. The goat's blood do the same thing. The goat was offered up for the people's sin, and so its blood was also sprinkled on the mercy seat. And after this blood had to be sprinkled on the curtain and then smeared on the horn. Of the altar of incense, and then sprinkled on it as well. And he would return then to get the scapegoat, they would free that other goat. A third prayer of confessions was offered for the people. And then the body of the bull and the other goat was burned on the altar. That whole process would certainly stick in people's minds, would it not, folks? It's awful. But it's what had to happen. And blood was the price so that man could have his sins covered. And again, all All of that was a picture. All of that was a picture of death that had to take place because man chose sin for God then to be Be satisfied that sin was taken care of, and so that people could serve him and be in his presence. But again, that was only a picture. There would have to come one that the author of Hebrews is now describing in verse 11. The very Son of God that would come. The picture for all those years was just pointing people to Jesus Christ, the Son of God. And all of that blood wiped and sprinkled everywhere was just a reminder that one would have to come who was human. And one that could perfectly obey God's law. See, nobody in the Old Testament could do that. Not any of the great heroes. Moses. King David, even the prophets. No one could perfectly obey God's law and thus then be in a real spiritual saying The unblemished Lamb of God who could be offered for the sin of the people. Nobody had was capable of that except one. And at just the right time in history, God God sent his son Jesus Christ, his only son, fully God, to come to earth and to obey his law in a way that we could never accomplish. In and of ourselves. And he did accomplish that. The author of Hebrews makes that clear as well. Actually, the Bible says in a way that's almost hard to understand: that he earned righteousness. But he was fully capable as a son of God in a way that we never were. So what does that tell us right now, right away? That our works have no value in saving us. Us that it was only the work of the Savior. And when he had perfectly obeyed God and lived uh life for that 33 years that he was on this earth physically then is described in his sacrifice on the cross what the author of Hebrews describes Here in Hebrews 9 11. With all of that background, then let's look back at this again. All of those high priests in the past that came had to have their own sins dealt with, right? I've established that. They were also sinners. But when God Christ came to offer up the final sacrifice for sin, folks. He didn't have to offer a sacrifice for himself. There was no sin to deal with. With when it came to Jesus Christ. He was the superior sacrifice in every way, and that's the point, really, of what the author of Hebrews is saying. Here, that only the Son of God could provide the sacrifice. That only Jesus could do, could offer up Himself in a way that would be sufficient for us as a merciful, faithful high High priest. He was literally our propitiation. It was an act of death that satisfied God's wrath. And the punishment of sin. Jesus was the only one that could do that. And he was fully faithful to God to do that. And that's what this discussion Described here is that Jesus is the only one who could truly shed his blood so that we could have forgiveness of sins. In his death on the cross, that's exactly what he accomplished. So look again, look at verse 11. Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent. He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of all that animal blood, and all that sprinkling, and all that really terrible scene But by singularly the means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption The author makes it clear in verse 13: For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of the defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from deadness Works to serve the living God. Jesus in a much more greater way went into the heavenly throne room of God in a way that That man never could. But Jesus went into the holy tabernacle of God in heaven, the spiritual tabernacle, where man could never enter. Because he He was God. And he was able to offer through his real shed blood a sacrifice that would bring forgiveness. Of sin in a way that all those other nasty sacrifices could never accomplish. It's described here really in terms of Terms of ransom or redeeming. Verse 15 it says further, therefore he is immediate of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions committed on the Under the first covenant. We needed, I won't go into all of that, what that means this morning, but the thing I want to focus on, folks, is that we needed redemption. We needed to be free from The curse of sin that brought death, that that blood signified. Because man sinned, man Was under the curse of the law. That meant that the wages of sin is death, that he faced eternal punishment and eternal separation from God because he chose to rebel. And sin against God. And yet, Jesus provided the way That man could have forgiveness of sin through his own blood. And he provided then the freedom, the way of freedom, the way to be Ransom. He provided the purchase price so that we could be, he paid the price for our sin. He took on himself our sins, all of our sins. Every sin that you and I I have ever committed fell on his shoulders in that one moment on the cross, and as he shed his blood, that blood in a real sense. Was able to bring forgiveness of sins. Again, why did he have to shed his blood? Because God God had at the beginning even of his word, and at the beginning of his establishment of the relationship with this people, he said, This is what has to be because man has rejected me and turned again. Against me. And blood has to be shed, but it will be. I will send, because of my love for you, my only son, to offer And because Jesus lived that perfect life, then he now, because of that act of shedding his blood He is able to offer us his righteousness that he earned. He took our sin. He gives us his righteousness. But his blood had to be shed for all of that to take place, for forgiveness of sins to be offered. And uh the Bible says That he was willing to do exactly that. And he accomplished exactly what he determined to accomplish and what the Father sent him to accomplish. Let's look, let's skip ahead to verse 21. And in the same way he sprinkled with Indeed, under the law, almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood, there is no fruit. Forgiveness of sins. God is consistent. In his covenant with his people in the Old Testament, he said blood had to be shed for forgiveness of sins. When Jesus came and offered up himself in the new covenant, God said, in order for you to have new life with me, to have your sins for Forgiven, to enjoy the beauties of heaven and be with me forever, blood has to be shed. It's that simple And Jesus was willing to die on that cross and shed his own blood for our sin. Because without it we could not have forgiveness. That's why, folks, this is so important. That's why, when Paul talks about communion and what we're getting ready to prepare for now. We focus on the cup and the shed blood of Christ. Because Jesus was willing to go through the most terrible, awful scene of bloodshed that anyone could ever imagine. Because he was willing to do that and shed his blood, folks, we can be forgiven of our sins. We can have his righteousness that he earned because of that. Do you see why we sing about the blood? Do you see In one sense, it's still, even after we think about it, even after I've contemplated it and studied it, it still kind of goes beyond even what we're capable of understanding. Understanding in some ways, but we believe at the same time that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses from all sin. He provides forgiveness of sin because of his death. And I need to add, maybe some of you are thinking Thinking this already. He didn't stay in that grave. He rose again. And he's able to offer new life. So through his death and the shedding of his blood, that That vivid picture of his death in his resurrection, he provides us new life with him. Him. And we can know for certainty that we will be with God forever. Well, what's our part in this? Well, we don't have a part As far as doing a work in order to attain God's favor. All we're called upon, folks, is to believe in what Christ has done. And say, I stake my claim on the truth of the gospel that Jesus died and shed his actual blood for my sin, and I can have forgiveness of that sin. terrible sin that condemns me to eternity from God for all well forever, I can escape that and be with God And um have forgiveness of sin and not be under the guilt of my sin and have literally be cleansed and be purified, I can have all of that. By believing that Jesus did what he said he did in God's word. I believe that. I make that truth my own. I depend upon that. I throw all of my faith and trust in that one truth of the gospel. And that's enough. So the question is, if there's someone here today who is still wondering, what's this whole thing about the blood? What's this nasty scene of sacrifices? Well, in in a few minutes we've hopefully been able to explain that. So my question to you is then do you You believe? Will you believe? Will you trust in what Jesus did for us and his sacrifice for our sins? I call you this morning if you do not have faith. In Christ, to trust Him as your Savior, in a faith relationship with Him, and to experience the joys of eternity and forgiveness of sin that only Jesus Jesus could provide. And that he did provide. And for the rest of us then that commemorate that this morning as we get ready for communion. We need to be ready to proclaim that message again. As we talked about Sunday school this morning to the world. People need to understand the significance of Jesus' Shedding his blood for our sin and his death and resurrection. He has provided everything we need to answer this Sin problem. And to deal with our sin. And to be with God and have our relationship reconciled and restored with Him. Do you believe that today? Then join me as we remember that in communion this morning. And let's celebrate what Jesus has done together.