That is a convicting thought, and it's going to be continued in 1 Thessalonians this morning. Again, our children can go ahead and go downstairs, and you can turn to 1 Thessalonians. Chapter three, and Paul has described his relief and joy. About what he's heard from Timothy about the Thessalonian church and the believers there that he is so he was so concerned about. We just saying of the love, the intense love we need to have for Christ. Paul had that love And he showed it to others. The love that he had been shown by Christ, he reproduced because he could through the power of Christ. And he showed it to others. And that love permeated his very being. And so he was so concerned for these believers. That Satan would somehow affect the ministry that he had started there. So remember, he sent Timothy back to Thessalonica. Timothy came back with a wonderful report saying Paul, it's better than what we could have expected. They are continuing to grow in their love for Christ. More are getting saved, and that small church. then is replicating and they are telling others not e not just in their own city and that's quite a big city so that would have been some bit of work to get the news around that city. But he says around the whole region, people know about what God is doing in the church of Thessalonica. And they are rejoicing, hearing that the people's faith is growing, that their love continues to grow. And they continue that blessed outreach to their community. These reports were music to Paul's ears. And you would think with such a great report that, well, most of us probably, and maybe even Paul Would be tempted to say, well, they're good. I mean, praise the Lord. I don't need to go back. He's doing a wonderful work. I don't really need to say anything else at all. They're doing they're going beyond my expectations. And so just keep up the good work, guys, and we'll see you one day in glory Well, Paul doesn't stop there. He knows that as dedicated and as fruitful as these believers The fruit in their lives that's being shown by the power of Christ. It is Christ through them, by the way. No kudos to them alone. He knows that there's always more work , there's always more growth. And so he's going to remind them of that. And he's going to exhort them to continue to grow in their relationship with God. Let's go back to the beginning of this passage that we're going to finish up today. 1 Thessalonians 3, starting at verse 1 We're going to start our study, continue our study in verse 9 through verse 13. But let's start the beginning of the chapter. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind in Athens alone. And we sent Timothy our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ to establish and exhort you in your faith that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this. And when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer a flood. Affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know, just as you are well aware. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith. He said Timothy, for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you and our labor would be in vain. But now that Timothy has come to us from you, And has brought us the good news of your faith and love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. For now we live If you are standing fast in the Lord, for what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God? As we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. Paul is experiencing here the blessings of his effective ministry beyond even his expectations. And even as I say that, you might say, well, Pastor Brock, didn't Paul have enough faith that God could work in his absence? Well, I'm certain he did. But folks, even the best of us, at our best moments, let's put it that way, we still have growth. We can still be surprised by God's God's work in our lives. And isn't it wonderful? As Paul is experiencing here, I hope many of you have experienced The wonder of seeing God use your work far beyond what you could have ever imagined. It is one of the great joys, folks, of this life. And there are too few of those joys in this broken world. There's so many things that we turn to for joy, and yet they do not satisfy. But to hear that God has used you And the work continues to go, and it's working through your ministry beyond what you could have ever imagined. That is an exceeding great joy indeed. And so they kind of gave Paul a Christmas gift early, so to speak. And he mentioned he's celebrating his own version of Thanksgiving in verse 9. What Thanksgiving can be Can we return to God for you, for all the joy? Look at the blessings that God has given us in the joy that we have. Because we understand his work in you. The blessings of effective ministry we saw last week. It provides comfort. Paul was comforted to hear that God was continuing to work with you. These folks. He was comforted to hear they were continuing in faithful discipleship. He was comforted in knowing that they were seeking out faithful examples. Beyond even his group, but to the churches in Judea and maybe even the church of Jerusalem. There was comfort, the blessing of comfort, because he had performed his His ministry in a way that was pleasing to God. He had given the accurate gospel. He had not twisted God's word. But more than that, beyond that, I should say He showed God's love to those who didn't yet know Christ and to those who had come to a not saving knowledge of Christ. Paul sacrificed all of his time And lovingly gave of himself for these people. And in return, God is blessing him with comfort. And now, as we continue in verse 9, joy. It's not wrong, folks, to want one of the blessings, or as we to desire effective ministry. For personal reasons as well. Now, the ultimate goal of our effective ministry ought to be to glorify God, to give him honor and glory. Jesus Christ is worthy of all of our ministry efforts. And so that ought to motivate us to serve Him well. But it's also acceptable for us to serve him because of the blessings that we will receive as well. And these are wonderful blessings of comfort. And joy that we also can experience, not just Paul. And so Paul is describing that joy in verse 9. In the same time, Paul is also recognizing that there's more distance to be traveled, there's more growth that needs to be seen In these people's lives. Now, just for an illustration, let's just say that I knew of a family in our church that the Lord was using in a powerful way. They had given tell told me of some of the blessings that they were experiencing from that. And so the Lord just led me to kind of give testimony of that. Now we've already heard testimony actually of God's work in our midst with Harry, and I told you a little bit about Meredith, and we're we We're just overjoyed in what God's doing there. But let's just say that I wanted to introduce this family, and this family that I introduced had recently been saved and they were so overwhelmed with God's grace and goodness. They that they were members of our church. And They were sharing the gospel with people in their community. They were showing love. Our whole church recognized them as loving people that cared about them and cared about them. And it was a family that if you knew you went to them and asked them to pray about something, you could count on the fact that they would pray about it. They were reaching out to their neighbor And even more than that, God was burdening them in such a way that they were reaching out. Word of their testimony was going beyond their neighborhood. into other counties. Right? And and so I told you of all this, and we would certainly, if I told you about a family like that , and by the way, if God is doing that in your life and you want to let me know about that, I would love to uh let our folks know about that. Okay, but this is a fictional illustration. If we if I announce a family like that, what would automatically our tendency be toward that family. Well, they're members, so I mean God's working in such a powerful way. We need to get them more involved in leadership and we need to get them involved in in some of these committees and you know they obviously God is working and this is amazing so we want them to to do all of these things But what if I told you in the midst of all that, if I explained that to you and then said, But folks, they've still got some work God's doing in their lives, so you need to pray for them as well. They've still got some rough edges. You need to pray for those rough edges. You need to help them encourage them. Some of us might be tempted to think, well, who are you, Pastor Brock, to say that? I mean, you know These folks are more are experiencing more fruit than many of us had in maybe a number of years. Who are we to discount? And to say that they need more growth. We're just happy that God is working this results in their lives and we want them to lead and we want them to have a prominent part in the church. Don't focus on all that negative stuff. Stuff, right? We would just be rejoicing. But folks, uh, the point is is that all of us, no matter how much fruit we're bearing in our lives, and no matter What a prominent leader we are in this church, we all have farther to go. And it's okay to acknowledge that. And in fact, We must acknowledge that. We don't exalt anybody or put them on a pedestal to the point where we say, well, they've arrived. Here's the level that they've achieved. So all the stuff they struggle with is It's just small stuff. It's just petty stuff. We won't worry about that anymore. No, Paul says there's still work to be done. And he's emphasizing again this Important aspect of discipleship. Look at verse 10. He has this joy, this rejoicing. I can see him and his compatriots, his companions. Jumping up and down and celebrating what's going on. But then he also says, we still pray for you earnestly. That means passionately, devotedly. Folks, if you have someone, by the way, that prays for you devotedly, you have a great gift from God. I had someone like that in my life, and the Lord took them home. And a pastor friend of mine said, You know, you need to pray now that God will replace that person because that person was a great blessing to you in your life. And you might even find you're missing. That prayer support. I was like, well, doesn't God have to do that? But it's true. We need folks to earnestly pray for us regularly. Like Paul did. Night and day. He's not saying that twenty-four hours a day he prayed, otherwise, he wouldn't ever get any sleep and he wouldn't be useful for God. But he's saying regularly I pray for you all in earnest and devotedly that we may be able to see you again. He's not demanding that from the Lord, but regularly he's praying, Lord. I want to see these folks again. Let us see them. And this is interesting as well. So many times we think that a really good prayer is one that sounds dignified. and um covet covers all the right things um and has just the right words uh you know uh maybe even some demons And thou's thrown in here. But what is Paul's prayer that he's most devoted about? What is he praying for? Lord, just help me see those people again. I just want to see them. See, prayer, folks, can be very, very practical. And Paul is praying for this. But why? Why does he want to see them again? So they can fellowship and have a good time together. Well, he wants to fellowship with them, but he says as well, supply what is lacking in your faith. So here we have a group of people that are going well beyond Paul's expectations. God is working in them, and yet Paul says, but you're still lacking. Your faith can be strengthened further. You have some growth to take place in your lives, and I want to be a part of that further discipleship. You see how these themes of discipleship continue to be to weave through this book? Again, folks, let me be clear. Many times in in a lot of church ministries today, uh folks um grow and they get saved and they grow and then they end up in different positions in the church. And if we're not careful, there can be an attitude of, well, so and so is here, and they're part of this committee, or they're leading this committee, or they're a deacon now, or they're the pastor, and so they've kind of got life covered You know, they they've they've risen to a level that's acceptable. They can just kind of coast from here on out and um you know, just smile and shake hands on the Sunday. And yet Paul blows that apart and says, No, we should never be satisfied with the level of spiritual maturity that we've attained. It wasn't us anyway, it was Christ in us. But we always ought to seek. We always ought to be humble enough to say there's more I need to know. And there's more in which I need to grow. That rhymed and I didn't even mean it to. I like when that happens. And that's That's what Paul says here. He says, I'm not naive. You still have farther to go. But he's joying the blessings of joy to the faithful. But he's going to continue to pray in the last three verses here, verses eleven through thirteen. He wants to see as another blessing of effective ministry. That it continues to multiply through loving discipleship. The more we disciple each other and strengthen each other, The stronger we get so that we can more effectively evangelize and disciple others. It's just a wonderful cycle that God has encountered. And so, verse eleven, Paul understands that even though he's not able to be with these folks at this Time. And it actually would be quite a while before Paul would be back with these people again. He knows that their ministry and their work is fully under control. And so at the same time, Paul's an aist because he wants to be with these folks, he's calm and he has confidence that whether I get there anytime soon or not. God will work his work in these people. And so he continues to pray that that will take place. God doesn't need Paul's presence to enable this ministry work in Thessalonica to continue, even though he hopes that they'll return soon. Verse 11, now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus Christ or our Lord Jesus direct our way to you And may the Lord make you, the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all, as we do for you. The only real factor that we need in any effective ministry, folks, is God Himself. And Paul says, God the Father and the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ, we pray that you will continue to work and that you'll allow us to be there soon because we really want to celebrate with these people and be with them again. But regardless of that, Lord, help them to grow in their love for one another. as we do for you. Paul says, I continue to grow in my love for you. And really Paul's saying, I think here, I'm a work in progress. The Apostle Paul is a work in progress. And he says, I continue to grow in my love for you, and you need to do that as well. Really, Paul? I mean, these folks have been under great persecution, and yet they've continued to faithfully evangelize in their city and in their whole county, if you want to put it that way. the whole region and they're showing love and care for each other, uh we'd be pretty good with that But Paul says, no, they need to grow further. There's always more growth we can have in our love for Christ, as we just sang, Jesus, my Lord, my God, my all. Hear me, blessed Savior, when I call. Really, the end of that song is: Lord, help me to continue to love you more and more. Because on a daily basis, would you not agree Agree with me that when we get busy and the the busyness of life and all the frustrations and our schedules and trying to just Follow through on our responsibilities that we tend to forget Christ, and our love tends to ebb for Him And really a good constant prayer, isn't it then, folks? Lord Jesus, help me to love you more today, this hour That person just cut me off on the busy road. Lord Jesus, I'm really having trouble feeling loving right now. Help me to be loving. Lord Jesus, you know my schedule, and you know I've got somewhere to be in a few minutes, and I just was going into Walmart to go quick in, grab a couple things, and quick out. And there is this long line at the self-checkout, and all the other aisles are filled up with people that don't have as important things to do as I do. So, Lord, help me to be loving. Help me to love you. And help me to not be a terrible testimony. Or maybe, Lord, forgive me for being a terrible testimony. Now help me to have a right testimony and to love you more. We we know we need to grow in this, and Paul knows, and that's why he prays for these folks. Now those words increase and abound. Has the idea of filling to capacity. Everything that we need to show love to each other is given to us through Christ. But then that word abound means and then overflowing. You've all had the experience where you're filling a glass and you weren't paying attention and all of a sudden you didn't realize it was getting near the the top and all of a sudden it keeps pouring and just overflows and and you've got a mess. But what a beautiful picture when it's the God's love and power working in us that our love is overflowing the up and that we're just such loving people that people notice that. They're loving and they're caring all the time. This is wonderful. To excess. That would be a beautiful testimony. But aren't we satisfied many times with maybe just half a cup or three-quarters of a cup of liquid Love, we are satisfied with so much less than God intends for us. So the Paul is praying, Lord, in order for loving, for discipleship and evangelism to continue, increase And abound your love in these folks as you have done in us. And then verse 13, he has more that he prays for. For them, so that he, that means God, the Lord Jesus, may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. Here he is praying, in essence, I can I can sum this up. He's praying for these people that they need the mutual Spiritual encouragement of each other in order to continue living in a right manner until the Lord returns for his saints. And they need to be God's loving tools of exhortation and Encouragement with each other. He is praying, God, please help them to grow and be blameless and to be holy. And God's tools are certainly his word and through prayer, but also his tools are his people. How do we grow more blameless and holy? Well God uses us to rub each other not the wrong way. Tends to happen, but the right way to help us to grow, to encourage each other. We need all of us here need that discipleship to help us to be more blameless. In holiness. That word established is an important word that it refers to there. It means to firm up to supply the strength that is necessary. Because as you read that, doesn't it kind of, I mean, we we know, we're familiar with this, with these passages I think. But when we read verse 13, the idea of establish our inner man or inner woman. Blameless in holiness before our God and Father, does that not come across in our minds from a fleshly standpoint as a little daunting? There we go. Now we're talking about the third-tier people that are on all the committees and everything and that have reached a certain level. They're able to be a little bit more holy than the rest of us. No, this is the intention for all of us folks. And so we might hear read that and say, well, how can we really? I mean, I know, Pastor Bach, that we need to be this way, but on a daily basis I fall so far short of being blameless. Really, blameless has the idea of living a life that is a proper testimony so that we don't dishonor the name of Christ. It doesn't mean perfection, by the way, folks, because that would be daunting, right? But it means having a stainless steel testimony, if I can put it that way. For Christ. And even that is daunting. And on a daily basis, as we see the kind of the mess that each of us are, it's like, Lord, blameless and holy I don't know if that's possible. Even as the pastor, there are some days where I don't feel very blameless. The importance, the most important, I think, word in that sentence then is a stat. That the Lord will establish. In other words, it's not something that we can do. We can't be holy enough. We can't be blessed Enough in our testimony by our own works. It has to be through dependence on Christ. And He will supply what we need, and He can establish that That work in our lives in a way that will certainly almost surprise us. See, if you put your dependence upon Jesus Christ and if we asked him a little bit more often for help in the Folks, I guarantee you you'd be surprised at what God could do in your life. You might be able to be a little more blameless and holy than what you were expected. because Jesus Christ is working powerfully in your life and you're not trying to do it by yourself. I remember, you know, there was all sorts of fun things. You know, being a young dad, I guess I'm not a young dad. Dad anymore really, but uh being a young dad and having young children, there's all kinds of fun things that you get to do as dads. And um one of those just came to mind the other day. As I was putting all this together. That is when some of the older kids wanted to play, let's just say, baseball. And some of the younger kids were barely walking, you know, or just walking, but they saw the fun that we were having and they wanted to play baseball too. There were times where I thought, you know, they ought to be able to play as well, so we'd get the the youngest or or one I can't remember right now. And I I I would give him the bat, but then I would hold the bat with him, right? And then I would tell the older brother, the pitcher, now you be gentle with this one, okay? And uh so it the pitch would uh go out and I would help them and swing the bat, and of course, you know, if I could, I would hit it, and how far it would go away, then I would actually pick them up and we would run around the bases and we run around a first and then we run around a second. You know, I'm holding on and they're just having laughing and whatever, and then we get around all the way to home and We would all then we would say, You did it! You got to home. Well, we wanted to encourage him and help him to have a little fun, but did he really do it? Well, no Uh and folks, uh we understand that with small children that you have to do that, but it's very humbling to admit that as adults we really need the same thing. When it comes to our relationship with Christ. I think that's what that word means, establish, is that Jesus Christ, when we ask him to literally picks us up And helps us to live the life that we can't live on our own. And He then will prepare us for the coming. Of our Lord Jesus with all the saints. And he, in his grace, uses each of us to help Help each other to grow, to prepare us for the coming, because you know Jesus is coming, right? And we pray that it's soon. And if it's even before Christmas, that's the best Christmas gift that we could ever It's just for Jesus to come and end all of this. He is coming. And we may think in our weakness and in our messiness, I'm just not ready. He came today. Well, it's okay because Jesus has provided blame ultimately justification. We have Jesus righteousness, right? That he earned by living a life that was totally Obedient to his father, and then because of his death on the cross and his shed blood, he's able to give us his righteousness, his total blame blamelessness. And he took all of our sins on himself. And then he also provides us the power to grow in our sanctification, to grow in our relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ. Folks, all of it is the work of Christ. He will do the work to help us be prepared. But the wonderful thing is, is that He allows Broken, messy people to help each other in the process. Are you ready to be a tool of God to help each other in a loving way, I should add To help each stifle each other and to grow. Are we all today willing that no matter what level of spiritual maturity that we have attained? Through the power of Christ, that we all still have a long way to go. Be a little more humble then, and a little more patient with those that frustrate you But maybe haven't gotten quite as far as you've gotten. And remember that we're all a work in progress, but that the Lord Jesus Will finish that work. That is the greatest blessing that he offers in effective ministry. Father, thank you for this reminder of Of your powerful work through your son, that you give us everything that we need to be blameless and holy before the coming And ultimately, even if we aren't where we should be, and all of us are not in some way or another, that You, because we're justified, because we have the righteousness of Christ, that we will be ready when he returns. We're promised that because of the work that Christ Attained in his sacrifice. Father, thank you for this season that we are able to celebrate Jesus becoming man And offering himself up as the Savior of the world. Let us be reminded that this season that we're a work in progress to submit to your Work in our lives, and to no matter from the pastor on down, that we would all be willing to be discipled and looking for others to disciple. Help us to have that burden, to love each other enough to want to see us ready for the coming of Christ. Take a few minutes to contemplate how you can reflect Paul's example in this. Think on areas that you need to be Be discipled in. Be willing to admit those to God and ask for help. Bring to bring people to you that can do that. And also ask Him, bring to mind folks that need to be discipled that you can help with that. So that we can be evangelists and disciplers and serve God effectively. Think on these things while Leslie plays.