Well, all that leads up to our study today. And we're finishing up this series On God's truth in desperate times. Last week we started looking just a little bit at some eschatological themes and eschatology, the Bible doctrine of end times, and we looked at the blessed hope of the rapture, the fact that we as believers won't have to go through the tribulation. Because Jesus will come and we will meet him in the clouds, and he will take us to be with him. And that is a glorious truth that should give all of us hope in the midst of whatever we're facing in the midst of a crazy year like twenty twenty to know that Jesus and his return is even more imminent and he'll deliver all of us from this at some point sooner rather than later is a wonderful hope. But folks, today we're going to look at, if it's even possible, a greater hope, the eternal hope that we have In the midst of all that we face, in the midst of all that we hope will happen in the next few months and years, even where we live today, folks, we need a focus on what our eternal home. is going to be like. It is the greatest hope that we have. And so we're going to be looking the last few chapters of Revelation. You can start Revelation chapter 20 and turn there. And folks, this is our hope, but let's be clear, even as we look into this Is that this hope is only for those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, as we're going to see here in just a few minutes. For those that have not and have rejected God, they have truly have no hope. And my call is for those that might be here or listening on Zoom or even hearing this message later on Sermon Audio. That as you are reminded of the end times and what's going to happen at the end, God has already written the story. It's just a matter of time before these things take place. The rapture The seven years of tribulation, Jesus' glorious return, where he will defeat the armies that come to meet him, where Satan will be bound. and that glorious thousand-year millennial reign of Jesus Christ, and then what we'll be talking about this morning, the eternal kingdom. Those things that are the hope of believers everywhere that have truly put their faith in Christ, for those that have still rejected Him, you have no hope. And so I hope this encourages you. I hope this encourages you to make sure your relationship with Jesus Christ is real. Fear then for the believer shouldn't be the response to the last days or as we said last week, even now the tremors of the last days and all that's going on. Again, think about all that's happened this plasti last year, plague. Earthquakes, um financial concerns all across the world, um political upheaval, you name it, pretty much. We faced it this last year, and we still have a few months to go. Whatever we face, folks, it shouldn't be in fear, but it should be encouragement, and that word again that I just used many times, confident hope. Because the hope that the Bible talks about is something that we know will take place, that we confidently say, this is what I hold on to because I can trust. my father and he says these things will take place and they will happen. And so today as we look And what will happen in the end, and look at the blessings that we face in the eternal kingdom, folks. This will motivate believers to serve Him in the difficult times that we face even today. We have our temporary hopes, right? You probably you can think of them even in your mind right now. You have hopes for what happens in the next week. We all have hopes for what happens in another week or so We don't know for sure when the results are going to be finally established. We have hopes for what's going to happen in the next couple years in our country and with our families and different things. But folks, today This is our eternal hope. Those are temporary hopes. We're looking today in what we know is secure. And that we find in God's Word I'm going to read the very last part of the passage that we're going to be looking at today. And so if you will turn actually to chapter 22. Verse 1. Read just a few verses here at the end. And he showed me a pure river of water of life. Clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, in the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river was there the tree of life. which bear twelve manners of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations, and there shall be no more curse But the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him, and they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads And there shall be no night there, and they need no candle, nor light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever Lord, this is our real hope that we will reign with you as those that believe in you have put their faith in your Son. And have dependence only in your son and nothing else. And we look forward to that glorious kingdom, that one day where we will be able to serve you unhindered Where sin will be dealt with, where we will live in an environment and in a kingdom that will be perfect, and that there will be no more pain or sorrow. Lord, let our folks and all those that hear this be encouraged by your word this morning and be motivated to continue to be faithful now. In the time that you've called us to be in, you have ordained that we are at this time, at this place, all of us. Help us to be faithful, make the best use. Redeem the time. For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Turn back to Revelation chapter 20 and verse 7 as we look at again the last things here. And we're going to cover very briefly, we're just going to highlight a number A lot of scripture this morning. We're not going to be able to cover every detail like I would like to normally. But these themes that we're going to see is my hope. It will be, it should be encouraging to all of us. It goes in as I was thinking and looking at this passage. What are some of the things that are the greatest concerns in our lives to us? And I sum those out up with some questions. And one of those I think we would all admit to is one of the greatest concerns is, Lord, when will the wickedness and sin and evil cease? When will we see justice and things done in the right way? All that we're experiencing, all the brokenness because of sin of this world, Lord, when will it all end? And folks, we have that for us in these verses. The rebellion against God will one day cease forever. And Satan is going to be put away. And we see that beginning in verse 7. And when the thousand years, that's after the millennial rule of Christ, are expired. Satan shall be loosed out of his prison, and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog. to gather them together to battle, and the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. And they went up on the breadth or over the broad plain of the earth encompassed or surrounded the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city, and fire came down from God out of heaven and devoured them And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire in brimstone. Brimstone has the idea of sulfur. It's a horrible picture here. Where the beast and the false prophet, those that reign during the tribulation that Jesus overthrew, defeated , are and shall be tormented day and night, forever and ever. A couple notes on this passage as we see God dealing with sin and rebellion against him once and for all. Satan will be put away. After the thousand years, millennial reign of Jesus Christ, Satan will be released because he's been in a temporary situation of bondage and been chained. He'll be released. for one more go at it with the people of the world. And that's not a surprise to us, but maybe it's still a surprise to us what that he is so successful in the end. Because if you think living in a perfect kingdom with a perfect king, perfect justice and righteousness and all of these things happening, and then to read that Satan is loosen he's still able to go out and deceive the nations and to gather rebellious people together against The king, Jesus. And notice that again, that last part of verse 7. And the number is whom the sands of the sea, folks. This is an incalculable number of people that will live in this incredible environment and still rebel against a perfect king. And so you might say then, well if all this is going to happen after that, why have the millennial kingdom at all? Why doesn't Jesus deal with sin and were ushered right into the eternal kingdom forever? What's the point of the Millennial Kingdom? Well, I don't have time to go into all the aspects of why the Millennial Kingdom is important, but I think one of the most important things is what we're seeing described here. is that Christ's kingdom, that millennial kingdom, will prove something to us as we just mentioned, and that is that it's not ultimately man's environment. So many times today um we have people and even believers that will blame the environment and those things around them. Well, if only I'd been brought up in the right way, if only I hadn't had this temptation If only the world wasn't so sinful, if only things weren't so broken, I'd be a better person. Or believers might say I might live a better life. I might be more faithful to Jesus Christ. And those Excuses can be our crutch sometimes and can be a crutch for those that reject God. But what we see here at the end of the millennial kingdom It's not man's environment because he's lived for a thousand years in the perfect environment. But no, it's his own sin nature that will rebel against God, even under perfect conditions. And folks These are people that have lived in perfection that still want their own way. That's the grievousness of sin. And that's a final reminder as God gets ready to deal with this rebellion in this prophecy of why he has to judge sin so severely. Because people that reject God will continue to shake their fist in God's face and reject Jesus, even under the best conditions. And so it's a reminder for us that God has to deal with sin. And he does. Satan gets all to these folks all together. And he and he covers the earth and surrounds the very city of Jerusalem where Jesus reigns Of course Jesus isn't concerned about this, but it's almost as at this point that God the Father, he finally he steps in and says I'm gonna handle this. This is done. My son has reigned and you are rejecting him. And now I'm gonna deal with this. And God our Father deals with this very quickly and completely And in verse 9, fire came down from the God of heaven, and he says, Enough's enough, and devoured all of the rebellious ones. It reminds me as well of I I worked a number of jobs for uh funds to be able to pay for college when I was an undergrad. And one of the jobs that worked out for me, my family had moved to Miami at that point. It was like I think it was almost my junior year. It worked out for me to work at a local Kmart. Some of you might still remember what the Kmart 's. There's not many of them anymore. I don't know if they even still survive. Walmart's so much better, right, Rick? But uh K at that time it was the K Martin was a very large one and I had um somebody that I knew that owned that that managed that and they let me stay there for a number of months to work. Anyway, they Took us through the company policy and were training us. And one of the things that was very important that they really emphasized at this time, I don't think they do this as much anymore. They probably have other policies. at Walmart. Well they have the greeters at the door that also check your receipts and things like that. But at this time the policy was if you think there's someone that has stolen some merchandise from the store And you've seen them do that or you have an indication that they have done that. Let them get close to the doors or just beyond the doors. so that it can be proven that they've stolen it and then after that the management let the management know they'll call the police and they'll be dealt with But the proof is there because when they're in the store, they can make it look like they're not doing anything wrong. And some of these thieves are very good actors and they have good ways of hiding things that nobody would know until it's apparent to everybody as they go outside the store and they're found with these things. It's the same principle here. People that have rejected Jesus and God many times are good at making themselves look like good people. And even in the millennial reign of Christ, where it would be so hard to act that good to fool people, it's going to happen there will be people that fool Those around them, but they won't fool God. And now this last time where Satan is released is their time to go outside the store and prove their sin and God will deal with them And of course, then after this, the first one he deals with is Satan himself, verse 10, the devil that was deceived, cast into the lake of the fire. Fire will consume them. Satan will be punished forever. And at that point, we all may cheer and say, yes, Satan's finally dealt with. We don't have to deal with the tempter, the deceiver any longer. And I can understand that. But yet, what happens next? sobers all of us. Because it's not just Satan that will be put away in the rebellion, but it'll be his followers as well And these are sobering verses, verses eleven through fifteen. And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it. This is God in all of his purity and glory, God the Father. From whom the face and the heaven the face of the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were open, and another book was open, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books. according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, which has the idea of those that think that those that are lost at sea or their ashes. are spread out sometimes in ceremonies or whatever over the sea that those would be the hardest to be able to kind of accumulate and bring back to life. And the Bible makes it clear here. Yeah, even those that it'd be hardest to bring back to life, they will all be brought back to life. And death and hell delivered up. The dead which were in them, and they were judged every man according to his works, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death The lake of fire was originally intended for Satan and his followers, his demons. But now we find that humans, mankind has rejected God. And for those who have not put their faith and trust in Jesus, the ultimate horrible fate now awaits Satan's followers No one who has rejected God will escape his white throne judgment. That picture there and or that those words in verse 14 of the second death. What is the second death? It's unbelievers who are raised and given a new body, but a horrible purpose, for the purpose alone of eternal punishment Yes, those folks will receive a new body too, and they will be punished forever for their rebellion. Will God take care of sin and those that rebel? Yes. But in a way that sobers us. You've ever studied or um the biographies of criminals and organized crime in the nineteen twenties and thirties, and I know they've made a lot of movies about folks like that and I wouldn't recommend watching any of them but I've watched some documentaries, Bonnie and Clyde and Al Capone and people of that nature and uh watched Um there what stands out to you when you read the stories of these folks is their arrogance and their sense of cockiness that they'll be able they'll be able to get away with sin. um in any way possible and that nobody will be able to catch them. Their their arrogance, literally in some of the pictures that you look at, some of the footage you see, there's this arrogant pride of I've got all this under control. I can sin. with impunity and nothing's ever going to happen to me. And of course, if you know the stories, that's not the case. In some cases, they ended up uh their lives were ended violently in a violent death. But that arrogance that you see in their faces of I can do this and not face any sort of punishment for that. That is these folks that are going to be facing the white throne judgment, and all of these will find out soon enough that they will face punishment and that they will be dealt with, and that arrogance will be exposed, and they will be given the punishment that they deserve. Because it says here That the books will be open, and this has the idea of books that record all of their wicked deeds. It will be shown them, and then most importantly, the book of life will be opened up. And it will reveal the absence of their name or their listing in it. And then after that we rejoice in the fact in the beginning of verse 14, death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. No more death. Death is ended. We never have to fear death again. It's finished. And we rejoice in that. But then we mourn when we come to verse 15, and we see the awfulness of sin and the awfulness of the consequence, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Folks, if there's anyone here today that has not trusted Christ, don't let this be your outcome. Come talk to me. Email me. Talk to our leadership. Find out again. Make sure that your name is written in the book of life through faith and trust in Jesus. You do not want to experience this awful Judgment that will happen. This is clear. All of this will take place. And that is sobering, folks, but it answers the question that we have When will God deal with sin? And we rejoice in the fact that one day we can count on it. Sin will be dealt with forever. Praise the Lord. You know, another thing that still comes up in our minds as well as we go through pain and sorrow and suffering is Lord, when is this pain and suffering going to end? And suffering I'm talking about here could be our um punishment or are the consequences of our sin, but what I'm really thinking of is the consequences of a broken world, of other people's sin that affects us, evil in the world. that then reflects on us and affects us, and we say, Lord, how long do I have to suffer in this way? And this is answered in the next few verses. In 21, verses 1 through 8, and I saw a new heaven In a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city. The new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband, and I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God. is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. And God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any pain, for the former things are passed away. Folks, God will provide a kingdom one day that includes no more suffering throughout eternity. What a beautiful picture this is. Believers don't have to fear the condemnation of the great white throne judgment. Folks, we won't be there. We will be, God will be comforting us and He will be soothing us and reminding us that we will now experience when this takes place true life without any more sorrow or hurt. It will literally be heaven on earth as he brings the great city Jerusalem. We'll see here in a few minutes again Down to earth, remade. Everything will be renewed. God will remake his entire creation. He'll purify it. He'll remove the evil and brokenness from this earth and from the heavens. And we will be purified. It talks here about the bride. We will be purified. And prepared to reside in this eternal kingdom. One interesting thing here about the bride that I think sometimes we don't always notice. Who is the bride? That is described here in verse 2. I, John, saw the holy city, again this is chapter 21, the new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as what? A bride. Adorned for her husband. How can a city be the bride? And there's some misunderstanding sometimes, even as we looked at a couple weeks ago in Ephesians about the bride of Christ and talking about the picture of marriage where many times we get too preoccupied on that picture and we miss the picture of marriage that we discussed is there, that as the husband is the head of the home, so Christ is the head of the church. And now we come here and we see the bride described as the holy city, the new Jerusalem. Well, what's going on here? What is this? Who is the bride then, Pastor Brock? What this refers to, and we'll see this again in a few minutes later on in the passage, but this is all of God's children, all of the redeemed the saved, not just the church age saints, but they're all gathered together in the city. And what we see here then, folks, is the relationship and unity that man experienced all the way back in the Garden of Eden that we lost because of our sin. It's restored. And our relationship with Him is restored. And all of that deep hurt and pain that we experience even today, the hidden pains that no one else knows about but you yourself From the evil that you've experienced. One day, folks, and the crying and the weeping that comes from that, it will all be removed forever. Do we understand? We'll never have to live in brokenness. Any longer. Instead, we will experience unbroken joy forever, for all eternity. Yes, pain and suffering will one day end. Also, verses five through eight. God will bless his afflicted servants. The servants that have sacrificed and have gone through so much will be rewarded for that in the end, verses 5 through 8. And he that sat upon the throne said Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. This signifies the authenticity and the truth of this book He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. But the fearful and the unbelieving, and then it goes into the fate. of all of those who have rebelled against God. And we won't go into that because we've covered that already. Folks, all the tears, back to verse 4, God will wipe away from their eyes. He will take away that pain. And those that have gone through so much suffering for him will never have to go through that again. And we'll be able to serve him faithfully. Will God make an end to sin? Certainly. We have the evidence here. Will God take away pain and suffering? Praise the Lord, He will, in the eternal kingdom. But he will also provide for us a kingdom that functions righteously. Continue to look at verse 9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, and I will show thee the bride, the lamb's wife, and now we're going to have an even more detailed picture of who this bride is. How can it be the city? And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven. He says, I will show you the bride, the lamb, the lamb's wife. And then what comes out of heaven? The holy city. So how is the bride equated with the holy city? Let's continue to look. Having the glory of her God And her light was like a stone most precious, even a jasper stone, clear as quis crystal, and had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. Continues on with the measurements. Look at verse 14. The wall of the city had twelve foundations and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb, who is dwelling in the city. Well It makes it clear, as the names are written on the gates, it's the twelve tribes of Israel. It is all of the Old Testament and the Jewish saints as well as the 12 apostles that represent the church. And so what do we have here? Here is what is represented. This new city represents all of the residents of the city. The bride is then the Old Testament and the New Testament saints, as well as the church, all of the saints are then the bride of Christ. And the full glory of God will be reflected in this purity and beauty of the city and its residents. It so it describes, continues to describe, we don't have time today to read all of this description, over 600 feet, 1500 miles each direction, almost really a perfect cube, if you can imagine this. And it will come down and it will probably hover over the earth, and God will remake the earth. And this has the idea, I believe, that he won't just wad it up like an author trying to write a first copy of a draft of his story and gets frustrated with it and and wilds it up and throws it away. I don't think God's going to just destroy the earth and the heavens, but He's going to re make them. He's going to remove all of the sin. So can you imagine living on this earth and living on it, all the things that you enjoy, the nature and all of that, without sin. What a wonderful thought that would be. And I think that's the picture here as God remakes all of this. It will reflect God's full glory. Folks, do you know something Even a country, and I mentioned this a couple weeks ago, how much I love our country, and you have talked to me and how much you love our country and how much we want to see things change and how we're hoping for good results in another couple weeks. Even if what we would like to happen happens in a couple weeks, folks, America can't ever provide what the eternal kingdom provides. And we need to remember that. America, yes, it's a hope that we have, but it's not our eternal hope. This eternal kingdom. Is our hope because this eternal kingdom will fully reflect God's glory. And there'll be no more unrighteousness. It will contain no defilement at all. Continue to read quickly verses twenty-two through twenty-seven. And I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. This is interesting. Um it says it will be no temple If you've read through Ezekiel, at the end of Ezekiel have this chapters of this details of this temple that Ezekiel is measuring and the angels telling him to measure, and it almost seems like, well, it seems like for naught, because it's a future temple that he's measuring, and here we find out, there is going to be no temple. So did Ezekiel have to do all that measuring for nothing Well, no, probably the best description to answer to that is the temple will be a part of the millennial kingdom. But the eternal kingdom, there'll be no more need for a temple. And even in the millennial kingdom, it will be representative. There's no need for sacrifices. Jesus paid the ultimate sacrifice. It'd probably be some sort of reminder of what Jesus had to go through. But in the eternal kingdom there's no temple, no need for it. And the city had no need of sun, neither of moon to shine in it For the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof, and the nations which are saved. This shows us that not just the Jews, but the Gentiles, all of us, will benefit from the rule. Of the eternal kingdom of God the Father shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it, and the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day. There's no need for security There's no need to keep people out because there's perfect security and protection. No worries, and there shall be no night there. That means no more defilement. No more sin. And even as we look at kingdoms and governments and nations today and our leaders are so broken in many ways. And they grieve us. Where is justice? Why can't our leaders pr do what is right? Folks, it's never going to be perfect until God renews everything. And then we will have that, a place to live with no more sin, no more defilement. What a wonderful truth that is. And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it, and therein shall no wise enter anything that defileth it or is unclean, neither anything that works abomination, but maketh a lie, for they are written in the Lamb's book of life. So Will God end sin? Yes, he will. Will pain and suffering be taken care of? Yes. Will there be a kingdom that functions in a right way perfectly righteously? Yes, there will be. And finally, one more thing here as we finish up. God's servants, yes, will be able to serve him one day unhindered. Have you ever been frustrated by your service to God? And just the sin and the brokenness of this world that keeps you with with temptations and with people's attitudes and all kinds of things from serving God. And sometimes you may say, Lord, it's so hard to serve you because this world is so broken. And there's so much sin. One day, folks, we won't be saying that anymore. And as we finish up here, 22 verses 1 through 7, he showed me a pure river of water of life clear as crystal. Proceeding out of the throne of God and the Lamb, in the midst of it, on either side of the river, there was a tree of life. And he continues to talk about that. And then verse 3, and there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and the Lamb shall be in it, and the servant shall serve him unhindered. by their environment. It'll be a perfect environment. And they shall see his face and his name shall be on their foreheads. Don't think of somehow we're we're branded with a brand, you know, got some sort of name of the Lord or something, but it's the glory and the perfection that we will experience that will identify us as children of the kingdom. That will be our mark Is that we will reflect God's glory. And there will be no night there, and they need no candle, neither light of the sun For the Lord giveth them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. And the whole what is the purpose of us knowing all of this? Well the angel then tells John, verse six, these sayings are faithful and true. John This certifies that everything in this book is truth. And the Lord God of the Holy Prophet sent his angel to show the servants the things which must be done. And Jesus then says verse 7, Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. And as we finish, what we need to remember, God's truth for desperate times that we live in right now. Is that we need to keep serving Him faithfully until one day we'll be able to serve God perfectly. Stay faithful Stay hopeful. Folks, as much as we love and pray for America, our country, it's not our ultimate hope, is it? It never was meant to be. But God will one day make all things new, and we as his children can have confident hope because of his eternal kingdom and the truth of that. Lord, let us be Encouraged. This is the end of the story, and it is marvelous and glorious. And whatever our disappointments are in this life, we have so much to look forward to. And so much that's unsaid. This is just a peak we understand, Lord, just a glimpse of the beauty and the glory we'll enjoy forever. Father, for believers here, I pray that today they are encouraged by your truth. But Lord, I also think. Of those that still haven't trusted Christ and are still living a life of deceit, maybe making think people think they're saved and they're not, or maybe just outright rejecting you, that today they would see their need to trust Christ before that awful day of judgment. Lord, let none of us here at Village Chapel Church ever have to experience that But be confident in our relationship with Jesus and know we won't ever have to be a part of that judgment. Probably not even have to view it. And that we can live in glorious harmony, undefiled, forever, in unbroken joy. And that is our confident hope. So let us go from here and proclaim that to the world. They might see what their hope can be as well. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.