And fathers, we need to be convinced of that, that we can be the proper example that we need to be for our families and for our church and community. Our children are going to go down for children's church And we're going to continue in the book of Habakkuk this morning. So turn back to, we're in Habakkuk chapter three. Habakkuk Chapter three. Again, I'm kicking myself. I just didn't entitle this Back to Habakkuk. But really, the title of the whole series is Questioning God, because Again, there are, if we're candid with each other, there are times where we doubt. Even all the glorious truths that we've sang of this morning, of God's care. And protection. Sometimes we doubt that. There was a prophet in the Old Testament, and his name was Habakkuk, and Habakkuk means embrace, or in our modern vernacular. Hug. I suppose that's a good name. Maybe it meant at least that he loved people. He was a people person. But he had questions for God Instead of the prophet carrying out God's message to the people, Habakkuk carried the message of his own heart and the people's heart. And the first question you'll remember is, Lord, why do you allow your people to be so rebellious? Why do you allow them to sin and look at these terrible things that they're doing? And Habakkuk may have had a prophet or two that were a friend of his that uh the evil king at that time had put to death. And that certainly would have caused Habakkuk. Back at the question then. Lord, I I know who you are. I know you're the sovereign ruler of heaven, but you're in charge, right? Because your people, look at all they're getting away from. We know how as our kids, when one gets away with something that they have not been able to get away with, there is great angst over that and they want justice. Maybe that's what Habakkuk was facing as well. Why are these folks able to get away with this, Lord? It's not right. And so remember the answer then. God said, no. Habakkuk, I am in control, I am sovereign, and in my timing, I am sending correction. I am sending uh dis And it will be in the form of a nation called the Chaldeans. We would eventually know them as the Babylonians, with Nebuchadnezzar as their king. I'm going to send they are an arrogant people that don't know me, that don't recognize me, that worship their own might and strength, they offer up offerings and s Celebrate themselves and their power and their strength. And I'm going to let this heathen pagan nation deal with my people. They will be my instrument. Instrument to bring my people back to me, but they will uh bring out they will carry out discipline. And that would ultimately be taking God's people away from their home. And Habakkuk heard that and probably said something like, God, that's not the answer that I That I wanted. That's not what I was expecting you to say. How can you take a ungodly pagan people who don't recognize you as king and use them as your instrument to discipline your people. Can't you just tell your people to stop being bad? Can't you just tell them to stop doing what they're doing? How can you let a pagan nation think that they are victorious over your people? Lord, that's not a good testimony for you either. Habakkuk had this question. And God responded to that one, remember? And he said, Oh Habakkuk, I am the sovereign Lord and ruler of all. And in my My time, all of those that reject me, I use them for a while, but all those that reject me will face my judgment. Habakkuk, those that pagan nation, the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, aren't going to get away in perpetuity with lording over my people. They will face a great Day of judgment, because they worship other things besides me, and I won't overlook that And then at the end of his second answer, the Lord said, But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. Habakkuk, you serve a living God who is in his temple, who knows all things, and who is worthy of Worship, unlike those pagan peoples who worship their own works of their hands. You are worshiping, you have right worship, you're on the right side, Habakkuk. So trust in that. And then he said, let all the earth keep silent before him. Now shush, my answer's done And Habakkuk got the point. And as we saw at the beginning of chapter 3, then Habakkuk is not questioning God anymore, but he's singing. a song of praise. He's been reminded of the character of God and that God will do what he says He's going to do. He says, I have heard the report of you. I've heard what you've said, Lord. I have finally have ears to hear. I hear you, Lord. And your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of years, revive it. In the midst of years make it known. In wrath, remember mercy. He says, Lord, I'm back in my place now. Sorry, I doubted. Things around me. Me didn't look, it just it I didn't understand. But Lord, I understand now. You've given me understanding And so I'm back in my place. And I'm asking you and praying for you to do the work that you said you're going to do. And Lord, in the midst of that wrath of Coming upon your people and upon your enemies, I know that you'll also remember mercy and you'll bring salvation And so then God, after Habakkuk responds, the prophet in that way, God sends him a vision of God appearing on the horizon like a beautiful sunrise. In in the south, and he's coming closer, and his glory covers the heavens. The earth was full of his praise. As he gets closer, it's like the earth erupts in praise. It can't help itself It can do nothing else but sing the praises of the one that is coming. And Habakkuk is singing the praises as well, and he's describing God coming. And everybody realizes that God is coming for judgment. And so we got to verse 8. Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers? Or your indignation against the sea? When you rode on your horses and on your chariot of salvation? It seems as if the whole earth, remember we said this last week, is saying, who's going to get it? Who's going to get judgment? Who's it going to be? Is it against the rivers? Is your indignation against the sea as you come closer? Everyone, just like when that police officer comes closer in his vehicle and we're driving, everybody's wondering beh in front Is it me? Am I gonna get pulled over? Habakkuk's describing the same thing. And so today we're going to see in the next few verses a hunting Story. I thought that might be appropriate for Father's Day. I'm not trying to profile Fathers or anything, but we have a hunting story this morning. But in full soberness, folks, this is God. This is a picture of God hunting the enemy. It's not pretty. They have been arrogant, and they deserve his judgment. Speaking of hunting, I will fully admit and keep Candidly admit from the pulpit here, I am not the world's best hunter. My grandfather and my dad took me out a few times with frustrating results. So I I was never and I never had opportunity to really pursue it. Well, we got to New Hampshire, and as God called us to be a senior pastor there for a number of years. Well, not too unlike a number of men in our congregation here. There is men in this auditorium who have a passion for hunting, but up in New Hampshire, it's another level. It's like a way of life, and they they put everything into the hunt, and they're very serious about it. About it, and they have all their gear and they've thought through everything. Well, uh, one of the men in our church who was a very prolific hunter and who had taught hunter safety, uh offered to take my boys hunting whether it be for turkeys or for deer and so I appreciated that we went out in in New Hampshire in the spring. There is a youth hunting weekend. Took that weekend. He had a friend that let us hunt turkeys on his property. And he took my oldest son Arden with him. And this friend's name was Bill. And I said, Bill, I don't want to be I don't want to be irritating to you, but can I go too? And he's like, All right, you can come along too. And he had the blind set up, and we got there early in the morning for this honey trip and it was for turkeys. Um and he said, now as we see things get lighter, he said, we're going to hear the gobbles and we're going to hear the noise of the turkey turkey cell. Settling down to earth, and then they're gonna strut around, and eventually, I we hopefully they come Arden in front of you, and you're gonna take your shot. And he he carefully laid out for Arden all the things that he needed to do as we were walking. He said you need to hold up your gun like this, and he was just a very careful um help in that way. So really appreciated it. Well the turkeys came we heard the gobbles to get to the heart of the story here. And sure enough, a big Tom came over the hill. And Arden had already done this once before. This was a second attempt on a second day. And he He was ready, you could tell. He was ready and Bill said, okay, now you see him, and he was within sight, and he shot his gun and it just clipped That turkey. And that turkey started to wander off, started to try very um intelligently to get away. Turkeys are intelligent, I don't know. But then that turkey heard something. He heard another Tom , and it was over on Arden 's right side, and that Tom was going after After his ends. And so he got concerned about that. And so that Tom, instead of moving away the one that Arden had clipped, he actually came back around and took Totally forgot about the danger that he was in because he was in such a state he wanted selfishly, right, what was his, and other Tom wasn't going to take them. And so very Nicely, he gave Arden a second chance. He was much closer. He just kind of walked, strutted, right in front of Arden 's shot, showing off in front of those hens, and sure enough, that Second shot was sure, and Arden down his first turkey. Twenty-two pounds. It's a good size for a turkey. Um and I told him, I said, This was a great day, and we thanked B Bill and it was, you know, he we got pictures of him there with this with his turkey. He gave us recipes later on on how to cook it and all that. It was great. But I said, one day I'm gonna use this story as an illustration. because it's perfect. In the pride of that turkey and selfishness, he ended up being hunted very effectively. That's really what's the script Described here in the pride and arrogance of the enemy, they're a perfect shot for the judgment. That will come from God. And look here in verse 9. Now, this is a verse that is translated many ways. And I've picked a cup the ESV, I'll read how the ESV translated translates it. And then I have, I think, an even more accurate translation and we'll get to the heart of what it's talking about. Here, but we're going to see that the Lord will save his people, and the Lord of hosts will reveal his saving power, and the world will march Marvel at this saving power, because as I said before, he's a hunter on the move. Look at verse 9, chapter 3. Strip the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. You split the earth with rivers. Now, your translations may say a number of different things. Speech or word, oath or many, tribes, rods, sticks, arrows. The Hebrew is a little vague in this verse, so there becomes a number of different Different translations, but here's one that I think I like the best that I think in context here is the most accurate. It's the New King James Version, and it says, Your bow was made quite ready, oaths were sworn. Over your arrows. And it is a picture of a hunter readying his bow. And as he's doing that, this is the God of heaven. He's swearing oaths over each other. Each of those arrows saying, and what will that say? What does that impart to us then? These arrows aren't gonna miss. They have the oath of God over them. Wherever these arrows are headed, you can be assured that the God of heaven, the great hunter of all time, he's Going to hit his mark. Be ready. Beware. And then it's as if he lets go of those arrows and you are watching in real time and slow Slow motion as those arrows fly. The end of verse 9. What happens as those arrows fly? Well, the very earth itself moves to get away from the judgment. You split the earth with rivers. Everything's moving away, trying to get away. I don't want God's judgment. I don't want God's judgment. The very mountains that he said earlier He said in verse 6, the eternal mountains were scattered, the everlasting hills sank low, those mountains that we look at today and say, they seem like they're eternal. Grand they're grand and majestic. We can never imagine a mountain trying to clear out of the way, being fearful of judgment, but yet when God God's judgment comes, folks, even the mountains make way. They saw you and writhed. The raging waters swept on, and these are the raging waters of God's judgment. The deep gave forth its voice. It lifted its hands on high. And the world, the earth, is marveling, that the judgment of God is on its way. And an amazing picture of this hunter shooting off these arrows. He has sworn over them, they will not miss the mark. We're guaranteed that judgment is coming. Is interesting as well, where it uses the pictures of waters again as tools of God's judgment. And we even in this story we have the waters as judgment, and we have a bow. Do we not? Seems like we've seen this before. In Genesis, where God sent his judgment upon the whole earth. Earth and the waters erupted. But these waters in this are not worldwide. They're focused on a particular enemy. These raging waters literally erupting from the depths of the earth. This is powerful. It has a picture of the water lifting its hands Up to obey its God and to judge those in its path. And these are all of those that arrogantly shake their fist at God and reject him as their king. The mighty hunter is Is after them. Look at verse eleven. We continue to see the Again, the deepest waters of the earth rise up, and there are just one mere tool of judgment in the Lord's hands. And eleven, the sun and the Moon themselves stand in awe and in silence. Verse 11: The sun and moon stood still in their place At the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your glittering spear. If you've ever um looked up at night and seen the moon the moon And its beauty and glory, but then during the day you can look at the moon, but in the day we have to be obviously be careful looking in the sun because it's so powerful. And you see these um these uh robots that they send now toward the sun and they've gotten much better sonar pictures of these things. It's amazing if you've seen any Modern day pictures of the sun that they've taken in the last year or so, the power and the energy just is awe-inspiring. God's creation. Well, folks, in this picture, the sun is awe-inspired and quiet over the power of God. The sun and moon, if you can imagine this, are saying to them, shh , don't say anything. God's judgment's coming. This is a time of serious silence. This is a time, a moment of silence, as God's judgment is coming toward the people that have rejected him. And even the celestial bodies of heaven, maybe even the planets and the stars, are all taking a moment of silence because they know it's What's going to come, and the power of God is awe-inspiring to them as well. Verse 12, it continues. You marched through the earth in a fury. You thrust the nations in anger. Why is God angry? God 's weapons described again in terms of brilliant, overpowering light, all of the powerful aspects of nature are mere tools. God's hands as He's about to bring judgment. And this is an awe-inspiring picture where the very earth is fearful. Why is God angry? Why is he coming this way? Who's he after? And then we have the answer at the end of verse 13. Why is God hunting for his enemy? Because he's going out, folks, for the salvation of his people. For the salvation of your anointed. Do you see the contrast here? Who's trembling in awe and fear? It's everyone who's rejected God. It's the very earth that knows that God's power is going to deal with those that rejected them. Everyone is trembling in fear, except for one group. And that's us. That's God's people. We're not trembling. We may be in awe of the judgment. It may be a moment of silence, but we at the same time are rejoicing because Because we understand this is God's salvation. God is coming to save his people. And this is why Habakkuk is singing this song. Because he's realized the truth of this, that even though God may use a terrible enemy like the Babylonians to bring his people to humility and obedience To him that God will deal with all of those who reject him in eternity, and he will help and bring salvation to his own people. And Habakkuk had his thinking turned back around into right thinking. And he's realizing the truth that the great hunter will save his anointed and his people. And the second then part of this verse 13 is a very vivid, really kind of graphic picture as we hear the judgment of God. It's something not to take lightly. He says, You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. The world will marvel and fear at the great hunter and his power But folks, his people will rejoice and will be saved by that same power. What an incredible but wonderful picture. God is on the move. He's coming. And Habakkuk saying in this, which side are you on? Choose wisely. The great hunter won't miss his mark. So folks, one of the questions that I have for you this morning is whose side are you on? Are you part of the children of God through, as we see in the Or have you rejected him and think that somehow in your own effort or in your own belief that is opposite or differs from what the scriptures say that somehow you can make things right with God and make things right in the end. No, we're told the end of the story here. Because this is actually in full fulfillment. This is eternal judgment being described. And it is not something, folks, you want to play around with. Don't play any games. Again, the hunter has sworn oaths over his arrows. You can be confident judgment will come, and those who have rejected Christ will experience that for all eternity in a very vivid Way. He's going to, as described here, actually give the enemy a good thrashing. You ever heard that term before? But he will bring salvation to God's people, those of his who are truly anointed. And it's a sobering choice that we must make. He continues on here in verse 14 and 15, but our time is almost done. You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors who came Like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters, and the judgment continues. Up next week, but I want to go back to verse 13 in that little sela at the end of that. Do you remember what we said that means? That means to pause, to think. So let's think about this. And let's bring in what we know of the truth of the New Testament to make this picture even more amazing and convincing. And cause for rejoicing. Folks, in the end, who was the target of the The great hunter's arrows. Who would receive all of this wrath and anger? It's more than just a people. It's one man. Because you see, the ultimate fulfillment of who would take on the wrath of God. So we go to the New Testament, and as we see from Isaiah 53, it talks about his servant, his suffering servant, who would bear God's wrath and take upon him him our sin and drink the full cup as is described in the New Testament. Folks, the don't miss the amazing full Fulfillment of this is yes, God's enemy is fully deserving of this judgment and eternal wrath that's coming. But what we find in the New Testament Is that he was willing because of his love for us so that we wouldn't have to experience this terrible judgment of the hunter? He sent his only son to die. His only son Jesus took the wrath of the hunter on himself so that God's people could be That's really the end of this story. And Habakkuk is going to end, we're going to see his joy in the end and it's a beautiful ending. I can't wait to get to it next week. How he says, regardless of what happens in my life, I know God will Make me stable and God will save me. Folks, today we can say that even more confidently because Jesus took the wrath of the eternal God and the hunting And he took those arrows that were sworn over, that would not miss the mark, and they hit the mark of God's Son, and he was crucified, and suffered, and died, and took that wrath. Because of our sin and our rejection. And so therefore, God's people can truly experience his salvation because his sin Son loved us enough to take this terrible judgment upon himself. Can you get a little bit of a picture of why It's so evil and wrong to reject the gift of the Savior and the salvation that He offers? Because, folks, this picture is going to take place again one day, and it will happen. When Jesus returns and his kingdom is established, and God will deal, the great hunter will deal with people that have rejected his son, and they'll be No second chance, but they will spend eternity in judgment. That's just as terrible, even more so. They truly will be crushed because they rejected the one who is crushed for them. As we finish up this morning, just let me ask you If you're still here and you don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, how can you reject again the one that took this terrible judgment? Of the Father of heaven against our sin that was crushed, crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. And Jesus was laid bare by the crucifixion and by the beatings and by the thorns. His flesh was flailed from him. Folks, it's a terrible picture. But how can we reject so great salvation? How can you reject that this morning when it is offered to us? We can escape the judgment of the great hunter because Jesus already took it all on himself and offers us the way of a salvation for God's people. Will you today take the salvation that's offered and then rejoice with God's people in the midst of that judgment that's coming? And say, I rejoice because I know the end of the story and one Day I'll be victorious with Jesus forever. Nobody can get past the great hunter. And he will be successful in the end. And I'm on his side. You can rejoice by trusting Christ this morning and seeking relationship with Him, repenting of your sins, and seeking the one And trusting in the one who took this terrible punishment on himself. Will you do that today? Let's pray. Father, there's so much that I could pray for as we end this this morning I pray for the men of God in this room and fathers who seek not perfectly, but Seek to lead their homes, their spouses, their church, and their community in your ways and point People toward relationship with Christ. Lord, that is a daunting task for anyone. You've called us as fathers to show the love of Christ. To our families, sacrificial love. And as we've seen, that sacrificial love caused Christ to take the terrible judgment of the great hunter. The God of heaven, and he took all of his arrows on himself. And so help us as fathers, those that have trusted Christ as God Godly men here that know Christ as Savior, help us to be willing to sacrifice in the ways that you call us to sacrifice. To be responsible, courageous men, as you told Joshua, to not fear and to be strong and courageous. To seeing even through the night that God is our protection and we do not need to fear. As the children reminded us this morning Father, for all of those here today as well, I pray for those that have trusted Christ that are the children of God, that as we understand that one day God will deal with all of the hurt and the pain. and the sin and the lack of justice, there will come a perfect justice, and we look forward to that. Lord, help us to be sobered by the terrible reality of that judgment. And to be better witnesses of Christ in our families, in our communities And Father as well, for those that may be here today and have not trusted in the Savior who took that judgment upon himself, may they today come Come to me or come to a friend and find out, discover through your word how they can trust in Christ. And have salvation for all eternity and have relationship with you and live with you for all eternity rather than experience the eternal judgment of the great hunter who will not Miss or fail. Lord, today impress these truths upon us. Help us to meditate on these things as Leslie plays now.