I was thinking, as we sing that, of Brother Don and That last part of that song, whether Jesus takes us up, basically in the rapture, or whether he takes us home early, we'll be singing his praises. Brother Don is there right now praising Jesus. He gets to go ahead of us. And one day we'll all do that together. I want to read a quick card from the Hagas from George and Texas. They were so overwhelmed this week with your goodness and your thoughts The text he wrote this. Dear church family, thank you so much for your prayers, cards, calls, and kind words to us during these past several days. We are so thankful for a church family that is loving. And caring to others in Christ, George, and Texas. Continue to pray for them and Fran. I think Fran is with us this morning. And so just pray for God's comfort for her. And at the same time we recognize that final hope that folks will be together one day, singing like this, and even better, for all eternity. Well, turn in your Bible as a passage this morning we're going to be looking at is in Ephesians. Ephesians chapter one Those last two songs describe so much of what we have in Jesus Christ. And what we're going to see, Paul is going to remind us from Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 through 23 this morning, that because of all that Jesus has accomplished through us, Folks, he's worthy of all of our praise, and he is worthy to be our authority and our leader. And we must recognize that. Paul moves from his praise blessing at the beginning of the chapter, offered to God in prayer And motivating the Ephesian church. He's thankful for all that God has done, but he's also burdened to pray for these people and really for us today as a pastor, I'm burdened to pray for you, to have even a greater understanding of the hope and power of God that we have access to. That we can truly be strong in the Lord, not weak, not failing, not faltering, but strong in his might. I think so many times the reason why we struggle as Christians and we live, can we just say it, anemic, weak spiritual lives? It's because we don't comprehend all that God offers to give us strength, to revive us, and to make us more useful. And here Paul is praying that the people, that God will do that for them. Really, Paul, our prayer is spiritual breath for Paul. He's always praying. It's a constant activity for him. And he's going to pray that God would help his people to understand. We even have to have Jesus help folks to understand the blessings that he gives us. We're that blind. And then also that we would appropriate those blessings and use them in service and in unity together And then he talks about the power of Christ. Let's go ahead and we're going to go back to verse 17, but let's look at verse 19 as we read and we pray together. This describes the power of Christ and what is exceeding greatness of his power to us word who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ When he raised him from the dead and set him at his own hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come And hath put all things under his feet, including us. Gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Lord. Father, as we come before you this morning, give us a reminder and greater insight Of all the blessings of Christ that are available to us, that you provide for us as we submit ourselves to the Spirit's power and guidance. Let us remember as well, Lord, we all tend to be self-willed at some point, even in ministry. We want what we want. Remind us today that we are led by Jesus Christ. And the Holy Spirit is doing a work in us to slowly move us away from what we want. To what our Savior wants. And remind us again that He is fully worthy to demand Our submission to him, but he carefully and gently requests and speaks to us. Thank you for the love and patience that He has for us. Give that for us today as we look more in your word, for it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. We're going to see today about the one who leads the church. And as you know, you guys, you guys know us well. You know I've had many opportunities, we've had many opportunities to serve Really, uh it was 11 years just about here before the Lord called us to New Hampshire as a youth pastor, assistant pastor, and now back as a senior pastor here at Upper Crossroads. And one of my great joys, besides ministering to all of you as well, was ministering to our young people. I truly loved that in every sense. And enjoy doing things, having events for them that they enjoyed, and we had a lot of different things. It may have seemed somewhat successful at the end, but I'm just being candid here. There were some really big disappointments as well, especially when I first started. And I remember one of those in particular, I had this great idea and I named it this really ambitious title that we were going to have this relay race It was I even had a really long title to make it more impressive. It was the Great American Awesome um teen relay race or something like that. And I decided to have it just around the corner here and I think it's the Gunpowder State Park It's been a while since I've been over there, but just around the corner there with that has a lot of woods and a lot of trails. And um I gave them maps And we did a lot of work ahead of time, Pastor Kondic and I scouted the trail and we almost got lost a couple times, came back. I looked at the maps that they had there in the parking lot and tried the best I could to make sure that these maps were accurate because the whole point of this. was to provide this guidance so that these teens could make their way through. Well the maps weren't the best maps in the world that they provided there. And it became apparent after we got the kids there and they they they went off and they were all excited. And then we didn't hear a lot from them. And they just kind of disappeared. I started getting a little nervous. That was before we had the smartphones and everything. I couldn't really uh contact them as well. And some came back and said, Pastor Brock, we were having trouble following the map. I thought, uh oh. And I looked up a map and I went back to the maps there that they had there in the parking lot and as I looked I'm like, oh no. I made I made a wrong um direction and uh and pointed them in the wrong way and made it sound like this was over here and actually I sent them around in a circle. They're never gonna find their way back. Well, thankfully they did, because right about that point a thunderstorm came up, full with thunder and lightning, and then I started praying, Lord, please help them to get back. It wasn't, we we finally we had group by group come back kind of straggling in. The last group came in and they were wet and they were miserable and I was just thankful, I was so thankful to see them. Like, oh praise the Lord, they're all back. And they were good about it. They were excited about the fact, hey, it was a lot of fun because we got to do a lot of things and it was real strenuous and it was um it was a challenge. I'm like I'm thankful that you're being so kind. But one girl in particular always stood out to me because she came back all wet and disheveled, and she just looked at me and she said, Never again, Pastor Rock. Never again. I thought that's fair. That's fair. And you know, she came to she was involved with the youth group and did a lot of things with us. But she was saying in that context We trusted you with that map, and it didn't work out the way that it was supposed to. Well, no matter who your leader is, folks, we're going to have times of failing We're gonna have times where things don't work out. Even to even this week, the past couple weeks, you know, you want to put your best foot forward as as um being here as a new uh senior pastor family and Even the past couple weeks, even simple things, the Lord has reminded me and humbled me. Now, you know, I'm not going to let that go just right. Because I want you to depend upon me. And everything in your life this past week that hasn't gone right and has frustrated you, perhaps that's God saying, you're not depending on me From the pastor on down, we need to depend upon Jesus Christ. He will give us everything that we need for successful ministry when it's all about him And not all about us. So Ephesians 1 , chapter 17, 23, who really does lead the church? Who's in charge? Paul's going to make it clear. And let's look just the first couple verses and see the blessings that were provided for through Jesus Christ. So verse 15, where also, wherefore I also, or for this reason, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and love unto all the saints, Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory May give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation or insight into the knowledge of Him. And then He's going to go on and describe the blessings that we have, just a few in our relationship with Jesus Christ. But before we get there, I want to part on the first part of that verse, verse 17 Because what Paul is saying here is that he's praying that God will help his people understand the blessings. Folks, it's a humbling thing, but it's something that we have to admit that we aren't even able to understand the depth of the blessings that we have in Christ without God's help. Again, we're that blind , we're that dull, that even the most mature Christian in this room has at times reflecting, has a hard time reflecting. On all that Jesus Christ provides for him. So Paul says, this, I am praying. It is a fervent prayer of my heart to God that he may give you a spirit of wisdom, that he will help you to give you all wisdom and insight into his plan and how to practically live it out. And for you to understand the blessings that you have in Jesus Christ in order that you can live it out. We have to depend upon God to understand the truths of His Word and to understand the riches of what we have in Christ. Whenever you start a new job, many times they'll go through the benefits and all the things that they give and the things that you can look forward to and expect Sometimes when it comes to those health insurance and those different details, it takes some time for us to really understand, okay, well, is this covered and is this covered and what about this And even as wonderful as it is to have a relationship with Jesus Christ, God has to continue to explain to us the benefits that we have in Him. And we need to pray. That he will do that. He accomplishes that. How does that work? Through the Holy Spirit's work, as we read Scripture, we pray that the Holy Spirit will help us to understand God's word. And he will do that. He will give us understanding on all spiritual matters. In fact, I can describe it this way: God takes our cognitive knowledge, what we know of God's Word, and He influences presses it more deeply to become a settled conviction to the power of Christ. What does that mean? Again, every time, folks, we read God's word, we need the Spirit's help. We need to ask the Holy Spirit. Now, even as I go into your word this morning, let's say we get up in the morning and you read God's word, and I hope that you do on a regular basis Don't just read without asking the Holy Spirit for his help, or it's just going to be words. Rely on God to help us to understand His Word. And Paul prays for that, for more knowledge. The most experienced Christian in the room still needs God's help to understand his word. Let's humble ourselves before that truth and regularly ask him to help us. Well, what are the blessings that Paul is asking God to give us more of an understanding of? Now we get into that part. That's the good stuff. He says verse 18, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that has the idea that you would become more settled of these truths in your heart. That your faith would grow, that yes, God really does these things for me, for you, each and every one of us that has a relationship with God, that your faith and trust would grow. Number one, here's the first blessing. What is the hope of his calling or to that which he has called you? And what this means is Paul is saying he is praying that we will see evidence of God's work, his calling, what he's called us to in our lives That gives us the hope that the Holy Spirit's at work and that we have a relationship with Jesus Christ that is working and active. So many times, folks, sin can get in the way, our sin patterns can get in the way of truly experiencing and sensing the Holy Spirit's work. in our lives. It's going on, but many times we can't even see it because we're so clouded by sin and rebellion against God. And Paul says, I'm praying that you will see the power of God's calling, the work of the Holy Spirit, the things that He is doing through you, and those will encourage you They will provide you hope. Yes, you are his children. The Holy Spirit's working in me. I can see that. I'm not perfect yet. I have a lot of blemishes and a lot of bruises and a lot of problems But the Holy Spirit's working in me, and praise God, I know that I have a relationship with him because of the work of the Holy Spirit. In my life. A favorite author of mine, Paul David Tripp, said, God seeks you, forgives you, transforms you, and delivers you. He bathes you in loving grace. He simply asks you. To believe it. And we need greater, deeper faith to believe that is true. Well, that's just the first blessing. The second one there in the second part of verse 18, it says what the riches of the glory of his inheritance, really his glorious inheritance, is in the saints. And this is a wonderful truth. And I could just put this simply. I could spend a lot of time in this passage, and we just don't have that this morning. So folks, I'll just sum up this. With this statement, we must understand that God treasures us. We're his inheritance. That means we're his treasure. For all that have put their faith in Christ, even with all of our blemishes and weaknesses and sin problems, folks, we're still the treasure of God. We ought to take a moment and reflect on that and marvel. You are worth everything to God. And he sent his son, Jesus Christ. To accomplish the work that we needed, to be given righteousness, to be cleansed, to be purified, to be his people again through faith in Christ. Because he loves us, we are his inheritance. He redeemed us. If he sent his only son The God of the universe made flesh to die for us, folks. Doesn't that mean that we're of ultimate value to him? How are you going to argue that one? In our flesh, and in our spirit, in our sin that we struggle with, we still tend to argue that sometimes. Just remember, God sent Jesus. And so you are of value to him because his son had to die for each of us so that we could be redeemed. Paul is saying that we would have a better idea of how important and how much God values his saints. And when you have a better idea of that, you'll come to a service like this ready to worship with joy in your heart, folks. Did you ever feel almost worthless or almost like you're a second-hand item to God? Maybe you're depending upon other things other than Jesus Christ. We depend upon earthly wealth and inheritance or even maybe more foolish, you know, a government surplus check or something from the government or whatever to get us by, and we forget that all of our heavenly riches are in Christ. And he loves us, and our father values us, and we need his help to understand that more and more That's only two of the blessings. Let's look at verse 19 for the third one. And what is the exceeding or the immeasurable greatness of his power to us who are who believed? according to the working of his mighty power or his great might. And here is the next blessing that we as his people would have a greater, a deeper understanding of the power of God working in our lives. And in verse 19, as we just read through that, Paul heaps, mounds up these power words together, all these different words to describe the power of God And then to point out that that is working through us. So really that kind of takes the whole argument away of I can't do that I can't be what God wants me to be. It's just too hard. No. Look at all those words for power that's in this verse. Paul takes away your argument about not being able to do what God's called you to do by that verse. And we need to have a greater understanding of God's power at work in us. So that we won't give in to the temptation to serve in a lesser capacity than what he intended because we doubt and we're fearful. I can't do that. I'm not the person, you know, that that God obviously made a mistake here. I can't accomplish this in my own strength. Well that's true. So depend upon Jesus Christ. Let's look again just quickly at these different words. Verse 19 What is the exceeding? That means immeasurable, unsurpassed. There's nothing greater than the power of God. And then it says greatness. That has the idea of capability, ability, potential energy, that God can do everything that He intends to do. He can do it all. That word power, the greatness of his power, is the idea of working, active energy, power in action. And then according to the mighty working of his mighty power, the great might, his might, dominion, supreme power. And then furthermore, which he wrought or worked in Christ, the ability to accomplish things There's also in there the word dunymus in the Greek. It denotes or has the meaning of ability and the um Capability of being able to accomplish something, the assumed mastery and dominance over whatever that person or that entity decides to do. All these words for power, folks, tell us that when God does a work, He will perform it. He will complete it. And the work that He's doing in your life, you can be confident Mark it down. He is going to complete that work. You can't argue with the power of God. Here's eight different words that describe it. Stop that inner lawyer that keeps trying to argue against Scripture and tells you that you can't do what God wants you to do. You can do it. It's clear. But we have to depend on him. So many times we get up in a day or a week, and we try to do it in our own strength, don't we? Let's just admit that. Let's be candid. In fact, let's just admit folks, we're pretty much, we tend to do that so much. We're we're kind of a mess. All of us. We're individual messes that need the power of Christ to accomplish his work in our lives. Well, your pastor is a mess as well. Does that surprise you to hear? Now I'm not going to have all of you give testimonies today of the ways that we mess up and we fail God, but since I'm here at the pulpit, I'll give you one. I'll be the one that will Give the first testimony here. Because even as a pastor, I struggle with the daily um things of life and the frustrations of life. Like I said, this last couple weeks, there's so many things that have come up that have kept me from different things and and God allowed those things into my life. to continue to grow me and to teach me patience. And one of those was we had an issue with our van where the key and the ignition wouldn't turn all the way it was supposed to when we shut it off. And so we'd have to leave it in there. And it was slowly draining the battery. And so many times we would get up, even this last week, and we'd have to start it, or Steve Wheeler would have to come and start the van up, and it was getting frustrating. So finally took it to the Honda dealership and uh there in Falston And I drive up and there's hardly any cars there. And so I notice that there's a hanger and it says enter here or service hanger. It has an arrow. And I thought, well, okay, I guess I'm supposed to enter in there, but I think it was closed at the time, or maybe it was open, but I thought, I need to go in first and let them know that I'm here, because that would be the kind thing to do. So I parked And I went inside and I told the service representative, I'm here with my van and I've got a scheduled appointment. And they said, okay, well just drive that van in. And I thought, well, I could have done that already, but oh well. I was trying to go the extra mile Go out to the van and serve as soon as I get back into the driver's seat there's this man in this car behind me that's talking to his wife and he literally just pulls up horizontal right behind my van. So I can't move or do anything. And he's not in a hurry to move himself. Now I have things to do. I'd like to say as your pastor that I thought, you know, here's a wonderful opportunity for God to teach me more patience and long time. And maybe the Lord will give me opportunity to even witness to this man, redeemed how I love to proclaim it. We sing that song, and maybe that will be what the Lord does, is give me opportunity here. I love to say that I thought those words But I'm being candid and honest here. The thought came into my mind, I wonder if I just continued to back up until finally get the message before I hit his car. I didn't do that He finally did move, and then he moved right in front of me into the hangar, and then because he delayed there was another line of at least one or two other cars that moved in, and now I'm behind three other cars when I could have been in first by myself And I have to wait an extra 15 minutes for someone, and I'm frustrated. And I thought, I almost had the thought sometimes, don't they know that I have important things to do? I'm a pastor. You know, that these people knew what I had to do. And yet I had the struggle with my flesh. Now did I say any of those things? No. Do I get any kudos for that? Well, at least you didn't say it. No. Because the frustration and anger was in my heart I'm a mess without Jesus Christ. And you are too. Let's just admit it. And let's depend upon him. How many times scars we could have avoided in our lives because we depended on ourselves rather than on our Savior Could have saved ourselves a lot of hassle. Well, folks, because Jesus has provided all of this because of the death of his son. He deserves a number of things. He deserves our worship. He deserves our submission to his plan. And that's what the rest of this passage is all about. So let's continue to read here and see that because when we, when God reveals to us the blessings that Christ provides for us, our only response should be, I will submit and I will fall in line to my leader who has provided me all these things to Jesus Christ. He's worthy of my submission to him. And first of all, he's worthy of my submission and my honor because he's been raised from the dead. Verse 20. Oh, let's go back to verse 19. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us were? No excuses. We have the power of Christ in our lives who believe. According to the working of his great might, his mighty power, not our own power. Which he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places. What is the best example of God's power at work? It's the resurrection work, then him raising his son from the dead. and his ability to make him king over all. This picture would have been familiar to the audience at this time Because in Old Testament and some into the New Testament, there was a custom where a king was often represented seated next to a god that was worshipped by a particular city. or nation. One commentator said occupying a place on the God's right hand meant that the ruler exercised power on behalf of the God and held a position of supreme honor. Well, how much more then for Jesus Christ, who is God, to be raised, to be sitting next To the right hand of the God of heaven. Jesus is God, and God has given him all authority Because of what he has accomplished and he is worthy of all that authority. That means he's just simply straight up, folks, he has the power, he has the ability to tell us what to do. He has the right to tell us what to do. And he's given him all kinds, all of the power and authority. Verse 21, far above all principality and power and might and dominion. And every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. Okay, I'm just going to sum up this real quick. He has authority and power over it all. Don't argue. Alright? And then continue and hath put all things under his feet. That means all powers All authorities that we can see. And folks, the Bible makes clear there are some authorities, some spiritual authorities that we can't see. All spiritual and physical and visible authorities are under Jesus Christ, and the whole creation is under Jesus Christ, and they will one day submit to him and bow at his feet. But there is a group of people that should be the example of that now. And that is the body that is called the church. Verse 22, and hath put all things under his feet and gave him to be the head over all things the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. How extensive is Jesus' power and authority? He's the head, the authority of us. He's the command center of the body. He gets to direct and give power to the church. And he, as we've just seen, he gives all the resources. Jesus has all the resources and things that you need to serve him effectively, and he provides them all. No patting ourselves on the back by our own talents and gifts Whatever those are, whether it's ability to teach or the ability to sing or whatever, whatever your ability is, ability to work on grounds or on vehicles or whatever, don't pat ourselves on the back. Those things came from God. They're on loan. And they come from him. But when we realize that he gives all power to do these things, the church is able to be successful in the mission that he's called them to because they're depending on him. They're letting him call the shots. And we can even proclaim and tell people of the gospel in this dark, terrible world. We can do that. Because Jesus gives us the ability to do so. So let me finish up here with a question. With all of that in mind , who 's in charge around here? Who's in charge of the church? Well, is it the pastor? Well, the pastor is given a responsibility, certainly the shepherd and the lee, and there are some definite uh leadership things that should be going on. You'd feel disconcerted if they weren't. Yes, the pastor is a leader. And he leads and shepherds the church. But as I just mentioned already, you know, pastors are just sanctified messes many times as well. And if you're depending entirely on me, folks, I can tell you right now, you're going to be disappointed. You're going to feel a little nervous. Because I can't do it. I can't ultimately lead you in the way that you need me to lead you. Except through Jesus Christ. So we have to be careful, even with the pastor and other leadership, not putting our full assurance and dependence on other leaders, including myself. I'm not the Savior. There's only one of those. And he's doing fine without me. But I'm privileged to be able to serve servant leadership and lead you and shepherd you, and I intend to do that. Well, is it others that are of great giftedness or abilities or even a degree? Maybe there's folks that have more degrees than I do, and certain there is. Maybe they're more qualified to lead than even Pastor Brock. Well No, they're messes too, and they have to give in and they have to submit to the Lord as well. We're so thankful for our deacons and all that they do. But are they the ultimate leaders of the church? Do they get that title for all they do and all and and and for the ways that God uses these men and all let's say all the leaders in our let's just throw all the leaders in our ministry. We're thankful for what they do, but we better not be putting our full dependence and trust in them either, or they're going to disappoint you. Well, how about this? We're a congregation-run church in a lot of senses. Are you the leadership then ultimately? If that pastor and those leaders would just listen to what I had to say, everything would go right and this church would be so much more successful and we'd be experiencing greater growth. No Certainly the congregation needs to direct and we need to get your input and there's great privileges in all these things. But folks, we have to come to the point where we recognize that there's only one leader ultimately, and it's not any of us. It's Jesus Christ. And he deserves to lead. And he deserves our submission. And he is the one that receives all the glory. So we don't give glory to the pastor. We don't give glory to faithful servants. We recognize them We recognize faithful servants and others that have served in the church and we thank them, but it's always under the context of the work that God has done through them, because Jesus Christ is the head of this church. Charles Spurgeon said, having made Jesus his all, he shall find his all in Jesus. And the fulfillment and comfort and rest that will come for each of us is when we submit to the truth. that Jesus is in charge. That He is the one that leads us. He can do it effectively. He'll give us the ability and the tools to be able to serve Him effectively. So trust Him. Put our faith and trust in him and go out and serve him effectively. You know what that means as well? There's no excuse for not fulfilling the Great Commission and all that Jesus has called us to do to be a testimony to Him. Because we just saw all those words for power. He will enable us to proclaim Christ to a world that needs to hear of him. Our society is broken. It's a mess. It's wicked. Well, if we just preach more about family values and about conservative politics, people would change. Well no, they won't. The ultimate thing that we need to do as the church is depend and submit to Jesus Christ and to share him with others. Folks, this world is not going to change until they have a relationship with Jesus Christ It's that simple. So let's submit to our Savior. Let's trust in His power. And go out and serve him effectively. Father, thank you. Lord, I am so thankful that ultimately That I am not in ultimate charge of this congregation, that even as a senior pastor, that I am not the head. But that Jesus Christ is. Thank you for sending him, that you treasured and valued us enough to send your Son. So that he could die. And you could raise him again. And so thus we could have new life and power to obey you in a way that we never could before. Help each person here when they get frustrated and angry and disgruntled and irate to remember that they're putting themselves first Help all of us when that happens to then get back in line and submit to our head and let Him use us to be a blessing. an encouragement, a kind word, a loving action to our community, so that they might see our head, Jesus Christ, and that we would get ourselves out of the way of that presentation. We need your help for that. Thank you that Jesus is our leader. Help us to better submit to him on a daily basis. For it's in Jesus' name we pray.