Actually ties in really well with our our focus tonight in Colossians, that second verse and that list of virtues that ought to be in our lives that come from our relationship with Christ. Many of those match what we're gonna see in in Colossians tonight, so A little bit of a preview, at the same time a practical reminder of what ought to be flowing from our lives as a result of our worship of Christ. Well turn back to Revelation. Or forward. It's at the end of your Bible. Revelation chapter 5. And I hope that you can't went away last week with the clear commandment and expectation that God the Father deserves all of our worship. And that his glory and sovereignty deserve full worship. And we saw that beautiful picture in heaven. strange to us in some factors. These cherubim and their description. Now in chapter 5 we're going to be reminded of another great truth about worship. That is that the Lamb is worthy of all of our worship as well. And uh we'll we'll see that very vividly today. Just as I was thinking through this and studying this, I just want to make sure that we're clear, when we started this uh study I talked about that we would be taking the normative interpretation approach. And that still may have been kind of foggy or maybe misunderstood in your minds. Well, we've been far enough along that I can again remind and give a little bit more description I think I have already, but just so we're aware what I meant by that. And that is um when we read of things that we can understand and relate to, then it's meant to signify those very things. When we see uh hear about the bowls and the scroll, we don't have to sit there and say, oh what a scroll really means and thinking about now we have to describe what a scroll was, and we'll see that today. We'll we'll give description of that. Or even a rider on a horse means that it really is a rider on a horse. But when you see uh angels and you see a description today of the Lamb, fill with eyes and describe of other things. Those are things that we normally think thankfully don't encounter in our regular daily lives. And so therefore those must be symbolic. And the eyes all over these creatures are symbolic then of their ability to see all over creation. understand that today as well. So that's what I mean by normative interpretation. I think that's pretty apparent, but as we continue to go through some unique things here, I want us to keep that in mind because you can really you can take so many of these details details and blow them up out of proportion and beyond what John and what the Holy Spirit intended and really my intent is to make this as simple and as as normative, what was actually being described. as we can as as human beings. And the Spirit will guide us on that. Well, this passage as well of Revelation 5 is going to address something that we tend to struggle with in the busyness of our lives. And it's not, I don't think it's something that we intend to be deficient in, but it just kind of happens if we're not careful. And that really is apathy toward Jesus Christ and our relationship with him. We come here on a Sunday and seeing the wonderful songs and are reminded of his sacrifice for us and how much we owe him and and the joy of thinking of our Saviour and what he did for us. Well we should be experiencing that joy. Together today as we worship. But we get into our week and you know, maybe we miss the alarm clock and we're late to work and then we have a lot of troubles and tribulations and things that we weren't expecting and a person that's driving slow in front of us or maybe too fast around us, whatever. And we start to lose that focus, that worship of Christ and our need to depend upon Him in every aspect of our lives. And yes, even faithful followers of Jesus Christ can become apathetic. We can lose the wonder and the beauty of worship. Well that's you today, that's probably all of us, I think, in some form or fashion, we're going to be reminded today of the need to worship him with all of our hearts. Because he is the Lamb who can open the scroll. And let's just read verses 1. through five. Then I saw in the right hand of him who is seated on the throne, I should say this is Revelation 5, 1 through 5. Who is seated on the throne a scroll written within on the back, sealed with seven seals. And I saw A mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it. I began to weep loudly. because no one was found a worthy worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. And one of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold, a lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has conquered so that he can open the scroll and its seven seeds. We rejoice, Father. That there is one who is able to open this scroll. We don't rejoice in the judgments that it represents. We know that's a sobering reality. We do rejoice in the fact that We know that those that seal open, those the scroll opened up, these judgments that are coming will end with the coming of the kingdom. And we rejoice that there is one who can usher that in. Or help us today to be reminded of the beauty and the wonder of what Jesus. did for us and to increase our devotion to him. Not just today in a church service. That's important. But throughout our week, help us to reflect on the one that is victorious and all possible powerful. And he is worthy of all of our corporate and personal worship on a daily basis. Let us go from here as we continue to look on this passage now. Let us Be reminded of these great truths. Be even more thankful for our Savior Jesus Christ, for it's in his name that we pray. Amen. The Lamb who can open the scroll, Revelation 5. And first of all, we'll see in the first seven verses, the victorious Lamb is worthy to open the scroll, and he is the only one who is able to open it. Back to verse 1. Then I saw in the right-handed So John, as he's in this throne room and he's seeing all these magnific magnificent things and seeing all this amazing worship from the uh cherubim and the angels and the elders, which again are the representations of God's people from the Old and the New Testament, and they're worshiping him. Then his attention is directed to the right hand of of the throne. And I still picture John as even his attention is toward the throne. It's almost like when you're trying to drive and you're having to look at the sun and you're trying to, you know, shield your eyes from it. He's trying to see these things while still trying to not Be affected by the glory of that throne, and he sees in the right hand And this is symbolic because God is spirit, but still there is, as he looks to that right hand, a scroll. And it's written, a distinctive scroll. Because it's written on Both sides and sealed with seven seals. Now that may seem to sound odd to us today, but it's important to know that Roman law required that an important document, such as a will or other legal matters, had to be sealed seven times. And only an authorized official could break those seals. So this was very well known to John at this time. He knew even as he saw that scroll that this was an important document. it's being held in somehow visually the hand of God. And he sees that and he realizes this is filled with the the edict of God himself and the importance is in Upon him in that way. It was filled front and back with the decrees of God. And so he, as he's looking at this, has that understanding that this Is so important, and that one that is authorized needs to break those seals. Well, let's continue to read verse 2. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the script? Control, break it seals. Now, this is probably not the cherubim. This is that we're going to find out as we continue through this chapter. There are more angels here than just the cherubim and the elders. And this angel, a mighty angel, Mighty in vision and appearance proclaims with a loud voice. Everything is commanding and magnificent. The volume in this throne room is described as loud. So many times. John fully understands what's what's going on here as he hears the importance of this proclaim. But this we're going to see contains God's plan for the whole kingdom. Deed almost for it. And we're going to see as we continue throughout Revelation, it describes the judgments that must take place in order for the kingdom to be ushered in. And so the anticipation is here as the angel described uh proclaims who is open who is worthy he's calling for one that will begin the sequence of the end times so that we can get to the kingdom and he's Building up anticipation. And John would have felt this as well. The events that would lead to the establishment of God's kingdom is what is at stake here. And if we don't catch the full full anticipation of the certainly people in New Testament and the Old Testament times would have because folks, especially for the Jewish people, even those that were believers now and believers in Christ, the anticipation of God's kingdom was one of of the most important things, maybe the most important thing that they focused on. It was something that they longed for. And as they were under the rule of so many other kingdoms and of the Romans now, and they wanted the Messiah to come and establish the kingdom and uh and and for these things to take place so that their Messiah could rule and reign. There was great anticipation. We see this right in the disciples in the Gospels. Lord, when's the kingdom going to come? John was one of those that asked that. And now all of a sudden he's in the throne room of heaven and he realizes, I'm about to find out the kingdom. And he realizes in that scroll is in information about the kingdom. And yet there has to be one that is worthy to open it, that is authorized to be able to break those seals. And here's the sorrow in this verse three, and no No one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or look into it. And John has a very uh emotional response to this that we'll describe in just a minute. A man is needed to be able to open this all wouldn't you say this is the most important document that was ever written And there's no one that is found with the authority. In any it has a description there. No one in heaven, earth, or under the earth, referred to creation, perhaps referring to um the evil powers in the earth and under the earth. the earth, but really just the idea of there's a search all over all every corner of creation and there is not one human being, one man found. To open the scroll. And this causes John much angst. In verse 4, I began to weep loudly. The Jewish wailing, if you've ever heard or heard the um the ceremony. Wail through funerals and things like that. It's loud, it's disturbing, it's emotional. And this is what John is experienced as it as he's weeping before the throne of God because no one was worthy to found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. Why? Why is John in such despair? He had that anticipation of the coming of the kingdom and now it's seemingly halted. A thing that he's forward to all his life that the Jewish people have looked forward to. That God will reign and it's halted because there's seemingly no one worthy to open this all important document. Maybe as well, he's weeping the brokenness. Again, in his mind, as man's sin, is maybe he's thinking keeping this from happening. Now he's wrong in that. And he's going to be corrected very soon. But it isn't a remote. Reminder, folks, I think as well, that we ought to weep over the brokenness of this world and of our sin. And yet he is going to have glorious encouragement very soon. As he's reminded of a certain hope. Since I was thinking on this, you know, I've had I'm gonna have to um admit something else about myself, a weakness that I've had a few times, as uh I've come to the building here at different times. Let's just say for uh some deacons meetings. We meet here now as deacons for our meetings every month. And I well many times, well at least twice in the past year I've come to the door and I reach for my keys and I find nothing but a lint a little bit of lint in my pocket. And now I've got to wait because I was going to get into the building and get everything ready. Get everything ready for the meeting and prepare everything ahead of time so that uh we can just sit down and start the meeting. Now I have to wait for some uh well-meaning deacon to come along who hopefully remembered his key and open the door. But the whole sequence of events that I was hoping to accomplish, hoping to put into play, is halted because I didn't have access to important access that I needed And the deacons have been very helpful in that, obviously, and allowed that to continue. But this is what John's experiencing. A most important sequence of events is being halted because no one has access. He is greatly despondent about this. But there is quick, there's hope And it comes quickly. Jesus is the only one who is able to open it. There's no one else. And he's the only one that has the right to open it, to open the scroll. And one of the elders said to me, Weep No more. Certain hope. There is one at the right hand of God who is able to do so. And so thus that makes John's weeping totally inappropriate. This is a victorious moment, John. No weeping here. You just wait. He's here, and he is worthy. So weep no more. Behold, look. Look ahead, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David is conquered, so that he can open the scroll. And its seven seals. The worthy one is referred to as the Lion of Judah. And this This uh name comes all the way, speaks all the way back to Genesis forty nine, chapter forty nine, verses eight through ten. When Jacob is pronouncing blessing upon his sons, and he gets to the To the blessing on Judah. And he says, Judah, your brothers shall praise you. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies. Your father's son shall soon bow down before you. You shall have victory. You'll be victorious over all of your enemies. Because Judah is As a lion's cub. From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He stooped down, he crouched as a lion, and as a lioness. Who dares rouse him? The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet. Until Shiloh comes, until tribute comes to him, and to him shall be the obedience of the people. One that would come that would rule and reign, and he would be a lion. All the way back in the first book of the Old Testament, now Now, in the last book of the Old Testament, we have the wonderful final fulfillment here. Here is the Lion of the tribe of Judah, one that would come from Judah. But also he's described here as the Root of David. And we have seen in our scripture reading this morning, in Isaiah chapter 11 , and verses 10 through 12, in particular, give mention of this route of Jesse as it's described there. And just go ahead real quick and turn with me to Isaiah 11. Even as Boyd was reading this this morning, I noticed something that I wanted to emphasize. The description of one as a root here refers to one's offspring. And as the root of David, or as here in Isaiah 11, the root of Jesse, it describes this one that is able to open the scroll as coming from the tribe of Judah and from David's lineage. Here we have the fulfillment of the Davidic covenant as well that we've been focused on as we've been studying the life of David. This will be fresh on our minds. And both of These, whether it's the root or the lion, are familiar Old Testament titles for the Messiah. But look in verse 2 of chapter 11. And it describes the characteristics of the one that would come. And this the first part of this describes his first coming. The second part describes his second coming and the coming of his kingdom. But look how he's described. Verse 2, the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, of counsel and might, of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. Remember those descriptions, because we're going to see those again at the end of this chapter. Today. So he is these familiar Old Testament titles And thus, this is the one that will stand before John quickly, that is the conquering one who wins victory over all physical and spiritual enemies. And he has the power and authority to break the seals. All of these Old Testament references speak to his power and authority over all of and all enemies, whether physical enemies or death and hell. He has power over them all. Then the marvelous figure is now standing before him in verse six. In the midst of this heavenly assembly Is the Lion of Judah. The Lion of Judah is appearing Family unexpectedly to John, as a lamb that was slain. Verse six, and between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders here is the center of the throne room. And perhaps we can see in this as we knew that as we know that Jesus is at the right hand of the Father, he has moved around to the center of the room now. For worship. And it says here, I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain. With seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. I think we know at this point, right? Who is this Lamb? It is Jesus Christ. The lamb that was slain for the sins of the world. You think of hundreds, over a thousand years before this, of sacrifices, of rams, of sheep, of goats, where their blood had to be shed. dead on an altar and all of that was a picture of that that that climaxed in this moment where Jesus as the slain Lamb of God is victorious and standing. He's resurrected. He's ready to usher in through the opening of the scroll the end-time events that will culminate in his reigning as king. That picture in the Old Testament is fully fulfilled as this Lamb is standing before us. Yes, there are visible signs that He gave His life, the marks here of His. of his um death on the cross, but also these marvelous symbols. These are symbols. The seven horns. Well why would that be described in that way? A lamb with seven horns. I'm sure you've never seen something like that before. There must be symbolism here and there is. The horns represented in prophecy. If you remember in Daniel, there's a lot of talk about horns. That is. omnipotent power of God. And the seven eyes are his full knowledge, the full knowledge of God, what we call his omniscience, and as well of that of the Holy Spirit. that's in his presence and ready to do the bidding of the lamb. Look at that again. A lamb as though it had been slain seven horns and the seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. Remember we've seen that phrase before. And In our study, it was apparent that this is the Holy Spirit and that He can see everything. He knows everything that's going on right now. He can see this worship service. He knows each of our hearts. And whether our worship is sincere as we worship the Lamb together. And Jesus knows this as well: knowledge of everything all over the earth And this one, this mighty lamb, this lion of Judah, what a contradiction in terms. A mighty lion. A slain lion. Both were necessary to describe Jesus, and he is able to walk up to the throne of God and receive this all-important scroll. Verse 7, and he went and took the scroll from the hand, right hand of him who is seated on the throne, that right hand of authority and power. And that is the Lamb that has full right to be able to do so. Now remember, this is all symbolic. Don't take this too far that Jesus is somehow an actual. lamb with horns and eyes and then you're trying to figure out how would a lamb then go and pick up a scroll and has a hook and think, no, that's taking the imagery too far. Jesus in his glory in his in Islam. Resurrected body takes that scroll as still visible the signs of his crucifixion in his hands. And the it that is evident. And one uh scholar, a friend of mine said it like this our victory will Was secured by his death and will be recognized by his might. In this one moment, victory is secured, folks. Jesus died on that cruel, cruel cross and shed his blood as the Lamb of victory. God so that we could be victorious and share his victory. Share this moment with him. And in taking that scroll at that moment, Jesus is now ready to execute the Father's end-time plan. I'm sure John wiped away his tears and was rejoicing at this point. It's gonna happen. The kingdom is coming, and I'm seeing it. And I will be able to proclaim it to believers everywhere. The victorious land. is worthy to open the scroll, and we praise the Lord for that, but he is because of that, and folks, as we finish this chapter, worthy of all of our worship. Because he's worthy. He's able to open that scroll. Now let's see verses eight through four. He's worthy of all the heavenly praise. That heavenly praise that John viewed in all its magnificent splendor just a few moments ago now will be directed toward the Lamb. Verse eight, when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. Here The assembly offers worship to the one who is able and has the right to open the scroll, and it's in their actions, and it's in their singing and in their prayers. That's a good template for us as we worship the Lord as well. As they fall down and humble themselves before the Lamb. And only in these magnificent creatures, folks only bow before one person, and that's God. So if they're bowing before the Lamb, they are bowing before the God of heaven. Interactions, and yes, there is singing. Each are holding a harp. Worship included music in heaven, and it does include music in heaven. Common instrument of worship throughout the Bible, and this certainly is appropriate here as well. But also the prayers of the saints are a part of this worship. Prayers described are described throughout Scripture. even in the Psalms, as an incense aroma of worship. Psalm 141. O Lord, I call upon you, hasten to me. Give ear to my voice when I call to you. Let my prayer be counted as incense before you. And the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. Prayer is a sacrifice of worship to God. And our prayers Are a part of that worship. Isn't that amazing in the midst of this magnificence? We share a part of this with our prayers, folks. Now I think with these prayers, a major emphasis here is prayers for the coming of the kingdom. Do you remember that Jesus in his template asked us, well commanded us, to pray that the kingdom would come. And now those prayers are being fulfilled. And then, remember, this is prophecy, but John is saying there is a time the kingdom is going to come. I've seen it, and I proclaim it. Says here a new song. Uh well, in the in verse nine, they sang a new song, and we'll see what the content of that song is in just a minute. But this is differentiated from all secular songs and music. Because it proclaims the truth of God. And here, including praise for the Lamb as He initiates end time events. We sing praises to the Lamb this morning. We sing a song that is unknown. And strange to the world. We rejoice in the fact that it's a new song. It's new in content and in quality. Music in this regard and worship should be distinctive. It should be different from the world. In its quality and its in its message. Therefore, a new song. And one day we'll get to hear. This would be the Song of Songs. For folks, the most wonderful music that we've ever heard. We'll pale in comparison to this song. And we'll look forward to singing that together one day. It's uh even in the Old Testament it talked about singing to the Lord a new song is praise from the end of the earth, and this is for Fulfilled as well. He's worthy of all worship because he can open the scroll. And that's what the song starts out with. Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language of people. A nation, and you have made them a kingdom, and priest to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. He is worthy for many reasons, because he can open the scroll. He's worthy of all of our worship. because of his sacrifice for us and his blood payment. That word ransom there is the concept of Pay the price releasing us from sin slavery. And Jesus did that in his death, and he is worthy then of all of our worship. He's worthy as well because of the provided freedom from sin for people all over the world. Every tribe and language and people and nation. Everyone has opportunity to put their faith and trust in the Lamb and have their sin dealt with. and have uh and and um to be free and live uh the way that God would have them to and not be enslaved to sin any longer. And many, many, many will take advantage of that. And all of that because of Jesus' sacrifice. And he is worthy of all of our praise for that. And he's also worthy for providing these ransomed sinners who are fully enmeshed in their sin, but through his actions on the cross, they're cleansed. Then he gives them opportunity gloriously to reign with him and fulfill responsibilities of the kingdom. That's what he's saying here. You've made them a kingdom. They will reign and priests who are God. They will have responsibilities of worship throughout all the eternity. We're not going up to heaven folks and just I know there's a uh mention of a harp here. That doesn't mean all the secular ideas of us being on clouds and scrumming harps the rest of our lives, okay? That would be really boring. I don't care how good of a harp player you become. But no, we are going to have responsibilities. God is going to give us titles, and we will rule and reign with him. And that ought to humble us, folks. of the elders represented in this heavenly throne room and they get to worship Christ. We're undeserving of that. But yet Jesus, the Lamb that was slain, makes us worthy to be able to Able to do this because he is worthy. Now wouldn't you say he's worthy of all of our praise because of these things? But the picture of worship here is not done. Because so far we have cherubim. And the twenty-four elders giving worship. Now it's going to be expanded the picture to all of heaven. Verse eleven. Then I looked And I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands. What does that mean? I can just sum that up very quickly. Multiply to the innumerable. Beyond number, like the stars in the sky, beyond number are these angels, and this must have just just, without the power of the Holy Spirit and John visualizing this, has had to blow them away. This is the song, worthy is the lamb who is slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. Do you remember in Isaiah eleven as I talked about the root of Jesse, the root of David, and how he had all of these things? These then these creatures are not Giving to him these attributes as if Jesus, you need some more power and some more wealth and wisdom and might No, they are recognizing that Jesus has all of these things fully, and they're honoring and worshiping him because he has these things. He has these attributes. He is all powerful. He is omnipotent. Um his ownership of all wealth. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills. The the richest billionaire is of no importance or is not impressive To Jesus Christ, because he owns it all. All the wealth is ultimately his. And wisdom, he is the wisdom of God. Even in Proverbs, as we read about the personification of wisdom. Wisdom, the fulfillment of that wisdom, how to apply God's word and uh and revealing to us who God is, that is Jesus Himself. He is the wisdom of God. He knows it all. Also his might. He's all powerful, omnipotence. And that worship then, honor that is his rightful possession, and glory, his radiant and majestic holiness. Holy glory and blessing, his worthiness of all praise and gratitude. Yeah, I sum it all up, folks. Jesus deserves praise for it all. He's worthy. And that worship only goes to God. So that tells us a lot about who the Lamb is. I would imagine everybody in this room enjoys fireworks from time to time. And we've had opportunities here in New Hampshire to see some great fireworks um displays. But still still some of the favorite ones that I remember seeing in my lifetime were uh in Leslie's hometown in Westminster when we live there we would pretty much every fourth of July go over to her parents and then we go over to uh in Westminster they have a specific place of bank where hundreds of people were gather and then across that way not too far from a hospital complex um on a kind of island in the midst of a pond, they'll shoot off these fireworks and they always do a marvelous job. And at the end, the part that everybody looks forward to the finale. Loud and bright and amazing. amazing. And when our when our boys were really young, I remember the first time each of them, you know, as babies, um, or maybe their first couple times, as they were getting getting ready to experience this, they had no idea what they were in for. And we were always trying to Prepare them, maybe okay. They might start crying. We've seen other kids cry, so let's go ahead and cover their ears or let's get really loud. And their eyes are just in amazement and wonder that something could be so bright and so loud and so magnificent. And that wonder in their eyes and a little bit of fear at times. Because they've never experienced anything quite like this. I imagine that was how John felt. The finale, the incredible fireworks of worship here, as all of these attributes are being named of Jesus Christ. Christ, the Lamb who is slain, and to imagine that all these attributes of the God of heaven that he would condescend to be slain on a cross Folks, we should never lose that contrast or that wonder. The one that's deserving of all, that has all power and wealth and wisdom and might and deserves all honor and glory and blessing. himself to be tortured as a criminal to shed his blood once. He is worthy of all of our praise and so much more. And finally then, not just all heavenly praise, but verses 13 to 14, he is worthy of all creation's praise. And now the worship song extends to all creation. I have heard every creature in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, be blessing and honor, and glory and might eternally, forever and ever. All of creation bowest before the Lamb and sings this worship song. Again, they're ascribing to him what he already possesses. They're agreeing together with these heavenly creatures of the worthiness of Christ. And then the cherubim say, Amen. It is so And that's the most amazing amen we'll ever hear. I'll be looking forward to hearing that one day. The four creatures said, Amen. So you're not going to argue with them. And the elders fell down. In humility and worship. He is worthy. I've often I love to think of this this scene someday as Jesus returns and literally all of creation all of mankind throughout history will bow before him. I've told you this before. I don't think this is selfish, but I do hope I'll get to kind of look around and see all of those who are bowing and recognizing of one that is so wonderful and worthy because of what he has done. Think of all the evil leaders that have ever been in the world. You think of politicians today. that are arrogantly thumbing their nose at morality and the things of God folks, all of these, all of us will bow before and sing this song and they will all of will recognize his worthiness, whether they like it or not. recognize it. As I was thinking about this, I thought of another illustration. Now I know this is going to give away the fact that I think it's been pretty apparent that I've been reading our U. S. President Theodore Rose. at the turn of the ninth the twentieth century, his biographies. But I read one of a story here that was particularly moving to me that emphasizes this agreeing together of enemies and supporters of one's worthiness. Before he was ever president, Theodore Roosevelt was the youngest man ever to elect him. He grew up in New York State, in New York City. There's even a picture of him and his brother looking out a window as Abraham Lincoln's coffin was going by and that you know such as Abraham. And as he got old enough, got through university studies, he was the youngest man ever elected to the New York Legislative Assembly in eighteen eighty. And his loud voice and his pronounced speech with his teeth coming together and bold approach to issues of concern for him, he made him a few friends and a lot of enemies in that legislative session. His handling of issues drew admirers, but also many critics. Some referred to him as that young dude from New York. They got pretty tired of him pretty quickly. But he had a propensity to bring up moral issues amongst career politicians that they Want to deal with. They'd worked their way up through the system and they didn't want any part of him bringing up things that needed to be changed. He was a bird in the saddle of many. But as he continued on and pointing out these things that needed to change, they did begrudgingly begin. Began to respect him. And there was a tragedy in his life that happened that caused even his enemies to honor him. February 13, 1884, he just received a message that his young 22-year-old wife is going to bring in half. her baby. She had the baby named her Alice. Then after the legislative session he got another note that was his wife was suffering complications from the delivery and he needed to come home right away. At the same time, in the same house there in New York City, his mother had also fallen ill. He got there in time to see his wife before she passed away. Early the next morning, Valentine's Day. He lost both his wife and his mother in the same way. And because of that, as people realized both his enemies and his supporters of what he had gone through and the tragedy That he had gone through. In Albany, in the House of Assembly, they paid an unprecedented tribute to the stricken member, one writer says, by declaring unanimously for adjournment and sympathy. Seven speakers, some of them with tears, eulogies. The dead woman and paid tribute to Roosevelt. The House's resolution, adopted by a rising boat, spoke of the desolating blow that had struck our esteemed, our honored associate, and expressed the hope. that this gesture would serve to fortify him. And Theodore Roosevelt continued on and served his country and eventually became our president. But it was recognized that he was had to go through something very traumatic. And that he was worthy of honor. That's a human standpoint. But folks, how much greater is the fact that how much more did Jesus Christ go through to offer himself up on a cross? He lost everything. And he was willing to do that so that we could be set free from sin. Now that person is worthy of so much more honor than any politician. He is worthy of the worship and honor. honor of all creation. Are we going to give that to him in the way that he desire desires and that he deserves? I hope that this picture of the Lamb in the center of the attention of the heavenly throne room who takes the scroll and is ready to usher in the events of the kingdom reminds us of our need to be more devoted. And More joyous in our worship of Him. Father, we need to honor the Lord He's been through and and gave up so much more than any of us or any historical figure will ever give up. And he is worthy of all of our worship because he gave himself for us that we could be ransomed from sin. Rebels. Enemies. And because of his shed blood, we can be freed when we put our faith and trust in what he has done. Oh, worthy is the Lamb that was slain, worthy to receive, to ascribe to him the things that he already has, wisdom and honor, and wealth and power. Help us to worship him better, not just today, Father, but throughout this week in our personal lives, to honor him and depend upon him. And remember that he's coming soon. And we will bow before him and worship and rule and reign with him forever. Even so, come Lord Jesus. Amen.