As well to um hear God's word being taught. So let's turn back to First Thessalonians chapter five. And Looking at verses twelve through eighteen, finishing up this book in the next couple weeks. And then Lord willing, as I prayed about it and and even talked over with uh some of you. I I sense the Lord is moving me to uh start a study in the book of Philippians after this, um a book that I think many times we think we know well. We certainly Certainly know a lot of verses that we've quoted from it, but the truths in there for unity and for humility and the the need to shed pride and to be more like Christ are all within that little book of Philippians. And so really looking forward to uh it's a short book, only four chapters, so it's not a long study, but Wonderful truths found in there. And then I'm praying after that about possibly doing a study in the book of Revelation as a reminder to us in these dark days. That Jesus is coming. And the book of Revelation actually focuses us on Jesus and helps us to keep him in focus during the darkness of judgment and the darkness of sin. So you'd be praying about that with me, but I think that series would be a really help, a good help to us as well. But let's not get ahead of it. We're still in First Thessalonians. So First Thessalonians chapter five and verse twelve. It's interesting here. Paul is finishing up this first letter, but it's like he has some last minute reminder. For this church, the believers in the city of Thessalonica. A church that has been faithful in the midst of losing Their leader, Paul, and his band of merry men, his merry gospel men, uh, were there in Thessalonica, and they were literally pushed out of town. Because of their witness for Christ, but that didn't stop these folks from pro proclaiming Jesus and being a light and testimony in that area of Asia Minor beyond Thessalonica, the whole region was talking about these folks and their witness for the gospel. But again, that doesn't mean that they didn't have some issues. That needed to be refined, that needed to be worked on. And so Paul in these last verses kind of gives kind of like a uh a sh a shotgun approach were just a bunch of things all at once here, and so we're going to try to go through these carefully. He had he had just stated, and we saw this last week, he called on the Believers to comfort themselves together and to edify or to counsel, to advise each other in the things of Christ. And he said, even as also ye do. Paul said, You are proclaiming Christ to an unbelieving world, and you're proclaiming Christ to fellow believers And remember, that is the secret to effective ministry that we've seen throughout this whole study of 1 Thessalonians. That effective ministry is directing unbelievers to Christ. Christ and the believing members of the church to further growth in Christ. That is how we have effective ministry. And so Paul says it's almost As if Paul says here, now I've got some homework for you to do. Here's a list. You'd be practicing these things. And so in In order to edify and to counsel and to help each other, he's got a list of things for them to to work on. And at the same time, as you read this, you kind of get the idea, although I I don't think this is what he intended, but he's seems like he's trying to quickly pack in a bunch of things at the end. Um it does remind me of many times maybe a House, lot of the someone is going out the door, a wife is saying to her husband, don't forget this, don't forget that, or a mother calling to her children as they're headed out the door for school. Some last minute things. Oh wait, don't forget this. And don't forget to do that. And oh, oh, don't forget, wait, hold on. You gotta remember this too. And hopefully even if they remember one of those things, they're doing well, right? You almost get this picture with Paul here that as he's finishing up, he's like, oh wait, oh don't forget to do this, and then don't forget to do this, and oh, oh, make sure, make sure that you're working on This. But even with this, even though there are many, I mean, some are literally, if we get to verse 16 today, there are two words, rejoice always. We shouldn't miss That Paul is urgent about these things. These things are just as important to him that these people see growth in their lives and that they're working on. And in effect, as we've talked about effective ministry, we're going to see this is the exhortations of effective ministry. These are the practical exercises. As we exhort Exercise our bodies to maintain good health. Paul gives us a list of spiritual exercises to maintain good spiritual health and maintain effective ministry. Of proclaiming Christ until he returns. Let's look at this list and what I hope to get through today. At least we'll go work We'll work through twelve through fifteen. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and who are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them very high. Highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak Be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and everyone. As we look back at this first verse, I'm reminded of something else that for pastors and for leaders is a tad awkward or can be. And I'm kind of As I think about this, I'm reminded as well, back in the Old Testament, do you remember the description, that scripture, that God gave to Moses? That Moses was the Remember that? Well, do you do you realize, you ever thought about this? Who wrote those books? Well, the Holy Spirit. Moses wrote that. So when he came to that point, I wonder if he felt a little strange or weird as he's writing down Moses, that's me. I am the most meek person in the whole world. Was he was he encouraged by that? Did he want to write that? Well, probably if he was meek, he probably thought, Lord Really? All right. And then he didn't even know how it would carry down through the ages this description that he had to write of himself. Now Now this morning I'm not talking about my own meekness or humility or any way. That might be a very short lesson if I had to do that. But I feel kind of in the same way as we Come to this passage of scripture that talks about leadership and your response towards leadership, um, I'll just say as a caveat, this is not the passage that I Wanted that this is not what drove me to study this ver book in the first place. In other words, I've been waiting for this passage. I don't want you to think that I've been waiting for this passage throughout the whole study. To make sure that you understand that you need to esteem your leaders highly, as he says here. And none of the leadership, the deacons or leaders of the committee, none of them came to me and said, Pastor Brock. This is the passage that you really need to focus on, and I'm glad you're doing it this week. Okay? That would be a lack of humility. In fact, there might be a tendency for me to kind of skip over And go through the rest of the list. But folks, all of God's word needs to be proclaimed. And the Lord put this in for our thinking, our meditation, and our And so from that aspect, in a humble sense, we go to this first exhortation of these last minute concerns for Paul. And we See that it has to do with acknowledging and respecting 're not just the pastor, but all of the leadership, as he says here. Because the exhortations of effects Ministry, one of those is that we seek peace among each other. As I say that, I'm just struck by the fact do Do we as a local church bodies, do we desire peace within our congregations? Is it something that we strive for? Is it something that we truly desire? Lord, give us peace. Give us unity. We're about ready to embark or explain to you a new budget. This just came to mind. Uh I've been thankful over the last couple of years that I've been told that as we've uh proposed new budgets while we were away in New Hampshire, uh that there was little concern and there was a lot of unity around that. And I'm glad I'm thankful and looking forward to that today as well. But as we get together and meet, there ought to be a desire for us to be And one of those ways is for believers to respect and value their leadership. And so let's go back to verse twelve. And he says, We ask you, but really he's saying, we plead with you. Paul's saying, Yeah uh folks. I'm finishing up. I know I'm throwing in a lot of last-minute things, but I want you to understand I'm pleading with you that you will follow after these things, brothers and sisters, the family of God. These are important. And he says, We must, you must respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Now that first The first word there, respect, is very interesting. If you look up in the Greek, it actually is the word that the Bible uses many times to know. And many times uh to know Know in a very close personal way. So it's interesting that Paul would use that verb to explain our Reaction and our responsibility before leaders. Well, I have some thoughts on why Paul Might use that word. And I think that then, first of all, there are there is, in order to really understand this passage, there are some expectations of the leaders. That is, as Paul used that specific word, not to just respect, but to know those who labor among you. What does that say for leadership? That we must not be afraid of being known. That the leaders and the pastor in particular should not be a closed book that's aloof from the congregation. That comes up before you and puts on a certain air and personality that may or may not match What he's like in his personal life. I think although this admonition is toward the congregation, I see even as we look at verse 12 here. Here that leaders must allow the congregation to get to know them and not uh be comfortable in a developing a professional persona. But when I Go home to my family, they know they're dealing with an entirely different person than in the pulpit. That would not be good. Wouldn't you agree with me? Uh And so it's true. Well, why would Paul then use this word to respect? And why is it even translated respect? Why isn't it just translated to no? Well, let's think through that. The more people get to know the leaders and know them, the more they have opportunity to trust them, and as they see them, not walking a perfect life. If we withhold respect so somebody's walking perfectly, then there's never going to be any respecting of leaders, right? And yet. As we look at our leaders and we get to know them and we see that they are pursuing the things that God wants them to pursue, there is a natural respect that comes with that. In one case you might say that respect is something that is earned. It is expected by Paul, but on the leadership side, we have to be careful not to say you need To respect me because that's what Paul says, and you're not doing a very good job of it. Respect is something to be earned as people get to know you. And it shouldn't be for Really, a mark of an ineffective leader is one that has to demand respect, if you think about it. A leader that has to somehow remind people all the time that they need to respect him or her is needs to examine their own leadership. Skills and activities. But it should be one that first of all, above all else, that God makes it clear: these are the leaders that I have given to you. Get to know them. Know them better so that you can help them and respect them more. Now, as I say this That. Please don't misunderstand. I haven't gone to our technology budget and asked for Tim and some of the others to uh purchase a Cam, a can a video cam that the pastor can wear, and so we'll have a constant pastor cam where you can look on a website at any time and at anytime see you know what I'm doing and some of you like well hey that's actually I kind of like that idea Pastor Brock. I don't know how well my family would like that idea. Maybe they would enjoy Just remember boys that sometimes when we have to deal with things it would be on that cam too, right? Um that's not what I'm saying here is the pastor, and I know that even someone our public service, police officers sometimes, uh there is some push toward that, and sometimes that has to be the case in their cars. I'm not talking about a pastor cam where we have to follow every No, there has to be an understanding, first of all, that God has called leaders and sovereignly in control of who's in leadership. I've said this many times, folks, but I didn't choose this to be behind this pulpit and to lead in this way. This is God's choosing and his work and his movement See the only reason I'm before you this morning is your pastor. It's the only reason, in the end, that we have the deacons that we do and the committee um heads that we do. Is God's sovereignty allowed all this to take place? But the more you get to know your leaders, the more you need to be willing. And Paul says then Those who labor among you, that does mean that is a that is a word for work. That means one who toils. And so it is one who is doing their best. To do the work of the ministry and has a burden and a heart for the ministry. Not a swallow person who's using the cloak of ministry to do whatever they want to do. This is one that is being responsible in ministry. And Paul says, those are over you in the Lord. I think even some translations say that rule over you and admonish you. That's an uncomfortable characteristic in our society. Society today. We don't like the idea of having anybody rule over us or having even authority over us, especially in this society. Translates not rule over you, but they are over you in the Lord. What does that say? That the Lord has chosen these people to be over you. And to help keep you accountable. And it says here, admonish you that has the idea of directing you toward Christ and counseling you. Guiding you lovingly, but sometimes firmly, in their leadership, to do this, but we all have to have The humility that says, I need someone else in my life that is helping direct me toward Christ. And one of the gifts that God has Has given to the church is the leadership from the pastor on down to help guide and to direct people in the ways of the Lord. That's why it says in Now I think specifically who's Paul talking to? Well if you think about it, uh Paul and his team aren't even there. Well who was leading this church then? Did they even have a leader? Well they certainly weren't leadership. They must have had leaderless, excuse me. They must have had some form of leadership and probably lay leadership that labored among them. And said Sacrifice their time from their jobs or positions and give that to ministry that were called by God to do that. And so God had given them authority. Authority to admonish to guide in all of these things. It's really ugly when religious leaders or let's say pastors and other leaders within any church ministry Have a sense of ownership or arrogance over their leadership. In fact, I get a little nervous about people that that give testimonies that, you know, this is something that I've always wanted to do and they almost just sound like they relish the authority too much. Like well brother, maybe the little more humility needs to go with that too. Because having authority in that way is a grave responsibility and one that we'll give an account for. And we've already seen that in scripture studies in the past. It is one that we as leaders will give and account for, but God does give us authority to counsel, to put in mind, to remind what is forgotten when necessary. Not to lord over people, but to help guide them. And really, as leaders, again, from the pastor on down, our desire is that you follow after Christ. And you grow in your relationship with him. And then what a privilege it is to get to lead you in that way in some form or fashion. Church should be motivated by seeing people having a burden for people to grow in their relationship with Jesus Christ. And hopefully, in some way or form, you sense that from me as your pastor and from other leaders as well. Folks, I can tell you we have your best interests at heart. Can I tell you that? From a local pastor here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. We have your best interests at heart. There's no lording over or power kick or any of that stuff. Yuck. But at the same time, with that understanding, we're called to do this. And Paul then says, you need to know and respect. Those that are willing to do this. And then that really awkward verse in verse thirteen, right? And to esteem them Very highly in love because of their work. What is that really? Let's break that down. Let's make it more understandable and less awkward for the past through Having to preach that, right? That doesn't mean you should highly honor me because I'm deserving of it. And you you should give me the respect that I deserve. And Almost develop, I think some leaders almost expect kind of a worshipful response to their leadership. Well, that's not at all what Paul is saying here. Let's be clear. But he's saying to esteem them very highly, to hold them up, to respect, to have a um appreciation, a high High appreciation for their efforts because why wouldn't you appreciate and love someone who's trying to point you to Christ? Trying to lead you in that way. Why wouldn't you appreciate someone who's holding the light in the darkness and helping you to um find your way in the most Why wouldn't you appreciate and esteem someone who is willing to when you are um struggling with Sin and the captivity and sin habits that's lovingly willing to say you need change in order to be what God wants you to be. See people that love And folks, it's no small thing. There's a lot of I don't know any of our leaders, and I've gotten to know our leaders uh very Very well course I've we I've have a background of over eleven years here as well, right? I know our people. And I can say I don't know any of our leaders that lord over that that that uh desire and that enjoy that kind of authority or position. We have God has gifted us with humble people who just want to see People grow and want to see the ministry succeed. That's a good place to be. And in a small church, it's an extra added blessing. Here's a um here's an advertisement for Small church ministry is that you really do if you take the time to do it, you really are able to get to know your leaders a little better than those in those large church ministries. God calls us all to different types of ministries. But we're very thankful for those of you that God's called you here. We need people in small ministries, and one of the perks of that is that You get to know the pastor and the leadership a whole lot more closely than you would in a larger church. And in some cases, there's some great safety in that. You know, one of the weaknesses of a larger ministry Is that you can have a man or a few men, or also sometimes ladies as well, that um are distant, that basically get to appear before people on a Sunday morning or at a few And never really have to talk or interact with people unless it's people that they they desire. Desire or choose to do because there's that distance. In a large church, only a small group of people will ever effectively get to know the leadership and and I'm not saying that's wrong, I'm just saying that is a characteristic of a large church. But in a small church, you have opportunities, Paul says here, to know And to be satisfied of the leadership that's over you. And you know what that brings At the end of verse 13. Isn't it interesting that he ends that verse or that discussion of that concept with that phrase, that sentence actually, be at peace among yourselves. We may read that as disconnected from the rest of what he said here. Just kind of like, oh, it's another part of the list, but actually, and I appreciate the ESV and some other translations. That makes this more clear, but this is in connection with what he has just said, folks. Let's be really candid and honest. What is one One of the greatest things that affects peace in any local church ministry. It really is battles over church authority. It can bring Bring fissures, it can bring conflict, it can bring bring frustration. You know, they have um they used to have well actually we actually just had this an example of this in our recent teen activity in It to Win It where we had two uh teams full of young people that were battling it out in a nice kind way, but doing all kinds of different games and they were um doing it to for the team to win. Um and they did get some sort of of prize at the end for the winning team. So there was some competition and for those of us that were a part of it and those that were watching it, it was exciting and it was fun to watch. Well that's that's one thing. We would expect that from a youth activity. Or from a TV show that divides people up into teams and competitions and they do these crazy things all over the world, whatever. The Lord, but but the Lord Does not expect that kind of competition within a church family, folks. There's nothing exciting about watching that. This was one Team, this was the other team. Who's gonna win? No, no, no. When we have that kind of attitude within a church, it's only heading forward For disaster. And that can happen many times over fights and concerns over leadership. And so Paul says we get to know Your leaders. Know that God has designed, has chosen them to be over you, and then appreciate them highly in love. And that's in the love of Christ. As they show you Christ's love Just reciprocate that love. That is one of the great ingredients to having peace in a ministry. And we must we must um acknowledge that. One of the ways we have to be careful about then is gossiping. Talking back, spreading things about leadership, but instead, as Paul's describing here, be a gen genuine leadership supporter. Be a genuine supporter of the pastor. If you can't support the pastor, come talk to him. Let him know that you have concerns. And that's the biblical way, right? In order to have unity with leadership when you have a problem with that individual, the Bible's clear. It says go to that individual or that pastor or that leader and talk with them. Need to take another person with you and then see if he's really done that and if he has, if he's willing to repent, and if he doesn't, well then more steps need to be taken. But unfortunately, a lot of times that gets backward, doesn't it? We f we're frustrated with leadership, struggles with leaders, and the back door goes to the whole church. But it doesn't go to the leader. And Paul says, don't be surprised then when you have friction. But he says, to be at peace. To be at unity, to have spiritual and even physical rest in a ministry. Appreciate and support Support your leadership. Now, there's a biblical way of addressing it as well if you can. I think we got the point on that. Let's look at one more here then on these exhortations before the end of the hour here. Peace amongst the church body, he's exhorting believers to seek that peace is to respect and value their leadership, but also believers Must encourage each other in right living. And they must ex help each other exercise. Verse 14 We urge you, we plead with you. He said We ask you, brothers, in verse 12, and now in verse 14, he strengthens that plea. We are urging you, brothers and sisters, admonish the idol. Encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak. Be patient with them all. Here's more of spiritual discipleship exercises that Paul is calling on us to do. To be a part of. And I can sum these up pretty briefly here. They're not hard to understand. He says, first of all, admonish the idol Bring admonition to them, counsel, redirect them. But it's interesting that this word is many times uh translated as idol, and actually in the Greek it means undisciplined. It has um the idea of military discipline. And those of you that have been a part of military service would have an uh Appreciation for that, that there's a certain way to do things in the military and there's certain expectations. And um this describes someone who's not disciplined, who's not with The program as far as the expected discipline, like in the military or whatever, and if someone's in the military and not following or meeting the expectations, they would be described with this Greek Word that's translated here, idle and undisciplined. And so it goes beyond just being lazy, but it goes Goes to anyone who is living in excess in their lives and needs to rein it in for the cause of Christ. Anyone who is having a bad testimony in their Excess, or they're making it apparent that they're not concerned about the things of God, that they're undisciplined in practicing obedience. And yes, that includes the And Paul says that these must be admonished, that they must be confronted That they are causing great damage within the church ministry. In the specific way that this is being described as the idol. Let me remind our folks that really a lazy person, whether they're lazy in their family life or lazy in their work or lazy in their church service and Idle, lazy person, folks, can cause a lot of damage. Can be very hurtful to the ministry as a whole. And we must all be careful of that What's an application here? Well, I'll give you a few direct applications to help us out. A parent and a spouse who can't keep a job because of slaughter work habits. Now, there are some that have lots of Many that have lots of reasons why they can't um hold a job that are legitimate. But there are those who just for whatever reason have become lazy and idle and the whole family Suffers because of that, right? One whose home is falling apart because they just lay around all the time and they don't clean it up. It's a pig sty. Maybe a college student who has a low grade average or a high school student because they constantly procrastinate at their schoolwork. All of these are practical applications of Paul saying admonish the eye Because they can do great damage to themselves and to others. We often think of these folks as like the funny people in the comedies, you know. Oh, you know, that's they're they're just They're good for the gags and they're funny. But for someone, let's just say who has a leader of the home who is lazy and idle, that's not a funny thing. When people don't follow after their responsibilities the way that they're supposed to and it affects the rest of the family, there's nothing there's nothing uh to make us giggle or laugh at for those Folks that are under that. And no, those folks then need to be admonished , need to be dealt with. The second word Encourage the faint-hearted. Faint-hearted, I love the KJV word, feeble-minded, but that doesn't mean anything about their mental ability. Okay, let's be clear on that. But But it describes those that are faint-hearted, those that are real close to giving out because they're tired, they're weak, and they can't go any further And I love Paul's he doesn't you the w use the word admonish in a harsh way here, but he says encourage those folks. Don't be stern with them. Don't be Be firm, but encourage those that are that are feeble-minded or faint-hearted because they need it. They're discouraged, depressed, weary. Maybe they're Sensitive toward different things. Maybe they're um fighting temptations and they they need some admonition, but it needs to be Maybe they they have sensitive consciences that always feel guilty about everything. There are people in the church that do that. And if you come down on them hard And heavy, they're not going to learn and they're not going to be directed in the way that they need to. They're just going to feel more discouraged and downtrodden. Those that are prone to anxiety attacks and worry attacks. They don't need as much admonition, maybe a gentle admonition, but they need encouragement. And Paul says here: make sure that you're encouraging those folks because they're in every church. There are those that are undisciplined. Okay, correct. Admonish them in the Lord. There are those that are tired and weary and sensitive and and Just struggling with fear, encourage those folks. Remind them that God's still on the throne and that Jesus provides them power to do everything that He needs to do in their lives. And then finally, help the weak. And this really is the idea of weak whose strength is lacking, that needs spiritual strength to persevere to fight temptations. You know those pictures in uh the wars? I think I I remember one from World War Two where the soldier uh you have one soldier on either side of a fellow soldier and he's obviously wounded And they're helping carry him with their arms on either side, and they're helping getting him to a place of safety. That's a beautiful picture of what Paul's saying here. He's saying help Get underneath them. They're losing their spiritual strength. They're about to fall under. Get under those guys. Go over and grab that guy and carefully bring him that person. That lady and bring them to safety. Help the weak before they're they have to be on life support. Dragging a Fellow soldier from a battle room when he is wounded is a great picture of what Paul is saying there. And then he says, and by the way, just remember, no matter what category these folks are in, just be patient with them all. And whatever category of people you find in your local church, folks, Paul says to us today: be patient with them all. The leaders. Be patient. Those that are undisciplined and that need admonition. Give it to them. But be patient. Those that are struggling. That are fearful and anxious. Be patient. Those that need help moving and getting around the battlefield, because this world is a spiritual battlefield. Oh, be patient. Be careful with those folks. Help them, but be careful because if you jostle them the wrong way, you might injure something. Be careful with those people. And be patient with them all. Patience here, the ability for long suffering to put up with difficult and weak people, not just one conversation. Ah, I made it through that conversation with that irritating person. Oh, kudos to me. No, this is a lifestyle. This is the long haul. For a long period of time putting up with people that That are hard to put up with. This is a must, folks. It really is a must in ministry, and it is a necessary mark of Our spiritual strength and maturity. The more patient that you find yourself being, take heart, take courage. You are growing in your relationship with Christ. However, for those of us that tend not to be so patient and get frustrated easily and get angry, that's a mark that we still have some more growth. That we still need to be more humble and more submitted to the work of Christ in our lives. Wherever you find yourself in the midst of Of these exhortations, I think we would agree these are things we all need to look inwardly on and say, Lord, help me to do better in these things. Lord, the pastor really annoyed me this last week. Helped me to have the right attitude toward him. Lord, there's a person in my church that just they just don't get it and they just they they they're obviously careless and undisciplined in their life lord help me to be patient with them Or there's somebody that's always worried and anxious, and I'm just not the type of person that has time for that. Lord help me to be patient. We all have things that we need to To work on on this for effective ministry to continue. And Paul very lovingly brings these things out so that we get the opportunity to work on them together and show the love of Christ. To the church, and to be a right testimony to the community of the patience of God. Father, thank you For this reminder of our need to be careful, to be patient, to respect our leaders, knowing that you have put them in place to appro Appreciate as ones that want to direct our congregation toward God and toward Christ, Lord, to admonish Those that are causing our stirring up really chaos within the church, undisciplined, that we're also willing to be patient. Help those that are weak, that are anxious, that are worried, and those that just need help on the battlefield to survive. Father, help us to be aware of all of these things so that we might be patient. To all. And Father, help us to remember if we struggle with patience to look to our patient, long-suffering Savior, Jesus Christ Who shows us the way and gives us the example. As Leslie gets ready to play the next few minutes, let's take some time and you self examine. You can come to the altar here, or you can come talk to me, or in your seat there, self-examine your hearts and say, Lord, where am I losing patience? Where do I have the tendency to Um work against unity and peace. And Lord, give me victory over that. And help me to better show the love of Christ to leadership and to my My church community. Let's take time to think and meditate on that now