And we're going to be looking this morning in a variety of passages, but we're going to start again in Ephesians, in Ephesians chapter 2. Thankful for that reminder and song that we stand on the rock And that our lives are built on the rock, and that all that we have And certainly as the church, that Christ is the foundation. But as we say those things There still can be some misunderstanding of how all of this works together. And I realized as we were working through these first three chapters of Ephesians. Now, again, I've mentioned this before, but there's that difficult balance of not going so slow through a book of God's Word that You're in it for a year or more. Some pastors can do that well. That's not necessarily my gift, I don't think, to to be in a particular book. And it depends on the church setting, too Trying to cover a certain amount of ground, but also then making sure that you really emphasize the important truths and you're not just skimming over them is a difficult balance. And I realized after we finished chapter three looking back that there was one particular aspect where in chapter two The church is described as built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus himself being the chief cornerstone. That is a significant doctrine that we really need to understand. And when we were working through that, there were so many truths that Paul was presenting to us that I felt like looking back it just kind of got skimmed over. And I really wanted to come back and make sure that we had a fuller understanding of what this wonderful truth is and the different aspects of it. And so we're going to be looking at that morning. This is another one of those, I use a big word, excursus. I think I've done this now. This is the third time, where it's a detailed discussion of a particular point in a book. A digression from the main point of the passage, but as God works through this material and his word, there are certain topics where I realize we need to spend some more time here. And so we're going to be doing that this morning and talking about the foundation of the church. So I'm going to be Reading again from Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22. We'll have a word of prayer, and then we'll get more into this topic this morning. Ephesians chapter 2, starting at verse 19. Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth into a holy temple in the Lord. in whom ye also are builded together for a habitation of God through the Spirit. Lord, I pray this morning that you will help us to gain further understanding. And this passage and a few others that we're going to be looking at this morning, that many good men have different interpretations. and uh different understandings. Lord, um we know that you have one purpose a or purpose for these texts and you have the truth that you want us to know. And we pray that the Holy Spirit would work in our hearts this morning, that you would give us a full understanding of the church's foundation. And also of the picture of the rock, and what that means for the church as well. Lord, let us be led not by our own understanding and our own backgrounds. But that we would be led by the Spirit to be shown accurately and fully what your intention is. And that through this that we might have a better understanding of our responsibility. And our privilege in the work of this building of this temple. Give us that this morning, Father, we pray. And let us be motivated to serve further, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now let's go back to that passage, Ephesians chapter 2, and that verse 20 Again, where he's now beginning to talk more about the nature of the church, and that verse 20 says, We are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself. being the chief cornerstone. If you'll remember when we went through this a number of weeks ago, I in passing made reference to the passage in Matthew 16, which you can go ahead and put your finger in that passage as well, because we'll be going to Matthew chapter 16 very soon. And I mentioned that as Peter gave his confession of who Jesus was, that he was the Christ, but the Son of the living God, that Jesus literally was God. an amazing proclamation and Jesus said, wonderful Peter, that was great. God gave you the ability to see that. You couldn't see that except he had shown you that. And then he says those well-known words, Peter You are the rock, or you're and on this rock I will build my church. And then I told you just briefly as I skimmed over that as far as my study and from my understanding that Peter is the rock. And that may have sound strange or maybe even a little alarming to you if you've studied this passage or you've heard other teaching. And I thought about that afterwards And I thought, you know, we need to go back in. I really need to explain that more about what I'm talking about there, lest there be any misunderstanding. And as we think about that as well, we also think of, I'm sure comes to mind, Catholicism. And there, what we're going to see is they're twisting and they're manipulating. the truth uh in the in that instance, many other instances as well, unfortunately, into that Peter is some supposed to be some sort of first pope or that he has primacy. And that in some way Jesus has given him on the same level of authority that Christ has. And of course, that's not the case at all. That's a total twisting of the truth of what's presented in Scripture. But then, if that's the case, what is going on here? And what is going on here as well when we read verse 20, and it does say that the foundation is the apostles and prophets. But Jesus being the chief cornerstone. There's also a passage in 1 Corinthians I'm hoping to get to today just briefly that talks about the fact Jesus is the foundation. Well, how can all these things be? the same and work together. And I want to present to you this morning that they all do work together with a correct understanding of what's going on here. And that we can sing, even as we sang this morning, the church's one foundation is Jesus Christ her Lord. And we can sing that confidently, and we we're thankful for that. Jesus is in control. So even as I get into this, let me be clear from the outset. Ephesians 1, 22 through 23, you don't have to turn there, but what did it say? God hath put all things under Jesus' feet and gave him to be head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all and all. Jesus is the head. of the church, of the universal church. He's the head of Village Chapel Baptist Church. I believe you'll remember my first message that I ever preached as your pastor was the fact I entitled it, Who's in Charge Here? And I pointed out, it's not me. It's Jesus. And we all fall in line under his headship and his authority. He's the one in charge. And he has not passed that that authority that he has over the church is not given to anyone else. It's not given to a pope. It's not given to Peter. That is Jesus' authority. And we're going to see in these pictures he that that picture of the building of the temple, the new temple that we're all a part of is that Jesus is the owner, but he's also the contractor. If I can put it that way. The contractor that controls the process of building a structure a structure. Jesus and I should say God the Father, right? Are always in charge of the process of the building of the church. We understand, right, that that is a continual process. The church is continuing to be built, as we saw in Ephesians, as more and more people trust Christ. And we pray that people will trust Christ and join Village Chapel Baptist Church and we'll see our own little part of the new temple being built. God, Jesus is in charge of all of that. We are, we're going to see as well, living stones of the new temple. And even as hard as that is to imagine, we are the building materials But we're also going to see in these passages, or at least in the 1 Corinthians passage, that we have a role to play in the work. We have our own role in the building process that is overseen by God Himself And God expects us to do well. So again, we're going to see here, we're the building material, we are the stones, but we're also the builders. And who watches over us? Jesus carefully evaluates the work we are involved in. I remember going through this that I gave an illustration of a time when I was in college. in a summer where um we had moved from Michigan to Florida and so um that kind of upset my whole world was trying to find jobs and things to uh make money to be able to go back to college. So I was doing a lot of odd jobs for different people. One of those jobs I worked for a couple weeks with a contractor and helping him is my only really foray or or um entry into construction. Haven't done anything like that since, but I was able to lay the foundation, help lay the foundation for a quick mart gas station. And so I learned a lot at that time. I've forgotten it all now, but it was rebar and everything set up in a particular way so that the cement could be poured. I was the one in that illustration that was helping to build the foundation. But I think we understand this. It would have been prideful, it would have been inappropriate for me to go to the contractor, the person that was in charge, and say, hey. I'm the guy that's laying the foundation here, that's helping out. So I think that I should have a part in the say of what you're doing And this is what I think about this, even though I've only been working for you for a little over a week. I think we ought to do it this way and we ought to do it this way. And since I've been laying the foundation, I think that I ought to have in some way some of the same authority that you do Well, if I would have done that, that never entered my mind, except for this illustration. If I would have done that, that would have been inappropriate in the least. I was laying the foundation, but I was under the authority and I was submitted to someone else. And what we're going to see in this as we continue is that God Jesus Christ gives us opportunity to help build the church, but he oversees it all. And he's watching, furthermore, to see what kind of job we're doing. Well, I'm getting ahead of myself here. That's kind of overview. Let's go back to this initial point here. That the apostles, according to Ephesians And I believe Matthew 16 were the church foundation that God is building upon. And again, that may raise some flags in your mind, and let's work through that. What I mean by that is that they were the first church leaders to lead and proclaim the message of Jesus Christ. Back to Ephesians here, verse 20. And it says, the apostles and prophets, and remember we talked about this already, so I won't go back into that, but the prophets are New Testament prophets. And the apostles are the foundation. But the most important part of that is Jesus Himself is the chief cornerstone. And when we talked about this before, we went into some detail about what a cornerstone is, is it? What I'm referring to, okay, we're back to verse 20, and the most important part of this that we have to understand is Jesus Christ Himself is the chief cornerstone. What does that cornerstone mean? Again, we talked a little bit about this a few weeks ago, but it's the first stone that's laid. And uh although in our time today it's more of a decorative thing where sometimes they might even put some Um things about the the year and the company and or or or the information about the building and even put it in the cornerstone. It's more decorative in our day and age, but in New Testament times the cornerstone was the most important stone. It was the best stone And the reason why it was so important, it was literally the measure that set the stability for the rest of the structure. It was the most important part of the foundation. Everything else rested on the cornerstone. And the rest of the structure was then fitted carefully against the stone for full stability. That is the picture that Paul is giving us here in Ephesians chapter 2. And we went over this so quickly that I just wanted to make sure we had this understanding. Jesus is the most, even in this picture that Paul is giving us, Jesus is the most important part of the foundation. Without him, there can be no foundation. And there's our stability as a church and the stability of the apostles and prophets and the gospel that they proclaimed Literally rested on Jesus, and therefore the stability of the whole building, the whole temple, rested and still rests, on Jesus Christ. I hope I'm clear on that. The church rests, it depends upon Jesus and no one else. So, what does it mean then when it says the foundation of the apostles and prophets? Well, it's a picture, not just Peter, but all of the apostles, as the foundation that's fitted carefully to the cornerstone. Their ministry is only as good as their true proclamation of Jesus Christ, and as close as their relationship with Jesus. And then we have this picture in Ephesians, the first church leaders who proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ, and that's why they're called the Foundation. And it's simply that. His servants are useful as they're closely fitted to him. And let's just quickly, I'll read to you from Acts chapter 2. We would admit, who was the first person or the first even group, and we're going to see here that Peter stands with the 11 in chapter 2 of Acts. And he's the first one to proclaim Christ. He's the first one, he and the apostles to proclaim and lead that foundation of Jesus. Chapter 2 verse 14. Again, I'm just going through this briefly, just as a reminder. And Peter standing up with the eleven, he's incorporated there. with as in unity with the other eleven, lifted up his voice, and he said to them, Ye men of Judea and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you and hearken to my words. For these are not drunken as you suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day, and then he gives a prophecy from Joel And he begins that in verse 20 and says, The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood before that great and notable day of the Lord come. Verse 21, and it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And um Peter preaches the first gospel message. After Jesus returned to heaven and is sitting at the right hand of the Father, now he is proclaiming Jesus Christ. And what was the result of that? Verse 37. Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? And Peter said unto them, Repent And be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. And we find out in verse 30 or 41. That the same day there were added unto them about 3,000 souls, and probably even many more than this in count. And Peter has the privilege then of preaching that first gospel message that begins to build the church. Now, is Peter the one that's building the church? No. Jesus is. He's preaching the message of Jesus Christ, and Jesus is doing the work. But Peter gets the privilege. Of being the one to preach that initial sermon and the apostles then after him, as they're building that foundation, it all rests and depends upon Jesus. I hope that's clear. Because as we get into the next passage and turn to Matthew 16, then we're going to need that in mind as we look at this. By the way, I'll give you, as you're turning to Matthew 16, I'll give you a quote from Charles Spurgeon here. He's always good to quote from. Those who believe on him are built upon him. They rest upon him, they are cemented to him, and being living stones, they grow into him, and he grows into them They participate in his life, and so the living temple becomes one, the chosen men and women who are the spiritual temple in which God dwells upon the earth. We need not wonder if, like the chief cornerstone, we are disallowed of men, but we may rejoice that, like our Lord and Savior, we are chosen of God and precious. Beautiful description of the church. We get to Matthew 16, though, and again we don't have time to look at all of this, so we're going to focus on verse 18. But we're going to see a picture here of Peter as the rock, and as I believe it's Peter, but also that Jesus is looking at the rest of the apostles as well. And they preach the initial gospel ministry on which Jesus built the church. Jesus is the builder of the church. Now I said we're going to start at verse 18, but let me read from verse 13. Jesus asked his disciples, he says, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some of say that you are John the Baptist, some Elijah, others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Sarmon Barjonh. For flesh and blood have not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. And now verse 18. And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter. And upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And he continues on. I hope to in the near future um Explain and teach on the rest of that, but we just have to focus on verse 18. Thou art Peter. What does Peter's name mean? Rock. Okay? Referring to a rock there. And then at the same time, Jesus says, upon this rock I will build my church. Now let me explain a little bit of my background in this passage. It may, it may somehow be parallel to what you have experienced. When I was a boy, And a young man. Not that this passage in particular was one that I had a lot of focus on as a young man, and it probably didn't fully make sense to me. But as I read it, I would have read, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock. I will build my church. And I would have said to myself, well, that the natural way to consider that is Peter is the rock that Jesus is referring to here. But the more that the Lord gave me opportunity to grow in His Word and to study His Word and eventually to get into seminary, and also the Lord allowed me. a opportunity to be involved in a fundamentalist church and learning the need for accurate preaching and accurate understanding of God's Word. And the more I understood of I began to realize, you know, there's a problem here, because if Peter's the rock, that certainly um That kind of matches and sounds with what Roman Catholicism believes, and that, I mean, how do we then say that or argue against them that somehow he's the Pope and that the line of the papacy goes and because of this verse. And uh that's a that's a real problem that concerned me. And so as I studied and learned a little bit more about the Greek, there's some basic things here. And this is another interpretation that many good men, even some of my Seminary professors and pastors that I respect take this viewpoint. It made sense to me. If you look in the Greek at that , the word Peter means stone. And it's the word petros. Now, you may say, well, what's the problem with that? Well, when he goes to the next phrase, he talks about the rock, it's petra. Two different words, but just basically the same word, but a slight lexical change, an O, an A. And the interesting thing is, Petros has never translated rock in the New Testament. All the time the word is used, it refers to Peter. But outside the New Testament, the only evidence we have is it refers to a boulder. Whereas Petra in the New Testament tends to be used many times as bedrock. And so as we look at this then, the interpretation, again, that many good men that I know take is that Jesus, when he was talking to Peter, he was saying, Peter, you're the rock. You're a boulder. And then he turns the imagery onto himself and says, but on this rock, petros, bedrock, a firm foundation of a rock. I will build my church. Does that make sense? I'm sure. Maybe you've heard that before. Some of you have heard that before. And that made sense to me. And then that took out the problem about the connection with the Catholic Church. And it seemed like, okay, good. That makes sense. But I was never entirely happy with how that worked out as far as the natural understanding. If I were just to read that though, and I didn't know the Greek behind it, I really wouldn't get that that uh explanation unless I had studied the Greek. And then there's another aspect about this that I learned later, and as far as I can understand this is the case, is that remember that Peter was also called Cephas? Cephas is Aramaic for the rock. But Cephas in Aramaic can also refer to that, my understanding is that hard, firm rock that Petra does. And so confusing, but yet I I felt like that was probably the best translation. Well, the more that I got into seminary and I had some good some mentors that presented a different interpretation that was different from that, but didn't allow at all for any allowance for Catholicism. And one of those men was that he he gave a version, and as I studied this, an explanation, and some others that as I began to study this further, made the most sense to me. And so this is what I'm explaining to you now as my position and one that I mentioned a few weeks ago to you. And that is, when Jesus talks to Peter, he says, Thou art Peter. But Peter already knows his own name. He knows his name means rock. He knows who he is. And so to try to make a pun off of that really doesn't seem to be a natural fit for that. But then also saying, upon this rock I will build my church It seems like the most again the most natural reading is that Jesus is referring to Peter. Well then what do we do about the whole Catholic connection? Well, folks, if you think about it, religions, well many times and cults, mix truth and error all the time. They take God's truth and they distort it and mix it up and distort it from what God's word accurately was trying to was portraying, was explaining. I've had this happen before in media. Somebody will give me a link to something, I'll listen to it, and somebody will be talking about Jesus. I'm thinking, oh, that's some nice words about Jesus. Okay, that sounds Pretty good, and then all of a sudden they'll go off in another direction, and it's like, whoa, okay. That person , they're not believing in the real Jesus. They're not talking about the same. But some of the things that they said was really good. And then they twisted it, and it was obvious, whoa, not going there. I believe it's the same thing here That Jesus is talking about Peter is the rock, but Catholicism has twisted that into giving Peter some kind of authority that Jesus never gave Peter. Jesus never intended Peter to be a Pope. And all of that. Jesus is in control. Notice again, he says, I will build my church. Who's in control here? Peter. Not Peter. Jesus is doing all of this. Peter, then, the natural reading, and I think the rest of the apostles, as Jesus is talking, he's looking at Peter, but also the rest that would be involved in that ministry that Paul talks about in Ephesians. is going to allow Peter to do that first ministry, but Peter's not in charge. He's the first one that gets to preach the gospel, but he's not supreme. He's not pr uh prima he's not in any way has primacy. over anyone else. There is zero evidence, again, let me be clear, for any kind of succession in authority. There's that's not found in that passage. That had to be fitted in hundreds of years later and Jesus' point then, what is his point? Why would he do this? Is that he is going to build his church and he's going to use people like Peter to do it. He's going to use Peter. He's going to use the other apostles. He uses us today. But Jesus is in charge of this whole thing. We don't we we go to him and say, Lord, what how do you want me to do this? We build on him. He is the cornerstone. We are merely his tools. Jesus is the architect and contractor, using people as part of his plan. Elsewhere, Jesus is called the foundation to teach a different truth. We find this in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Now, this is our last passage here, if you'll turn there. This will kind of fill things out. I had Paul read another passage that refers to Jesus as the rock, as the cornerstone. to kind of just give us the full scope of these passages, but turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And we're going to see here verses 9 through 15 that Jesus is the foundation that his disciples continue to build upon. Paul here gives us a different picture, different imagery. And here Jesus is referred to as the foundation that we are building on. But that he is overseeing. Let's look at this some more. Verse 9: for we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. You are God's building. The emphasis at the beginning here is that we have slightly different imagery. is that we're all working together, co-laborers as the church. But then he reminds us we're also the building. Paul can switch metaphors here, and it's interesting, isn't it? He's going to do this again. But we are both the building material and we're the workers. And both of those images fit within what he's saying here. Verse 10, Paul says, I am a master builder, according to the grace of God which is given to me as a wise master builder. Pointing out his authority in the process. He's still under Jesus' authority, but he also is able to give direction as a master builder. This is actually the Greek word, is where we get the Greek word architect, by the way. Interesting. I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon, but let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. The picture here is that Jesus' disciples build upon the sure foundation of himself. Paul laid the foundation. Peter, the other apostles, what was that foundation? How did he lay it? He proclaimed the gospel of Jesus Christ because Jesus is the foundation. Paul didn't lay any other foundation but Jesus. And that's the only foundation that the church should be building upon. Is that the foundation of Jesus Christ? But here the picture is of us building on that foundation that is Jesus. The members of the church, he says, I have built the foundation and others now build upon that. And that would include us today. We get to have amazingly enough a part of this process in proclaiming Jesus and seeing people come to know Christ and joining the church. And we build off the foundation of Jesus today. We are all temple construction workers. Believers again are both the building blocks and the construction workers. Well, that's kind of interesting how that goes together. Well, we shouldn't be surprised. Paul uses multiple examples of imagery that kind of seem to work against each other, but we understand them at the same time. Remember, he also talks about us being individual temples, right? But at the same time, we're also as the church a temple together. So the New Testament does this at times. And we understand based on the example and based on the point that the author is trying to make The reason for those different examples and for the different imagery based on the point that they're trying to make. Okay? We build then, the point of what Paul's saying here: we build through the testimony of Jesus to others. And Jesus has to be our foundation. Can't be anyone else. So we can sing as we sang just a few minutes ago. The church is one foundation. Jesus Christ our Lord. He's it And we would never try to take any authority and put it on ourselves. Peter would have never done that. He would have been appalled at what had taken place, even in our world today, at that. But also, there's another part of the picture here that as we finish up that you need to be aware of. And that is that Jesus' disciples' work will be inspected by Jesus himself. Did you notice there? At the end of verse 10, it says, Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. For no other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Take care. Make sure that you're building. Verse 12. Now, if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, those are the first category of durable building materials. Great. But others, the second category, may build with wood, hay, and stubble. That wood, by the way, has the idea not of healthy wood planks, but of sticks. I always think, you know, I've got kids and I think of the three little pigs that built their houses and the sticks and the hay, and I I'm sorry, this picture came up in my mind. I think I think I mentioned this to them and then they started asking, well dad, who's the wolf that blows down that? And I'm like, no, don't go that far. These are sticks, not wood. And these are these are inappropriate material that's not durable, that you wouldn't build a building with. And then what does he say after that? He says, Every man's work, verse 13, will be made manifest, for the day shall declare it because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. They're not talking about eternal loss. We're talking about as far as the work that he put into it will be burned up. He himself shall be saved. But almost kind of like by the skin of his teeth. Or her teeth. Because they really weren't doing profitable work for Jesus. They weren't building with the right materials. So what's the picture here? We continue to build on the foundation which is Jesus. We proclaim and direct people to Christ, but Jesus is inspecting our construction. And that ought to sober every one of us. Jesus is watching to see if we're building at all, or if we keep taking breaks on the side, drinking lemonade or whatever, and we're not being evangelistic like we should. Jesus knows. Jesus knows if we're trying to build the church with materials that are not durable, that we're trying in some way to stray and maybe make make it all about us and to be prideful rather than building on the foundation that we're supposed to be building. Jesus as the inspector is watching each of us and our work, whether we're doing the work and how we're doing the work, and one day it's going to be known to all. And we're either going to be really thankful for what God allowed us to do, or we're going to be really embarrassed. Because everyone will know. Some construction work is quality, some is not. But for those that are building in inferior materials in an inferior manner, Paul is warning here, that's got to stop. You shouldn't be building in that way. You should be building upon the foundation of Jesus Christ. He is the foundation. And make sure that as we're serving in the church, we're doing it in a right way that pleases God. And this could go into all kinds of This could go in the area of music, in the way that we make things a performance rather than thinking about God as we sing and all kinds of other aspects. Paul is saying here, if you're building an inferior part of the building, you need to stop. This is a warning to individual workers. Our building quality will be evaluated. Well, why? Because nothing, folks, as we finish up here. You understand this, right? Nothing is more important to God than the local church. And he's watching us. Watching me as a pastor. How am I building? How am I doing? That's a heavy responsibility. He's watching all of us. And we need to do our work well. We need to build it together. We need to not try to be off on our own. But this also, these pictures have the idea of the church working together together, being unified, not separately. You know, haven't we seen our world today? Our world separates people into individuals and their own independent um mindset and and The more important aspect of what I'm trying to portray here is that having their own rights and fighting for their own rights regardless of who's around them. No, as the church, Jesus will have none of that. We need to be working together in unity. The gospel that we preach removes those barriers. It draws us together. It fits us to the cornerstone. This goes against our selfish nature, doesn't it? But we need to submit to the contractor, to the architect, to the owner of the church, and do whatever he wants us to do. And be unified in that work. Well, I hope that makes sense. Jesus is the head of the church. And the sole authority under which we labor. But he's still in the midst of that wonder of wonders gives us privilege and the responsibility of having part in building this church. So here's the question as we finish up. And this is really what what's the point of all this? That we would even take this little excursion from this topic in Ephesians. And that is to ask you individually and us as a church corporately, how are we doing? What you're doing, what you're contributing to the church and how you're building, will it last? One day we're going to find out. Or will it burn like flimsy paper? That would be really embarrassing to have that happen in front of everybody, but even be more embarrassing to see that in front of our Savior, Jesus. The one who's in charge. To see our works burn in front of him as flimsy paper would be the ultimate embarrassment and shame. We don't have to do that. God has given us a wonderful opportunity, just as he gave Peter and the apostles, not to be the very first ones that preach the gospel. Peter got to do that, but we still get to do that and be a part of this. And so let's make sure that we're following and doing our work well. Because Jesus is watching. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this Time to go through this topic, and I pray, Lord, that it was understandable. Thank you for holding the rein off so that we could fully engage in these passages. And I pray that they make sense furthermore, Lord, that we would be then encouraged to do our building and our ministry well. Because we know Jesus is watching and inspecting. And so we want to please him because of his love for us. Help us to continue to do our part well with your strength and your grace, not in our own strength, Father. Help us to depend upon you and be good builders. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Alright, we have one more song here