Turn to Revelation chapter seventeen. Something else I should mention real quick, uh announcements that just slipped my mind. Uh a lot going on this week, but Arden does have a concert at Collinsville Bible Church in Draycut, Massachusetts Tomorrow night at 7 o'clock. If you're interested in that, the the the young people are uh are being directed by uh brother John Skinner. Many of you know him He has picked a marvelous selection of pieces that really is is stretching these young people and yet they're rising to the challenge and I think it's going to be a really nice nice time So I hardly recommend if you can make it. Um 7 o'clock. And you can get come to me for more details or Leslie. Alright, so I'm really hoping I want to get through, Lord willing, this series and revelation. And so if you'll remember, I've started, since we're done with Jude on Wednesday nights, I've started kind of delving into these chapters on Wednesday nights as well. And so we got an introduction to Revelation 17 Wednesday night. And we'll continue on with that tonight. And I'd like, well, you know, I'm not even going to say that. We'll just see how far the Lord allows us to get. tonight uh by his will. But if you'll remember, we've had these long-anticipated bold judgments. The last three and a half years of the tribulation that's known even in the Old Testament as the Great Tribulation that the um devastating judgments of God will fall at this time. And that's these seven bowls in particular. And these last two bowls, the sixth and the seventh, talk about a battle at a place in Armageddon. And also about the the um the falling, the judgment on Babylon the Great. And now God graciously in these next chapters, 17 and 18, goes into more detail about what that's all about. And even as we start this chapter, chapter 17, John sees some things that disturb and astonish him. And the angel takes time then, and again, there's multiple angels that are moving throughout, probably not the same ones. They have God has um specific uh responsibilities for each of these angels and at the right time they fly in, they appear, they explain things to John, they announce things, and it just shows again, although we don't know much, Really, in regards to all the work and the service that they do about angels, you get the sense they're very busy in the heavenly throne room and carrying out God's will. And you have an angel here that then goes into great explanation about these strange things. So, we started chapter 17 last Wednesday, and we'll read through as far as we got. We see this new portion of the vision that's given to John. So let's go ahead and read through that. John 17, verse 1. Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came and said to me, Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute. or the great harlot who is seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality, and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk. And he carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names. And it had seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls. holding in her hand the golden cup, this beautiful cup that's filled with poison, with sewage. A very uh despicable picture. full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality. And on her forehead was written a name of mystery, just meaning that this is a mystery who this woman is in this whole situation that's about to be revealed. And also remember at this time in Bible times, probably in the Old and the New Testament, harlots were had their name printed on their forehead to identify themselves, and this one is no different She is Babylon, the great, mother of prostitutes and of the earth's abominations. Terrible, terrible description. Obviously, very wicked entity here. And John says, I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints. This is the most disturbing part of this picture, really, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I marveled greatly. And this is in no sense any sort of appreciation. This is John saying, this is disturbing, disgusting, and astonishing. Why am I having to look at this? This is terrible. And you'll remember from what we talked about on Wednesday night. Um this woman's associated with luxury and wealth But think of her and specifically as false religion, as uh being um involved in religious immorality. Now of course We have multiple instances, especially in the time of the New Testament, where these false religions would include sexual immorality. So that's a fitting picture as well. But really this is unfaithfulness to God by following false religion. And this woman symbolizes this And we know that because she is so enthusiastic about the death of God's people. Really a a picture here. We didn't spend much time on this Wednesday. And I don't really I don't treasure spending too much time on this description in verse 6, but it really is a picture of this woman intoxicated. with the with the blood of the saints. It's almost like you hear sh about sharks being excited by blood in the water. And so this representative, this woman of false religion, is literally energized and um made vigorous by the death of the saints of God. And it shows the terrible trials and trouble that the saints will go through that that they really when they choose and are committed to follow after God, especially in these last three and a half years, it will be terrible for them. Satan will unleash his full fury, and those that follow after him will show hatred and just Just I'm trying to think of intense um opposition to the saints of God in a way that's even hard to imagine And this is what then causes John great astonishment, as it would us too, as we look at these things. Well, let me go back to this. We didn't have time. I really want to get ready, by the way, to turn to Jeremiah. And the book of Genesis. Because I really want to ask, and here's here's this woman that's referred to as Babylon, and we'll hear more about her in just a minute because the angel will start to describe some of these things, but he'll give more description about the beast. than he will about Babylon at this point. But there's a in scripture many, many, there's a lot of passages that describe Babylon and what this is. And so I really want we need to look at these tonight to understand. Because even as we talk about the last time things, Babylon comes up many times. And you hear people, you still hear people today talk about the possibility of Babylon being rebuilt, probably referring to the city. And why would that be important? Why would that take place? What is the emphasis and the importance? We're going to see in Revelation 18, it is a full chapter dedicated to the lament of those that are aligned with Babylon. A long chapter. of the earth dwellers, of the people that have followed after the beast that are lamenting the destruction of Babylon. So we need Further information. Well, when you think of Babylon, probably one of the first things you think about is the Babylon, the kingdom that Nebuchadnezzar reigned over, that God used as a tool. to um punish and to bring chastisement upon the southern kingdom, Judah, the nation that was um at that time, the powerful empire over the world at that time, and took Judah into captivity. And Nebuchadnezzar, in his arrogance and pride, God humbled him eventually. And I do believe that we will see Nebuchadnezzar one day in heaven. That's what we normally think of when we think of Babylon. Turn to Jeremiah 50. We'll look at verses 13 through 20. And Hudson, can you go get me a water, a bottle of water? We're seeing the fulfillment that will take place of the destruction of Babylon But this was prophesied for us in the Old Testament, specifically the Babylon that Nebuchadnezzar reigned over. Look at Jeremiah 50, verse 13. Because of the wrath of the Lord she shall not be inhabited, but shall be in utter desolation. Every one who passes by Babylon shall be appalled and hiss because of her wounds. This is going to sound very familiar. It's going to coincide with what we see in Revelation 18. Set yourself in array against Babylon all around, all ye who bend the bow. Shoot at her, spare no arrows, for she has sinned against the Lord. Raise a shout against her all around. She has surrendered. Her bulwarks have fallen, her walls have thrown down For this is the vengeance of the Lord. Take vengeance on her, do to her as she has done. Cut off Babylon From Babylon, the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest, because of the sword of the oppressor. Every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land. And now we get more specifics. Israel is a hunted sheep driven away by lions. First the king of Assyria devoured him, that was God's instrument of punishment on the northern kingdom. And now at last Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, has gnawed his bones. God has ordained Nebuchadnezzar to bring chastisement upon the people of Judah. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. Behold, I am bringing punishment on the king of Babylon and his land as I punish the king of Assyria. I will restore Israel. And he continues on there, verse 20, in those days and in that time, declares the Lord, iniquity shall be sought in Israel and there shall be none. And sin in Judah and none shall be found, for I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant. And this seems to go beyond even the remnant returning, and talks of about the removal of all sin and all rebellion Of course, that's not going to happen until Jesus returns. So there is an ultimate fulfillment of here that that uh points toward Babylon in the future that will be totally eradicated in a way that it's not described in the of Babylon that Nebuchadnezzar reigned over. There was not full destruction of that city at that time. This seems to point to a time when there will be destruction of that city. Well, what is the great sin of Babylon underneath Nebuchadnezzar? Well, if you remember, um in the midst of Nebuchadnezzar's being used as a tool of God, she had a great arrogance and pride And and remember God had to deal with him because he looked at all that he had accomplished and he had subjugated Israel. Um to being in exile, and he looked at the gardens and all these wonderful things he accomplished and he ascribed glory to himself. He was basically full of self-reliance and self-dependence. And God said, we're going to deal with that, Nebuchadnezzar. made him this awful animal, almost animal like creature, and totally humbled him. The greatest sin then of that empire of Babylon was their self reliance rather than their recognition of the God of heaven. And in essence, really, that is the spirit of Babylon throughout the Old Testament one of man relying, trying, attempting to rely on himself and his own strength and power rather than his creator. Well, that's one instance that's well known about Babylon. Can you think of another? Maybe not Babylon, but you remember in Genesis Babul. Probably the same thing in the same area. Genesis eleven, turn there. And we'll see In the peoples, and this is early on in the history of the world, of creation. And the people gathered themselves together and decided that with their own strength and self-reliance, that they could make this great tower and become one people. and consolidate their power. And so we have that accounted for here in Genesis 11, verse 1. How the Hor had one language and had the same words. And as people migrated from the east they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and settled there. And they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone and mortar there, and they said, come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens. And let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower. Now, you know, that is figurative language. He didn't descend a heavenly stair set of stairs to see what these people were doing. He knew what they were doing, but the point is he is he was fully aware of what was going on and his focus was on them Which the children of man had built. Kind of reminds me of when my kids make something really neat with their Legos or, you know, this structure with um with with wooden pieces and things and they want to show me it and I will look at it and say, hey that you know, that's nice, but it's very delicate. It can be destroyed very quickly. And I kinda see uh God uh appearing and he's not saying that looks really nice. He's saying that needs to be dealt with. But it's the same thing where uh mankind that like children they build something that they think is really neat and and in fact it's Very unstable. And so the Lord said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language. And this is only the beginning of what they will do. And nothing they propose to do will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and there confuse their language that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord dispersed them from there over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city, and therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth And there the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth. Now we don't have time to get into all this tonight, but really it it's not it's not directly stated, but what was the problem here? The problem was mankind getting together to try to build something that would reach to the heavens in their attempt to reach to the heavens was uh was their attempt to be like God, to be able to have the power to reach God on their own and rule themselves. That is well, that again goes back to that spirit of self-reliance. Man relying on his own strength and his own power rather than the power of his creator. That spirit of Babylon that was back in the ancient times of the scriptures. You know, there is one more passage that's even earlier in Genesis 3 that I think really um kind of explains the spirit of Babylon. Go to Genesis 3, 4 through 6. The serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So that when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her. And he ate. What was really the sin of uh the first sin of man? Uh What Eve was tempted did partake in. Well, it was to be able to live life apart from God To not have a need for God. Isn't that what the devil, what the serpent said? You'll be like God, knowing good and evil. In other words, you'll be just like Him. You won't have to rely on him anymore. You'll be just like him. You can live life on your own terms, apart from him. That really sums up the spirit of Babylon, of man relying on himself, whether it's in the garden, or whether it's building this tower, or whether it's representative of one of the world powers that God uses to punish his people, and yet that world power thinks that it's all about them and their own arrogance or whether here at the end of time it is the spirit of false religion. We don't need to follow after God's ways. We'll make up our own religion. And we have all this wealth, and really it's it we we have then summed up in this woman that's called Babylon the Great, the final attempt of mankind to uh make itself great through its um wealth and its own version of religion and its coming together to work together in all of these things Um and so I really think that uh to not be confused we ought to look at at This figure and the spirit of Babylon that's been throughout all of history will one day be consolidated into its greatest, most powerful form. that's described and and represented by this woman, an ancient spirit of self-reliance that um still man still struggles with today, and he will find eventually. uh that um god will deal with that spirit of independence and self-reliance in this So I think that's kind of the best way to look at what's going on here with Babylon and that description. So we'll continue to look at that here in a little bit, but let's go back to verse 7. As disgusting as this picture is, the angel wants to give more description because John's wondering what's going on here. And ultimately remember that we we could entitle the study, a study of the great prostitute or harlot and the beast. But I really would rather describe it like this. Whatever these creatures are, and these descriptions of these things, we're going to find out in the end, the Lamb will conquer them all. And I like that name for that title better. The Lamb Will Conquer Them All. And we'll see that at the end of this chapter. So let's go back to this description by the angel here. The angel said to me, Talking to John, why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to destruction. And the dwellers on earth, whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will marvel to see the beast. because it was and is not and is to come. Let's just deal with that chunk of information there. We see that the enemy's power is ordained for a limited time, and we're reminded that it eventually will be subdued. by the Lamb. So the angel is giving more understanding here to alleviate John's astonishment, and he's going to describe the beast in more detail So that's the beast with the seven heads and the ten horns that carries her. And we're finally going to get even more details about what those seven heads and ten horns are. Such a strange description. Why would God include this in Scripture? Well, he wants us to understand again what look and he's adding to our understanding of the beast already, which is, remember, he's the Antichrist. So verse 8, the beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and then go to destruction. So this may sound strange, but it's actually something we've covered before. The beast was In the future, there, and remember, this is the Antichrist, that God will allow him to be raised up. So This really, and it says is not and is about to rise, this describes what we've already talked about with this Antichrist being killed, being murdered. It says he is not. He does live, he does exist, then he's killed, and then he will be resurrected. Remember it said that he would rise from the bottomless pit. That well, that was a description of demonic forces. So why would that be used in regards to the Antichrist? Because it's saying here that he'll be revived and have demonic power. Satanic power in a way that he has not had before this. And so he's going to accomplish these many things that we've talked about And again, he seems like he has so much power and influence that the angel reminds us, but remember As much power and as much awe as he's going to produce in the people of the world, this individual is destined for destruction. He will rise with demonic power from the dead in some sort of sword wound or something. We don't know for sure how he's going to die. But he will rise up, he'll have the power of Satan, but then we're reminded he is destined for destruction. So as disturbing as the descriptions are about him, his time is limited. The angel says, he's constantly reminding us about that. In other words, the time for the influence of God's enemies is ordained by him. He's in total control of the amount of time that his enemies will rule and the power that they will have will be for a limited time. So there's that. And then the dwellers on the earth. Now remember, whenever we hear the earth dwellers, those are specifically those that have rejected Christ, have rejected God. And they are the ones that rejected the Son of God who was resurrected, and they will follow after a cheap substitute here So the end of verse 8: The dwellers on the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life, they are destined for destruction. They will not experience new life from the foundation of the world. There's that description of God's sovereignty and salvation, chosen, called from the foundation of the world. And again, that aspect of this that gives us that hope and comfort that we are called, that as God's children, we can't lose our salvation because our names have been written from the foundation of the world. But these earth dwellers that have rejected God prove that they're not in the book of life and they're going to marvel to see the beast. They didn't marvel over the resurrection of Christ. But they'll marvel over this cheap substitute because it was, it existed, and is not, it was killed. And then he uses the future here because he's saying this will happen in the future. This being this Antichrist, this beast, will be resurrected and be powerful for a limited time. Alright? Hopefully that makes sense. Any before we go any further, any questions about that? Covering a lot of material here in just a little bit of time. Okay. Now if that wasn't interesting or or let's say um challenging enough Now the angel says, basically, you really need to put your spiritual thinking caps on for this next one Okay? So he's we need to rise to the challenge here. He says, verse 9, this calls for a mind with wisdom. We have an admonition that we need to continue to study intently God's Word and seek understanding. But here's the promise that he makes clear. God will give us that understanding that we seek, even in the very difficult passages This is one of those difficult passages that we need the power of the Holy Spirit and his understanding to understand. But he makes it clear here: God will give wisdom and understanding. There's a lot of these passages. There's those passages of Melchizedek in Hebrews that we've gone through. And that was some hard chewing and some difficult road to to plow and some of that, but God intends for his word to be understood by his people. There's also in Galatians where this picture that Paul uses of the difference between Sarah and Hagar. If you remember that. And they're described as mountains. Not very flattering picture for women. But yet Paul uses these descriptions to express. Explain spiritual truth, and some of these things are hard to understand, but we're promised that God will give that understanding if we seek it. that symbolize a lot of these things. In the end, many times some of those that that see too much symbolism in their interpretation of Revelation. I've heard some of them say, well we just can't be for sure and it could be this and just not sure. This doesn't really make sense, but You know, it'll all come together, and it just doesn't sound like they're really convinced of their interpretation. And yet here Um we have a promise that if we seek for understanding, God will give it. And I think that our position, the pre-trib, the pre-millennial position does make the effort to truly understand all of these details and that God will reward that. Okay. Well, what is this thing that we need to put our spiritual thinking caps on for and really uh pay attention to? He says the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated. Now as you were seeing that description of the Antichrist, the beast, and the seven heads, you're kind of puzzling and saying, why what does that have to do with anything? Why seven heads? So probably when you hear those seven heads described as seven mountains, well, that may not be the clarification that you were hoping for. Does that clear things up for you? Well, we'll get more clarification here because he gives us a further Description, verse 10. These are also those seven heads, those seven mountains, they're also seven kings. Okay, here's more information. Five of whom have fallen. One is, and he's referring to the presently in his time, as John is writing, one of these kings is, and the other has not yet come. But when he does come, he might remain only a little while. Now would it be fair for me to throw this out to you at this point and see what you think as far as to what these Seven heads. They're all describing the same thing. There are seven heads. There are also seven mountains. There are seven kings. And remember, the Babylon the Great, this terrible woman, is riding on these heads, and they're the heads of the beast. So we I I won't keep you in suspense too long, but anybody want to try? Any thoughts? It just gives me time to get a drink of water Okay Well, let me give you some interpretations. Some people read this and they say, well We just can't know. It must be symbolic. These heads, these kings are just symbolic of rebellion against God. Well, there's a problem with that. If it's symbolic, doesn't it seem like it's way too specific? Seven Kings. Five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come. Too broad to be symbolic. Now, there is something that God intends for us to understand here because he gives too many details to broad brush it as symbolism. It can't be that Some people say then, well, maybe this is in John's time, so uh maybe this is referring to the Roman emperors. And the beast is somehow connected with them. Well, there's a problem with that interpretation, if you know anything about Roman history. There was more than seven, or we'll see here, eight emperors. So which ones do we choose And so interpreters have some very creative ways that they they choose certain of these emperors like Nero and others. But really, that's conjecture. That doesn't really fit. That doesn't help us truly understand. So What is the best way from my perspective and from many and from the pre-tribulation, pre-millennial position, to look at these? Think about this. We're getting world history here at a glance. Notice at the end of this description, okay? Verse 11, and as for the beast that was and is not, it keeps going back to this remarkable resurrection, his death. In this resurrection, he has this demonic power. It says he it is an eighth. He's an eighth, but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction. If you like riddles, you might be enjoying this at this point. I'm not a big one on riddles. They frustrate me. Tom? I just wanted to ask about how this ties into uh Daniel's vision of it. Neb Nebuchadnezzar's vision. Daniel explained it to him. He was the head. He meeting the Persian king for the chests I think and then came down to the bottom of the fire or tent. We heard it was uh iron and clay or iron cell or something like that. that was the word ten weaker nations that uh came together, which I think may be coming still yet to come. Okay, very good. Very good. It's not as if we've never heard that that we have never heard of this type of thing where you have different kingdoms described in strange uh ways. Um it's not like we've we've heard this type of thing for the first time here Daniel is a book that really is important to know well in order to fully understand Revelation. And it also, again, if we struggle with one aspect of Scripture and we're wondering about what it means, make sure that we remember the broader context of Scripture. and um study scripture to see if there are other passages that can enlighten what we're reading in a passage that we're confused by. And many times the authors will mention tie-ins to the Old Testament, like in Hebrews and things like that. Well certainly Daniel is a key to a better understanding of Revelation. And in fact, I'll just read to you real quick this portion of Daniel This shouldn't surprise us as we've had prophecy that has described multiple kingdoms. Daniel 7, verse 23. Thus he said, As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth. which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces. And as for the ten horns, there we have a help For the ten horns that are ascribed in Revelation. This was mentioned all the way back in Daniel. Out of this kingdom, ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. And he shall be different from the former ones, and he shall put down three kings. So he shall subjugate and subdue the king, these other kings, and be the lead. Now that is fulfilled in what we're seeing in Revelation 17. Another aspect of Daniel is these visions that stand for empires. I'm not going to go through this in detail, but Daniel 7, he has this vision of these great beasts that come out of the sea. The first is the lion that had the eagle's wings. Best interpreted as the Babylonian Empire. The next beast, the second one, is a bear raised up on one side, three ribs in its mouth between its teeth. one aspect that is stronger than the other part of the kingdom, and this seems best to be describing the Medes and the Persians. Then there's a third beast like a leopard, and the beast had four heads. So again, this whole idea of beasts having different heads, this was back in Daniel as well, shouldn't surprise us. Seems to best be describing Greece. And then finally a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful and exceedingly strong, great iron teeth, devoured and broken pieces, and stamped what was left with its feet. This seems best in how we interpret this as the Roman Empire, and then one coming from the Roman Empire as the Antichrist that would speak great blasphemous things. Now, I don't want to frustrate you by giving you so much information and not fleshing it out, so to speak, but the only reason I really uh am bringing that up is that this is nothing really new. This is a development, an expansion of themes that we have seen in Daniel. And so back to Revelation then, I appreciate Tom bringing that up because that's an important tie-in. The more we understand Daniel, the more we can understand Revelation. So this is nothing new, but specifically he gives us more information in this passage when he says Okay, now I just lost my place here. Okay, verse 11. The beast that was and is not. is an eighth and belongs to the seventh. So the beast is going to be the culmination of all of these kings or these kings that represent kingdoms. These mountains Also are used, mountains are used many times in Scripture to represent powerful kingdoms. So we have these heads. that are powerful kingdoms that are ruled by these rulers, and the culmination of all these will be the Antichrist, the beast that will literally rule over the whole world. So if that's the case and he will be the most successful of all of these kingdoms That will he will literally rule the whole world. And then the Bible reminds us again for a time because at the end of verse 11 it says he's destined for destruction. So don't be worried. He's going to be world ruler, but for a limited time. And then he faces eternal destruction. So if that's the case, what are these other heads then? It seems best to look at these again, like I said, just a little bit ago, as world history at a glance. What are the other great kingdoms, the mountains of world history that had total dominance of the world in their time, in a lesser extent than the beast would. But still, the world-dominating kingdoms of their time, and if you really think through this, there's only been a few that dominated, that truly ruled over the whole world in any real sense Egypt, right? In control of the whole world at their time. All the nations going to Egypt, even at Joseph's time, for sustenance and for help. You have Egypt, you have Assyria, who was the world power that God used to bring judgment upon his people, the northern kingdom. You have Babylon, we've talked about that. Then you had Persia, the Medes and the Persians, but we'll use Persia as the more dominant kingdom. You had Greece. And you have Rome and then the future kingdom of the beast. So by my count, one, two, three, four, five, six, the future kingdom of the beast is seven. And that seems to be the best interpretation matching the data that we have here. And so all of these kingdoms, really, you can describe it this way, they're precursors to the total dominance of the kingdom of the Antichrist. They dominated their world at their time, but no king or kingdom has ever ruled over the entire world the way that the Antichrist will do. He is the most successful of this out of all of these world kingdoms. And yet, the angel reminds us , But it's only for a limited time. And he's going to experience eternal destruction So, okay, then we have this riddle part, seven kings, five of whom have fallen. One is, and the other has not yet come. This helps buttress what I've just said. What were the five kingdoms at the time of John that had already fallen? Egypt, Assyria, Babylon, Persia, Greece. What is the kingdom that was ruling at the time? The one that is at the time of John. It was still Rome. And you have then the one in the future, the one that will be dominated by the beast. But then this is interesting Verse 11 again, the beast says it's an eight. So now we have eight of these kingdoms, but it belongs to the seven. Oh , just kind of mind-blowing. What's going on here? Well, do you remember that we talked about the fact and the evidence even in Revelation? that uh the beast even before he's killed will have a great influence and he will lead a a coalition of other kingdoms that he will lead, and that we can um probab correctly consider would be that seventh kingdom before he before he's killed the beast, the Antichrist, before he becomes in a satanic demonic ex um the true Antichrist, he will already have been a successful leader that will have been leading a kingdom that was dominating the world. That's the seventh. But when he's killed, then all those other kingdoms that he's leading will be insignificant because his power, he will be the only focus. Who cares about all those other kingdoms at this point Um they're going to follow him, we're going to see here, and that's going to be the ten horns. But he will dominate in an eighth kingdom, and he will be world ruler, all in his own power. Well, the power of Satan. for a limited time. And then he'll go to destruction. Alright. Does that make sense? Yeah, Rick, go ahead. This is why I've heard I think I've heard people say if we ever get a Jewish Pope in in Rome, that that may be the edifice. I mean I've heard people say that I don't know if that's what they're taking it from. I'm I'm gonna have to look up that interpretation a a little bit more on that one. Um Yeah, b because I I've heard that too and honestly I'm not sure where that connection comes in. That would be the reason why it's part of the seventh, because That's Rome still. Right, and so that that's in the aspect of that the Antichrist rules over a revived Rome. Yeah. That would make sense. And I think he will be Jewish because of that aspect. So yeah, I could see where where they would get that. Am I fully convinced of that based on what I've read here? Well, I I can't say that, but it makes sense. Anybody? I know this is a lot of information. We're getting to the end soon, though. Alright, well that's that's the seven heads. What are the ten horns? The ten horns that you saw, verse 12, are ten kings who have not yet received royal power. But they are to receive authority as kings for one hour. Not much time for all their effort, together with the beast. So remember the beast has seven heads, ten horns. We've dealt with the seven heads. The ten horns seem to best describe along with that description in Daniel. We saw that. as ten powerful kings that will align themselves underneath the beast and basically to give him all their resources and totally submit to him as their ruler, and they'll give up their own authority and power to him so that he can be victorious against the Lord. So these ten kings rule over the earth dwellers. And he says, not they have not yet received royal power, but they will reach, they will have much power at this time. They'll be given authority. God's ordaining all of this. So God's allowing this. And he will allow them to have power and authority as they come together with the beast. They're of one mind. This means they're fully unified. It's kind of an embarrassment. This is the same word used for having unity in the church. Unfortunately, the church doesn't always have the unity that it should But these kings and the beast will have that perfect sense of unity. They'll be of one mind together, and they'll be willing to give over all their resources and their authority and everything to the beast. because they believe that he will be able to defeat the lamb. What a foolish notion, right? Just insanity here. But they've pledged their full loyalty, they're fully united in their support of the Antichrist against the Lord, and they gladly give over their resources and authority. What a foolish investment. They're going to lose it all trying to fight against God. And remember, folks, all the powers and all the people that are fighting against God today, they're going to lose it all too. All the wealth and all the individuals that think they have power, they have another thing coming. It's an illusion. Don't be fearful of these folks. Don't be fearful of even certain people that we hear about have all this wealth and then are secretly devising um uh a plot to make a one world government, um to do a great reset or all these things that we hear now and we get fearful and oh they're trying to wipe us out. They just think that they're in control and they have power. And they're a part of this Babylon world system using wealth and using influence to battle against God's people and to make themselves strong, but God's going to show, even as we saw in Isaiah today, he's going to show that in actuality they're nothing. They're barely going to be a memory in history. Because here is the culmination. This is a great way to end. I know we've gone a little long tonight, but what a great way to end. The study for tonight, verse 14. They will make war on the lamb, and the lamb will conquer them. How could they ever think they could defeat the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, the Lord above all other lords, the king above all other kings? How foolish There's no way they could defeat him. They fully embrace the lie of Satan, and they get together and they give all the resources to the beast and they're utterly vanquished and destroyed. This is at the Valley of Armageddon. And their flesh are fed to the birds and all those vivid pictures that we've seen. It's a total failure in their rebellion against God. But look at who will not be failures, folks. Don't miss this. Who's the victorious ones? Those with them are called and chosen and faithful. Do you feel like that we're on the losing side sometimes and that we're at the disadvantage? Folks, we're on the winning team. We're the called We're the called ones, we've been chosen, we're the faithful ones, and we will be with Jesus Christ. Assist him , be alongside him. Now he'll do all the work, but we'll be with him when this glorious battle takes place before the kingdom is ushered in, and we'll be the victorious ones. Totally conquering the world system of Babylon and the power, satanic power, of those that dwell on the earth. We're on the right side, folks. Don't doubt that. Trust in that. Be convinced. We've aligned ourselves with God for those that have trusted Christ and not the temporary powerful world system. Yes, this world system, this Babylon system. can provide great wealth and ease in the moment, certainly, right now. But where does it lead ultimately? To eternal destruction. The world system is temporary. The victory of the Lamb is eternal. We're on the right side. Don't doubt. Father, thank you. Thank you for the patience of our people who's worked through these details. Disturbing pictures, yes. But Lord, we're so thankful for that last verse that the Lamb will conquer And that really is so simply stated, and it's all we need to hear. He will win, and those that are with him will be victorious. Father, we admit we feel we we don't feel so victorious in this world today. We feel trodden down, we feel um ignored, we we feel uh sense that that um our words and our uh persuasion our our very existence is um is lessened and um criticized and and that we're we're made to feel like we don't we're not we're are that we're valueless in many ways Help us to remember that we are the victorious ones that will come with the Lamb and we will see the victory over all of this evil and rebellion. And wealth and influence and false religion that seems so powerful and will be wiped out in a moment at the great battle. Lord, we as terrible as it is, we look forward to seeing the Lamb in this victorious way. We long for that. Help us to stay faithful and true until this takes place. Committed, faithful, serving you. Remembering we're on the winning team. For all this, we ask for your help, and in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.