We will, as we just sang, we he will see us safely home. We can be confident in that, folks. Now I should mention that our children are up with us again today. And that's why we have those packets. And if if you need a packet for your kids, we could probably still get you one. They have uh places where they can take notes and draw pictures. and all kinds of things. And I've seen, as some of them have brought them to me afterwards, some very interesting stick figures of the pastor at the pulpit preaching. But we have a lot of young artists with us. And so as I mentioned, let's turn back to Ephesians, back to the book of Ephesians. We're in chapter 1, and we have for a number of weeks been going through the introduction as we have seen the powerful things that God did and used the tool of the apostle Paul, but not only the Apostle Paul, but so many that he discipled and brought to Christ And so it really was ultimately, obviously it's the Heavenly Father working within people, but it wasn't just Paul that God used to start this church. in that great city of Ephesus. Now we've we've had maps up before. I don't have a map that's up today, but you can look at the maps in the backs of your Bibles, as long as you don't get too distracted by that, right? I get very distracted a lot of times. times and maybe you're like that too. So just look quickly if you need to know where Ephesus is, but Paul is now in prison writing to the people, the faithful people. As he said in verse 1, those saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus, he is writing to a group of people that God has used himself and many others. To call these people to Christ, and they are meeting in homes as the church throughout Ephesus, and this is a faithful group that has been through many trials and sacrifices. And has turned from paganism and literally the black magic, the satanic power of evil in sorcery and different things. And these people have turned from the power of Satan to the glorious power of God. And they have no desire to ever to go back to those things. And so Paul, instead of admonishing them for some concern , that he has, he's able to immediately jump into this wonderful eulogy, a pronounced blessing. Of all that we have in our relationship with Jesus Christ, those two words in Christ Jesus, in Christ. Are really the key to the whole thing. Paul is going to talk and give us things that we need to be so joyful over. And really, in a spiritual sense, happy over. But folks, it's only for those that have Jesus as their Savior, that are in Christ. There is no true joy or happiness. For those that are beyond the scope or the sphere of being in Christ. No, this is As I described last week, a fireworks display for those that know Jesus. For those that are in relationship. With him. And if you know Jesus and you're trusting in him for your salvation, salvation even today, that you can enjoy the fireworks display that Paul gives here. And it's not just, well it is kind of one at a time, but it really reminds me of that encore presentation. You know how the really good fireworks displays at the end. They'll shoot up a dozen or so at once, and it's really an amazing thing. Um that's I think what what Paul is doing here. Remember that from verses 3 to 14, this is all one sentence. That's amazing. Paul has a lot to say. 202 words, a lot of clauses, phrases, expressions. And there's so many important subjects that Paul just touches on briefly and then moves on. And so it's kind of hard to find a balance. How long do I spend on each one? And I trust the Lord will give me that balance as as we move forward. Okay? But Paul is saying, these are not only things that I'm talking about, but these are things That you as believers in Christ are experiencing and will continue to experience until Jesus returns and you're in the eternal kingdom. Our eternal home forever with God. Many years ago when we were still in New Hampshire, well, I guess it wasn't that many years ago. We had an older couple who invited us into their home, and they have we had a number of friends that lived on lakes. There's a lot of lakes in New Hampshire. New Hampshire. You wouldn't know that New Hampshire is actually for uh it it's part of New England, but it has an amazing uh landscape Mountains, lakes, you have the ocean nearby. It really is a beautiful place. And uh this couple lived near the lake, and it was July 4th. They wanted us to spend it with them. We were glad to do that. You know, go out in the lake, swim in the the lake. Um they they had some uh different you know things that we can enjoy together but then they also had a fireworks display in the evening and it was off of this uh floater uh This the square floater that you can jump up or you can climb up on and then jump back in the water. And it was a tradition in this neighborhood to do a neighborhood fireworks display. off of this floating dock. And so they got they got the um fireworks shooter, whatever that's called. You can tell I don't do this much. And they got it on that dock. But the interesting thing was normally they pushed the dock a little bit farther out before they actually shot off the fireworks. But this time, you know, they didn't really push it out very far. And I looked at my wife as they're getting ready to light the first one. I said, well, this this could be really interesting. here. This is gonna be a little bit of extra excitement because that dock is pretty close to where we are. And we're close to everybody is. And it was so close in fact as they shot those off, you know, a number of the sparks came like uh you know, disturbingly close to us and the grass there. And you could actually feel the ash, something I'd never experienced before. Don't know that I ever want to experience again, but you could feel the ash from the fireworks actually coming down on you and you had to to brush it off. It really was, in a real sense, uh full experience in a fireworks display. Never forget that, right? Well, Paul is giving us a fireworks display of things that we experience in the Christian life. That are exciting. And they're not at all dangerous, by the way. But they're wonderful. And that's how we need to view this As we get into verse 3, he's just rejoicing and praising God for all the wondrous things. That we have in Christ Jesus. And again, that first aspect of our relationship with Christ that many of us, even in here, wouldn't pick as the first thing to focus on. In all that we have in Christ. And yet in verse 3, let's look again. Remember, blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That means that we are praising God for all that He is giving up. He blesses us by giving us spiritual blessings. We bless him, not by giving him something that he needs, but by honoring him for all that he has given us. who has blessed us, and there's that important phrase, in Christ, the only way that you can experience these wonderful eternal blessings is in relationship with Christ. That's the only way. For every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And whatever is important to us or valuable to us that we get from this earth, folks, we're reminded here that the blessings that come from this earth heaven are far better, are far more valuable, and are far more lasting. Than anything that we could put our time and energy into in this life. They are eternal blessings. And then he gets into the first on the list, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless. before him. And he did this in love. And so he chooses, Paul chooses, to on the list of things that we should rejoice about. The first one is the doctrine of election. And that phrase, again, I'm just summarizing what we went through last week, but that phrase, the foundation of the world , really in the Jewish mind especially, had the idea of in all eternity. Past that God has chosen his children for salvation That disturbs some. And some try to skip this over. Some try to explain it as, well, God knows who's going to be saved in the future. Um and so he looks into the future and so it's just him knowing and and kind of choosing in that way. I'll mention more about that in just a minute. Minute. But no, Paul makes it clear this isn't something that God does on the go. God doesn't make you know ketchup plans. He doesn't make last-minute plans. But God has done this work or has made these decisions, if you want to put it that way. His plan is eternal in the past. Beyond our comprehension. But this is something that has been established throughout all eternity in the past. And so he chooses us. But then the one of the glorious understandings of that is that we should be holy and blameless before him. That means, folks, that we are going to reach the destination God has called us to reach. in our Christian lives. Paul describes it as a race that we need to be prepared for and we need to get rid of some things and shed some things in order to run that race well. And there are times in our race where we stumble, where we do things that we're not supposed to do, as we're we're living for God, and we're living testimonies of Jesus. We're not perfect testimonies. In this life. Sometimes we stumble. Sometimes it's hard. But the fact that God chose us before the foundation of God. the world means that he's good on delivery, that he will deliver us to the end, that we will end the race and we will end it Well, and we will be glorified and enjoy all eternity without temptation or sin. God will get us there. I had the wonderful opportunity to go to Hershey Park, one of the really, I guess, the first major event that our young adults group that we started this summer. We got together and took a great group of young people. I'm just really thankful for their attitudes. And even as we're driving up, there was singing in my vehicle of songs about the Lord there and back and it's just it was it was a it was a great time but there is for those of you that are Hershey Park aficionados there's a new ride there this summer And it's called the Twizzler. Right? And it doesn't, it's not, well, I guess it is red, but it doesn't twist around or anything, but it's this huge Huge swing. I don't know, is it hundred feet, Arden? Or more, two hundred, hundred and fifty feet? No, it's gonna be more than that. It's tall. I'll show you a picture afterwards. And these two um rows swing back and forth and they cross and they swing Swing back. And you're either up like this or the other way, you're down like this, looking at the ground from hundreds of feet up. And I will, I'm not ashamed to admit this in any way. I saw that thing one time and said, no way. That's not for me. I'd rather ride a roller coaster where I'm you know experience the whole thing, I'm off quickly, and I'm done. But our young people to a T, all of them went on it. And there were some that loved it. It was a rush. It was a thrill. About half of them said that was the best part of the day. The other half of the group said that was the worst part of my day. And they were literally hanging on to the hand next to them, and a couple uh people had to say to them, Hey, we're gonna get off. We're gonna be okay. It's almost over. Now the point was whether they enjoyed it or whether they were really not enjoying it and they were suffering through it, they were being encouraged that they would get through to the end. And then some uh mentioned that that would be the last time they would ever experience that again for the rest of their days. But the the but the illustration here is that folks When you stumble, when you get discouraged, when you know that you're not all that you should be for the Lord, be encouraged by the fact that if God, our Heavenly Father, chose you to be his own. Through to be in Christ through the sacrifice that Christ made for us. Folks, he He's going to bring you home. He's going to pick you up. Even when you stumble, he's going to help you get back up again. And that doctrine of choosing an election makes clear that he will make us holy and blameless before him. You can count on it, you can bank on it, and it's all because he loves us. All because God loves us. What a beautiful result of that doctrine of election. And throughout this, because Paul in the next verse in verse 5 is going to talk about. He's going to use the word predestined us. And that's another word that some people misunderstand and get nervous about. But folks, again, Paul is using these words of election that he chose us. The Heavenly Father chose us before the the foundation of the world, and that he predestined us for adoption to be his children. Paul is saying these are great blessings. God loves you. You've always been a part of His plan And so what takes the joy from us many times is going the other way and trying to make rather uh or human logical deductions. about the other aspect of this, those outside the elect. And Paul doesn't even go there. But he just says you focus on the blessings of the fact that God chose you. The rest of that, that's God's. The blessings of election are yours to enjoy. And so as we get to that next verse, he in love. There's nothing unloving or cruel about this, but because God loved us, he predestined us. us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will God's adoption of his children is a spiritual blessing. And we are blessed because God has chosen us, predestined us to be his children. Well, what does that word predestined mean? It's real simple. Folks, sometimes people try to complicate things, but really in the Greek, if you know anything about Greek, Greek, it simply means that God determined in advance. In fact, advance in this case doesn't mean that he knew who was going to trust him. And so somehow chose them because he knew that they were going to eventually, but this means no, determined in advance, chosen in advance, not looking ahead in time. to see who would follow him, or maybe to it somehow would be worthy to be saved. That doesn't seem right. But predestination is simply God's choice. And that may sound disturbing, but again, Paul's saying, no, this is in love. God has chosen us. We're his children. You can be confident in that. This is a powerful, a wonderful thing. Some people hear the doctrine of election and say, well, it just doesn't seem fair. Really, I think in one sense, because we're thinking too much on it. We just accept what God simply says, and we don't have to go where God's word doesn't go. But you think, okay, if some folks say God looks into the future and he knows who's going to trust him and so he can kind of choose in one sense, even though that really doesn't, is that a really good definition of choosing? Well, it kind of falls flat. But there's always going to be on claims of fairness because folks could say, or they might say Say, well, if God knows who's going to put their faith and trust in him in the future, well, God can do anything. Why doesn't he change events so that more people trust in him? If he knows. You see, either way, if you go too far beyond what God has given us, what Paul is telling us in his word. There'll be claims of unfairness. It's better just to trust that God's word is accurate, that what he says, he says, and that predestined means That we have been determined, chosen to be his children in love because he loves us. God loves you not because he knows that you're going to be worthy of him one day. But he just loves you. Warts and all. Sin and all. And he sent his son to die for each and every one of us. But those that would depend and put their faith and trust in Jesus. Even as it says in Acts, the Philippian jailer, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. And that's not a work. Paul in Ephesians is going to make that clear later on. He's going to say multiple times, it's not a work. It's not of works. It's not of anything that man does. It's not a work. What is what are the apostles calling the Philippian jailer to do in Acts 16 then? When he says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. That's not a work, but that is a turning. That is a decision that has real value, worth, and meaning And yet the work is all God's. Our Heavenly Father does uh has done has come up not even come up with this plan because it's It's always been his plan. And so we just stand there and marvel and we wonder at this great doctrine. As we wonder about the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, three persons, three persons, but one God. I can look at that all day and marvel. But don't ask me to ever fully be able to understand or to explain that to you. Just is. And these are wonderful doctrines that are supposed to be for our benefit and to encourage us, and we marvel and are in awe of these things. And that's where we humble ourselves before these things. So he predestined us what to? To adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. This um The process of adoption is familiar to some of you. Well, the modern day version. We've had many families in this church and families connected with this church in the past and have gone through the process of adoption. But the process that Paul is referring to is a little bit different than what we think of today. It actually was in line with Greek and Roman law, not as much the Jewish faking on it, but Greek and Roman law, and so this is what it would look like. Roman law gave the adopted child all the legal rights of a natural born child. That child would also share the family's new name, and in Roman law was given the status of whatever that adopted family had. The adopted child would receive all of these things. But here's something that's interesting. In Roman law, that child, once they were officially adopted, they were expected. They were were commanded to not have any longer any contact with their other family that they had come from. That may sound cruel, but the purpose was that they could focus on the blessings of their new family. and be apart and assimilate is a good word into that new family. And so Roman law forbid that that person could have any contact with their family Former family ever again. And the same in certain stances with Greek expectations as well. Well, that's a little bit different from our adoption expectations today. Today, my understanding is, even though my family hasn't gone through the process, that in adoption That you actually have to have a home study group that people come in and study your family, that you take classes, That you fill out lots and lots of documentation on your home and your references, and even some want to know, I think this is common, the pets that you own. Before you're considered worthy to adopt someone, there's a process. It's a big deal, folks. That's why when we come to this word in Ephesians, I want you to understand this is a big deal. But our Heavenly Father has taken care of all the process. When you trust Jesus as your Savior, you don't have to fill out documentation that includes what your home life is like and how many pets you have. There's discipleship. There's teaching in God's word. But Jesus Christ provided all that we needed through his death on the cross and his shed blood for our sins. And so we could be the children of God by depending that real decision of trust. Jesus did it all. Adoption is possible because of Jesus' sacrificial work done for us. And all of that because God showed his good pleasure, his undeserved grace to us. Look at that last part of verse 5. This is so important in understanding a last part of We are adopted as sons and daughters. And again, it says through Jesus Christ, it's only through Jesus that we receive, that we're able to be the children of God. That we're able to be adopted, so important through Jesus Christ alone. But it's according to the purpose of his will, and that's best understood as the will of the Father And that is another important phrase because that means that the Father is the only source of the work of salvation. It's nothing human-oriented, but it's because of the purpose of His will. God purposed it in eternity past. There's no work that we as mankind, as human beings, can do. Only God's will provided for the execution of the plan of salvation. Salvation for going forward. All of that was a part of God's will. It was all Him. And Paul wants to make that clear To the purpose of his will. And so, since God deserves all of the honor and the attention Because it was all his plan. We as his children, the only proper response then, is to acknowledge that we are blessed to be his children, that he lovingly accepts us. And to give him all of our praise. That's what verse six says, so to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he hath blessed us in the beloved. The only as we as we look Look at these first two aspects of salvation. The only response that we should have is praise God. Praise the Lord. Look at his grace that he would have me as one of his own. as one of his children, that he would send his only son to die on the cross for me. And that in his purposed will all of this take place I don't get out of joints about this, but I praise him. Thank you, Lord, for your grace, that you purposed these things. All of these blessings with which he has blessed us in the beloved. You know what that word in the beloved means? It means, folks, that we all have a place of acceptance Within the beloved are the group that are loved of God. And what's amazing is, as you think, I just mentioned the Trinity earlier. And we have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. There is a perfect love there. There is a bond of love that's beyond our comprehension. And yet in the beloved also says that God has included his children in that loving bond. The bond of the beloved, his son is the beloved, the most loved one. And we get to be a part of that as well. And so what does that mean? That means because of what Jesus has accomplished and because of what God the Heavenly Father has purposed before all time. That even though we may feel out of place in our social settings, even though we may feel out of place in our own church sometimes, Even though we may feel out of place as far as our neighbors and as far as the world's concerned. You ever just go through life and just think I'm just kind of uh anomaly? I don't feel like I'm accepted anywhere. Well, if you're a child of God, folks, to be blunt, you're wrong. You are accepted. Gloriously, eternally accepted. By the Heavenly Father. There's uh there is there's a description that is used in school settings nowadays, and it's referred to as peer crowds. That is, in a broad sense, lots of people that are similar that hang out together a lot. It's a more positive description than the word clicks. Clicks is a negative, more of a negative description of those that have a lot of similarities and look down Upon everybody else who's not a part of their special group. But a peer crowd are those that have similarities and they just naturally like to be together. Well, folks, you may have a lot of similarities to people around you. You may have co-workers that you get along with, maybe sometimes, maybe not. You may have family Family members that you get along with well, and others that you don't. But do you understand that what Paul is also saying here is that for those of us that that have relationship with Jesus Christ, that our pure crowd is all of those in Christ. That's all of us. You do have a place. Where people can understand you and where you belong. And that should be the church. Sad to say And we've seen this all too often, is that many ch many times that churches disintegrate rather than to have an atmosphere of you're accepted in the beloved because you have relationship with Jesus Christ, we disintegrate into clicks in the church where we look around and we say, well, I have this similarity, that similarity, and you know, they're not like us, so we kind of look down. on them and we kind of just give everybody the the radar stare analyzing if they're good enough to be a part of our group. Unfortunately that That poisonous attitude has been a part of many churches for too long of a time. And if we have that in our churches, we are truly a poor representative of what it is. Because folks, no matter what people say about us and how they treat us out there, in here as a church, as the body of Christ, people ought to be able to come to this church and know. I am a part of the beloved. Jesus gave his life for me. God has elected me, determined in his will to delect me. And I am accepted, and people are glad to see me. That ought to be the experience of everyone in every true local church. Unfortunately, it's not. But what do you do? What do you do when that's not your experience in the church? Because Paul says here that we are blessed in the beloved. And if we're honest, sometimes we come to church and we leave and we say, Lord, um, you know what Paul said about being blessed in the beloved? I didn't feel very blessed today. People really didn't treat me like they really like I was a part. Well, what do you do? No church is perfect, right? Well, we need to understand even more intrinsically what that means. Yes, the church should make you feel like you're a part of the beloved, but even at times, if we Don't folks ultimately, this is our relationship with God the Father, with Jesus Christ. And you need to understand, you need to come to the realization first and foremost. That Jesus loves you and that he has accepted you. And that he will help you to change and be more like him. Until the day that he returns, and we are glorified, and we get those new bodies, and we never have to worry about being tempted or having to worry about being or sinning against God again. Jesus loves you. He gave his life for you. You can count on that. And so folks, for when we get discouraged by the fact that other members of the church don't treat us like we need think we should be treated or maybe we we long and desire to be treated. What we need to do is not to get offended and bitter at the church, but you need to get more into your Bibles and pray and draw and be have a closer relationship with Jesus Christ. With the failings of the church and the people of the church. We can't put our ultimate faith and trust in the members of the beloved here, but we can in Jesus. And so I would encourage you, get to know your Savior better. Know God's word better. Talk to him more. And you will have that experiential sense of God loves me. Jesus died for me. I am one of the beloved. And I am confident in that. And so actually, because I'm confident in my relationship with Jesus I read in his word. Paul says I'm part of the beloved. I see all that God has done for me. Now I can go to church and be a blessing to other people. And show them the love that Jesus has shown me. That's really the best way to be an example of one that's in the beloved and part of the blessings. Don't disintegrate into clicks. But bless others that are part of the beloved that have relationships. With Jesus Christ. Now, for those of you that are here this morning and you don't know Jesus as your Savior, wouldn't that be a wonderful thing to be a part of a group that shows the grace of God and love to you? And accepts you on your worst days and is ready to help you to change and move forward. Wouldn't it be wonderful to have a family or a friend group like that rather than a friend group where we have to constantly impress. and show that we're better than the others and we're just constantly on display, wouldn't it be better to be have a friend group that loves you for who you are in relationship with you Jesus Christ. That's just one of the benefits that we have and that you can have in trusting in Jesus as your Savior this morning. And coming to Him in faith. And recognizing that there truly was the Son of God who died for your sin and shed his blood on a cruel cross so that you Could experience salvation, be cleansed of your sins, and not face eternity apart from God in a place called hell, but you could experience reconciliation and relationship with God for all eternity And be a part of the beloved. That's worth getting excited about. That's motivating. And that's literally just two of the blessings out of this long list of blessings that Paul gives us in this long list. In these verses. Folks, if you're here today and you know Jesus Christ as your Savior and yet you're still discouraged and depressed, and you're not content with what God God's doing in your life right now? Can I suggest something? I mean that's what pastors do, right? They get nosy suggesting things. I'd like to suggest that maybe you're looking for happiness and fulfillment in the things of the world. Are you looking for happiness and fulfillment? Are you looking for your blessings in your finances? Well you're gonna be all over the board then. You're gonna be on one of those like one of those spiritual roller coasters like the roller coasters that we were on at Hershey Park Friday Because that changes. Are you constantly dependent upon what people say about you and the friendship That you have with others. And if for some reason they're mad at you or upset with you, then your whole day's ruined. Are you depending upon politicians? Boy, that's a roller coaster ride. If that's your what you're Depending in. You see, we put our trust and dependence in so many things, and we look to so many things to make us happy. Money, experiences, entertainment, friends, even family. And Paul is pointing us to no, don't let those things be your ultimate source of spirituality. Blessing, but understand what you have in Christ. That God loves you and you are part of the beloved, and He will make sure that you finish Your spiritual race till the end. He will make sure that you persevere and you are accepted and loved. And God will change you into being someone that's useful for Him, a useful tool. And many, many more blessings. You have a perfect heavenly father that loves you in a way no earthly father ever could. As we finish, we'll bring it around to Father's Day. We fathers try our best. Spiritual mentors, disciplers in this church, we try our best to minister to others, but sooner or later, even we, even the best father, fails. He messes up, he makes mistakes. But folks, our heavenly Father never makes mistakes. And he loves us in a perfect way. And when we are in Christ, in relationship with Christ, we have a love that will never let us go. Even when we're most irritating, even when we're most obnoxious, even when we're at our worst and we've had multiple fails throughout our day, and we just look at our Ourselves and say, I don't even like me today. Our Heavenly Father loves us, and He's with us. Doesn't that motivate you to want to praise his name in the morning worship service and throughout the week? Had a young lady in our group uh Friday that mentioned to us, she said, you know, on long trips, I just like to listen to Christian music because I just love to sing to Jesus when I'm going somewhere. And it makes the time go by faster. Well that's someone that ha knows that she has a lot to say. sing about. And so we sang songs of our relationship with Jesus almost all the way home. All of us should have that realization. That regardless of what we don't have in this life, we have Jesus. He loves us. He's all we need. So, dads, have you been making mistakes lately? Have you failed in certain ways in your leadership? Jesus loves you. For the family, Jesus loves you too, and he'll help you to endure when dad makes mistakes. But we are all blessed to be a part of the family of God. Let's thank him this morning. Father, what a blessing it is to be a part of the adopted family. That we are truly a member. Our sonship cannot be revoked. It cannot be changed But it is permanent through the work that Christ has done, through what you purpose before eternity, before time began. And let us revel in that and find our hope in your love for us this morning. So Lord, if there's, and I'm certain there are those here today that are struggling with discouragement, with discontentment, with depression, I pray that today you will lift their height. their sights to the heavenly blessings that we have in Christ. And for those that need him as their Savior, that today would be the day they put their faith in dependence in him. And in his work that the Heavenly Father has ordained for us. So even as I plead and pray for that this morning, folks, I'm going to And we're going to give you some time to think and to meditate on all that we have in Christ and to be encouraged before we even sing our last song, grace that is greater than our Sin, you take some time and meditate on the blessings that we have in Christ and let your hearts be lifted and encouraged. All of that is Leslie plays.