People rage, nations rage, the world rages on, but we can still quiet our souls, we can find Rest. Only through Jesus Christ. If there is any children left in the building at this point, they can go on to children's church. They're doing a good job of that. Headed down there. Thankful for all of our children's church teachers and all that they do in our ministries. You can turn to First Thessalonians chapter three. And we are continuing to talk about effective ministry and what that looks like because every church wants effective ministry. I don't think any church or faithful servants in a church would say, I'm just kind of used to tempid , non-effective ministry that well it's it maybe meets my needs in some sort of way, but we're not really that much of an outreach in our community and I'm a Okay with that. I don't think anybody here would have that kind of testimony. So we should be searching the scriptures, desiring, desiring Saying, Lord Jesus, how can we have effective ministry in our church? Here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. And thankfully, Paul describes the way here In this book, in 1 Thessalonians. The passage that we had read this morning from 2 Corinthians also made it clear what true ministry looks like That there would be great joys as clay vessels see themselves used by the power of Christ. There is a wonderful joy in that, in the midst of suffering. And Paul is going to remind us again in 1 Thessalonians in chapter 3. We'll see if we get all the way through this chapter today. If we take a little bit longer, remember. folks. There was no evening service tonight, right? And uh you you had a good break from the Thanksgiving from Thanksgiving and and restful, hopefully a little bit of rest. So I'm looking forward to getting Into this with us today. Really, where Paul is going to continue to describe the blessings of effective ministry. We can have effective ministry Ministry, and we can experience the blessings of effective ministry in our local churches. We can have faithful discipleship. We can be faithful examples to others. We can have joy. We can see effective ministry multiply and increase. All of this Paul talks about in this chapter. Well, he's been describing loving, effective discipleship ministry. with what he had with the Thessalon Thessalonian believers there in that in that city. We've talked about that. We've seen that. Be ready to go back to Acts chapter 17. Here in a few minutes, as we look again at a little bit of background, as we look at this passage this morning. But he has seen, he was he was discouraged because he was worried about having to leave those folks So quickly, and yet he finds out, and we'll see more of this even today. Timothy comes back with a wonderful report that they are responding to that leadership. They had through Paul and his friends, and there's growth in their ministry throughout not only their city, but the surrounding regions, even in the midst of persecution. Persecution. Paul is going to remind us today and remind them actually that he had warned them, he had prepared them that persecution would come. But he was still concerned as a new Kind of infant church because he described himself as a mother caring for infants. This was an infant church. And suffering. And And opposition can have very damaging negative effects on new believers. Paul was very nervous for this He knew that Satan would be trying to hinder them for this effective ministry. And so he desires to get back to them as Quickly as he can, but God in his sovereignty won't allow Paul to get back to these believers. And so we'll see as well that he prays for them and he gives them over to the Lord. Knowing the Lord will protect them even though He's not able to be with them. His time of effective discipleship ministry in the city of Thessalonica was cut short. And his concern was that Satan would now use that as an opportunity to hinder These folks and do much damage since he couldn't be with them. A note in this, though, as Paul is very concerned about the people there At Thessalonica. What does God actually do with this whole situation? Well, because of Paul's concern, he writes letters to those people He sends them with Timothy to encourage them, to strengthen them in the midst of Satan's afflictions. Those people. And we today, even though Paul looked at his ministry as being cut short and him being at a disadvantage, God used That to allow us now than to be encouraged by Paul's letters that he sent to those folks in the midst of difficult things. You see how God can take Things that unexpected things, maybe even things in ministry where we wanted to see certain things happen and they didn't happen, and it doesn't make sense. sense to us and we say, Lord, why did you allow this to happen in our church in this way? Wasn't that kind of what Paul's saying here? Lord, he was thinking in his own mind, Lord, why did you allow me? Why did I have to leave so quickly? Things were going so well. Well, we can do that in our own ministries. Lord, we things were going so well, or we had the specific Specific way, um, you know, direction we were headed, and all these things happened, and we don't understand, and it's frustrating. But God can use frustrating circumstances. To bring even greater results than we could ever imagine. And we have these very letters because of the way God allowed things to happen, these letters to the Thessalonian church. That are incredibly encouraging to us. And Paul then hears back that he has a legacy And his joy with these folks is that they are continuing to grow in the discipleship. He has a great joy in the midst of all of this. And it's something That we should desire as well, folks. Paul is saying here that maturing faithful believers that he had the opportunity to disciple, to see them continue To grow in the Lord is one of the greatest joys of his life. And folks, that's not just the joy that God intends for leadership and a ministry. That's a joy that God intends for every one of us. That we would all be involved in discipleship and seeing folks grow and then seeing those folks disciple other people and then And then we look back and say, wow, Lord, what a wonderful thing. You used me in someone's life, and now you're using them in someone else's life. You would find there is a great joy in that. It's one of the greatest joys of life here on earth is to see God use you in the life of someone else and to see him multiply that then in the lives of others. Now it's all Christ's work, but it is a great joy. And I think, folks, sometimes the lack of joy that we experience or that we don't experience In our churches, maybe because we're not doing enough of discipling each other and having the joy of seeing people grow. Well, let's read here a little bit of what Paul has to say in chapter three. Actually, I'm going to skip ahead. Um to verse six. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us as we long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your And now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God? As we pray most earnestly, night. Paul is experiencing the blessings of effective. Ministry and hearing that these folks continue on in his absence for the cause of Christ. And he is greatly comforted. That's one of the blessings of effective ministry, folks. Is the comfort and rest that we have in Christ. To see Him working in our midst, to see His power, to hear, as we have privilege, even as from Ruth this morning. And others, we have a privilege to support gospel ministry around the world and to hear back and to hear that God is using these folks is a great comfort. As we hear of them continuing to disciple each other. And so as we look at these first three verses then, in first three Thessalonians 3. Paul is going to remind us that faithful discipleship brings comfort, and it is a major part of effective ministry. Evangelism, yes, but we don't leave people. There. We continue to disciple them. That's what Paul did. Verse 1. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, Paul is not able to get back to the city of Thessalonica. And it's driving him crazy. Say today, it's driving me nuts. He said I could bear it no longer. I had to find out how things were Remember they didn't have Apple News on your phones or even Fox News or whatever wherever menu you you get your news from and they couldn't just look up or they They couldn't text or email. 're Paul really had no idea what was going on in the church there in Thessalonica, and it was driving him crazy. And so he actually, even though he didn't want to do Do this initially. He said we were willing to be left behind in Athens alone. He sends Timothy back. And we sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. To establish and exhort you and your faith to help firm up the teachings that we had already given you and to exhort. Here that word seems to have uh the major. Emphasis of comfort, to bring comfort to you. We are sure that there that Paul is sure that there was great persecution still happening. Remember, he was run out of out of the city in the midst of a riot. And yet, um, these folks needed encouragement as they continued in their faith. Verse 3, that no one be moved by these afflictions, for you yourselves know that we are destined for this. Now I said that keep your finger in Acts 17. We'll just quickly I'll just quickly give you a summation of that so you don't even have to necessarily turn there. But after Paul finished in Thessalonica, remember, there was a riot stirred up by the Jewish opponents. And they were forced out of town. Paul went to another city, a number of miles away, to Berea. They had effective ministry there. And then the same leaders from Thessalonica, religious leaders, came to Berea And got and stirred up the people there so that they had to leave. And verse fourteen, the brothers, this is from Acts chapter seventeen, the brothers immediately sent Paul off on his way to sea, but Silas and Timothy remained There in Berea, and those who conducted Paul brought him as far as Athens. So Paul ends up all the way in Athens, that's far south of Berea and Thessalonica. And so he commands for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible. He's in Athens. Seems like Silas and Timothy eventually met Paul in Athens. Athens. And Paul was a little red or reticent to send these men back into that, but finally he could wait no longer. He said, Timothy, you gotta go back to Thessalonica and let us know what's going on. I've just been so burdened and concerned for those people. You need to firm up their understanding of the gospel. You need to give them comfort. You need to remind them that I told them, I told them, verse 3, that there be afflictions. Paul says, you yourselves know this is something that we talked about often, even in the small Amount of time that I was there that you would have great afflictions. In fact, he said, we are destined for this. What does that mean? Mean folks. Here's something encouraging to think on. What Paul is saying is in this life, suffering truly is our destiny. It's something that we should expect Now remember, we just saying of the glorious return of Christ as well and the eternal rest that we have in him. So let's Balance that out. Suffering we're destined for in this life. Eternal rest we're also destined for as the children of God. Far better. We can hang on and we can endure the suffering. In this life. But Paul says, this is a young church, Timothy. They're gonna, it's gonna, it's gonna weigh upon them. It's gonna affect them. Remind them that I told them that this wasn't gonna be a cakewalk. That it was going to be hard. And encourage them. Firm them up. Give them more of the gospel. Give them more of God's word. Comfort them in their relationship with Christ. Christ. Timothy, go back and disciple these people. And Timothy did that. And so then Paul continues. And reminds the folks of the faithful examples that they had been for them and that they needed to continue Following after Paul and the others, their faithful example. Paul had consistently taught them that suffering in this life was inevitable. Verse four When we were with you we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know You know before we were forced out of town we told you this was going to happen, new uh believers in the church of Thessalonica. So don't be discouraged. It's a part of life. Isn't it true that when we even go through a little bit of suffering in our ministry and our service for Christ? It can greatly discourage us. I mean, Paul was having a wonderful ministry there, right? We all understand this. Fruitful, effective, people getting saved, people growing in their faith, and all of a sudden the Midst of all this, he's forced out of town. Well, how frustrating. Many times we just come and we're a part of ministry, and we just say, Lord, I just want to serve you. I just want to be a part of service to you, and I I want to give my life to you, and I don't have to deal with all these difficulties and all these frustrations and all these frustrating people. Why do you allow this? Lord, why do you allow suffering and difficulty And I think what Paul's reminding us here, as it he was reminded, is that it reminds us to depend upon the So many times we try to do it alone or go it alone in our ministry service for Him, which is really pathetic, isn't it? That we want to serve Jesus Christ, but many times we want to do it on our own without asking for his help, and we find that we can't do that. And so God allows difficult people and situations. into our lives suffering so that we remember, oh yeah, I need to depend upon Jesus Christ. Again, I've been depending too much on myself. And Paul is reminded that even when he's away from these folks, God can still work. Even the great, mighty Apostle Paul, God doesn't need him in a particular situation. To work in people's lives. And God is working in these folks' lives. But verse 5, Paul is again, he's going Crazy. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I had to send Timothy. I had to learn about your faith, about the practice of your faith. Faith to make sure that you were continuing on. Because Paul remembered something that is a reality and a sobering reality for all of us. Because there is an enemy out there, right, folks? And he walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And that needs to be real to us. That picture needs to be real. Because even though Jesus Christ gives us victory over him, we don't want to take that for granted and we don't want to make little of the fact that Satan hates effective ministry and he will And Paul says, I'm so concerned for this new church. Because I know the enemy, the tempter, had tempted you, and our labor would be in vain. He knows how heavily how heavy suffering can weigh on infant believers On young believers, and the great damage that Satan can do to baby Christians. And so Paul is making a note again that discipleship is so important. I think many times in evangelism, even in the past few decades and even the last part of the century, there was Was a push to share Christ and to see people saved, but people forgot many times the other part of the commission. And that was after folks trust Christ. They need to be discipled. We don't just leave them where they are. Praise the Lord, you trust in Christ. Now uh go go find And I'll look forward to seeing you in in glory one day. Hope you can get by. Now sometimes when we have situations Where we we share our faith, that may be all that we can do, point somebody. But we always should point some people to point all new believers to an avenue of a way that they can be disciples. Would you not agree with me, folks, that this is Saul's, this is uh Paul's concern and that it is very true? What is evangelism without followship? Excuse me. Me, what is evangelism without follow-up discipleship? Really, folks, it's spiritual neglect. It's neglecting children. In Christ. And we as a church family need to have a desire to not just see people saved, not to To leave them where they are, not to leave babies unattended. We wouldn't do that in a nursery. We don't want to do that with spiritual babies. Paul is concerned that the babies, the infants in Thessalonica are unattended. And he wants Timothy to go back and give them further discipleship. And he's seeking for that to happen. And he couldn't stand it any longer, so he sent Timothy. And you can just imagine as he's waiting. He wouldn't get a message on his iPhone, right? Text, email, whatever. He'd have to wait sometimes months. But Timothy did come back. And Timothy gave him a wonderful report. Look at verse 6. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news. of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us. This was over and above the response that Paul was expecting. And he's so happy and rejoicing. We long to see you. For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. Faith. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord. Timothy returns with good news. Paul is concerned. Satan is still a force to be reckoned with. He's concerned for these young believers, and Timothy comes back and says. Paul, all is well. In fact, it's beyond what we expected. And I think it was a reminder to Paul, too, that maybe God was saying to him, See, Paul As powerful, powerfully as I'm using you, I don't need you to be there. I can work apart from you, Paul. And God can work apart from us even when we fail in some of these areas. But oh the joy that Paul experienced to hear that these people were growing, and oh the joy that you can Experience when you're willing to be a part of his plan in this way. And Tim and he says, Timothy brought back this good news of your faith that you can take Continue to grow in your faith in Christ and you tell other people about Christ. And you're growing in love. Mature people are loving people, folks. Mature, growing Christians are loving Christians. You can't escape that fact. We can know a lot about God's word and yet be immature in our relationship with Jesus Christ. And these folks are rather immature, but they're growing in love for Christ, really the most important thing, right? They have love for their community. They have love for others. They want to see others come to Christ. And Timothy says, all of these things are growing And he says, here's another thing for our encouragement and comfort, Paul. Here's another thing for your comfort, that they remember the ministry in the time in the Sacrifice that we gave there, and they long to see us. They haven't forgotten about us, Paul. They want to see us again soon. I think is an illustration back over the years that the Lord has given us to minister here in this ministry and then to leave and to minister. Up in New Hampshire, and now the glorious and somewhat surprising still in some ways, the opportunity to be back here and minister to you folks. One of the greatest things in having been involved in multiple Multiple ministries, and one of the greatest joys is to hear people call you and to tell you things are continuing to go on for the Lord. But we miss ya. We appreciate your ministry. We appreciate God's work in our lives. And not as much the try like um Pumping up our pride. Like you were the best pastor or best leader ever. That's not where the joy comes in, folks. That's a lack of humility. But humble servants when they hear of others that they've ministered with in the past and that those people are growing and continuing, but that they miss and And um that they enjoyed the fellowship that they had with that leadership, it's just a reminder that God used us. It's a reminder to me in my family as we hear back even from friends in New Hampshire and say that they miss us. It's a reminder, hey, God used us up there And that's a great joy, and to hear these people are continuing in their faith. When teenagers contact me and they remind me of the good times that we used to have, it's not Pride that gives me joy, but it's the reminder that God has used me, has used my family when we are so undeserving as Clay Vell There is such a great joy to hear back from people and to find out that God used you in their lives at just the right time. And they are continuing on, but they miss ya. And they hope to see you again soon. And so Paul says, when I heard that, verse For this reason, brothers, in all our distress and affliction, it was great comfort for me. Because I heard about your growing faith And then he basically says in verse 8, this is my way of summarizing that, Paul says, this is what I live for. To hear that God used me and used my friends to do a great work. Well, He did the great work, but He used us as humble tools for that work. And it is of great comfort to me to hear that you are standing fast in your love and your relationship with Christ. This is what I live for. Well, as Paul says that rather convicting statement, I think the next thing that we ought to think about is really, well What do I live for? What gives me my greatest joy? There's a lot of things that get us excited, right? Tickets to our favorite sporting team events. The opportunity to go to our favorite restaurant, the opportunity to go to be with family, these things aren't necessarily bad. The opportunity to have some new technology or or whatever thing really gets you jazzed up, gets you excited. Sometimes we will say, man, I live for that. Well it's okay to enjoy the things that God has given us, but folks, let's be convicted here by Paul. Many times the things that we live for When we say that, fall far short of a joy of seeing people grow in ministry. We're far more shallow many times than what we want to admit Pastor included. But I can tell you that some of the greatest joys that I've ever had in my life Come from hearing that people that I have ministered to are still growing in the Lord Some of the greatest griefs that I have in my life are hearing about people that I ministered to, that we ministered to as a family, that are not doing well. Not growing in the Lord and maybe have even fallen away. That's a great grief. That's a concern for me as a pastor. But oh, the joy, the comfort. Folks, if you if you are living for anything less than being a useful vessel for Christ and seeing his power work through you to affect others, then you are missing out on real living. Because the great joy and comfort of our lives is to see God working through us to help other people come to know Him and grow in Him. Now, this verse 9 ties right in with Thanksgiving. You see how this all comes together? It's really great. He says, For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake. Before our God, as we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. Paul is describing here his own celebration of Thanksgiving. And he's thanking the Lord for the blessings of fruitful, effective ministry. That it brings joy, and it's brought joy to his life and to Timothy's and those around him. I think what he's saying in verse 9 is really what What more could we ask for, Lord? You've filled our cup with blessings. We offer thanksgiving. What else can we do? We've had all of this joy. in hearing that these folks continue on in their relationship with God. And what it causes us to do then is pray more earnestly night and day that we want to get back Back there and see them again. Please, Lord, bring us back. Well, Paul wouldn't actually get back there for quite a while. God would answer his prayer, but it would still be Be a while yet. But he is experiencing the joy, and he says, This is enough. And folks, really, when we see God use us powerfully in ministry, It will be enough. It will satisfy. Our relationship with Jesus Christ satisfies us, right? But seeing him work powerfully through us to help other people to grow, to come to Christ and grow in their relationship with him is the greatest joy. That we can experience. Does this kind of ministry that Paul talks about out here discipling each other, helping each other to grow in Christ. We'll get back to that the end of First Thessalonians, the end of the chapter next week, verses 11 Encouraging each other in Christ. Will that really work here? Well, folks, I know uncertain terms. It has to. It's all Christ commands of us to do is to point each other to Christ and to help each other to grow in Christ. That has to work That's the only thing that we do. But Jesus can help us to grow in our discipleship ministry. And we can And see each other grow and experience that joy of seeing God work in us to help others. Do you remember that church that I told you was such an inspiration to me, Pastor Tim Potter, back in uh It's Grace Church of Mentor, Northern Ohio, near Lake Erie. And he was on the search for a better, more effective way of evangelism and discipleship and they visited that church. It was a little farther out west and they saw a church ministry where people were meeting together. I think it was a Sunday evening and they were all in a building. They were enjoying snaps And food together, and they were encouraging each other, helping each other to grow in the basics of God's Word. And my friend Tim Potter says, that's what I want for our members. Ministry. Well, the end of that story is he came back and he presented these truths that we've talked about in First Thessalonians. And he showed his folks, you see, Paul didn't just leave people. people's baby Christians, but he saw them, he wanted them to grow, and he encouraged others um that were that were um more mature in their faith to help these folks to grow. He didn't leave them, he didn't leave his spiritual responsibilities behind, but he taught them to disciple each other so that they were helping each other to grow in their faith. And then they were looking for relationships that they had and the community To share Christ with those folks. He explained these truths and then he said, What are we going to do about that in this church ministry? Now, this is what their church ministry did. Decided to do. We at Upper Crossroads have to decide how we want to implement this. But here's a couple suggestions. This worked for their ministry. Ministry, maybe modified it could work for our ministry. Pastor Tim eventually got uh or told people in a service that they were gonna have a sign-up sheet, that those That were interested in having discipleship relationships with people that put their name on an actual sheet, and they would facilitate those people getting together within the church to help discipleship And they would encourage them meeting together regularly, every one or two, or maybe even once a month, depending. That's probably a little too too uh Little, but that they would study the same material that we're studying in Sunday school right here at our church. And they would get together with these people, these friends, regularly, one-on-one discipleship, and they would encourage each other in the Lord, just like Paul had the Thessalonians. And then what they would do is they even allowed special times for the evening service because I think we've seen in the worship service that God intends for us all to work Worship together as God's people. But in the evening they would allow for times where these folks could go out and disciple each other and work through material about the Word of God, and they didn't have to come to the evening service. And they Would also do this during Sunday school and during Wednesday night. And the whole point was promoting people discipling each other within the church. And they even came up after a while. It started They came up with a budget to help people encouraged to do this. And some people would come to Pastor Tim and would say, you know, we have this couple in our community that we've been trying to reach out to. And we want to take them out to a nice restaurant and share the gospel with them. Would the church help us with that? And Pastor Tim said, certainly. We will fund your ability to do that because we want you To spread the gospel and to talk to these folks. And they would incorporate things in ministry to help those relationships and to help their own people. Grow in the Lord. So by the time my family and I visited their church many years ago, they have pretty much a whole church of people where each person In the church is assigned to someone who disciples them, and each person in the church is assigned to someone else to help disciple someone else. And the process continues. And they continue to grow and see great effective blessings from God. Well, that's what they decided to do with the truths that I've shared with you. What are we going to do with them? That's something I want to continue to investigate into the The new year. How are we going to help disciple each other? How are we going to help each other make aware that we have relationships and friendships with people in this community? That needs Christ. Some of those same things might work for us. But folks, whatever we decide, I think you would agree with me at this point that the one thing that we can't do is not Do anything at all. But we need at Upper Crossroads to resemble and reflect and mimic this disciple Fellowship, way of life, and evangelism. And God , our Savior Jesus Christ, will show us the way. That I am confident Father, thank you that you provided us this way forward in the example of Paul and his followers. That as a church ministry, that we can help each other and disciple each other and encourage each other in the Lord. And that we must Help us to have a burden for that. And Lord, help us to also have a burden for those friendships, those people that we know in our communities, that neighbor. That co-worker who keeps chatting about all kinds of different things, and we chat back, but we never quite get to the gospel. Help us to find ways to get to the gospel in those relationships. Help us to care enough for those folks, to spend time with them, to get to To know them, so that we feel comfortable enough with these friends, that they're dear enough to us to share the most important Important person in our lives, Jesus Christ. Lord, we acknowledge that we need help. This is not natural for us, and yet we have the Holy Spirit in us In us to help us to motivate us to do this. Help us to be a group of people that desire to want to grow and that will uh be allow others in this church To lovingly and carefully disciple. Help us all to be willing to be discipled. Help us willing to disciple others And what that looks like, Lord Jesus, we depend upon you to show us the way and to guide us, and we know that you will. For it's in your name that we pray. Before I say amen, let's take a few minutes and reflect. What does God want Upper Crossroads to do as far as discipling each other? And asking God to make us aware of those friendships of people that don't know Christ and what He wants us to do with those relationships. Take some time to consider that as Wesley Place