Nasty, yucky clothes of the unredeemed. But no, you put those off. And you and you um renew your mind through much time in God's word. That's going to be that's can continue to be a key thing for this year. That our people are learning more about God's word, and that you're learning not just verses and that you're reading it, but you're knowing how to apply it Quiet, because we need to walk carefully. And how are you gonna walk carefully, folks, without knowing the map well? Renew your minds through God's word. And then put on the way of the new man, the ways of new life in which God has transformed us. Well, that's hard. Well, there are it's challenging at times. To put on the fruit of the Spirit and to walk in those ways. That's why the power of the Holy Spirit changes us and enables us to do that. God has given us the ability to be Spiritually mature. And again, folks, we don't want to be spiritual infants our whole lives, right? None of us want that. We want to be mature people, able to stand and help Others to comfort others with the comfort that we've been comforted with, as Paul says in other of his letters. And so, how do we do that? We walk in the light of God's truth. We know God's truth. We use His truth as the flashlight. To guide us through a dark world. We don't stumbling around and giving into the darkness, that's not a good testimony of maturity. That's what babies do. Mature Christians use the Word of God to guide them through life instead of falling to the darkness of the world. And Paul then chapter 5, verse 15, describes those that walk this way as the walk of the wise. They're looking carefully how they walk. They're using the light of God's word to be carefully Careful in every step. Really? In everything that they do. If you and I were to use the flashlight of God's word to illuminate everything that we do, every choice That we make, I think there might be a difference in our lives. And that's what Paul's calling us to here. Folks, it's just a fact. We don't know how much time we have on this earth. None of us do. And whatever, whether we only have forty years, or whether God gives us ninety-five. I have a mentor again that I've mentioned before. His name is Pastor Reynold Lemp, Central Florida , near Orlando. The man has just turned, will just turn this. Um this month, ninety-eight years old, God's given him a wonderful life of ministry. But unless the Lord returns, that is for a limited time as well. It's a short time. Our lives we sense this the time is very short. The longer we live, we realize, you've heard this before, the days can be long, but the years are short. We don't know how much time we're going to have. So wouldn't it behoove us then to use that time as God gives it to us for his purposes since we don't know. Why waste the time that God's given us? No, redeem the time. The days are evil. The world is dark So, Ephesians 5, 15, we should look carefully how we walk, not as unwise, not as foolish people, but as wise, making the best use of time. Because the days are evil, redeeming the time, some versions say. And we the careful walk of the wise, then we walk in a way that is following after God's will, because we know his will through His word. And we can know then his wisdom, and we walk carefully in that wisdom. What is wisdom? It is the ability to apply God's truth to our lives so that we know how to live and act on a daily basis. It's really that simple. That's what wisdom is. And we need to walk in understanding. People need to see that we are wise. Through the wisdom God has given us, not our own, not our own opinions. And so this also, then, if we're walking in this wisdom, guess what? This We need to choose what we do, our activities, based on what best reflects our new life in Christ. We need reminders in this sometimes, folks, because we get comfortable. And we get apathetic. And we need a reminder that really in our lives, every choice that we make, we ought to be saying, you know what? Is this the best use of my time? Does this best reflect my new life in Christ? Does this best reflect my identity as a king Kingdom citizen, one that will be a part of God's kingdom, and for those of us that are believers in in this life We will one day rule and reign with Jesus Christ. Is what I'm doing right now best reflective of that? If it's not, I probably shouldn't be giving that so much of my time because my time is short. And I want to make the best use of that. So we have to give then careful consideration. As if, in effect, we are walking through a minefield. And this is in this life. It's not too dramatic. To say that we do walk through a minefield because of the um uh the planted bombs of Satan, of the devil, and of this world, if we're not careful in the activities that we become a that we allow into our lives, It can blow up in our face. It can hurt our testimony. And so as we live our lives, we ought to not, you know, tiptoe through life. But walk discerningly, carefully. Should I be doing this? Should I be involved in this? Should I be putting this in my body? And he'll be describing that here in just a minute. Because these days are evil. Folks, here is a motto that I think would be good for all of us to adopt If I can sum up what Paul's saying here, fools just do it. Wise people think through it. There's a lot of ad campaigns out there and have been in the past. They they just say, just do it. If if if it hits if it hits your fancy, if it's what you think think you ought to do, just do it. Don't even think about it. No, no, no. That's not what believers do. Fools just do it. Wise people. People that are of the future kingdom of Jesus Christ, they think through it. They think through everything. Is this best for me? I need to be using my time in this way. And even when we do think, maybe we just were using our common sense. Would you agree with me? It just seems like anymore in this world there's not even a lot of common sense out there. Do you say that a lot to your friends and to your family? Just common sense. Why wouldn't they do that? Well that common sense is helpful, and it does help us to think through and think, well, this this just is this is good to do, but even folks are common sense wisdom that That we just think, yeah, that's just what we should do. Do you realize even that needs to be submitted to the Holy Spirit? Because there are some times in our lives where it just seems like, yeah, that's the right thing to do, but in actuality Maybe the Holy Spirit, maybe God doesn't want us to act in that way and do that. We have to be careful following what come uh the types of things and just Following our lives to do what comes naturally to us is the point. We could get ourselves in real trouble because many times the flesh comes naturally To us. So even that things that make common sense to us, well, of course I would do it that way. Why wouldn't I? We ought to pray, but Lord, would you have me today Do this. I'm submitted to the Spirit. Many of you know that a few years back, 2000 , end of 2000. The Lord called us for a few years to minister in New Hampshire at a small uh church there um in uh Wales New Hampshire. And yes, we heard the joke many times. Where? But it was really called Where, New Hampshire. And we, when we first got there, actually, this was an act of faith. We didn't even have a place, we didn't have a home. And so we stayed with a couple that was very generous and had offered for us to stay with them. They had plenty of room. The Lord had blessed them with a large home. But we wanted to get out and find our own place. Well, the Lord eventually found a place for us. Well, he knew where the place was the whole time. We found it. It was in a little village called Kentuck. also known as Hopkinton. It was near the capital of New Hampshire, Concord. And it was a very nice three-level home. It was a great place, great location. We were thankful for it. But an extra thing for the boys anyway, an extra perk, was they noticed that off to the side of the property there was a treehouse. And it had been it obvious that at some point somebody had spent a lot of money to put this tree house together. They were all excited. But as we went closer to it and as I examined it, I realized, well, whoever put that money into this tree house had done it a long time ago because it was looking pretty shabby. And so, and even as I looked at the ladder that was going up, it wasn't just a rope ladder, but it was an ascending staircase made of wood. Wow. That's impressive. But as I looked, some of the um steps looked a little rotted and they looked like, ah, you step on me, you know, you might go through and things like this. So I said the boys, no, let's, let's Let me shore this up first. And eventually, I probably took, I know I took too long to shore that treehouse up. It drove them crazy, but I finally did get the opportunity to get up And I was being very careful as I walked up those stairs and into that tree house. And this flooring that had obviously been put together with care at some point was now a little precarious. And leaning in places. So I had to be very careful where I walked because I wasn't sure what was going to happen when I put my foot in a certain area. Be falling through, and the kids' excitement might turn into a tragedy with dad up in traction for two weeks. I don't know. So as I walked, I was walking carefully. Really being careful with every step that I took to make sure that I had an idea of where the weaknesses were, then I went back, shorted up, put some new steps in, learned a lot. about um you know building since I'd had virtually no experience and shored up things so that it was a safe place for them to um play and to enjoy. But that idea of walking carefully. We think we're wiser than we are, folks, and many times in this world we think we can get involved Oh, that seems like that's okay. And yet it is a trap designed to get us to fall. And we have to be careful then in so many things in our lives. Verse 16, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Some translations say redeeming the time. Really you could describe this, simply translate it as buying time. Making the most of the opportunities that life affords. Making the best use of time. Buying And redeeming the time for God's purposes. Because the days are evil. There's already enough evil and wickedness out there, folks People don't need to look at our lives and see more of what they're already involved in, the ways of Satan, sin. But people need to look at our lives because time is short and we need to look at our lives and redeem them. Are we going to spend most of our time involved in activities that captivate the world? That the world thinks is interesting and captivating Or is there just in our lives are there things that as we look over, as we think on this concept of, you know No, I don't know how much time that I have. I really need to make sure that I'm using the time the best way possible so that I can be useful for Christ. Maybe there's some things that are good in your lives, but you're spending too much much time. We all struggle with that. Things that we love. And that could be all kinds of things. Activities, sports, entertainment. Watching our favorite sports teams play, whatever it is. We can get in this age so caught up in so many things and distracted in a hundred different ways. That we wouldn't say is morally wrong. But sometimes we're too involved and we're not thinking, wait a minute, I only have so much time. So with my life, when I die, do I want people to say that guy or that um Lady was the most passionate football fan for their team that I've ever known. Put it on my gravestone. I was an Orioles fan. And I am an Orioles fan, folks. So there's nothing wrong with that. But in the big picture, what do we want to be known for? I can tell you at my memorial service, which I hope is way down The road. I'm hoping for the rapture. I don't want people to talk about what a great sports fan I was. I just want to hear that I was a useful tool for God's purposes. That I was careful in my walk so that He could use me in that way. Don't we tell our kids that? I know we tell our kids. When they um the Lord has allowed some of our boys to um do some jobs, some shoveling jobs in the community, and they've earned some pretty good money. And so, you know, when young people sometimes when they get money, they just see something they want to spend it on right away, and we have to tell them, look, you need to think through. Is that really the best use of your resources? Is that really something that is going to be of benefit to you and in the best way? Because we We only have so much time. Make sure you're spending your money on things of value and what you do and what you don't do. Yes, weigh out those options and those choices and ask yourself yourself, not just for kids, but for adults too. Thinking toward eternity is this The best use of my time? And oh, that's convicting for all of us. And that's why Paul includes it. In his letter here. He says, verse 17, Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. We just read from the book of Proverbs that talks about wisdom. And you could sum it up. Knowing what the will of the Lord is. That's what the book of Proverbs helps us to do. The Proverbs gives us the classic contrast between the fool and the wise. And we want to be examples of wise people, not unwise Not foolish people. Not people that don't seem to know what they're doing, but people that are confident in what God has directed them to do and they have a purpose. Be responsive to God's leading in his word, his moral will, and submissive to whatever he wants to do. do with your life. God has a plan for each of our lives. Have you submitted yourself to it? Do you know God's word well enough that you You can navigate what his expectations for you are in morality in the right way Those that are growing in their walk with Jesus Christ will have understanding. That word understanding is the same idea as wisdom, but even a little more intense. That we throughout our daily lives are able to navigate life well because we know how God wants us to conduct ourselves in this world. There are some people , believers , that some people look at and say they just don't seem like they know how to navigate life. They they just don't seem competent. It's just, you know, I mean God's got grace for them and praise the Lord, He's helping them, but they just they don't seem like that, you know, they're able to We don't want to be those types of people, folks, but we want to pray, God, help me to be competent. Not to be arrogant and say, look what I've done, and look how um look how confident and how stable my life is, but we say, Look what God has done. God can do this for me. For you too. God can help you to live in a competent way, knowing his word well, and having the answers for people. When they're going through difficult things. Folks, do you want to be known as a wise person this morning? Or one that just somehow gets along somehow by the grace of God but watching their lives? It's always a roller coaster. It's always uns uh unstable. No Don't be foolish any longer, but understand what the will of the Lord is. Understand God's word. Know God's word well. It's a theme for this. this year. Then Paul does something that is kinda hard for pastors. He throws in here two topics that are probably the most controversial topics in in ministry today. Thanks, Paul. Alcohol and music. Within two verses. But folks, when Paul put this in Scripture, he wasn't intending for this just to be a stumbling block for pastors, a gotcha moment. Hey, you pastors are you know a little too comfortable and so I'm gonna throw a couple um I'm gonna cup throw a couple things in just to make sure you're on your toes here. So I'm gonna talk about alcohol and music. Haha Now, we need to understand that a lot of times we come to these verses and we get distracted from what really the true message is. And by God's grace, we're going to address these things, but we're not going to get distracted from the main message as well. Because Paul is pointing out we walk in a way that follows God's will, and we walk in a way that is filled with the Spirit. And we must choose to be filled with the Holy Spirit, to be submitted to him rather than grieving him. And so when we get to verse eighteen and it says, Do not be drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be Filled with the Spirit, what we need to think right away is, oh, what does this say? What we don't need to think about right away is, oh, what does this say about alcohol? But the motivating, the primary thing we ought to be thinking about is a commitment to living a righteous, spirit-controlled life. Paul is saying that the wise person who is navigating life in a good way is filled with the spirit and is not under the control of other powerful elements that when those elements gain control, they cause us to lose control. Paul says that's not appropriate. Well we need to be filled with the Spirit. And folks, those that get drunk with wine, with alcohol, we would all admit, ultimately do not have control over themselves, and they become undisciplined. and disorderly. And for the Christian, when you get to that point because you've mis you misuse alcohol Are you of benefit to God? Are you using your time wisely? And Paul says you're not. When we let drunkenness and alcohol control us, it causes us to spin out of control. And we're wasting time, precious time, that we should be using to be controlled by the Spirit and being used for God's purposes Instead of being controlled by alcohol, we need to be filled with the Spirit. Now, to be clear on this as well, some ministries and Certain branches of Christianity take an interpretation of this being filled by the Spirit that I do not believe is accurate, is a misinterpretation. of Scripture and they basically say here that what Paul is saying is that you need to be filled with the Spirit. In other words, that as believers, we need a second filling of the Spirit to really be used by God. So when you get saved, you get that initial filling of the Spirit, but then when you get to a point in your life where you're really committed and saying, I'm going to put out, let's say. alcohol and all these things and I'm gonna live for God. Then God's like, okay, now you're really ready for to really be used by me. And it's like those video games where the character gets energized, boop, boop, boop, boop, boop, and that second filling of the spirit, and now there's the spiritual super Christian. Except, folks, that's not at all what Paul says. The filling of the Spirit here. We get all the Holy Spirit. Let me put it this way: we get all the Holy Spirit that we need when we Are converted and when we trust Christ, God gives us all the spirit we need. The Holy Spirit is at work with us. We don't need a second supercharged But what we do need is a continual submission and commitment to cooperating with the Spirit. And so that's what Paul is describing here, cooperating with the Spirit who is already in us as much as He needs to be. We have a fulfilling. Now, are we going to cooperate with God's Spirit, being filled with the Spirit in that way, to have his work done in us rather than giving any time over to drunken frivolity? Everybody knows, you know, the old sitcoms, Andy Griffith and others, with the town drunk. And let's be honest, it's funny when it's on the TV show. Otis the drunk, good actor, funny guy, whatever you if you have other TV shows that have a town drunk, that's kind of funny. But folks, it really is not bemusing and funny when God's people are looked at as the town drunks. No control, saying foolish things Not in control of their facilities. There's no humor in that. It's embarrassing. not appropriate. So that really is what Paul is saying here. So let me address so we don't get distracted What is Paul saying here? Do not be drunk with wine. Just so you know my position, most of you know this already. Okay, I am one that is for total absence. Now I know that's controversial, and even in our church setting, there's a lot of folks that have a lot of different Views. Well, thankfully, in this passage, uh Paul is not focused. His purpose is not to talk about abstinence and alcohol. It's that we need to not be Controlled by it and be filled with the Spirit. So, we're not going to get into that topic today, although I am very glad at any time to discuss that with you. Afraid of it at all. But I do recognize there's a lot of different opinions and interpretations. What I would encourage you to do though, whatever wherever you come to on the position of alcohol. I would encourage you folks, it's biblical, at least know your Bibles. At least know what your Bibles say about alcohol. Okay? That's important. And then, interestingly enough, and this really does go right with what Paul's saying, whether you're for abstinence or not, I don't know if you've noticed it's been very interesting. Interesting to me as I go through I go to my Apple News app many times just to see what's going on in our culture today. Do you know what one of the one of the top topics is that keeps coming up in my Apple News app besides um all the wrong things that our current president is doing. And also it's interesting as well that there's a lot of articles on a topic on the topic of narcissism, which is actually fascinating, and which actually might not be a bad topic to address sometime. I might just do that. But not today. There's another topic that keeps coming up quite a bit, and I don't have any filters set to this or anything, I promise you. But it's on alcohol Alcohol usage and the negative effects of alcohol usage. In fact, some of you that are in the know, did you know that it is a common thing in our culture? What is January called in our culture today? Dry January. Now, folks, a bunch of conservative Baptists didn't come up with that and somehow it got into mainstream society. You know where that came from came from. This is going to surprise you. Europe. The UK came up with that whole concept of dry January To help people to see that alcoholism and drunkenness was becoming an issue, and it really needs to be addressed in our cultural So I just did a quick search in of alcohol in my Apple News, not in my conservative Baptist journals, okay? In Apple News and all kinds of articles came up about the negative effects of alcohol and how celebrities uh they're giving testimonies about how much uh better their life is since they put limits Maybe even gave up alcohol. Folks, this is our culture today. It's actually kind of nice to be on the cutting edge. But our culture is saying we need to be Careful. We are in excess. We are being controlled by something that can be toxic and it can affect our health. When we're controlled by this. Paul was saying that over a thousand years ago. Don't be controlled by alcohol and dehabilitating substances. But let the Holy Spirit work in you. One more thing here I'll read to you is a quote from a scholar who takes a different position than I do in alcohol. Is a little more liberal, uh not as conservative as I tend to be in my practice. And even he, his name is Dr. Arnold, he says this on this passage One of the difficulties here is that people are not often a good judge of how much alcohol they can handle before it begins to impair their senses. It is crucial to be exceedingly sensitive to the judgments and opinions of those want one is close to in this regard. Better yet, if one does consume alcohol, it should be done in such moderation that there is no question about the impairment of one's It should be noted that one difference between the ancient world and now is that there were no high-proof alcoholic beverages in the Greco-Roman world. In other words, there were no 100-proof 50% alcohol by volume or 86-proof whiskies at the time that Paul was writing this. Pure distillation was invented only in 8th century A. D. What this means for us is that the possibility for drunkenness increases dramatically with the consumption of distilled alcoholic beverages. So, folks, let's just sum all that up by saying don't let yourself be controlled and then out of control by alcohol. be in control of your life through letting the Holy Spirit do His work. Because our time is short. So we need to walk wisely and carefully. And of course, young people, just abstinence. All right? Across the board. Let's move on. Because we now have another divisive topic. Paul says here Be filled with the Spirit. And once you're filled with the Spirit, verse 19, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus. And Paul really is saying here, he's using this verse 19 to describe what is a natural outpouring of one that is submitted and filled with the Spirit that is cooperating. Operating with the Spirit. It just means that they that that a desire to sing and praise God wells up within them Paul really wasn't here trying to establish, okay, here are categories of music that are appropriate and they're they have secret meanings and so on. All throughout time, we need to know what these are. No, he is just saying that when you're filled with the Spirit, you want to sing. You want to sing to praise God. Psalms. Those are the songs of Scripture. That's why we have a book of Psalms. They're basically singing Scripture. Whenever we take God's words of Scripture, And we're singing them, we are singing a song. Okay? What are hymns? Hymns are odes sung to God reflecting Scripture, and thus hymns we sing sing today reflect this category. It's basically taking the truths of God and singing about them. That's what hymns are. And we do sing hymns. In our church here. Older hymns and more recently written hymns. And then you have this third one that there are spiritual songs. Now that word song is a broader term for for music and for all kinds of music. So we might be tempted to say, oh, okay, that's great. This is where my favorite music fits in. Okay? That's not really what Paul is saying here. Again, I don't want to say what Paul's not saying, but Paul isn't saying here. Sing whatever you like, as long as it's about God. How do I know that? Because he says spiritual songs. What does that mean? The overriding principle in whatever music we listen to. And really, and what we see in this church is it is directed and submitted, and we're submitted to the Spirit, and we're letting the Spirit direct. Folks, we don't do that often in our music. We take music and we say, I like it, so let's sing it. And yet what Scripture, we don't want to say the Scripture doesn't say, but what Scripture is saying is clearly here is that the Spirit must direct what we listen to in our music. Now the thing with that is, is that I believe the Holy Spirit directs each of us in different ways. The Holy Spirit directs some of us in a more conservative bent. We don't like it. a lot of rock music and and high t and high um percussion music and things like that. Some people don't. It's a conscience thing with the spirit. There's nothing wrong with that. I do believe that God has given other people spiritual freedom to listen to music with more energy, and ultimately that it's not up to the pastor to say and it would be so much easier by the way if Paul had just given us a list. Don't listen to this kind of music. I mean bluegrass, that's out, and this music's okay. It would have been so much easier for Me as a pastor, but he doesn't. So you have to seek the Spirit's guidance for you, but you must Do that. That's what's important. Well, then, how do you worship together with a bunch of people that are led in different ways by the Spirit? Well, first of all, they need to to be led by the Spirit. Second of all, as I have mentioned to you before in my message on conscience, I do believe that there is a collective church Conscience. The pastor and the leadership are responsible to know what as a church that the church is comfortable singing. As the church has submitted itself to the Spirit. And I can tell you that the music that we sing and that we worship together with in the spirit This church, I'm convinced, is it is collectively as a church that we are all assenting this is spirit controlled, that we're in agreement. Now, every so often you have a few that still disagree. And I would say, well, if God has called you to this church, there is a way for God to help you to feel comfortable with this church But if a person says, I'm just I I just don't like that music, it's too contempt Temporary, it bothers me, then eventually I would I would say, in all honesty, I would say, well, there are other churches that do have a a a more conservative, stricter conscience on music and maybe God is directing you there. You see how that works? So the whole point of this though, as we finish up, and we are finishing up, thanks to God for being patient. Paul didn't give us this verse to give us different categories of music so that we could stringently limit ourselves. ourselves to them. He's basically saying if you are being submitted to the Spirit and controlled by the Spirit, you're gonna want to sing. You're going to want to sing scripture. You're going to want to sing songs about God. And all the songs that you're going to want to sing, you're going to want to have submitted to the Spirit. And let the spirit work. And then you always have an attitude of singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart because you're giving thanks always. And for everything to God the Father. Here we have the Trinity. You're giving thanks to God the Father, but in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, because of all that He has done for us, and submitted to the Spirit. See, the Trinity's involved in our worship. And folks, if you come to worship, and there's No heart for song and for thankfulness, there is a problem. And if somebody ever tells you and comes to church and says, I don't like all this stuff. singing. Whoa! We ought to want to sing. We ought to have a song in our hearts that's just like, man, I come on, Pastor, get through those announcements. Let's go. I'm ready to sing. I gotta let go of all the thankfulness and joy in my heart. It's just bursting and overflowing. I'm like, praise the Lord, let's do that. Yeah. That's good. Music is a part of a thankful heart. And you notice, by the way, Paul doesn't give us an option. About this thankfulness issue. Let me ask you a very practical question, walking wise. Do you Do you tend to, when you come to church, well in your life, but let's just leave it to church, do you tend to look for things to be thankful for or things to complain of? About percentage wise. Do you come to church saying I just or are you you you I I Even ask you to measure that as you go from the service today. Did I spend a majority of my time being critical and complaining today? Or was I'm thankful. Folks, I would like to present to you that we don't even have an option. Let's make it percentage-wise, we don't have an option even Of 80% gratitude and 20% grumbling. Hey, as long as the one's larger than the other, then we're good. No. Thankfulness. Grumbling and complaining has no part in worship, but thankfulness and joy. over what God has done. And then at the end of this we have such a very important verse. They're all important, but this one especially because it's the guiding principle for the rest of the book. Some of you that might have read ahead realize that in the next few weeks, uh oh, we're getting into that favorite cultural topic about submission in marriage. Boy, if you want to talk about a gotcha topic. Thanks a lot, Paul. Alcohol, music, and submission in marriage. This is God's word. And before I ever get to that topic of submission and marriage, look what verse 21 says. This is so important. We must submit to one another. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. We must be submissive to each other. Now that just briefly here needs an explan explanation. This does not mean that we all come with t-shirts, that we're going to be selling t-shirts at the back anytime soon. Basically, it just says doormat. I'm a doormat. I'm submissive to everyone, and so I let everybody walk all over me. That's not what Paul is saying. Well, what is he saying? It doesn't refer to self-deprecation in which everyone walks all over you, but when he says being submissive to each other, what he means. This is key, folks. Are you listening? Self -denial for the sake of others. Looking out for the interests of others and not just your own. When you come to this worship service and when you are out in your Community? Do you tend to normally think just everything about yourself? Or are you actually noticing people? Are you noticing what people are going through? Are you ready to help? Do you take an interest in other people? Do you tend to fixate more often on what everyone is doing wrong to you? Or do you notice the genuine needs of others around you? Being submissive to each other, just basically I could say this: I notice you, and I'm ready to help Do you need help? I'm ready to do my part. I'm ready to sacrifice my time to help you. Because ultimately the things of the Lord, I only have so much time in this life, and I'm not going to make it all about me, but I'm going to submit my To the needs of others and to the ministry of Jesus Christ. And so I submit to one another, not even out of a love and respect for the person, but because of Christ If God is calling you to help someone and in your heart you say, oh, and not that person, Lord, anybody but that person, we ought to say, but look at what all that Jesus Christ did for me. Wow, I'm in such awe of what he did. Of course, of course, I'll help that person. I'll submit myself. I'll sacrifice my time. Of course I would do that. that because look at what Jesus did for me he died on the cross and shed his blood and I re reverence that and I respect that and I love him None other than John Calvin himself said this, God has so bound us to each other that no man or woman ought to avoid subjection. And where love reigns, there is mutual servitude. I do not accept even kings and governors, for they rule that they may serve. Boy, we ought to let all of our politicians hear this Over and over again. Therefore, it is right that he should exhort all to be subject to each other. None of us in this room, folks, deserve special treatment. But we must submit ourselves To the needs of others and sacrifice for others. If you have that attitude, then whatever else we say about submission and marriage, you're going to get. And it's going to be okay. Because we're all submitting to each other. And that's the beauty of what Paul calls us to here. All of this that I have mentioned is a part of The careful walk of the wise. Will you walk carefully? Or will you just go running out into that minefield of this darkened world? And make a mess of things. Oh, God has grace for you. Maybe you've already made a mess of things rather than walking wisely. Guess what, folks? God can help you to walk. Walk discerningly and wisely for the rest of your life. Turn to Him. And for those of you that aren't walking with Jesus today, you can put your faith and trust in Him, trust in His sacrifice, His shed blood. On the cross for our sins. Your sins can be forgiven. You can have eternal life, be made new, and walk in the right ways. You can experience Experience that through relationship with Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this reminder. Lord, I know we've touched on some sense Topics, and yet Lord, I pray that you have helped me to keep the main purpose in focus of what you are relating to To us in this passage that the time for self-interested living is over, and the time for serving others and submitting to others in love and in care. Starts today. I pray that is the case. I pray that you will do a work in all of our hearts, that today we will go from here. Lord, take this time That we submit ourselves even here at the end to the Spirit and say, however you lead me, Holy Spirit, that's what I will do. If I need to make changes in these areas that were mentioned this morning, alcohol, music, whatever, Spirit, if you're leading, I will change. I realize time is short and I need to live for eternity. Lord, if there are any if there's anyone here who still needs To trust Jesus as their Savior. Their eternity is dark. But if they will put their faith and trust in Jesus, their eternity will be assured that they will be forever with you in glory. Let them make that choice this morning. Folks, think on these things this morning as the piano plays.