And singing a song of Jesus means that we've been listening to Jesus. Very important as those that proclaim themselves followers of Jesus Christ. That we are listening to him. For he has much to say to us. And we're going to see that even this morning as Jesus makes that very clear. As we continue on in our series in John, the Gospel of John, and you can turn to John 8. We'll start at verse 21. Jesus has a lot to say in this particular chapter. And it's because of that I really have I've always tried to find that balance between not covering so much that you miss the content and it just after a while it's more than than you can take in at one time. I understand and it's the same with me, the human brain can only handle so much And there is so much here, especially in this passage, it's rich, but it's also, I think, a critical passage in the book, that I want to take time and make sure that you're understanding what Jesus is saying. This is all discourse as he continues to teach in Jerusalem. Remember, after the Feast of the Tabernacles, the Feast of Boots. And we've covered all of the meaning of all that 's taken place with that. I'm not going to do that again this morning. But it seems as Jesus has spoken recently of himself as the light of the world, there has been A little bit of time that has passed, maybe a few hours, maybe a few days, and then he continues in his teaching here But he's going to, in this chapter, get more direct about his mission that the Father has sent him on, and more severe Now, I say severe in a loving way, but more direct about the destination of his hears if they continue to reject him. And he's going to say some things that may come across as harsh, and yet these people need to be shocked really into their um state of un that to recognize their state of unbelief and their rejection of him before it's too late. So that they will turn and trust him. And this is a pivotal moment for many. We're going to see as well that some, even at the end of this passage, will believe in him And then as he continues, we'll find that some it was that seed that fell by the wayside and began to grow and was choked off, and it wasn't a fault, a true profession at all. And we're going to see that he has a lot of different situations that he's reacting and speaking to as he continues So, again, a little bit of background here. He's in Jerusalem after the Feast of the Tabernacles. What he has said so far, the religious leaders desire to kill Jesus. The people are in dissension concerning his identity. They're kind of all over the place and understanding who he is. But there's also people believing in him because of his works, his miraculous signs that he's doing. All of this is going on in his ministry in Jerusalem. And of course, as people believe It enrages the Pharisees, the religious leaders, not just the Pharisees, but the Sadducees, some of the scribes, and they continue to seek ways to apprehend him But all of this we've seen that they cannot succeed until allowed by the Father. A group of individuals who sincerely desire to get rid of Jesus. And they can't even lay a finger on him until the time of the Father is at hand. And so Jesus will continue to talk, even in the midst of opposition. And he'll talk, as we'll see today, more of the purpose of his mission from the Father, that his purpose is to be lifted up as the Son of God for the sins of the world. He's going to make that even more clear and continue to talk further about that. So we're going to see this morning in just a few verses the lifting up of the Son of Man. Verse 21, then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. Whither I go, ye cannot come. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? Because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come. And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath. I am from above. Ye are of this world. I am not of this world. I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins. If ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die. For if ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. Lord, the message we're going to hear from Christ this morning is very sobering. It's very serious. It's a message that mankind individually must assess each one in their own hearts. Will they hear the Son of Man? Will they hear the message from the Father given by the Word, the Son of God? Will they believe true hearing is accepting and believing? Or will they reject and continue to be spiritual blind and die in their sins? The ultimate tragedy. Lord, let those that hear these words this morning, if there are still Those within the sound of my voice who have not made this ultimate choice to trust Christ rather than to die in their sins, let this morning, let today be the day that they choose, they decide. To put their faith, to believe in Jesus. Before their opportunity is gone. We've seen, Lord, in health and in medical issues, that our our time is limited. That we only have a certain amount of time in these bodies on this earth until Jesus returns. We only have a limited time to believe in Jesus And those of us that have then, that we will proclaim to a world that has rejected Christ, that they have a limited time, and they must do so. But the Son of Man was lifted up so that their sins could be dealt with. Let us be reminded of that this morning and also be motivated and love Jesus more for all that He did for us. This we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Lifting up of the Son of Man. And Jesus has many things again that he's going to continue talking about, as we've just read in these verses. And first of all, he's going to speak of death that comes from sin, that all men will face because of their sin. unless they trust him. So again, back to verse 25 21. This seems to be a little bit later, after his discourse about being the light of the world, after the Feast of the Tabernacles, and it says, then Jesus said again In Jerusalem, probably close to the temple, he's teaching, I go my way, or he's talking, referring here to I go away. There'll come a point where I will not be with you, I will leave you at some point. And you shall seek me. And as a side note, why are they seeking him? They're seeking to put him away. And he says, you will accomplish that at some point. But I will go to a place where you cannot be. And you shall, when you seek me, here's the other side of it. You put me away. You will die in your sins if they accomplish what they're trying to accomplish in just getting rid of Jesus. At the same time, they will have lost their opportunity to trust in him and die in their sins if they reject him. So irony in this case. Whither I go, you cannot come. Now ultimately, what is Jesus referring to here? Well, ultimately, we know. Those of us that know Scripture well, that his destination will ultimately be to go with the Father, to be with the Father again And that will be his way. He will go away. But the way here that he will go away to be with the Father is really what he's referring to. And he'll come back to this again. But he is going to go back to the Father through the way of being lifted up on a cross for the sin of the world. And he will be resurrected. And he will eventually ascend to the Father and send the Spirit to those who believe. All of this will happen And he says, if you reject me, you will not be able to follow me. This also seems to indicate that they will lose eternal life. The very life that the religious leaders in particular are so certain that they have because of their ability to follow the law Jesus says, you will not be able to follow me. You will not be able to be in the presence of my Father. Because you have not believed in me. You have rejected me. And therefore, literally, this sobering warning, you cannot come. Folks, we cannot spend eternity with God apart from Jesus Christ. Understand that? Do you uh has that sunk into our understanding , even as those that profess Christ, that Jesus is the only way? And he's reminding them of this again. They are looking toward the law. They are looking toward their own ability to do in their own minds, to be righteous enough, to do enough good things, to be able to be righteous, to please God. And they won't ever be in his presence for all eternity. They're headed toward eternal punishment, eternal damnation. Because they won't follow after Jesus Christ. They will literally die an eternal death because of their sins. And Jesus is getting more pointed here because he's like he's trying to we do with our kids. When we know that we're talking. And uh we're trying to communicate with them and they're listening, but that glazed over expression on their face, they're like a million miles away, right? I'm trying to tell you about something, and it's like, yeah. Uh-huh. Like if they're in a trance. So you grab in a kind way, but you take their face and you point it towards you. And are you listening to me? Yeah, I'm listening to you. Jesus in what he's saying here is trying to do that to these stubborn, rebellious people. Listen to me. It's of utmost importance. But unfortunately, he's going to show here again the rejection of Jesus' way, the way that he's going to go. will lead to death and these Jewish this Jewish audience totally misses the sobering warning And those that miss this are going to die in their sin. Well, what do they think he's saying? They think they don't understand. They say, is he talking about suicide? He's talking about killing himself? We don't understand. And why do they think that? Because he said, whither I go, ye cannot come. Now This may sound uh terrible, but this may actually, with the religious leaders in particular, this may be wishful thinking. Well, that would be one way to get rid of him, just if he ended his own life. And also, suicide was one of the greatest sins in this culture that you could commit. It showed that you didn't have faith in your God It showed selfishness. It was considered in this aspect, and I want to be clear on this, in this culture, that if you were to commit suicide, that you were not one of gods. One of God's children. Now that is not actually in retrospect what is the case. There are still many believers, many children of God who put their faith and trust in Jesus today That unfortunately have chosen the route of suicide. That's a terrible thing. But they'll be in heaven one day and we'll rejoice with them. But the mindset was, so the mindset is Jesus, if he's going to kill himself, that will prove that he was not one with the Father, that he was not of the Father, that all that he has said so far And so I think there might be a little wishful thinking here saying, did he say that he's going to end his life? Well, that would accomplish both things. And they totally miss the fact. That they need to be soberly thinking about what he is saying because they have rejected him and they are about ready to die an eternal death because of their sins. So many times we can plead with people, and without the work of the Holy Spirit in their hearts, they can just be totally blind and unreceptive to truth that they need to hear. And that's the case here. Rejection of Jesus' way leads to death, and rejection of his witness leads to death as he continues. And he said unto them, he's again trying to He is giving them truth. Ye are from beneath. Now, beneath, what does that mean? Well, it can also be translated below. He's not saying in the in from the grave or um the eternal or or the punishment. um regions of the lower earth or whatever, but he's just saying you're from the world. You're of the earth. You were born in the world. You're from the world And I am from above. And he is delineating in these next few verses the difference between him and his audience. These leaders, this Jewish audience still thinks that he's the same as them. How could he be the Messiah? We know where he was born. We know where he came from. And Jesus is saying here, I'm not like you I'm different. You're from the world. You're from this this is the place you were born. I'm not from here. I'm from above. Ye are of, then he explains it further, this world. I am not of this world. Jesus is the Son of God, as he's been communicating to them. He's from the heavenly realm. He's from the realm of God. He's not of the world And because they are of the world, they are born in sin. And that's what he says further. I said, verse 24, therefore, I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. He said that just a few minutes ago in verse 21. For if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. It is a surety that they will die if they do not put their faith and trust in him. If they don't trust in the Son of God who is from above, the sobering reality that they must see is that they will experience eternal death. for their sins. And so they must believe the witness of himself that he is the Son of God. Only the Son of God could be from above. And the Son of God in that claim is also the claim of deity, which may be still a little veiled to them. And they're going to ask him to make that more clear here in another couple verses. But they must believe his witness. What happens? That's the negative side of things. If we don't believe the witness of the Son of God, we will die in our sins. But let's look at the positive here as well So we can have the full picture of the gospel this morning and be reminded of what Jesus has done for us. Turn to Romans 5, verse 17 through 21. Jesus is in microcosm referring to the work that he will do to bring forgiveness of sins for those that put their faith and trust. in him. And Paul describes more of the mechanics, the details of that in this verse that go along with Jesus' description of sin. Verse 17, for if by one man's offense, that's Adam, By one man's sin and his offense, death reigned by one, much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness. shall reign in life by one, the Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, as by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation Even so, by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men, and the justification of life. Jesus is pointing out here to his audience that they are dead in their sin, and that has been the case ever since Adam and Eve. Rejected God and sinned against him. And we all carry that burden of sin now , corporately and personally as well. Because we sinned, we face the judgment, condemnation. We face the eternal death that Jesus was talking about, speaking about with his audience. But what Jesus is about to do very soon as he is lifted up on the cross is to provide righteousness. as a gift unto all men to be justified so that they can be declared righteousness, not by anything that they have done. The Pharisees, the Sadducees could not be declared righteous by all their works, by their adherence to the law. Couldn't. Wasn't possible But it was only through their dependence, belief on the Son of God, the one who did accomplish righteousness. And all throughout his ministry, Jesus earned and accomplished the righteousness of the law. And we receive that when we trust in Him Paul continues, for as by one man's sins, disobedience, many by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners, all of us, all of Jesus' audience. So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Remember that. Jesus is going to say at the end of verse 29 that I always do those things that please him. He gave perfect obedience to the Father. Paul describes that here. Moreover, the law entered that the offense the offense might abound, and that the um the Jewish people missed that Jesus' audience has missed the fact that the law was not given to them to some way or another be able to match up and righteously follow after it, they missed the point. It was supposed to show them that they couldn't, that they were dead in their sins, that they were sinners. The law, as they continue to work through it and understand more of it, all the law could say is, you are condemned, you are guilty, you're a sinner. But that's important. That message is needed They missed the point of the law. The law entered, Paul says, that the offense might abound, that it might be clear to us how grievous our sin is. But where sin abounded, praise the Lord, that even with that burden and that grievousness, that weight of our sin, it's not more powerful than the grace of Jesus Christ. The grace of Jesus Christ overcomes is more powerful than the burden of sin. Grace did much more abound. That is, sin hath reigned unto death. Again, that very picture that Jesus is communicating to his audience. Sin reigned unto death But what Jesus is about to do, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life. Hasn't Jesus declared that he is the way to eternal life in so many different ways The living water, the light of the world, and many more pictures. He is eternal life comes through him by Jesus Christ our Lord. That's the positive aspect of this. And Jesus is again making it clear that his audience needs to follow him. As he gets ready for this all-important sacrifice, the purpose of his mission. If not, if they will not believe, They will spend an eternity in hell and they will die for their sins. Well, again, they're very spiritually dull. In their rejection of him, they are truly dull of hearing. And they say here, the only thing they can think of as he's talking, then they said unto him, Well, who art thou? Now, isn't that, you know, for for those of us that have been studying the Gospel of John here, to ask that question of all questions is kind of like Sarcastically, you could say that's a no-duh moment. What has Jesus been doing throughout the entire gospel? What have we been going through? What has he been teaching for this in these discourses for chapter after chapter? For them to ask who he is, he's been telling them who he is the whole time. Do you remember? He's testified of who he is. He's the Son of God. He's testified of that. He's the Son of Man, and he's about ready to describe himself as that again. He's the living water. He's the living bread. He's the light of the world. So for them to say, who are you, is particularly mentally dull And maybe they're trying to, maybe what they're trying to do here is they're attempting to get him just to state plainly that he is God, to state his deity. That may be what they're trying to do. Look, just just go blow through all the smoke here, so to speak, Jesus, and just tell us, are you going to be blasphemous and say that you're God or not? That Jesus has in all of these things indicated that he is God. And they missed that. But really, this is a very clumsy way to do this. I'm sure even if the leaders are asking him this, this says they said unto him, could it be the audience? It could be just the leaders. If it's just the leaders, probably the people around him. could have responded in, well he's been here in Jerusalem for weeks telling us who he is. Where were you guys during all this? It's a particularly clumsy , dull question. But Jesus graciously is going to have an answer for them. And he reminds them that he's been telling them of who he is from the very beginning of his ministry. And Jesus saith unto them, even the same that I said unto you, or just what I've been telling you from the beginning. You haven't been listening, or you would have had the answer to that question. I've made it clear multiple times. Now, you may think at this point that Jesus may be saying something like, look, I've told you all that I need to tell you. I've been clear. I'm tired of speaking to you and telling you these things and you not listening. But in actuality, that's not what he's saying at all Look what he says then in verse 26. Actually, he has many things, much to say and to judge of you. And he's going to speak next of the death that will reveal his mission. And that he's testifying that he was sent by his father. He says, actually I have a lot more to tell you, and throughout this chapter, it's why we're kind of slowing down here. We don't want to miss what Jesus is saying. He's going to say a whole lot of things to them. And he's going to pronounce judgment on them in a very specific way by whether they accept him or reject him. So he's saying, I'm not done in my testimony to you yet. You haven't yet understood the testimony. You've been dull of hearing. You've been spiritually blind. I'll continue. to give you testimony and tell you who I am. He probably could add, but you're not going to like it very much. But he's going to do it anyway. And he says here, but he that sent me is true, and I speak or declare to the world those things which I have heard of him. He's not done talking. Throughout the rest of this chapter, I made a list here of some of the direct and severe things that he's going to say to warn them of the eternal devastating results of their rejection of the And this very chapter he's going to refer to them as slaves to their sin. He's going to tell them that their father is not their heavenly is not the heavenly father, but their father is the devil. Is Satan And he's going to refer to them as murderers and liars. Now, folks, when you have a bunch of people that want your death and want to kill you, And you're boldly at the temple saying these things. And again, in order to make them face the reality, their spiritual reality, and where they're headed, that is bold. Jesus isn't cowering or backing off on any of this. He does have much to say. And he's also going to have words of judgment for them as they reject him. But he doesn't speak of these things as he says here in verse 26 on his own initiative. Jesus didn't come up with his own message. But he says, these are the things that I declare to the world, they're what the Father has given me. He only gives the message of the Father. He does not say anything on his own initiative. And here is a voice that these people hypocritically say they follow. They say they follow after the voice of the Father. And Jesus says, no you don't Because you're not listening to me. You're not comprehending what I'm saying. You refuse my testimony. My message is from my father. I only tell you what my father gives to me. And you've rejected it. So you don't follow after the words of the Father. You really don't. I do. And again, they're so dull they can't even recognize. Here is a group of people that say they follow after the words of their heavenly father, of Yahweh. And they can't even recognize the message of the Father spoken to them by the Son. Verse 27. They understood not that he spake to them of the Father. Just right over their heads. The most important message that they need. They miss entirely. But Jesus says, There will come a point where some of you will get it. Verse 28. Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of Man, Then ye shall know that I am he and that I do nothing of myself, and as my father hath taught me, I speak these things. You know, those that have rejected Jesus Christ don't understand his voice. And that's true, and that's really the direct application of what Jesus is saying here. We reject God's word. We reject the message of Jesus Christ. We can't understand the things of God. We can't hear the Father's voice. But folks, you know, sometimes on a secondary level, let's make sure, I'm reminded of this as I was studying this week. How well are we as believers listening to the voice of Jesus on a regular basis? There's so much from the world that can drown out his voice. Are we listening? Just did You know, there's so much in the world, even the news headlines. We can get s so caught up in so many aspects of the world. And I just yesterday, I was on a particular um news site that listed A lot of news things going on. And so just to point out here how we can be so distracted by listening to the things of the world and what the world is telling us, I thought I'd include a few headlines of what the world told us yesterday And these headlines. Now I tried to make this not overtly political so that I didn't stir up your spirit within you, although some of these things are, I couldn't help it. Because of just the headlines. But some of these are interesting. You may laugh at some of these. The first one that I just put randomly here. Europe plans to bring GPS and teleconferencing to the moon by 2030. I had no idea they were even working on that. Remarkable. I don't know if they're going to be successful in that, but that's interesting. I thought it would have been to Mars or something like that. Here's another message. This is sobering. Hamas leader thanks Iran for supplying Gaza with weapons. Not a surprise, something that's sobering to us. It is kind of interesting that they're being much more bold about this now. They don't seem to be stealth at all in what they're doing to Israel. And that's a reminder as well as I was looking at these headlines. Let's continue to pray for Israel. Don't forget to do that. Something else. Talking about speech and listening to voices. Leak University Diversity Training propaganda, I might say. Even compliments are now microaggressions. So be careful who you compliment and what you say. They might come back to hoin it. That's very in our society today you do have to be very careful. Here's something else. GOP representative forgot, in quotes, to cast proxy vote that would have killed 1. 9 billion security spending bill. Just kind of forgot to do that. Here's something else. China debuts car that indoctrinates drivers to worship Xi Jinping. I don't know how in the world that's possible, but But I suppose somehow or maybe it's some sort of music or something. I'm not going to find out and I hope that you don't either. But it it must be true because it's in the news. Here's a couple more. These amused me. This next one. Celebrities are begging Americans to return to movie theaters. Begging them. Tough luck. This is my favorite though. This is an all-time favorite that or from yesterday that I had to include. This is a crisis, folks, in our country. America hit by chicken wing sort shortage. It's tough out there. Better go to your favorite chicken wing place now before they can't handle Can't serve you anymore. Folks, why did I include all those? We get distracted by headlines and all sorts of things, voices of the world, every day, right? So many things. And I could go through a lot more. News um news shows and sports and all and just the busyness of our lives. We so easily forget to listen to the voice of Christ. We so easily can be as dull as his audience that he's speaking to in his time today. not listening to what he has for us on a daily basis. Have you every day this week taken time to listen to the voice of Jesus in his word? And even if you have, have you truly let it sink in? There's so many times, and and I can do this as well. I'm reading God's word and I go through later and realize, you know, I really I was as dull as his audience I really didn't let that sink into my heart and really understand through asking the Holy Spirit to help me because I was so distracted by the voices of the world. We also, as believers, need to listen to Jesus' voice more closely. Because here in the end Jesus now testifies. He gets much more direct and clear about what his mission is. Very important. They need to understand this. And he says that you will lift up the Son of Man. How will they do that? When they deliver him over to be crucified for the sins of the world And then he says, Then shall ye know that I am he, and I do nothing of myself. Will there be many who see his sacrifice and believe on his witness of himself from the Father? Well, I can give you a few. The thief on the cross, looking to him, hanging there with him. He saw the truth through what Jesus was doing. The centurion. And in Matthew, Matthew 24, 57, not just the centurion, now when the centurion and they that were with him, watching Jesus, exactly what Jesus is talking about here, as he's lifted up on the cross. Saw the earthquake and those things that were done, and they feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. The feep on the cross said , This man hath done nothing amiss. Lord, remember me when thou comest to thy kingdom. There were others. Nicodemus, who seems to finally have made that decision after the death, the sacrifice of Christ to trust him. And how about even Jesus' siblings? At some point, you know, they had rejected him in his ministry. At some point, James and some of the others did trust in him. Was it not when they looked up at the Son of Man lifted up on the cross that they too trusted in him? They believed that he was on a mission. Oh, that's the mission that Jesus was sent for, that the Father sent him to do was to sacrifice himself for our sins. Amazing. And they trust in him. It would happen. And they would also recognize and we don't think about this many uh many times. But folks, it was actually the glory of Jesus as he was there on the cross dying for us. It was his glory in his sacrifice. His glory was shown. In his willingness to sacrifice himself. In the awfulness of that moment, there was a sense of his glory that he would sacrifice himself for our sins. Charles Spurgeon is always a good one to quote. And he had a sermon on this, and I put down a few phrases here. The cross of Christ is Christ's glory. We don't often think of it that way Man seeks to win his glory by the slaughter of others. Christ by the slaughter of himself. Men seek to get crowns of gold. He sought a crown of thorns Men think that glory lieth in being exalted over others. Christ thought that his glory did lie in becoming a worm and no man, a scoff and reproach amongst all those that beheld him. He stooped when he conquered, and he counted that the glory lay as much in the stooping as in the conquest. Jesus would face much rejection throughout his ministry, but he's going to remind us here, he wasn't alone. And he who sent me, verse 29, is with me. The Father hath not left me alone, for I do always those things that please him. Yes, in that awful moment when he was crucified. The Father turned his back on him. But that wasn't for eternity. The Father, as Jesus says here, is with his son. And when all else would reject him, he still had that relationship with his Father. And folks, for those of us that have put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, may everybody else reject you You still have a loving Heavenly Father who will take care of you and help you. Just stand alone sometimes, if need be. He will be there for us. But Jesus in a unique way had that relationship with his father, and he makes it clear here. that I always do those things that please him. Again, a statement that makes it clear that Jesus Christ could not sin. That he was always able to obey his father. He makes it clear here. In other words, this is a statement of certainty. I'm always going to do what pleases him. There's no doubt in that I'm gonna do it. And as he spake these words, there were many that rejected him, right? But many that believed on him He would have those from this earth who would hear his word and believe. And there are those in this world today, as dark as it is, that will hear the gospel of Jesus and will believe. And that's why we need to continue to proclaim his mission. And his lifting up, his sacrifice on the cross. So Jesus speaks as we finish here of a desperate need, right, for people to believe in him for forgiveness of sin and eternal life. He has proclaimed this to these people. He proclaims that to us today. So folks, those of us on Zoom as well, we must heed his warnings. and trust in his sacrifice of his life for our sins. It's the only way. And then for those of us who have done that, proclaim that still. to a world in darkness in which people will die in their sins, as Jesus just said, if they do not trust in the witness of the Son of God. And that is our motivation for proclaiming the witness of the Son of God. And why we have testimonies on Sunday night. And why we pray for each other to do that. That we would be faithful in that. So that there would be those as at the end of this passage that would believe on him and be rescued from their sins. I hope that you have developed and been encouraged to love Jesus more, even through these few short verses today and all that he's done for us. Father, thank you for this reminder that Jesus would be lifted up for our sins and that we don't have to die in our sins But through his sacrifice, we can believe on him. And as Paul said in Romans, we can, through grace upon grace, we can have his righteousness. and spend eternity with him and with our Heavenly Father. But that way is only through Christ. So, Lord, for those again that are listening today, I pray that they have made the decision to trust Christ, or they will die in their sins. And for those who have made that choice, we rejoice and proclaim eternal life to a world who needs to hear it. Help us to be faithful in that till Jesus returns, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.