Up this fireworks display, this list of the blessings that we have in Christ. He talks about the Holy Spirit dwelling within That the Holy Spirit is a sign of our acquisition of salvation and the fact that we will endure till the end. And folks, don't we look forward to the day where all the powers of hell will bend the knee and submit before Jesus Christ. I know I can't walk. Wait to see that day. And we see that old nasty devil thrown into the pit forever. So our desire is to share the truths. of Jesus Christ so that we can share them with the world and see many around the throne with Jesus and Not cast into hell into permanent darkness with the enemy. And I hope that is a strong desire in your heart this morning. As we continue to see all that God has done for us, as we continue to look in Ephesians, and we're going to try to get through Ephesians. uh chapter 1 verses 11 through 14. Uh remember that this is in the midst Paul after a very small greeting in the beginning of Ephesians chapter 1 He jumps right into a 250-word-long sentence from verses 3 to 14. He's on a roll, and you're not going to stop him. As he gives all the blessings. What a wonderful thing to start any letter with. As he addresses this faithful church of believers who have been through so much, committed believers, probably a large church. as these folks meet in different homes throughout the city, the metropolis of Episus. We had a number of introductory messages that talked all about Episus and all that happened there. in Paul's ministry. He's now in prison and he is writing to them and he's reminding these faithful people of all that they have in Christ. That far outsines all the difficulties that they're going through at this current time as he's writing for them, writing to them. And he talks about the father's choosing election of his children, and that we are adopted as sons and daughters in Christ. And he talks about the fact that we are were predestined to adoption. And then we talked about redemption last week, that because of what Jesus accomplished, folks, we do not have to experience the eternal Curse of sin. We are no longer slaves to that. We trust in the work of Jesus Christ and we're released from the bond of sin. Although as believers we still sin in this life, it is a very real truth that we don't have to sin. That we are freed, redeemed from that captivity. That alone ought to make us rejoice. Even the struggles that you have in sin this morning and we all have them. We all have besetting sins and habits. Folks, if you are trusting in Jesus, if you are a child of God, you don't have to be victorious less. I think I just made up another adjective there. You don't have to be in captivity to that sin through the power of Jesus and through his work in your life. He can break the grips of that sin in your life. And you can experience victory. And isn't that again enough alone for us to shout a hallelujah for all that Jesus has done for us. But Paul is going to continue. Again, I've referred to this as a fireworks display many times, but I really think that's a great description of what Paul's saying here as he's writing this long sentence. And it's kind of appropriate, right, this time of year as we get ready to see fireworks. um that I make that analogy. I was thinking through uh and recently when um because of Arden 's graduation I've had opportunity to go through a number of our pictures uh that we've collected For many, many years. You know, with smartphones, you have thousands and thousands of pictures to go through. It's overwhelming. But I was looking at a number of pictures of our kids when they we were getting ready to watch the fireworks. On 4th of July, it's normally our tradition that we head over to Leslie's Parents in Westminster. At the end of the day, they have a wonderful firework display there. Hundreds of Of people, and it's always been a good time. But the the kids when they were smaller especially were entranced and excited about the sparklers and the little things that we were allowed at that time to be. to use in the midst of a bunch of of folks there. And so we have pictures of them with their sparklers and their little glow-in-the-dark hats and glow-in-the-dark chains. in the in these things. And these were just kind of paltry, kind of small things, just to keep their attention. Of course, lots of snacks too Right? A full snack bad is always a necessity for small children when you're waiting for the fireworks to start. So there was that too. But the pictures of them enjoying, you know, the the sparklers brought back all kinds of memories. Oh that's great. Now be careful as you light that sparkler and I don't burn your hand. No, okay that's good. Isn't that fun? Okay great. Nope, nope. Keep Keep that away from your brother's hair. Don't get anywhere near that. No, back off. Okay, this is great. This is fun. And then you would actually get to the fireworks display, and all of that was forgotten. As you watch your kids, you know you're trying to get pictures, but it's dark, so you can't really get that great of pictures, but the fireworks sometimes, especially with uh smartphones today. get some great pictures. As they go off, you're looking at your young children's faces and they're just like, Oh, maybe there's a little fear. There's a lot of excitement. But all those paltry things, this Sparklers, all that kind of stuff, they're totally forgotten in the midst of the reality of the amazing display in front of them. I'm gonna borrow another fireworks story from some Arden told me last night. I think it's okay to do that. Uh he was with some friends last night and they were watching a pre-Fourth of July fireworks display in Jacksonville. right around the corner here. And they were getting ready. The fireworks were going off. Everybody was excited. And Arden said about halfway through they started hearing some scream Screaming and some moving around. They're like, why why are people so I mean this is great, but that's not anything to be scared of. Until they looked and they looked and they saw this huge storm crash cloud and this gusher of rain, this torrent of rain coming toward them, and they did the best that they could to duck under a a a uh shirt or or a jacket or something trying to keep the Well guess what folks? Understand So, but because of people's fear and their angst, they were totally missing the glory of the fireworks display that continued on somehow throughout the whole thing. Well, there's a purpose for these fireworks stories, and I think they're a great illustration of what we need to assess with what Paul's given us. Here. Paul is giving us a glorious list of the things that we have in Christ. Really, folks, as we read through this, And as we think of them a display of the blessings that we have in Jesus, we ought to be enthralled. We ought to be amazed. It ought to totally take our attention off of anything else that gives us joy and pleasure. And yet so often, because we have joys in the small, paltry things, we've made those things too big. The sparklers of life, we miss The true grand display of what Paul is giving us even this morning. What paltry little sparklers and fireworks has your attention this morning, folks? Is it entertainment? Is it sports heroes? We're big Oreos fans. And so, you know, we We talk a lot about the Oreos. It's a frustrating summer, I understand. There's ups and downs. Which is a reminder that my ultimate joy is not in the Oreos baseball team either. But what gives you the most delight? Is it finances? Is it a certain amount of money in the bank? Is it a certain friend or relationship or family member Now people are important, don't get me wrong, folks. Is it a movie? Is it entertainment? All of these things. Is it technology, the things that distract our focus, that are the sparklers in life? And yet here we have in God's word the glorious fireworks display and we miss all of that. because we're too attracted by smaller things. Or maybe like Arden 's story last night, we're fearful and we're anxious and we're totally missing the blessings that we we have that are being displayed for us here. Folks, that is a tragedy. And we must come every week prepared, having our hearts prepared. Even encouraging you to have read scripture Saturday night or the weekend or even this morning, preparing our hearts for in the midst of all that we face. Our glorious future and what we're going to have in the future far outweighs any of the things that we struggle with or that we delight in or that we obsess about in this whole world. And so I really want to call you this morning again to focus on the grand display of all that we have in Christ. And it really will help you reevaluate and reassess and live life in the right way. And so let me just read through these again here real quick as we get to verse 11. Verse 3, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, everything that we need. He provides even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. Christ according to the purpose of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace with which He hath blessed us in the beloved. In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. We've been forgiven, folks, of all of our sins in Christ. According to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us, he overwhelmed us with in all wisdom and insight. Making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ, he not only gives us his word, he helps us to understand his word. As a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. And remember, folks, that is such a glorious truth. That all of the brokenness in this world will be made right. All the terrible stories that we hear from people dying in storms to people being attacked by animals to people uh experiencing violent crime and the injustices of the world. All of that, when Jesus returns, remember we said this, he'll come and he'll say, get in line, I've come to make everything right. And there will never be another tragedy. or tear needed to be shed again. He will bring everything in unity in the fullness of time. He'll unite all things in this creation and in all of the cosmos and he'll make it alright. That alone makes me say, even now, come Lord Jesus, please, please. I don't want to have to read another newspaper headline Of some terrible tragedy of somebody having to go through something awful. Jesus will make it all right. Then we have verse 11 here. And we see, we're going to see today the inheritance of God's chosen children, that we have an inheritance. Because we're adopted, because we're God's children, we are given an invaluable inheritance. That far outshines any other worldly inheritance that we could ever receive. And it ought to motivate us And move us to serve him better. Our inheritance comes from God's determined plan. God has determined for his children this inheritance from eternity past. And so it's guaranteed. If you've ever been involved in waiting for an inheritance in this life, now I never have. I have no hopes of any secret inheritance out there that's going to come our way to help us out in this life, but maybe some of you have been through that. You know that it can be unstable, that there can be an element of unknown. That you you're not sure in the end that inheritance where it'll go or something could change at the end. But folks, what Paul is saying here is that our heavenly inheritance You can count on it. You can place all of your hope and faith in it because God has decreed and ordained that you will receive it. You can bank on that, no pun intended. You can place your full hope in this inheritance. It's guaranteed. And you don't have to doubt it by the Father's decree. And so, verse 11, in him, and again that's in Christ. Because of what Christ has accomplished on the cross, shedding his blood, providing redemption, in him we have obtained an inheritance. We have been, as Paul is saying here, we have been assigned something that is of utmost value. We have been appointed or apportioned something something that we look forward to in the future. That actually word is a Greek word that has the idea of appointed to appoint. portion of an inheritance and that was legally binding. But again, as I mentioned before, even in the world legal systems in Inheritances aren't always a surety. But Paul uses this word to help us understand. Our heavenly Father has decreed. Look at the next word. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been, here's some very strong language, having been predestined according to the purpose of Of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. Because we're God's children. We can rejoice this morning because we have privileges that we are experiencing now and future privileges Privileges that we will be given one day. And all of that has to do with our inheritance. He just gives us the word here. But throughout Ephesians, Paul will continue to elaborate on what's in that inheritance. Because, let's be honest, when we hear the The word inheritance. We're all wondering, okay, what do I get? What am I gonna get? Well, let me just give you from scripture, even though Paul doesn't jump into all of that yet, let me give you a list of things That the Bible says that we have even now. First of all, as God's adopted children, we are his children, and we have the privilege of calling him, referring to him as our Father. You can go to him at any time and you can seek his face and seek his counsel and his comfort and his sins. And he is our loving Heavenly Father, will respond. We also have Jesus. The Bible does say Jesus is our brother. Yes, he's the head of the church. He is our Savior. But as part of the family of God, the Bible says he's also our brother. We have Jesus as our big brother. And he will look out for us, right? We that concept from a human level, um, we always, you know, even even with our boys, and you have big brothers that you hope sometimes Uh most of the time are fulfilling their responsibilities, looking out for the younger ones. But let's be honest, they don't always follow through on that as well. There's some teasing, there's some um antagonism with earthly relationships. But when the Bible says that Jesus is our brother, it's not the teasing, antagonizing type of sibling relationship there. But it's He will take care of you. He will look out for you. And also, as we will see soon, we have the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, within us. to lead us and guide us. See God does doesn't give us this book and says, here you go, folks. Good luck. I know it's a big one. I hope you can follow this. I mean yeah, there's a lot of information in here. I don't even know if you can get to all of it by the time and and the allotted time that I've given you in life. And you're like, oh, I better start working on marijuana versus a little bit more. No. The Lord gives us the Holy Spirit to help us to understand His Word, to keep us in the ways. God just doesn't hit us with a big book of rules. It's a love letter from him to us to explain him more, to explain Christ to us, and he gives us the Holy Spirit. All of that is a part of our inheritance. And then of course the future benefits Is that we will receive a new body, and the older some of us get, the more we look forward to that. Certainly. We get to be eternity with God and not have to experience eternal torture and punishment in hell. All of that and more is what comes with our inheritance. So you see, folks, this inheritance really is a big deal. Don't just quickly move over that. It's something to look forward to. More than any earthly inheritance. A seminary professor of mine, I love this quote, Mike Barrett, Dr. Mike Barrett said, an heir legally has a share in the family fortune. That claim is mind-boggling when the family happens to be the family of God. The inheritance that belongs to the children of God is beyond reckoning and it is guaranteed determined let's go back to that word go back to verse 11 having been predestined Is a very strong word, but it just means, as we said before, that it's been determined in advance. And again, this is just the basic understanding of the Greek word, folks. Not trying to twist anything here. It's what it means. And so to somehow try to say again that God looks ahead in time and he knows who's going to be saved. And so somehow he is predestined, he is chosen based on that. That doesn't reflect or resemble the the meaning of these great Greek words. The meaning means that he has determined in advance it's it's simply his choice. And that doesn't mean that he's giving us something then to perplex and make us Filled with fear, Paul is using those words to say, folks, your inheritance is guaranteed. Because it's been predestined before the dawn of time. You're chosen as God's children. You will receive it. There's no doubt. You don't have to worry about that. But he continues, if that wasn't strong enough. Predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. The only source of the whole work of salvation is God has divinely willed it to be so. He has divinely willed, He divinely willed that Jesus would die for our sins. and that he would be risen again so that we could have victory and that we could be called God's children. And it's only God's divine choosing and will that can guarantee our inheritance. He shows us his good pleasure. Isn't that the problem with a lot of earthly inheritances? You see. this in the mystery books and stuff like that. Where there's always a little bit of concern, you know, if I don't keep great grandma Paige, real happy all the time, or Great Aunt Berta , then who knows what she might do with her will. Who knows? I might somehow get if I don't, you know, do things exactly the way she wants or he wants or whatever, don't want to get removed from that inheritance. Don't want to get removed from that will. We're counting on that one day. Well, folks, if you're counting on an earthly inheritance, then I hate to tell you this, you may or may not be sorely disappointed. But it's not something to put your faith and trust in. But folks, you realize that will never happen with your Heavenly Father. He doesn't choose family Favorites. He's not up there saying, Well, I've got these inheritance for all these folks, but they better watch it, or they could lose it. Thank God that our inheritance is secure. And this also is a great counter to those that say that we could lose our salvation or our inheritance. Because folks really that goes against the character of God. God is putting his character if I could put it this way, he's putting his character on The line here by saying, You will receive your inheritance as my children, because I have chosen, I have purposed And for him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. That's another strong statement. Working all things has the cosmic idea that all the events of world history in the past and present are the purposeful, intentional work of our Father. And the counsel of his will really does mean in context. And In the meaning of the Greek. It refers to God's inflexible and determined decree that He has put forth with careful thought and eternal deliberation. Folks, you can't get really language any stronger in our Bibles. That God's in charge, that all of this has been planned from eternity past, that it's always Been his determination, it has been his complete will. And therefore, we can be guaranteed of this inheritance. It's the strongest language we have almost in all the Bible that God's determination of His decreed plan will go forth and take place. So if you're a child of God, you will be saved. And you will receive your inheritance. And you will be with them for all eternity. Don't doubt that. Don't think you can escape that. You cannot escape the determined will of God. It reminds me of a friend that I had many, many years ago, and his name was Bo Bohan. That's just a great name. I love that name. Bo Bohanan. That was his real name. And I've told you parts of my testimony throughout my life, but after college, uh God led me to Central Florida to serve in a small church. church there and I was working in a secular field doing graphic design um and I didn't know a lot of people at that church but I ran into Mr. Bo Bohan and he and I he became my first real friend that There at that church in Winter Garden, Florida, Calvary Baptist Church. He was an old World War II vet, but he had an amazing story. That was beyond many of the things that he had done he was in one of those big huge uh planes with the turrets with the guns he was one of the gunners that was underneath the plane i think i have And he would tell the story of how um difficult it was to maneuver that dome and to get the gun right and then to be shooting everything. I mean it was fascinating from a young man who was living in the nineties and could had never seen anything like that before to even uh uh imagine that. He was like a living relic in a good way to me. When he would describe those things. But another thing that Mr. Bohanan did was he was a boxer and he had pictures of him in his boxing gloves. When he was younger, um and he was quite a good boxer at that point. That's one of the things he did to to just I don't know to while away the time uh during time When they didn't have to be out in the plains. Well, one more thing that he was really good about, he was an expert chess player. And so he taught me how to play chess. And he taught me all the rules and the different things. And what some of the things that he showed me was to keep an eye on each on the other person their every move and always be calculating, always be thinking, okay, if they take that move, then I can do this and this and this. But if they move this over here, then I can do this and this and this. And he eventually would assess me. I got better. And he said, you know, you're you're the beginning of your game is pretty weak. The middle of your game's pretty good at this point. Your finish is not so well. You need to work on that. But he could look at those chess pieces because of all that he'd experienced and his wisdom and knowledge of The game and he could evaluate and know if he does this, then I do this, if he does this, then I do this. Finally, at the uh it was like uh a year into it. I think I think he was just having a bad night. I don't know if he let me win or not, but I finally beat him for the first time. That was a good feeling. But it took a long time. Folks, sometimes I think we think of God the Father in that way. That was impressive to me as a young man to see this older man and all that he had gone through and be able to play chess. so well, but sometimes we think of God in that way. But God is just the ultimate chess player. And that we have the freedom to do whatever we want, but God will always be there to counter because He's just a better chess player than the rest of us. Because of course he's God. But that really is not the language that God that is given here. Yes, if God was going to play chess with us, he would always win, right? But the language here is that God has ordained everything throughout all of human history. He has decreed this will happen. Whatever happens in history is no No surprise to God. He doesn't have to counter in any move. He already knows everything that's going to happen because he's decreed that to happen. And all of that then to say, folks, is to go back to the fact that when the Bible says that you have an inheritance, you can be assured you're going to receive that. If you're a child of God here this morning trusting in Jesus, folks, one day when Jesus returns, you will receive a new body that will last for all eternity. Folks, if you are trusting in Jesus as your Savior, I can confidently say that your sins are redeemed, that God will continue to do his work in your life. And you will change to be more like Jesus Christ. You can be confident in that. And that's why Paul brings these things up: that we have an inheritance that involves all of these things. And we don't have to doubt that one day we'll receive it. Now I understand. You might say then, well, Pastor Brock. I I I've been listening to you and I'm glad to hear that if you are. And at the end of every service, you always give an invitation. Why do you give an invitation? Some sort or another, because if God decreed it by his counsel from eternity past and determined it in that strong of a language that Paul uses, why even give an invitation? Those who are chosen are gonna Except Christ and those who aren't. Because I also have a responsibility scripturally to call people to relationship with Jesus Christ. I have a responsibility To proclaim the gospel, to call you to decision. How do I make all that work together? Well, in the end, folks, I'm not smart enough To be able to help fully understand, help you understand that, but I do know that all of this is true. God is sovereign, but He's given me a responsibility To proclaim Christ. And so I do it. And I leave the results up to Him. Well, that doesn't, I can't comprehend how all that works together. Well that's okay. He's God. We're not. We'll never be able to fully comprehend. If any Anybody can give me a good a good solid illustration of the Trinity. One God, three persons. I actually challenge you to do that. I've never heard of a good illustration because of the Trinity At some point it breaks down. There's just at some point it goes beyond our comprehension to explain one God, three persons, and yet we avow by the by the biblical data that it is true. I'll never be able to fully explain that, but I will proclaim it because it's truth. And the same with the assurance of our inheritance. And folks, then as we finish up this morning, what is our response? We're not going to get all the way through verse 14. That's fine. That gives us more time to just dwell on these truths. And that's That's good. What is our response when we realize that we have this inheritance that is so valuable and so rich? Verse twelve, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. As we hear these truths about our inheritance, it ought to turn our hearts to praise him. and give him glory regardless of what we're facing. We've mentioned some things in prayer this morning that are very hard, that are very difficult. And we wonder sometimes, Lord, as we wonder with Job, why? Why so much sorrow? Why so much hardship? And yet, folks. When we understand what we're looking forward to and the inheritance that we have that the Holy Spirit is working in us and what we have in Christ and what we will have that still, no matter what we're facing, ought to move us to praise God. For all that we have, that we might be to the praise of his glory. The only response that we have to this list of blessings is to say, Praise you, Lord. It's amazing. Hallelujah. I think sometimes what part of our problem is is that we spend too much time living life as if we're In charge. Let's be candid here. We all do it. We're in charge. We act as if we're in charge of our schedule, our time, our plans. And so we get angry when things don't work out the way that we think they should. But as Paul's pointing out here, folks, God's actually in charge of all of our plans. In charge of my plans, in charge of your plans. And rather than curse him or get angry with him, thank him that he's so much better at orchestrating things than we ever could be. And be thankful to Him. So our response to our inheritance should be to praise God. His glory is his essence, His holy nature, His light, His splendor, his power, his radiance. When we get a glimpse, remember the prophets of old, when they received a glimpse of who God was, what did they do? We need a little bit more of the awe of the holiness and the majesty of our heavenly Heavenly Father, and it will be bring us joy. A counselor uh author named Ed Welch, some of you may know Nohim has a great quote here. We are people who have received a new name through adoption. And furthermore, the adoption, no matter how much it makes us feel good, that was not printended primarily for that purpose. In the New Testament, adoptions brought glory to the person who adopts, not the one who has adoption. Not the one who is adopted. Adoption brings glory to God. And so as excited as thankful as we are that God has adopted us as His children, folks, let's not forget, as in that culture. at this time that God deserves the glory God has adopted us so that we will receive we will give him the glory that he deserves. And we still get all the benefits. Paul, when he says here that we who were the first to hope in Christ, that really has the idea Of we who already have the hope need to appreciate it more than what we do And so as we finish up this morning, I'm going to call you to as we continue to consider all the blessings that God has given us. That we rejoice and be glad and be thankful. See, it really does depend on our view. of scripture. Do you believe the truths that we have an inheritance that's uncorruptible, undefiled, and more valuable than anything you could want better than the greatest buffet, better than the greatest um retirement plan, whatever. The greatest experience, the greatest Sporting event that you could go to, what we look forward to in our spiritual inheritance is so much greater than all of that. And that ought to raise our spirits. And cause us to rejoice. You reflect on those things and experience that joy that Paul talks about here. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, my prayer as Leslie comes up this morning is simple. That is for those that may be here that don't know Jesus Christ as their Savior, that this morning that they would turn to him They would repent of their sin, and they would acknowledge Him as their Savior, and that they would then do your work. That they would experience the love and the blessings of being in a part of an eternal family and the confidence that they will receive the spiritual inheritance that you have Promised in your word. Lord, I pray if there are those today that are in rebellion against you, they've not trusted in Christ, and they're trusting in the inheritances of this world, the finances, the events, the people of this world that they would see the weakness and the frailty in that and they would turn to something that is infinitely more valuable And worthy of our trust and hope, the spiritual inheritance that we have in Christ. And for those, Lord, here this morning, and I assume assume that there are many here that are truly the children of God. Let us not be freaked out or concerned about the words that we've used this morning about predestination and About the counsel of your will, but we'll just be thankful that our inheritance is assured and we will receive all that you have promised us, and that we will have victory over sin. And that we will be the recipients of joy as unfathomable as we spend eternity in glory with you. Let today those truths sink deep within us and cause us to erupt in praise and glory. For you who are the only one that's worthy of that. And for our Savior Jesus Christ. Folks, let those truths work in your heart as you hear the piano played this morning.