Turn in your Bibles this morning back to the Gospel of John, but maybe not where you would expect us to be. Because of communion, and I will say I'm not planning on doing this every time we have communion. But it did seem appropriate for our communion service for me to skip ahead of chapter and really dive in to A particular aspect of something that Jesus brings up, John chapter 6, be looking at verses 45 through 59. And we're going to take up this morning, this study, in the midst of Jesus' bread of life discourse. And he points out earlier on in verse 35, he refers to himself as the bread of life. It is the first of the I am statement, seven I am statements in this gospel, where Jesus is describing who he is and why he came And we're going to jump in the middle of this. We'll get back to our to um the feeding of the 5,000 and some of this later on. This section, if you'll notice that whole chapter 6 is a long chapter, and it is hard to get through in one message anyway. So we would have had to divide it up, and I really think this fits very well With what we're going to be doing this morning. But just a little bit of background. Again, we'll see this in the upcoming weeks. But Jesus has just literally the day before performed the miracle sign Of the feeding of the crowd of 5,000, and probably was many more than that. But he uses as he's doing that in this discourse. Just as the earlier need for water with the Samaritan woman allowed him to bring up himself as the living water Now, the need for the bread for this group that had come to hear him will allow him to talk about their need for a much more important sustenance, food. Jesus is referring to himself as the living bread. He is the bread. He says this in verse, he has this application. In mind in verse 35, he is the bread that provides ultimate spiritual sustenance and satisfaction. Only through Jesus can we have this satisfaction. But as we go to this chapter or this passage, one thing that we do have to be careful of, and especially using this for a communion service, And this is one of those passages that has been very much misunderstood. Even the hearers that Jesus is speaking to misunderstood or didn't understand and were appalled by what he was saying. And this has misunderstanding has led to doctrinal error. The Roman Catholic Church has taken this passage and said because of what Jesus says here that now what they refer to as their communion, they refer to it as as a sacrament, the Eucharist, and they view the cup. And the bread as actually almost, we're really in reality becoming in that moment the body and the blood of Christ And to the point where really, if you understand what they're being asked to do, they're being asked to give worship to those elements as they become in their minds the body and the blood of Christ because of this chapter and misunderstanding or twisting of the information here. So folks, let's understand right up front, that is not what Jesus is saying He is not using this really to apply directly to communion at all. Now we can learn through what Jesus is saying And that is that our need to partake of the bread of life in belief and abide, have that fellowship and relationship with him is what he's referring to. But he's also picturing the fact that his very flesh will have to be offered up for our sins, and that he will have to offer himself up as a sacrifice. to become the bread of life. That is his focus. And so we need to have that understanding up front as we dive into this. Jesus is explaining the sacrifice of his life and how that will provide eternal life to those who believe in the bread of life. And so we see here this morning the bread that provides eternal life. Before we go any further, let's have one more word of prayer. Father. Give us understanding this morning in a passage that has been misunderstood, and even to Jesus' hearers, they were dull of hearing, they did not fully understand And many rejected Christ because of this. And yet, Lord, help us to understand this testimony of Jesus is vital because we must have faith. In the bread of life and believe in the testimony of who he is and his sacrifice for us So that we can abide with him. It's the only way. Lord, it's not through some sort of works and even the works of partaking in a communion table together. That doesn't save us. But having faith in Christ is what saves us. Give us greater clarity in that and help us to again wonder and marvel at all that Jesus says and what he's done for us. For this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. The bread that provides eternal life. And in verses 45 through 51, we're going to see here the living bread provides eternal life. And that living bread is Jesus. Jesus provides eternal life to those who believe. But Jesus is in the midst of stating something here as he begins, as we begin studying this in verse 45. And it's hard for this truth that he's stating is hard for his hearers to comprehend. This is the following day after he has done this miracle, the feeding of the 5,000. There's a large large crowd that has been seeking him out. And has found him. Seems like at this point we find out in verse 59 that he's in the synagogue teaching in Capernaum. So they found him there. And it seems as if they're coming because they've heard of the provision of food that he did the day before, and they're amazed by that, but maybe also they're hoping Jesus is going to do this miracle again Because at this time it was more difficult to find daily sustenance, and there were many poor people as well, and to hear of someone that could give them the food that they need was very intriguing to them So probably this large crowd is here even seeking physical provision. And Jesus knows that. And he's taking this opportunity to offer something even more important. Spiritual provision. And again, as I said before, in verse 35, he refers to himself as the bread of life. And now he gives further explanation in these passages. But what he wants us to understand is this whole thing and his sacrifice and his mission is entirely under control of his father. In fact, even though I said verse 45, look at verse 44 quickly. He points out, No man can come to me except the Father which has sent me, draw him, and I will raise him up at the last day. Jesus is clear here. We can't come to him unless the Father calls us and draws us to him. This is that aspect of the sovereignty of God and salvation. That God calls and draws us so that we can understand. The Holy Spirit does a work at the same time. And Jesus says, apart from the Father drawing you, you can't come to me. Now that's the one side of the doctrine of God's sovereignty and election. And choosing us, we'll see the other side here as well. But Jesus makes this clear. And then in verse 45, he explains it another way. And let's look at that. It says, he says, it is written in the prophets, and it seems specifically here we ought to think Isaiah, perhaps Jeremiah, and they shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard and hath learned of the Father cometh unto me. There seems to be as He seems to be thinking here of Isaiah 54, verses 13 and 14. You don't have to turn there. I'll just read this. It says, And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of thy children. Jesus is saying here that the Father takes the initiative in giving us, teaching us the understanding of our need for the Son. Again, the Father's initiative in this. We only see our need for Christ ultimately because the Father has drawn us and he is teaching us our need for Christ. So Jesus is very clear here. And yet at the same time, he says in verse 46, not that any man hath seen the Father, save or except he who is of God, he hath seen the Father. And so Jesus is carefully balancing this out and saying, don't misunderstand though. God will not give you some sort of spiritual experience or revelation that doesn't include the sun. Does that make sense? He's saying it's through me. You'll have no spiritual experience apart from our relationship with the Son. God the Father only reveals himself through the Son. But he is the one that does that revealing. And that shouldn't surprise us. Even in the first chapter, we have seen that, that the Son is the very word, the revelation. of who the Father is. And Jesus just restates that again. Folks, before we go any further, there's something here in application I just want to say, just real briefly in this. And that is, as I was studying this, this came to mind, we really need to, in our testimonies and when we talk of what God has done for us, we need to make much of who Jesus is too. Sometimes in a more general sense we can be talking up and give testimony, God has done this and that. And I'm thankful this morning. as well hearing the benders, you understand that, and they understand that it was Jesus who sacrificed himself. and who they're placing their faith in. But sometimes we just sometimes naturally, I'm not even sure why, but we could talk about all that God has done for us And we forget to mention the way to God through the Son. And we forget sometimes to talk about Jesus. This is this is kind of a minute difference here, but it even kind of bothers me sometimes if all I ever hear somebody say as they talk about Christ. Now this may be just my sensitivity. Christ is Jesus and really and kind of his last name, right? What does Christ mean? Messiah. And so it's a legitimate uh description. It's a j legitimate title for Jesus. But I've found that some people this can happen I think in seminary and different things where all they use is Christ. So remember remember when you're telling somebody about Christ and just using his last name. You're just saying the Messiah has done this for me and the Messiah has done that for me. My whole point is his name, his first name is Jesus. We shouldn't be embarrassed. That should flow freely from us when we talk about what God has done for us. And Jesus says here too. Make sure that you emphasize that you can't have an experience of God, the one true God, except through me And he makes that clear, because it's Jesus then that provides eternal life. Now here's the other side of that. We just talked about God's choosing and his calling and his drawing us into relationship with Christ However, the other side of the coin is, verse 47, he says, truly, barely, barely, or truly, truly, he is stressing the truth of this, I say unto you. He that believeth on me hath everlasting life. Here Jesus is calling on us to make that decision, to believe in Jesus. He's saying he is the only way to have eternal life with the Father, with God, with Him forever. And we are responsible to believe. Again, both sides of this. Can we ever put those two things together? The Father draws us, except the Father draws. We can't understand our need for Christ. And yet it is our responsibility, we need to decide to believe in Jesus. How do those things come together? People try to describe it. In the end, that's something that only God fully understands. But we must emphasize both aspects and not shirk from either one of these. They're both important. And so here he's stressing the need to believe on him, and that then will give context for everything else that he says in this passage. Verse 48, that I am statement, I am that bread of light. And Jesus is going to point out here in these next few verses. He provides eternal life, but he provides that's also spiritual life to those who believe. And it's different From the physical bread that these people around him are looking for. He points that out in verse 49. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness and are dead. In case Jesus' audience is misunderstanding him, he's not saying here, I'm about to do another miracle and give you some more bread. But he is saying, in effect, that no, you need something far, there's something far more important than physical bread. Because your fathers, who was that? The children of Israel in the Old Testament. And God provided them that wonderful manna in the wilderness. Remember when they were looking and saying, How is how are we going to feed our families? And we We should have stayed in Egypt and God provided that physical food, that manna, so that they could eat and survive. But that didn't allow them to survive eternally, did it? No, at some point They passed on. They died. And God provided that bread, but it was sustenance for their earthly life. Jesus says the bread that I'm talking about is sustenance for your spiritual life, and it's needed for your eternal life. You need this bread, even so much more important. Verse 50: This is the bread that cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof and not die. Well, who came from heaven? Jesus as God. That was his abode. And he came to become man. So a hundred percent God, a hundred percent man, and he is now able to offer this bread. And who is the bread? Verse 51. I am the living bread. It's Jesus that came down from heaven. He wants this to be clear. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever. And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the world. And Jesus makes it clear here that he's referring to himself or to his flesh that he will have to give of his very flesh. And this is directly connected to That very physical sacrifice that he would have to give on the cross. He would literally give of his flesh so that people could have eternal life The world, in essence, would have access through faith to the life that Jesus would give as he offers up his flesh He would offer spiritual life in a way that physical bread could not do that. So then he continues as well, and he starts this illustration that he'll continue in a vivid way. He's referred to himself as the bread, and he says, if any man eat of this bread, and already then his hearers are starting to think through what he's saying and saying, wait a minute, if he's the bread. And we're supposed to eat of this bread. What is Jesus talking about here? What is really going on? And so you have in verse 52 already some misunderstanding. The Jews, and we see here probably the Jewish leaders. Therefore strove or disputed among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? They understand the connection here. And it seems for whatever reason this verb for strove or disputed, they got into an intense discussion and argument over this for whatever reason. Maybe some of the leaders like Nicodemus were feeling um more understanding and positive toward Jesus Jesus' message and there were other leaders that were hearing this and saying, how can you give this man any credibility at all? Listen to what he's saying. He's talking about us eating his flesh Now, I don't really think that the Jewish leaders were thinking in terms of cannibalism. I think they understood because that would be abhorrent and would be against God's law for a Jewish person to to be involved in that. We understand the importance to that. But they're disturbed that he would even use that description. They don't understand what he's getting at. Why would somebody even use that description of themselves? It's so abhorrent. And so there was some sort of dispute and concern going on here. So Jesus, instead of backing off at that moment, And saying, okay guys, here's what I mean. This is what I mean by this. He really doubles down and makes this vivid to the point where it really is disturbing to read. And it's what's caused when people misunderstand what Jesus is saying here, it's caused all sorts of confusion. But Jesus is using this vivid language for a purpose, as we would expect. Then Jesus, verse 53, saith unto them, said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, unless ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Wow It gets more vivid. It's even disturbing for us to read in that regard, even though we have an idea of what Jesus is talking about here. And the word for flesh is a vivid word for his actual flesh. And the word for eating or feeds on. In verse 54, Whosoever feeds on my flesh and drinketh my blood hath eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day Folks, I don't want to be gross here in any way, but that word for feed is an actual literal word used for chewing. And the idea of drinking blood to the Jews would have been abhorrent, since God had forbidden this. So it's not that Jesus really could have meant it in that way. That's not what he intended. Furthermore, if he intended it that way, He would be prescribing some sort of work that we have to do something in order to obtain eternal life. Well, what is Jesus referring here? He's referring specifically to the fact that we need, this is a picture, a very vivid picture, but an important picture. That we need to believe in him, that he is going to have to give his very flesh and offer himself up to us. And when we believe in him, we come through his grace and through the work of the Holy Spirit. As we become believers, we have a close personal fellowship with him. We literally abide with him. And that idea that we that we read about in Isaiah. Well, just quickly here I'll just read to you this passage in Isaiah that brings this out about the idea of bread and tying that to hearing and listening and abiding in God Isaiah 55, verse 2 says, Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which satisfies not? Hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness. Incline your ear and come unto me. Hear and your soul shall live. Even in the Old Testament, that idea of buying bread here is tied, and eating bread is tied, spiritual bread, with hearing and coming to the Lord. And so with that picture here, it kind of gives us a background for what Jesus is talking about. Through his death, he would become the bread of life. We eat that when we put our faith and trust in him, and we will be then resurrected one day. We will be resurrected from death And will be also given a glorified body, a resurrected body from these old bodies, will experience that resurrection Because of our belief in this picture that Jesus is talking about. And that's why he says at the end, he'll have eternal life. I will raise him up at the last day. Our hope is in our belief in him. And his sacrificed flesh. Then he continues on. For my flesh is meat, or it's true food indeed, and my blood is true drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood abides in me, and I in him. Dr. Mark Minnet put the description this way. He said, our personal appropriation or our belief in taking in the truth of Jesus Christ our belief and faith of his literal death, the shedding of his blood at the deepest possible level is absolutely essential to salvation and eternal life The picture here Jesus is giving is that he is essential to eternal life. You've heard that phrase, you are what you eat. Well what does that mean? Well it means that what we eat literally becomes a part of us. Um I don't most of you know this, but maybe not everyone, that recently I've been put on a nutritional regiment and have been limited in some of the things that I'm able to enjoy, some of the things that I loved to enjoy in the past. I've had to put that off for the next two or three months, and I will admit it's been a little bit of a challenge. You find out, especially if this diet doesn't include much sugar at all. You find out really that you you do get kind of addicted to sugar after a while. Um, and you realize how much important that's become to your body and uh dairy as well, those types of things. Um it it's hard to not go through, but I have noticed some changes as I've changed what I've been eating. And I literally, as I read this passage, I thought about I I understand that a lot more. You are what you eat. That's become very more apparent to me in a real way in my own health. Jesus is pointing out that when we put our faith and trust in him, that when we take him in. That he meets our spiritual needs, that we become more like him. Isn't that the goal of the Christian life? The sanctification process. We talk like this, to become more like Jesus Christ. And so his picture of eating his flesh and drinking his blood, as abhorrent as that is in one level, really it's that picture of we to faith and trust in Christ, accept his sacrifice of his life, and it literally becomes us. He gives us new birth We will experience resurrection someday. We can abide. As we read his word and we understand his word more, it becomes more and more a part of us and we become more like him. And when we look at it that way, the picture starts to make sense. He's not anyway prescribing here in some sort of sacrament, or even as the Lord's Supper as we're getting ready to take that, but as we do that, that that is a work that will gain us salvation No! He's certainly not saying that this will somehow become his very flesh and his very blood. That's abhorrent to us. But in effect, he's saying, as you put your faith and trust in me, I will give you the spiritual sustenance that you need for eternal life. And then he brings it all back around by reminding us again that this is all the plan of the Father. Verse 58, as the living Father has sent me, and I live because the Father, so that He that eateth me, even he shall live by me. This is that bread which came down from heaven. He's talking to himself uh about himself. Not as your fathers did eat manna and are dead. He emphasizes that again. This is not physical. Therefore put away the picture of actually the ingesting and eating him. This is not a physical thing This is a spiritual bread that they need. He that eateth of this bread shall live forever. And by the way, even as we finish up here, Jesus makes it, and we'll see this in a couple weeks, even more clear. In John chapter 6, verse 63. Turn to that quickly as we end here so that you understand this. Jesus gives his disciples his final explanation of what he means by this picture. He says, It is the spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, they are life. He's pointing out here in the end, guys, I'm not saying I'm not saying that you have to do anything in and of the flesh. You don't have as far as eating. and drinking and that will provide you eternal life. That's not the point of my picture here. It is a spiritual thing And you need to put your faith and trust in me, and I will give you spiritual life. He gives finally the explanation. So often many people miss that. But he makes it clear, I'm not referring to a physical eating or drinking or anything like that because the work I'm doing is spiritual. So folks. As we finish up this morning, let's remember, and let's just bring this all to a conclusion. Jesus says He is the bread. He's the living bread. He's the heavenly bread that has come from heaven. that provides life through belief and trust and relationship with him. And that's what we're going to celebrate this morning and remember. Charles Spurgeon has a great quote, and this is a good way to end this, nothing puts life into men like a dying savior. Lord, as we get ready now for communion, may we honor you in this. May we have the right understanding that this is a picture of what you have done for us. The cup is a b is a picture of the blood you shed. The wafer, the cracker, is a picture of blood Your body that was beaten and broken for us. And so let us marvel and rejoice in this picture this morning. This we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.