And so, in some ways, an Old Testament picture of that salvation certainly of The salvation of the Lord we find in the book of Jonah. And you could turn there as we continue. This series. And we move into Jonah chapter 2. But again, we were gone away last week. Thank you for your prayers, by the way. It really was a blessing to be here. Able to officiate and see firsthand one of our own, uh, Jun Yan Klein, get married to Daniel Steves. Now she's Jen Yin Steves, Mrs. Steve. And she's going to be a pastor's wife up in Michigan very soon. So what a blessing it is to see our young people go on and serve him in this way and in so many ways. And it's a thrill. And many of your young people are going back on to children's church, and that's good too. Even though this is a wonderful story. And a little bit of summary Here, as we get into chapter 2, we have a very shocking thing at the beginning of Jonah. That is a faithful, a mature servant of God. Of the Lord who knows God well, that God commissions him in his presence, and that servant runs from the presence of God. And runs the exact opposite direction. Basically, you could kind of sum up Jonah's attitude as catch me if you can, Lord. A foolish thing to say. Because of course God's going to win. The true servants of the Most High, God will make sure that They are used for his purposes, whether they run and hide or not. And God is not into playing hide and seek, as he could see all things, and Jonah's trying to hide away. in that deck of that ship as he uh paid his fare, he paid of his own money to run from God, and God hurls that That word hurl is important. It occurs three times. God hurls a weapon of a storm against Jonah. But there's not just Jonah. On that ship, there's all these experienced mariners who have never seen a storm like this in their life, and they're terrified, and they're more spiritually discerning than the Profit. This is maybe one of the dullest, most lack of sensitive sensitivity profits that we're We have in all of Scripture actually. Well, as God hurled the storm, then the mariners hurled the cargo, and if that wasn't enough, eventually we saw a couple weeks ago they ended up hurling the prophet. into the raging storm. Um I think it's interesting though with these mariners, these men who had seen it all, they're more spiritually sensitive and ready In fact, we're going to continue to see that unfortunately everyone in the book seems to be more spiritually sensitive than God's prophet. shocking as it should be to us. Note that these seamen, they noted the danger first before Jonah because he was asleep at the The bottom of the ship hiding out. Second, they feared the Lord. They feared and had a sense of awe of the true God. Before the prophet. They prayed to the Lord before the prophet. And we're going to see today as well. They even worship the Lord. Before Jonah. Now, if we were Jonah, folks, I'd say that's that's an embarrassing list. Wouldn't it be? Jonah is a um ex Experienced man of God. God has used him already, as we saw in 1 Kings. And he was God's go-to in this scenario. Sending Jonah. With a message to a very fierce, cruel people, the Assyrians, that they needed to turn from their ways, that God God was aware of their cruel ways. This enemy of God's people, and really this people, the Assyrians, that Would be the superpower soon for the whole world. God is sending Jonah to them to say, I know what you're up to. I know how mean and cruel you are. And I'm going to send And judgment. And of course, we would have expected Jonah just to obey, but Jonah didn't. He didn't, for whatever reason, which we don't know yet, he didn't want to give that message to the Assyrians. That lived in Nineveh, right? God's sending Jonah to Nineveh. The Ninevehes, they were Assyrians. This was a major city of the Assyrian Empire, and would continue to grow in power, Jonah runs the other way. And so anyway, on this ship, these mariners, as Jonah gives testimony, That he is a follower of the one true God. He is a messenger, a prophet of the true God, and of the Creator God. And these seamen are Are aghast and terrified that one of the true servant uh one of the servants of the true God would be running from them and put them in peril. Right And they're aghast that he would actually think that he could run. Again, what a terrible testimony, as Jonah makes it clear. Yeah, I'm running from the one true God, the God that created all this. God that sent the storm. I'm running from him. Hey guys, nice to meet you. And so they're concerned and they don't want the anger of this God. So they pray, they try their best not to have to throw Jonah overboard. And finally they pray, verse 14, they say, Oh Lord, let us Not perish for this man's life, and lay not on us innocent blood. For you, O Lord, have done as it pleased you, and they're more quick to recognize the true character of God than the prophet And I think here is a subtle also a prayer that these mariners are praying that God might save, might provide deliverance for this prophet in some way. And will God do that? Well, he certainly will, in a most rem uh memorable way. But they picked Jonah up and hurled him into the sea. That's the third hurling there in the sea. Immediately ceased its raging, and the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord and made vows. Here, okay, is this a real conversion? Do these um these hardened um These well experienced seamen and fishermen, do they really trust Christ? Folks, I'm convinced that this is a true conversion. I'm convinced that these mariners see the power of God, even with the poor, the terrible testimony of God's man. They still turn to God because they see the poor You know what that tells me as well, folks? Sometimes we get nervous about our effectiveness as giving testimony about Jesus Christ and about salvation. Just not sure that I can be effective. I'm just not sure that I can be impressive or persuasive enough. Folks, if God can use a prophet that's rebelling Against him and still bring people to himself, he can use any of us that want to be used. And yes, he can use us sometimes even in spite of ourselves. That's an encouragement to us, right? So a terrible testimony from Jonah, but these men worship truly the one True God, and they offer true worship to Him, and they make vows. These are vows of commitment, I believe. And these hardened men who've seen it all, they soften their hearts. Hearts are softened and they turn to God. This is all God's work. God has done this work in the lives of these folks. God is going to succeed in His grace. Grace, even when his servants are rebellious and hardened. And so I believe These men turn to the true God and they become followers of Him. Note that they worship God again before while Jonah is still fighting. Fighting against God. And so God then brings this amazing vehicle of salvation. I think it's what the Mariners had prayed for. God somehow deliver this man. Don't let us be guilty. For his death. First chapter two, verse one. Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God. Oh, I'm sorry. Chapter one, verse seventeen. It's divided up differently. In different versions. But it says, the Lord appointed a great fish. Doesn't say a whale, but there's a good possibility. But this just think of this as A special fish, specially a special vehicle of salvation and delivery that God has crafted for this moment for this rebellious prophet. And appointed means that God had already, God had already made the reservations for this vehicle and for this trip. From the beginning of time, God had Had directed and expected this fish and this moment to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah has rescued them from his own way. And that's why the whole series here is titled The Rescue of a Selfish Servant. Jonah needed rescuing from himself. The best thing for Jonah, what would that have been? To do what God told him to do. And folks, whatever God's telling you to do this morning, if you're running from that. In your heart. If you're running the exact opposite way into Tarshish, repent, turn around before God has to use extraordinary circumstances. is to bring you back. Jonah could rebel. It was his decision, but he didn't get to decide the vehicle of Of his salvation. And here he is in the belly of this fish for three days and three nights. How do you think that experience would have been, by the way? You ever thought about that? I don't know that he would have had um been able to make a fire or anything like that, like in the children's books. I don't think I I will say this, I don't think it was the most comfortable experience. I don't think it was a f Four-star Hilton experience. Do you? Not at all. He's being jumbled around, and yet at the same time, God is using this This time, these three days and nights to provide opportunity for Jonah to think through and to meditate on his ways. And if you remember as well, wasn't one of the things that I mentioned that what what was one of the things that Jonah was trying to accomplish? I think he was trying to get away from it all. He was trying to get Alone by himself. What better way to get alone by yourself than to be in the belly of a fish? Nobody else is gonna want to be there with you. God gives Jonah What he wanted. Just not in the way that he expected. And then we learn as Jonah's heart is turned, there's this beautiful psalm. This is a thanksgiving. Thanksgiving prayer, and it's reminiscent of many psalms that are Thanksgiving Psalms within the book of Psalms, and it's also an indication of how well Jonah knows God. And it's an acknowledgement that even the most faithfulness. And experienced of God's servants can make dumb choices , can make foolish errors. And Jonah. Finally sees that maybe he shouldn't have been so intent on the way that he was going. And he's thankful that God has turned him around. And God is Rescuing him from his own choices here. In our moment of weakness, in our pride Any of us can be capable of great sin, folks. This is no small thing that Jonah's done. Spitting in God's face, running The other way, thinking being a terrible testimony of God's salvation. These things are egregious. But any of us can be involved in them. them when we start exalting our own way over God's way. Any of us can make a foolish choice and make mistakes, folks. If we're not keeping Constantly into what God wants us to do with our lives, and we're not keyed into His word and following after Him when we relapse and we go our own way. We can really do some very damaging and foolish things. And Jonah's a reminder again: this is the salvation today of a selfish Servant. And Jonah realizes finally his own helplessness, and he's thankful that God has intervened. So let's see verse 2 here. What does a man Man say who's in the belly of a fish and realizes how foolish he's been. Verse 2 saying, I called out to the Lord, out of my distress, and he answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried, and you heard my voice, for you cast me into the deep. There's a lot of hurling going on here and casting and john a real This is God that has thrown him into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and the flood surrounded me. It encompassed me. I couldn't get away from the waters. Is this a picture of? I was drowning. All your waves and your billows passed over me. And it says, Then I said, I am driven away from your sight, and yet again look upon your holy temple. This really, as Jonah was cast. Into the sea, we have this picture that he's describing for us of his continual sinking. And his experience as he's looking up in the waters, the light from you know know the storm that is now cleared. Maybe there was some sunlight filtering down and he's going deeper, deeper. He's describing um that he's getting closer and closer to death. With every inch that he sinks. Now, what was another thing that I told you a couple weeks ago that I think Jonah in the end was seeking from God? I think Jonah in the end wanted to end his own life. That basically he was rebelling against God to the point where he said, God, I'm not interested in delivering your message to those old minimal Those cruel people, those terrible people. Again, those people today would be like Hamas or Iran. I'm not interested in delivering that message, Lord. And And you can't make me, and you'll have to kill me first by throwing me overboard, Lord. And so I think at this point, God gives Jonah a little taste Of his own medicine. Well, maybe a taste of his own desires. As Jonah continues to sink and sink, I think the thought starts to dawn on me. him you know this whole ending my life and dying in this way this really isn't what I thought it would be I actually Lord I don't want this I I don't Want to lose my life in this way. Lord, save me as He continues to sink down. He's describing this, your waves and your billows. I think Possibly that God allowed him. How did the water not affect him and get into his lungs and he died before this vehicle of salvation? I think God gave him what he He asked for. And he had an experience, God protected him, but had an experience of sinking, seeking, and almost to the point of death before God saved him. The fish. You know, folks, it is of a truth that sometimes one of God's best lessons that He can impart to us is giving us What we want and what he's told us that we shouldn't have, just giving us a taste of that. When we desire something that God has made clear, you don't need that. That's not best for you. Don't pine away and desire that, whatever it would be. It could be all sorts of things that may be good in our in our culture today, that may be neutral. But if God has said, I don't want you pursuing that, I don't want you pursuing that relationship, I don't want you pursuing, I don't want you paying money for that right now, I Don't want you, you know, whatever uh to act in that way and we still desire, we say, Lord, please just give that to me. And we uh don't acknowledge his leading. Sometimes God gives us What we want, and then we taste it and we realize, oh, well God was right. This tastes terrible. I don't need this. Lord, save me from ever wanting this in the first place. I should have listened to you. Sometimes that's God's most effective way of dealing with us when we get really rebellious. And you know what that is like We all do. And he gives Jonah then a little taste of what it would be like to be close to death. And Jonah doesn't like that. So verse 4: I said, I'm driven away from your sight. He's basically realizing, Lord, you have cast me aside. This word driven away means you have rejected, you have put me Outside, you've rejected me as one of your people , you've cast me aside, and yet Jonah remembers the grace And the mercy of God, and he says, I shall look again upon your holy temple. What does that mean? He's sinking in the midst of the ocean. There's no temple to look at. Is Jonah getting uh is he getting delirious? Is he seeing things? No, this is a euphemism of saying of Jonah. Jonah's saying Lord, I finally remembered to turn to you in prayer. Yeah. Here I am sinking. I'm about to lose my life. Lord, I know I deserve this. I've been a rebel. I've been a terrible testimony. Testimony for you. Lord, I don't deserve your grace and mercy, and yet I know that you are a gracious God, and I will look again. I am calling out to you. Lord, for help. Help me. And I think the picture here in the way it's described is almost as if Jonah is screaming and crying. Crying out, Lord, uh forgive my foolishness. I don't want this. I want to live. I want to serve you. Save me, rescue me. And yet the waters clothed in over me to take my life, and the deep surrounded me. Weeds were wrapped around my head. Now he's getting to the point where he's getting near the seaweed, right? And the seaweed starting to wrap around his head. Head and he's starting to panic and getting nervous, as you can imagine. At the roots of the mountains, I went down to the land whose bars close upon me forever. He's like, I'm getting to the point here. There's no return. There's no way to get away from this. I think basically in our modern vernacular, what's Jonah's saying here. I'm a goner. Lord, save me. And so in the midst of this This deserved experience, God is impressing upon Jonah that what he wanted wasn't best for him. And then this marvelous fish. I hope someday that we get to see video. or something of this because folks I just don't know. I can't ex describe to you what this would look like. If you go to sight and sound and see their version of Jonah, it's very impressive. Might have been something like a whale. But whatever it was, as Jonah is down to his last Breath that fish just comes at just God's timing and bam! sucks him right up into the belly. Salvation from the Lord. In a rather strange way But don't we many times look at this story as God's judgment of him putting Jonah in the belly of the fish? God is judging him for his sin. And actually, I don't think that's quite accurate. The judgment comes in God's allowing Jonah to sink. And they can Am I going to be rescued? What we need to understand is the fish is the vehicle of salvation. It's the rescue plan. It's the rescue vehicle. The rescue vehicle has come. You brought up my life from the pit. This whole scenario so far talks about Jonah going down, down, down. Down, down, and all of a sudden he realized God rescued me and He's gonna bring me up. Oh Lord, my God, when my life was fainting away, I remembered, I finally remembered the Lord. This is what What we've all been waiting for in this whole scenario. Jonah, just pray to God. Just seek God's face. Everyone else around you is. The pagan mariners are seeking him. The fish is better is more obedient. Even the ship seems more obedient than you. Turn to God. And finally at the end of chapter 2, Jonah says, I remembered. Remember to turn to God. And I remembered the Lord, and my prayer came to you. There we go, into your holy temple, a euphemism for prayer there. And he seeks God and he recognizes that God has brought this fish as a vehicle of salvation, and he is glad. He's realizing his need of God's help. And he's realizing his own desperate situation. Folks, I think many times why we um go as far as we do in sin habits, And down a path that we know that God doesn't want us to go. Is number one, we've forgotten our need for God's help. We think That we can go it alone? I've got this, Lord. I can handle this area of my life. Don't need you. I'll call you. I'll call you if I need you. But I got this on my own Jonah thought he had everything under his control. Paying for a voyage to run away from God. And God says, Nope. Here's a big old fish that's going to take you right Back to where I had you in the first place. And second of all, that we forget our desperate situation and our need for God. Our desperate situation Situation in our sin. Folks, there's not one person, including the pastor, in here today, that doesn't need constant rescue from our own way. From our sin. We so often fall into our own delusions that we think our ways are best, and many times we don't go to the Lord and ask him and seek his way. We follow after our own way and we follow after our own sin, and we don't realize how desperately wicked and corrupt we are, and how much we need God every day. For those of you that have relationship with Jesus Christ and have trusted with him, do you trust Jesus every day to guide you through the Holy Spirit and to guide you through In every step, we have to have that. We need that. And Jonah wasn't desperate enough until He's sinking in that water. He's close to death. And finally, even old Dole Jonah, the dove, realizes I need God's help. Lord, save me! And he saves him. This miraculous way. I'd love to see this fish one day is my point. I started that. I would love one day to see this scenario, what the fish look like. And Jonah's return and return Repentance before God. Verse 9. I'll get back to verse 8. 9. But with the voice of thanksgiving will I sacrifice to you, which I have vowed. I will pay. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Finally, Joe Jonah is worshiping God, the first time in the whole book, where the committed, faithful servant of God remembers Members, there's someone bigger than me. I need to worship God. And he ascribes to him worship and thanksgiving, and I will sacrifice. Again, a little late to the party. The seamen have already decided Done that ahead of you, Jonah, but we're glad in the end that you did that. However, I don't know for sure how he offered sacrifices again. I don't know if I don't think there was wood and he lit the wood on fire and the smoke went Went through the hole at the top of the fish's head, or whatever. That sounds a little silly. But somehow or another, in his heart, somehow he offered sacrifices And he worshiped and he turned and he realized this wonderful, wonderful declaration that we all must profess before others and in our lives. Salvation. Belongs to the Lord. I cannot save myself. I cannot deliver myself. I cannot go my own way. But I need to be saved from my own way. I need to be saved from my sin. And today, folks, we have the full pardon of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Saves us from our sins. What a more glorious way to seek salvation and a much nicer way than to have to be in the belly of an old stinky nasty fish. We get to trust Christ and His sacrifice for our sins. And He is able to provide cleansing and forgiveness for our sin. And he can provide us eternal life. And all of us as rebels are headed the wrong way in our sin. And when we put our faith and trust in Jesus, when we recognize our desperate situation and our sin that we're headed for an eternity in punishment apart from God, we can turn to Christ and He will turn us around. And we will be on the right way for all eternity. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Now I'd like to say in all of this that Jonah's learned his lesson Lesson. I think he has. I think he's learned some of the lesson. But I think as we end today, there's something that we need to be clear on. I don't I think Jonas still, as Many of us do, he still has a little room for growth here. He's still got some more growing to do. Look at verse 8. Those who pay those who pay regard or pay attention To vain idols, forsake their hope of steadfast love. Jonah still has some lessons to learn about grace, folks. Now that statement, what he said, is true. That those who follow after false gods and false idols, if they don't turn to the one true God, then they're truly arguers for all eternity. They will suffer For eternity and eternal punishment and their hope of experiencing God's love for all eternity if they reject Reject God's salvation, they will experience judgment for all eternity. That's true. But what Jonah seems to be saying here, let's look at this a little More closely. He's basically saying: anybody that worships false idols, they've got no hope. They've already forsaken. They've already burned their ticket. Lord, thank you for saving me. Lord, thank you that I am not like these others who follow after false gods because they really don't have any hope. It's almost like Jonah saying, There's no grace for those who worship other gods. But what would he have done? I wonder what Jonah would have thought if he could Have seen after he was cast over and he was sinking into the waters those seamen who worshipped other gods. Wonder what he would have thought if he could have seen them Jumping for joy and rejoicing and serving the one true God. You see, those that turn from their worship of false gods and turn to the one true God, there is always hope, folks. There is always Always mercy. And I wonder if Jonah had seen that, if it whether he would have been excited about that, or whether if he would have been frustrated by that. God, how these are Pagans, how can you save them? And you may say, well, Pastor Brock, are you reading into that? I don't think I am, because as we get through the rest of the story, Jonah's going to disappear. Disappoint us on this very topic. Because Jonah recognizes that he is a child of God and that God has grace even in his Foolishness and rebellion, but Jonah still has to remember that God is also the God of grace and second chances for those who have rejected him. And Jonah still needs to learn a little bit more about that. And so what Jonah needs to recognize, and what we must recognize this morning. Is that if you are here today and you've rejected God, if you are not worshiping Jesus Christ as the one and the only vehicle of salvation? To be with God for all eternity, to experience forgiveness and cleansing of sin. If you are trying to find salvation in any Any other way, folks, today you can turn and relent like Jonah did and say, Oh Lord, I've been wrong. And my sin will is heading me toward the grave and eternal judgment from you for all eternity. And I turn and I scream And I yell, Lord, save me! And through our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, we can be saved. Jesus is the only vehicle. That's left to us of our salvation, and He's all we need. Isn't the wonderful, beautiful Savior who loved us and gave his life for us and rose again? Isn't he infinitely better to put our faith in than again the stinky belly of an old fish? I'm so glad that he is our vehicle of salvation today. Folks, will you turn to him? If you don't know Jesus and you're running from him, and God is calling to you with the truth of your need to put your faith Faith and trust in Jesus alone as your full hope and dependence, and your full um ability To be able to be saved from your sins comes from the blood of Christ and His shed sacrifice. Will you turn to Him today? I call, I plead with you. Trust in Jesus as your way of salvation. He's the only way. And for those of us who are running from God, who are truly his children, folks, a war God's not gonna let you get away with it, right? I don't think he's gonna send a fish to bring you back, but he may send you something that you makes you uncomfortable Isn't it better rather than to be forced back, being made uncomfortable, folks? Isn't it just better just to turn to him and say, Lord, I was foolish. I was wrong. How foolish of me that I thought I could go my own way. How foolish of me to think I could run from you! What was I thinking? Lord, I turn to you and I pray that you will again use me for your purposes and God says, Okay, Jonah, that's exactly what I wanted. And this beautiful, yet slimy verse, verse nine to verse ten, the Lord spoke to the fish and right on cue. Notice how the fish is so obedient. And it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land. And what we find out is in the next chapter, folks, this is right where Jonah started. God has Has a sense of humor. Because God takes that old fish. Jonah's in it for three days and three nights. Jonah got his time of solitude. He got his time of reflection. Not in the way he wanted it. And he turns to God and says, God, how foolish I was. I thank you for your salvation. Salvation comes from you. I don't want to lose my life. I want to be used by you. And God says, okay, take two. And the fish vomits Jonah right in the exact same place where he left and ran away from God. Take two. Just a little sl Slimier, and maybe a little more fearful and gross looking, with seaweed still wrapped around his head, and whoever else knows God says, I am the God of grace and mercy. I will give you that second chance, Jonah. And for the rest of the book, we'll see. How Jonah receives that opportunity. Folks, as we finish today, please get rid of the idea that you can run from God. will find you. And if you haven't trusted and put your faith and trust in the one true God, you still have opportunity because you're still breathing. Do that today. Put your faith and trust in Christ. And He will save you and use you in a glorious manner for His purposes, and He will re Rescue you from your own way. We all need rescuing from our own way. Can we ascend to that today? Turn to God. And trust him. Father. It's a good reminder. Thank you that Jonah did finally turn to you. It took a lot. But Lord, we also acknowledge that many times we are We are so stubborn and rebellious that it does take a lot for you to get our attention. And Lord, maybe, and I hope today that you've gotten the attention of many of us who may be running from you, who may be May have told you, no, I'm not going to do this, Lord. I can't. I don't want to. And maybe today you've gotten our attention. Lord, I pray that you will do whatever you have to do to draw Draw us and bring us back to you. And Lord, for the person that is that knows that they need Christ and is still running from Him, I pray that today, even that you will do whatever you have to do to draw them to you. And help them to forsake their own way and put all their faith and dependence and trust in Jesus who can save them for eternity. Eternity. Let today be that day. And folks, you reflect on that choice as Leslie plays this morning: your own way or God 's way?