The book of Proverbs. Proverbs chapter 8. In Habakkuk, we've been finding in our study That the prophet has been asking God a lot of questions. And God has answered them in his own way. We found that God hasn't answered every one of Habakkuk's questions in the specifics, but he does give him answers that glory Glorious answer we saw last week, the just shall live by faith. And folks, those of us here who have are experiencing and will experience the new life In Christ, it's only through faith in what Christ has done. No merit of our own. And the beauty of that needs to be proclaimed throughout the whole earth. But yet also we see here that wisdom, God's wisdom, needs to be proclaimed as well. And this wisdom is the answer that God always gives back to us. We may not get all the answers to every single Question that we have, at least in this life, about what God is doing in our lives. But God always gives us answers, and it's through His will. And so it seemed appropriate for me today. I've actually invited a lady to speak to us This morning, and she's found in Proverbs 8. You could call her Lady Wisdom. She speaks, and you might even say Preaches to us this morning. She is given in the feminine here, but this is the personification of wisdom. And we've had Some of our ladies read the beginning of chapter 8, where wisdom calls to us. It's interesting. At the end of chapter 7, Possibly whoever wrote that, probably Solomon, warns us of another lady that calls to us that we shouldn't listen to. And then we get to chapter 8 and we Hear from a lady that calls to us boldly and that we should answer the call and listen to. But she is an entirely different person and of entirely Different character than the evil woman, the evil person described at the end of Proverbs 7. This is a lady of beauty and skill and righteousness. And so we read the verses this morning where she calls to the people of the earth to come and listen to her You heard that read this morning. And then she calls to those who uh seem to have an interest in following God as she calls them to follow her in her And now she is going to, as we look at verses 12 through 21 this morning, she's going to highlight the riches and the blessings that we have in following. This lady, this lady wisdom, we're gonna see the riches that we can receive from this lady this morning. Lady wisdom, first of all, as we continue, we read verses twelve through sixteen, provides right counsel and direction. And the first, the most important thing here is that this wisdom that calls to us to take part of her and relationship with her fully knows God's ways. In fact, her very name, verse twelve, I wisdom, dwell with prudence, means uh the idea of dwelling together with someone. Her dwelling places with prudence, and she also finds knowledge and discretion. Basically, this lady wisdom has everything that we need to master life. So we ought to listen to her, don't you think? Her very name, Wisdom, in the Hebrew, has the idea of being skilled and having mastery. Mastered, mastery in applying God's truth to one's ways. You could call it the practical skill to navigate all of the situations of life. We've all had times where even The most veteran of the saints here today, and the rest of us, and all of our spiritual ladies this morning. We've all had times where we find ourselves in situations Where we think, how did I get here? What am I doing? Why am I doing this? This obviously is not this was not well thought out. You know, whether it's It's a wrong turn and you weren't following um your GPS on your phone, or maybe you were trying to follow it and it took you the wrong way, or you know, maybe you had something you were supposed to do that you forgot, or maybe you had a Great idea that you were following through on, and you start the process, and you're like, This was a terrible idea, actually. Why am I doing this at all? And so folks Lady Wisdom calls to us and says, if you'll listen to me, you'll always know the right way to go. That's better than any GPS, right? I mean I love Mac and Apple technology. I love my Apple phone, my iPhone. But I'd much rather trust in God's wisdom than lady wisdom here. Than even my own technology that can go astray at times and lead us in the wrong ways. This lady is boasting in a humble way, is that I know Contradictory. But she's saying if you will follow me, you will always be able to navigate. She really is saying if this wisdom will be able to make all Well, why don't we always make the right choices then? Why do we kick ourselves sometimes when we think, God, this was a dumb thing to do? Because Because we don't always listen to her. And so she calls us to listen to her, that her ways are best, and to submit. to those ways. She says, I dwell with prudence. And she has a number of verbs here, words here to describe who she is. Prudence is one uh that she lives with. Prudence has the idea is, and we think of today of prudence as being really cautious, but in the human Hebrew, it really has the idea of intelligence and great skill in making life choices. And wisdom says, I dwell with prudence. I am um I am connected to one that is always able to have skill in navigating life and making right choices. She says, as well, I find knowledge and discretion. That knowledge is um particularly referring to It's not just a general knowledge of how to do things. You know, one of the blessings of our society today is that we can pull up our apps on our phone or we can Google and we can pretty much Much if we have the time to figure out almost anything. Doesn't mean they're always skilled at fixing it in that way, but we can find out what we need to do. Well, this isn't that kind of general knowledge. Wisdom here is saying specifically the knowledge is the knowledge of moral living that comes from God through his word. Wisdom is saying, I have knowledge. It's through God's Word, and the more you listen to me, the more you'll learn of God's Word, and you'll take it in and you'll study God's Word. And then you'll learn how to apply it to every situation in life. So theoretically, you could make the correct choice in every area of life. If we would only follow God's word in that way. And yet we struggle with that. But she says, You follow me and I will Show you through God's word the knowledge of moral living that you need. And I also have, on top of that, discretion. Discretion means something as well different in this culture. Today means to be careful, modest, even, is some of the meanings of that word. But really, this Hebrew word has the idea of the ability to make wise plans And determine the best course of action in every situation. Now, one of the things that we're thankful for for our moms and our wives and the ladies in our Lives is that they help us to make, to plan ahead, to determine best courses of action. My wife, many times on trips, and even planning What we're doing for the service this morning for Mother's Day. She was a huge help. We planned yesterday to help celebrate Mother's Day with her mom as she made all these plans and everything. She's very good at setting up these things and making them come together so that they work. That is kind of a biblical picture of discretion here. And we thank you, ladies, for that work in our lives. We need that. But at the same time, this is a much more all-encompassing term that means that we can live Literally, when we follow Lady Wisdom, make wise plans and plan ahead and have them be successful all the time. So, really, as you hear wisdom call to you and she's offering What is she describing here? She's actually describing a specialist, a spiritual specialist, in navigating life and making wise choices. Now, which one of us wouldn't want to do a little better at that? Is it really possible to be a specialist in wisdom that we can more often than not make the right choices and make the right Cleanse according to God's will, which really is beneficial and best for us. Yes, it's possible. As we follow this beautiful lady's instructions, she offers us these things. Because she fully knows God's ways. She's, you could say this, she's in sync with the expectations and desires of the Lord. And that's That means that she can bring those that follow her as wisdom specialists. We can always be in sync or syncing with what God expects and wants from our lives. That's what verse 13 says. The fear of the Lord is the hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. Wisdom knows well what God loves. And what he hates. And God hates pride and arrogance, and following in a path different than the way wisdom leads, the way of evil. That word for pride, I could sum that up in this picture here, is that it is really, when it comes down to it, it's an attempt on our part. To exalt ourselves, right? But it's really an attempt to share in the glory that belongs to God alone. When we are prideful folks, we are literally thieves I don't know if you've ever thought about it that way. Well what am I what am I stealing, Pastor Brock, when we're prideful and we're arrogant and we allow those things to creep up in our lives and we want to self-exalt. And have everybody look at us, we are literally stealing glory that was meant to go to our Heavenly Father. That was meant to be focused on Jesus Christ. And so Lady Wisdom says here that God hates when people steal his glory. And so those that fear, that are in awe That have a respect, a high respect, and yes, even a fear of being his enemy, of opposing him, those people will not be glory themed But they'll be humble. They'll follow God's ways. They'll be in sync with what He wants us to do. Even write down Again to our speech. Isn't it interesting as wisdom also mentions the things that God hates? She gets back to that issue of speech again. And It reminds us that um that we need to be careful and control every Everything that we say. That we need to be in control of what we say, that we need to have a filter on things that we say. And that is a part Of being a wise person and being a wisdom specialist is that we're always thinking through everything that comes out of our mouth, even to that level. And we can project And we can be a testimony if we're constantly in sync our speech with what God wants and also what He hates. And so we're um we are promised these things when we follow. But she doesn't finish there. She has many more riches. Look at verse 14. I have counsel. And sound wisdom. I have insight. I have strength. That idea when we talk about speech is to be in control and not let the evil things come out. He has counsel, and that counsel is the ability to speak God's wisdom to others. So as a wisdom specialist, you're also able to teach other people how they can follow and be in sync. With the Lord and His ways, and how they can avoid displeasing Him. All of this is offered when we follow after her. She says sound wisdom that really has the idea of wisdom that's recognized as authentic and valuable. That's the real thing. When someone speaks, you remember That old um phrase from way back the adway from way back when the uh accounting group uh when E. F. Hutton talks, people listen. That's because his advice and that company's advice, at least in the advertisement Advertisements are deemed as worthy, and that they're going to say things that need to be listened to. That is sound wisdom. It's verified and authentic that that wisdom is valuable Wouldn't it be much better, folks , to be known for our wisdom and for people to listen? And be helped, then for people when we talk to groan and inwardly say, Oh no, here comes another one. Don't we secretly desire, shouldn't we want to desire Desire to be known as wise people and not as and not of those that speak foolishly, perversely. That should be a desire in our hearts. And we can have that when we seek relations Relationship with Lady Wisdom in that way. She says again further, insight. I have strength. Insight is knowing and ability to gauge and value practical understanding. To value wisdom, to say this is what I want in my life. I want to be able to follow God's ways in every in the course and every decision of my life. I want that. It's valuable, it's something that I need. And that way we have insight into the importance of God's wisdom. We know its importance. So that literally Deuteronomy 4 6 says says God called his people to be wonderful testimonies of this wisdom, and he calls us to be wonderful testimonies of that wisdom today. six says this keep them and do them. These are God's statutes, His wise statutes and rules. For that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who, when they hear Hear all these statutes will say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. And so Lady Wisdom is ultimately Again, proclaiming that we know God's word well and we know how to apply it to our lives so that we're a testimony of God's work in our lives. And that people say, That person has a wise way about them. They they talk with wisdom. When they talk, I want to hear what they have to say. I want to hear their perspective. And of course we give all that glory back to God God. This is what Lady Wisdom offers. Right counsel and direction, but also she offers, verses 17 through 21, riches Isn't this what we spend so much of our time on is treasure and riches and desiring to have more money? Well that's not what Lady Wisdom Is offering here, but she's offering something far more valuable, enduring, eternal riches, and a righteousness that can never be taken away from With us, a way in which we can please God her and serve Him faithfully. And she will reward in these ways when we follow her. With abundant treasures, if we will value those things. Insight is the ability to be able to value and treasure What wisdom has to offer. You're an insightful person right now if you're listening to this explanation of this passage and saying, I want more of that. You're a wise, insightful person. And wisdom says then that those who embrace her, that she will love them. That she embraces those who value her, really. Verse 17, I love those who love me. I will have relationship with those that And that search then involves commitment and earnestness, not just a casual, all right, well let's just read a few verses from God's Word. Word this morning and see what he has to say. But it's an intentional and also committed search to seek out What God has for us in His Word. It's a valuing of God's Word worked out in our lives. And wisdom Says I will bless you and embrace you and keep you when you seek me in that way. Some of you Have met our cat. His name is Tookie. He's named Tuckie after the village in New Hampshire that we lived in, Kentuck. And the slang word, the nickname for that was Tuckie. And we just thought it was appropriate once we found out about this cute little cat that our friends were giving away. They regularly, uh, some friends in our church up in New Hampshire. Um Prepare kittens for sale and give them away to special friends. And we happen to be one of those special friends. And we received one of these kittens. Um, but they actually work hard to uh get these kittens used to being around people. So they're very nice and they're very friendly. And so we got this this little kitten. The boys had never had a kitten before. And so We were teaching them, you know, w until it gets a little older, we don't want it outside too much. We want to take care of it, and this is how to take care of it, and make sure the dog doesn't freak or out or him out too much. And so we we were good with that. We were careful to make sure in particular that when we opened the door that the cat didn't try to scoot on out real quick because as you know cats Are prone to want to go outdoors. They're naturally curious and they want to see what's out, and they don't want to be stuck, even if it's a large three-story New England or home, they don't want to be stuck indoors for forever. Well, that was working out okay until the cat got a little bit older and eventually got a little faster. Now why were we trying to keep him indoors in the first place? Because he's smaller and there were lots of predators out there. There. Now we have moose up in New Hampshire. That's not really a predator unless he steps on a cat. I don't know if that can happen. But there's also bears. And There are actually we had a local bobcat that people people kept uh posting pictures on Facebook, and we thought, well, that probably wouldn't be real good for our cat to meet, as little as he is right now. But there's also um a animal that and the name just escaped me a fisher cat. I don't know if you've ever heard of a fisher cat or experienced one before. I wouldn't recommend it. We never actually ran into one, but these Fisher cats are up in New England. They're in other places too, but they are in New Hampshire. And they are kind of like I guess you'd describe between a w Weasel and a fox. And they're very vicious. They like to kill just for the fun of killing. And they're all over New Hampshire. There's wolves as well and things. But we just thought, you know, until this cat gets a little bigger, probably not best to let it out. But eventually, you know, one of the boys opened the door, maybe it was me, and he pfft he went out too fast, he scooted out, and there Tookie was gone. And we're kind of in a panic, you know, because we we also live close to a road and we were nervous about that. We looked for him, we looked for him, got to meet a lot of the neighbors as a result of that. And explain, hey, I'm the pastor that lives next door here, and they were much more friendly when they found out we were looking for a cat. Well, we couldn't we couldn't find him after all that. I think it was a couple days, and we found Finally, somebody suggested go to the local veterinarian and post his picture, and probably somebody sooner or later will see him and and contact you. And we did that, put it up in that local grocery store. And it was about two days later, we got a phone call from the veterinarian saying, Hey, somebody's contacted us, and they think they have your cat. Well, that's great. The lady Was literally like three doors down from us, and we went down there with my boys and knocked on our door, and she came out, was a very nice lady, and she said, Um, I said, We hear that you found a cow. And she said, Yeah. She said, I'll let him out of the the shed here. He keeps wanting to escape. And I knew I could tell that he'd been well cared for, and we wanted to make sure that he didn't get away from us until we found the owner. So she opened up the door, Tookie scooted on out, he came right up to the boys, the boys picked him up. We were we were excited, we were happy, we had our cat, and we've had him ever since. Now we let him walk around all over the place and he scares the foxes and everything, and all that's okay. Um but the point is in that story is that we searched hard. Because we fell in love with that little cat. And so we would we were willing to search and do what we had to. If there was any possibility of finding that cat, we were going to find him. Folks, in a much deeper way, that's wisdom. That's our search for wisdom. If we love the things of God in His Word, we'll do whatever we can to Search out and find this wisdom that she's offering to us. We'll do what it takes. We'll post what we have to, whatever, but we will do what What it takes to search out and find this wisdom that God offers through Lady Wisdom. And it is a committed search, but it's something that needs to take place. When you have that kind of search for wisdom, she says, I have great wealth to offer you. Verse 18: Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness. Here's a neat thing. Instead of people taking pride upon themselves and then trying to steal God's glory, what does God do when we humble ourselves before his word and desire to please him? And become wisdom specialists, he then pours out honor on those people. Isn't God gracious in that way? The very thing that we tend to want to steal from him, God says, in my own time, in my own way, I will recognize, I will give honor to those who seek after me. And seek after my ways, riches, and the wealth that I give won't be temporary. So many stories about people that have tried to take it with them, right? Ridiculous stories. And still, that main fact is that we can't take material wealth, the wealth of this world, with us, but wisdom says Says, the spiritual wealth that I offer will endure forever. You get to take it with you. And furthermore, besides these spiritual witch uh riches, you will receive Righteousness. I have righteousness to give. We'll see here as at the end of this in a few minutes that there that points to one who would Come, who would be the ultimate fulfillment of Lady Wisdom, and he would die on a cross. And exchange his righteousness, take up him set our sins on himself, and offer us his righteousness. So truly, wisdom Wisdom has righteousness to offer through relationship with God. gold and my yield and choice silver like the the the real deal silver like the really expensive if I don't even know if silver is expensive anymore right now but this is pure silver Silver, the purest of pure, and wisdom says what I've got to offer is even more authentic and better than any of that. What I offer you is the real deal. It's authentic. And you need it, and I will give it to you. I'll provide, I'll reward when you seek me with abundant treasures, but I'll also provide you with a lasting And she reminds us again that a wisdom specialist, one that has is wise and has incorporated Her ways into his life, that person walks in God's ways. Look at verse 20. I walk in the way of righteousness and in the paths of justice. We are able to walk in right ways because we are made righteous in our relationship with God. And those of us who desire to be specialists, as we described in in verses twelve, about being a specialist in wisdom and knowing How to walk in a right way and make wise choices. We walk in God's paths then, in the ways that are just. And when we're willing to do that then, we get an amazing inheritance, verse 21, granting inheritance to those who love me. And filling their treasuries. And that success only comes to special ministry agents who are committed to God's ways. I don't know how many of you enjoy watching the Mission Impossible TV show or the movies. You have special agents. It's not that, for those of you that have seen that before, it's Not that the mission it seems impossible, but somehow those agents are always able to do what they need to do to have success in the mission. Well, folks, that's success Really is what wisdom is talking about here. But instead of calling it mission impossible, many times what we face in our lives is ministry impossible. How in the world am I going to work and serve and accomplish These things that I've been called to do. That's where we need to be specialized ministry agents who know wisdom well. And God can use us to accomplish and be successful in those seemingly impossible ministry situations that He calls us to do. But we need to be specialists by walking in his ways and being right in how we handle ourselves. Verse 21 was another reminder for me of something we spend so much time on in our lives. Isn't it true? That we spend a good portion, if we're not careful, of our lives, on our own legacy and self-exaltation, and letting people know what we're all about, and we Think of our future and what we're going to leave to our children, and also making sure that our families will be taken care of through a future inheritance and our own retirement through savings investments and we spend a lot of time to um make sure that we have these things that we're going to um be taken care of in the future future and that our families are going to be taken care of and that people remember us well. And none of that is necessarily bad. Those are good things to pursue. But I what I find interesting and the more I think study this the more the Holy Spirit made it apparent to me is we spend all that time on financial investments in our own legacy and how much time do we really spend in making spiritual investments Investments for ourselves and for our children, and for our families, and for those around us, parents, moms. We spend so much time wanting to be sure that our kids are well taken care of, but there are many parents that do that many times and don't ever introduce their people, their their children to the concepts of Scripture and does and don't give them the knowledge they need of God's word, and therefore they're setting themselves up for eternal failure. I was listening to a popular Christian counselor recently and he was lamenting that as he was seeing more and more counseling situations, that he was spending most of his time in teaching the basic Of God's Word because people just didn't know God's word. He says, I spend most of my time just teaching them because they're not even familiar with it. Some of these are Christians. What a terrible thing to get to the end of our lives and realize that we spend all of our time and somehow people remembering us and Providing financially for those that go on after us, and we never provided for them for their eternal inheritance by teaching them God's word. Word. Folks, that is the ultimate tragedy. So mothers, mentors College students, graduates, high school graduates, let me call upon you as the midst of your trying to decide What to do with your life. Make this a priority that you invest in people by investing in the knowledge of God's Word into them And so that you can as well become wisdom specialists, know God's word better better, and make an impact not just in this life, but for all eternity. Folks, that's the end of the call here as Lady Wisdom tells us of all the riches and the benefits of knowing her. We need to take that and say. I need to invest these riches into the people that are closest to me that I care the most about, or in the end, I have utterly failed. Young people, what a great time now to decide. Whatever else God has for me. I'm going to take the riches of Lady Wisdom. I'm going to invest and know God's word so well. That then I can help others, help others come along and live the life that God wants them to live and live pleasing to Him. I can't think of a better Commitment for young people to make. To early on decide I want to help others and be a lighthouse and be a testimony for God, and I want to start now. We need to know God's word so much better than many times we're satisfied with. The difference between Physical riches and eternal riches was evident to me when we were in New Hampshire again, and Leslie was encouraging the boys to get a job. And so we put we advertised out in the community that the boys were um uh were able and they purchased a lawnmower. They did that with their own money, but they were able to do jobs and lawn um jobs for And we put that out there for our neighborhood to help them earn some money. And we had a couple people that called us and asked us to do that. And she made a wrong turn and she ended up in this long parking or or this long driveway, and they were curious enough They decided, let's just follow this and see where it goes. And they followed and it curved and it opened up into one of the huge, the biggest homes they'd ever seen in their lives. It was like a complex. And we were so intrigued we went ahead and looked it up online to see, you know, what it was all about and come to find out that it was eventually it was for sale. And it was amazing. I mean, you know, they had a boathouse for the boathouse. And they had all these different sheds and this and and you looked inside and it was like, you know, almost like a shopping mall inside and it was just it was it was Like, wow Lord, how how do people even get to live like this? This is amazing. Never seen a house this incredible. Well, we had somebody living behind us, he was an older gentleman named Lee that kind of knew the whole neighborhood and knew everybody. And we told him about that house. We were impressed by it. He said, oh yeah, you know why they're selling Don't know why they're selling. He said there was a family there. He was involved in multimedia, in corporate media, and things, and so that's you know, they were able to make a lot of money. But he said his wife just in the uh in in two weeks ago um overdosed on drugs purposely and took her own life Left her children, left her husband. And it's a reminder, it was a reminder to me how fleeting Earthly riches are. A family that seemingly had everything and yet they had nothing. Folks, this is what We need to value the most is what Lady Wisdom offers. How then can we have a relationship with Lady Wisdom? Let's finish this up. Look at the next few verses. um twenty-two through twenty-three. And this will really in essence tell us who this wisdom figure really is and how we can have this wisdom Look at this 22. The Lord possessed me, or um it basically the idea of I was with him at the beginning of his creation work, the first of his acts of old. Ages ago I was set up at the first before the beginning of the earth. Hmm, this is describing Somebody that was with God before He created everything. Who would that be? There are many scholars and theologians that believe that ultimately this Picture of wisdom was fulfilled in Jesus Christ, and I do believe that is the best trans, the best uh interpretation of this, folks, is that this ultimate Ultimately, this personification of wisdom that's calling us to take it in and to have understand God's word is Jesus Christ. And he's calling us to have relationship with him through faith. That when we trust in his sacrifice and his resurrection, that then And He will provide relationship with us, and He then relationship with Christ is the pathway to being wisdom specialists that can truly make an impact on us on their church and community. Because isn't it true that we can only be righteous, the righteousness that's described here through Christ. That we can only Only be wise through faith in Him. Jesus provides our righteousness so that we can serve and please our Heavenly Father. So at the end of all of this, I hope, folks, that you have developed an even greater desire to be wisdom specialists Our mothers, our spiritual mentors, everyone here. I hope that you go away from this saying, you know, I need to be in God's word a little bit more because I need to guide my family. I need to start making better Spiritual investments than what I've been doing. Young people, I need to start now investing for eternity and turning people to Christ and being whatever my special Degree and things are in life that ultimately I'm a specialist when it comes to wisdom and knowing God's Word. And folks, all of that comes Most importantly, through knowing Jesus Christ and relationship with Him. And we can go out and impact others with that wisdom. Father, thank you for this reminder of Lady Wisdom and her benefits, her riches. My prayer is that we are more committed than ever through this short passage that we will commit ourselves to God's Word and search his word that we'll know it better so that we can be these specialists and provide wisdom for others and we can live our Our lives in wise ways and make wise choices ourselves. Lord, we need Christ to help us with this And so this morning, I pray that you would help us to re-examine. Lord, if there's someone here who doesn't have a relationship with Christ yet through faith, in Him Him, let them come to him today and experience the riches and wealth of spiritual inheritance and of wise living Lord, thank you for our mothers and spiritual mentors that have pointed us to Christ. Help us all to take the blessings that you've given us To us and the mentors that you've given to us to remind us that we also need to be mentors of wisdom and desire to do that well. That our legacies would ultimately be They pointed us to Christ. Take some time to recommit yourselves to God's Word And to value wisdom again as we've heard described in this passage this morning