Sound different, or maybe that's kind of hard for us to understand. Maybe you're being called to something that God wants you to to do that you're just not sure if you can do that for our young people High school graduates called to a school, maybe away from here, or maybe a career or something locally, and you have opportunities to witness For Christ, for our graduates from college that are now moving on to careers , for what God is calling them to do. Other situations, maybe career choices or opportunities that you have at work for promotion, opportunities to share Christ. All these things, and we wonder, Lord, can I really do this? Is this really what you're calling me to do? We find that in Him we can do all things that He expects from us. From us, and that He is guiding us to consider and to do. So don't be afraid, but trust in Him. Not my will Lord, ultimately, not what I want, but what you require of me. And you know what the neat thing is about that is that when we submit to him in that way, he literally turns our hearts toward him so that we want what he wants. What a wonderful gracious thing that that is Well let's turn back to Habakkuk this morning, Habakkuk chapter two. And we have here in this book a prophet that's questioning God, that's actually bold enough to ask God Questions. Again, in most prophetic books, we have God giving the message to the prophet. The prophet goes and proclaims that to the world. Here we have the prophet and perhaps his some of people or his acquaintances that have a message for God and proclaim that to him. And so again, the question The question is that if we ask first of all, is it okay to question God? And the answer is: well, if the prophet Habakkuk can do that, then we can too. But there must be Conditions on that. We must maintain our respect for who God is. When we doubt, we must go to Him on Honestly, but we must admit that as sin as well, that we're doubting. And then also that even as we give question To God. Many times when we question God, there's another aspect of our humanity that we think we already have the answers. So, God, as I ask The questions, here's what I think you ought to do about this. And folks, when we ask him questions, then we have to be prepared that same attitude. Not my will Not what I think's best, Lord, but whatever you however you guide me, whatever you show me, that's what I will do. Because many times God's answer will be more than we were expecting. Or it may not be what we wanted from him. And yet we must submit to it. So, what was Habakkuk's questions then? Well, first of all, uh God's people were not doing right and were causing all kinds of grief, and there was all kinds of brokenness within the southern kingdom of Israel. Israel. Remember, God had already dealt with the northern kingdom at this time and brought the Assyrian armies in and dispersed them throughout the world. It's only the southern kingdom of Judah left. And they were the ones ones that many times had the good kings, and now they don't have very many of those left, and they're rebelling against God, and they're getting involved in idol worship and maybe even putting together Putting to death God's men, his prophets, and Habakkuk says, How long, O Lord, are you going to watch your people sin and let them get away with it? And if you remember the answer, God had, he said, Oh, Habakkuk, I know. I know the condition of my people's hearts much more intimately than you do. And here's what I'm What I'm gonna do? You know that nation, the Chaldeans, that are growing in strength just to the north of you? I'm gonna allow them to become the next world world power, Habakkuk. And I'm I'm going to let them overtake the whole world, and that means they're also going to overtake my people. And they're going to overpower them, they're going to cruelly treat them, they're going to dis Place them and take them away from their homeland. They'll be called the Babylonians. A man named Nebuchadnezzar will head them. And they Will deal with my people in a specific way. These this tool of mine will not recognize me, will not worship me. They'll worship themselves in their own area. Against but they will do my bidding. Maybe if you would just talk to them or Or give them a stern warning again for the next time. But how can you, Lord, take a pagan people who worship themselves and don't even worship you? Lord, we're terrible. Yeah, we have some problems, but at least we worship you, maybe amongst a bunch of other gods, but we still worship you. How can you let that enemy pagan people come over and overtake us and be so cruel? And torment us in that way. That doesn't make much sense to me. So God gives him a second reply, and we're in the midst of that reply even this morning. And you have that first part, verse four through five , that we went through a couple weeks ago, and that glorious truth that Let's read those verses again. Together as a reminder. This is God's answer. He says, Those arrogant people that I will allow to discipline my people, behold, his soul is puffed up It is not upright within him. I realize that this tool that I'm going to use, Habakkuk, is not right. They are wicked. And I I'm going to use them anyway. But what must the righteous do? The righteous, even though they may not understand what's going on, they must trust me, Habakkuk You may not understand. I may not answer all of your questions, Habakkuk, but you still must trust me that I know what's best and that I will bring salvation. salvation in my time. And he continues then in the in the next passage to describe how he will bring that salvation. In essence, folks, that's What we proclaim today. The righteous shall live by his faith, but his faith, his righteousness will be given to him by the one that would come, the Messiah, our Savior Jesus Christ. And we live by that faith, even though the whole Whole idea of a crucified Messiah, a crucified Savior who would die for the penalties of our sins, seems strange. It seems strange to the world. And yet we put our faith in that truth anyway, and we proclaim that to the world. We trust in what Jesus has done. In a so much deeper way today, we the righteous live by our faith, our faith in Jesus Christ. Well he continues. Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as the grave as Sheol. Like death he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples, and we saw as well that in That seems to be the um the hint that these arrogant people that seem like they're successful and victorious right now. This is a message for Habakkuk, and it's a message for us today. God says their greed is as wide as the grave, and they're facing the grave one day, but the righteous shall have eternal life. Well, he continues in verses six through eleven here describing these arrogant people. Now remember, Habakkuk's question was, God God, how can you use a nation like the Chaldeans, aka the Babylonians, to overcome your people and to do cruel things to them and be mean to them? How can you let them do that? Don't you know how terrible they are? And God reminds him again here and reminds us today that those that afflict us, those pagan peoples that oppose what's right and oppose God's people God's fully aware of how arrogant they are. And God reminds Habakkuk, in my time these folks will be dealt with. And he continues his response to Habakkuk. Habakkuk's questions. Here's one aspect of this that's so important. Habakkuk had an earthly aspect, an earthly perspective to all these things. And it was limited. As is all of our perspectives, folks. We can look around us and see the darkness of this world and say, Lord, why would you let that happen? Why why would you let that person do that to that person? How could you let that world leader treat those people in this way? This this doesn't make any sense. But See, our perspective is limited. And it is sheer arrogance to try to impose that perspective on God. And we want to do that many times. God, this doesn't make sense. You have to make sense to me, God, and make me comfortable again. And what the Lord says to Habakkuk here is that you, no Habakkuk, leave your limited earthly perspective Perspective, I'm going to give you my heavenly perspective on things to broaden your horizons and help you see that I am really in control. That yes, my holy character will be eternal, and that I know that these people are evil that I'm using, but I in my righteousness and justice will We'll deal with them one day too. These arrogant, cruel people will not permanently rule forever. Displaced by other cruel people and other world leaders. But the ultimate thing that God is saying in this is that Habakkuk one day All of this will be over. And the only leader that will matter will be my Messiah. And people will worship him for Forever, forever. And they'll forget all about all those other leaders that were on the world stage. Habakkuk, I'm about ready to use The Babylonians to do terrible things to bring my people back to myself, but they won't be on the stage for very long. I will have the stage for all eternity. Eternity and all those others will be forgotten. Let's look at verse 6. The earth will know God's plan for the greedy foe, and these arrogant people were greedy. Greedy would be greedy to um take more prisoners and to take captive more nations and be the king on the mountain and the most powerful. And these That were greedy and arrogant, God says, Don't you worry, I will deal with their extortion and with their evil tactics and their cruelty. So verse six Shall not all these take up their taunt against him with scoffing and riddles for him and say Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own. And for for how long? And loads himself with pledges, or like what the uh Nazby says, make himself rich with loans. The very enemy nation that Habakkuk is concerned about that is coming to teach God's people a lesson that God is allowing. Chaldeans, the Babylonians. God says now, don't you worry, Habakkuk. I'll deal with these people. Their arrogance won't go on forever In fact, Habakkuk, my people will one day tease and mock these very people that will be cruel and mock others. In other words, Habakkuk, one day my people will mock those cruel and evil nations, and those evil nations will be so the butt of the joke. They'll be the joke. God's people will laugh at them. So look again to verse 6. He's saying that my people shall not will there not come a time when my people will take up their taunt? This taunting is a teasing, not in an evil way. God is saying here that He will make an example of these pagan enemies in their foolish Spiritual foolness foolishness and dullness, and he'll make an example of them to the whole world, and God's people will speak truth to them, and it will mock their foolishness. Foolish ways. How foolish were you, peoples of the world, to believe this or to believe this apart from the truth that God God gave us, apart from the truth of His word, and the tables will be turned, and God's people will be victorious This is all in the future, Habakkuk. You must trust this. He continues. Woe to him who weeps up, who heaps up, excuse me, what is not his own. For how long? And he makes mention there. of Habakkuk's very question at the beginning. Almost like Habakkuk, remember how at the beginning of all this you were asking me how long? Well um It won't be for forever. Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own and loads himself or makes himself wit rich with loans. God now is going to give Give a series, a pronouncement of five woes upon this enemy nation, this tool that he's going to use to bring his people back to himself. The Babylonians. Would come and be cruel to God's people and take over the world and would take God's people into exile all the way to Babylon. But God says, one day They will regret, they will experience my woe, my judgment for all of their arrogance And I will turn the tables on them. The woes described here are pronouncements of the enemy's delusion and how God will reveal their folly to the world. God will take these arrogant people, as was described earlier for us, earlier in the book, those that worship their own might Those that pat themselves on the back at their collections of God's people and others and say, Aren't we truly Marvelous. And God says there will come a time, or they will pay for making themselves rich on their loans. Really, what God God is saying at the end of verse 6, actually. This is amazing. God says that those that are taking things away with from others, these other Their enemy nations, and uh these enemy nations, excuse me, that are taking from God's people and others, that they are extorting them, that they're cruelly taking what is not theirs, but that they are In reality, God is only allowing them to borrow those things that they have taken, that their time is coming, and that heavy debt they will one day pay the enemies of God with Terrible interest is really the picture God has here. That they will pay for all their cruelty and what they took from God's people. They won't get away with it forever. You said how long, Habakkuk? It's not forever. I will deal with them in my time. And there already was some encouragement. To Habakkuk, as he looked at the cruelty and the mockery of these people and said, How can you let arrogant, prideful, cruel, mean people Treat your people in this way, Lord. That doesn't seem right. That doesn't match what I what I know about your character. And God says, I'll take care of them. They will be dealt with at some point. Verse 7 he continues to describe how they would be dealt with. Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those who awake will make Make you tremble, then you will be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations. All the remnants of the people shall plunder you. The cities and all who dwell in them. If I can briefly sum up these verses, God is saying to Habakkuk that He, God, would cause the victims of these Powerful, arrogant foes to one day rise up against the enemy and plunder them and take their things one day. And that those enemies that were so cruel in worship to their own power would kneel and cower in terror As God's people were allowed to plunder them and rise up, and that they would experience the fear and the terror that they are um they are bringing Bringing on the nations of the world. God says, Habakkuk, one day I'm going to turn things around. I'm going to allow my justice to be served In full measure, and I'm gonna compensate my people for ever having to go through all these terrible things by people that reject me. The slaughter of this Cruel enemy and their cruelty towards others will eventually be visited back on them. So I've got this thing under control, Habakkuk. Habakkuk, you know what? I, as the God, the creator of the universe, I know what I'm doing. And I will deal with these angry, these cruel Hateful people in my time. And so these woes are woes against these enemy nations to not be too arrogant, to not be true too pro Excuse me, to be too prideful. One commentator said this when dealing with this woe and what the Babylonians would one day face, he says, Babylonians What Babylon's wealth flowed from the broken cities and broken lives of its neighbors. It truly exemplified the power that the Babylonians would have, exemplified what God is describing here that their power would come from taking the things of others and being cruel to others. But this first woe passage is a warning to those who are powerful. Power should be used to produce positive results. The criminal justice system of almost any nation permits all kinds of oppressive acts. Many times it does. It's not perfect. But all of those, whether you're an an enemy in a foreign land many thousands of years ago, or whether you're a leader in charge today, Remember, don't let power overwhelm you and get the best of you. Because simply because a matter is not legal does not make the matter right before God. And when any of us as leaders, a power becomes a tool to take advantage of others, we are in sin. And God says, woe to us. Folks, all those politicians that are God is allowed in charge right now, who as we see them moving, and we just get the sense that They're more interested in their own careers and their own can personal concerns than they are truly the things of the people. And it seems as if the power has gone to their heads. Don't we see that many times in our political circles today? Here's a reminder for them as well: God says, be careful when you're the powerful. Because I will have much to require from you one day. And so God makes it clear that He will require much of these Babylonians. Just as a side note, as you think about it, isn't that exactly what God did, by the way, with old Nebuchadnezzar? Nebuchadnezzar, who uh who was arrogant and bring And God said, Time's up, Nebuchadnezzar. I'm done with your arrogance and pride. So you're going to resemble cattle. And you're You're going to chew grass in a field, and you're going to act just like a bunch of cows. You're going to be perfectly content and happy with them. And I will remind you of Who truly is in charge, and I will humble you in a great way. And God did that with Nebuchadnezzar. And at the end, I think it was seven years, Daniel probably ruled in his stead. Nebuchadnezzar, God graciously gave him reason again and made him a normal man. And what did Nebuchadnezzar do? He spent the rest of the time, the narrative about himself praising God. Saying, God's the one, I got it wrong, but he's the one who can do whatever he wants. And here God's saying to Habakkuk, I will make Make my enemies realize that I am the one in charge one day. So don't be worried. Here's another woe, verse nine. Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house to set his next On high to be safe from the reach of harm. You have devised shame for your house by cutting off, ruining many peoples. You have forfeited your life, for the stone will cry out from the wall And the beam from the woodwork respond. Now I know you're reading those things, hmm, that's that's interesting. I really don't get that. Let's have a little bit God will deal with those that extort others cruelly, but God will also deal with those arrogant enemies in their greed. And this The second woe is addressing the enemy's greed. is They never have enough. They're insatiable. Verse 9: They get enough for their house. They protect their house. They're able to put their house in a nest on high. They think that they have that they can't be reached, that they are all powerful. But that's not enough for them. They have continued to go and ruin Communities and destroy villages and people 's lives. They never have enough. They have everything that they need Need these enemies of God who are having temporary success, but they're never satisfied. And they keep killing and hurting Hurting others and ruining others' lives and destroying and taking what they have. And God says, one day I'm gonna say, Enough. It's over. I'm gonna deal with you, my enemies And verse, it's interesting in verse 11. They actually say that the very dwelling places that they're able to create in Build for themselves off of the wealth and cruelty of others. What an interesting picture that is. God says, I will deal with these enemies of mine. I have a plan for the violent foe, and I will reveal my glory. Look at verse 12 to all. Here's the third woe. And this deals, first of all, we've dealt with the enemy's cruelty and their tactics of taking things. Second woe was against their insatiable greed. This third woe is against the enemy's evil and violent and cruel nature. Woe to him who builds a town. What's wrong with building a town? Well, they build it with blood. They used and uh used up and treated people terribly, and people lost their lives. In order for them to build their complexes in their cities. They did it cruelly. Woe to him who acts in that way and founds a city on iniquity. This has the idea of crime. That builds a community for itself by criminal action and by doing a disobeying God's law. Verse 13: Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peace People labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing. Here God is describing Describing that these people that build these powerful nations and these structures and these villages and their their own houses, their beautiful houses Houses and they do it from taking from others and being cruel to others. God says, in reality, all the effort that they're using for those sorts of And here is again one of the the as we get to the end of this part of the passage, next Week we'll finish it, but God is impressing something very important upon Habakkuk. That all of these enemies that have rejected me and that the do the These awful things, they're put they're expending their whole lives in effort that is worthless. Everything that they've devoted their lives to, if they have rejected Me and my enemy will be counted as worthless. In the end, they'll have done so much, and it'll be worth absolutely nothing. Habakkuk, don't you worry. I'm going to give success to my enemy for a while to teach my people a lesson, but that success they're going to use, they're going to fritter it away. And at the end of their lives, they'll have absolutely nothing. And even more terrible is they'll face eternal judgment from me. Habakkuk, don't you worry. In their time, I will deal with them and it will be terrible. But then this glorious verse And verse 14 is that God says in the end, in the end, Habakkuk, the very people that you're worried about, one day they won't Won't even be remembered. Verse 14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. Habakkuk was looking at these enemy nations and these people that have rejected God, and he was bemoaning. And wondering, Lord, how long do we have to put up with all this? And we may do that today, right? Don't we see around the globe enemies kind of Fighting it out and we can't even really know there's wars going around in this country, Russia, Ukraine, and we never get the media um information that we feel like we really need and we don't know all the details and we wonder what what's worth all this? What what is this um what is all of this worth? What is all what's the purpose of all these this fighting and these wars? Warring in all of these things. And we look at darkness and we look at evil that seems to be triumphing in our world, and we see the brokenness. People promoting things that displease God and that turn morality upside down. We say, Why, Lord? What's the purpose of all of this? Here is a wonderful truth for us today. To remember just as much as Habakkuk needed to remember it back then, folks, there is a day coming when God will send his His Messiah a second time, and all of this will be forgotten. And the Lord will come and reign for eternity And all that we've had to suffer will see literally like a blip, like a small dot on the screen. And there will come a day Where we'll just be able to worship the righteous one who is fully worthy of our worship and never have to suffer again. What a marvelous Marvelous truth that that is. You know, I know that I know that it's our responsibility as American citizens to vote, and I hope that you were able to do that recently. Let's be honest, sometimes it seems kind of hopeless when we do that. We just don't think, well, does my vote even really count, or does it matter? Well, it's important. Service servants of this community, we need to do our part. But can I tell you a little secret, folks? Honestly, I'm looking forward to the day We don't have political parties anymore. Where I don't have to hear the word Democrat. Where I don't have to hear the word Republican. Where I don't have to hear the word independent. Where I don' Don't even have to worry about politics anymore. Because none of it's gonna matter. Because the Lord Jesus Christ will return. And he will reign. And all of those that have ruled before, no matter what they've done, they will be dealt with and they will be wiped away. And almost like just a brief Memory, and we will revel in the glory of the rule of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ for all eternity. And that will That must be our focus then. Don't be distracted by all the terrible things even that are going on in this world today. Be grieved. Yes. Ask the Lord how you can be used to share Christ, the message of Christ, with others. Pray for those that cruelly try Treat other believers, maybe even yourself, remembering that God will bring justice one day on those people, and it will be eternal if they do not turn to Him. Whatever we We are suffering under currently under those that have rejected God, folks, it is nothing compared to what they will experience one day for us. All eternity. Pity them. Pray for them. That they will turn to the glorious truth of Jesus. Christ. And then wait. Suffer. Be long suffering. Proclaim Christ. Knowing that one day Jesus will return, and we will serve him faithfully forever. And none of the rest of this will matter anymore. Let me read that verse again. The earth will be filled every corner, every nook and cranny with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. People will know him intimately. How will people People of the world know God in this type of intimate way, full knowledge of Him, by the way. How is that gonna happen? Because God Would send his son Jesus the Messiah one day. He would take all of our sins on himself. He would die for our sins. He would shed his life. Literal blood, so that we could have cleansing of sin and we could be forgiven. And because he did that, and because God powerfully raised him from the dead, he triumphed. Over sin and death and the grave and Satan. And he's able to give us new life for those who believe Believe, who trust. It's not a work, right? It's something that we just give, we acknowledge. Lord, I, Jesus, I believe that you have done all of this so that I could be cleansed of my sin, so that God would declare me righteous, since you have taken my sin. And I would be reconciled with him for forever and worship him forever. The point of all that, back to this verse, is that is how we have a full knowledge of God. Through Jesus Christ. This very verse is saying to in the end, it's ultimately pointing Habakkuk and us to the fact that God will deal with all sin through Jesus. Christ. And the whole world one day will be filled to the end in full measure To all of those who will have a relationship with Christ. And there'll be no more rejection. There'll be no more sin. There will be no more disobedience against God. But the earth will acknowledge him as Lord. And the way that we can do that today, folks, is by having Having a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. You can acknowledge and have the knowledge that Habakkuk talks about here right now, even as we finish up this service today You can trust, put your faith in Jesus Christ and have this knowledge of the glory of the Lord and his rest and peace and joy and all of these things. You can experience that today. One day the whole world will be filled with only those who will acknowledge the Lord Jesus Christ. But we can come to him today. Trust him as Lord and Savior. And proclaim him to a pagan world that needs desperately the salvation Offered by the Messiah by Jesus Christ. One day King Jesus will return and there will be a hushed Silence on all those and who will gaze upon him and bow before him. And God reminds Habakkuk, I am righteous. Sinners. But I will provide salvation through faith in the one that will provide all knowledge of me. And we can glory in In that and find our hope in that. Father, thank you for this reminder, this great hope that you provided Habakkuk and us that the cruel, mean, evil people of the world who extort and who take things, and who have no No acknowledgement of you, and who love only themselves and worship themselves, that they will not they will not rule for eternity, that they are on bower bower Borrowed time. Help us as your servants, as your children, to remember that all that afflict us now are on borrowed time, and that we have All of eternity to enjoy the glories and the beauty of life with you forever. Help us to not get so fixated on the things that we don't have And the troubles that we have in this life, that we forget that we're merely a blip on the radar of history. And that the only The only thing that we must do for eternal significance and life in you is to trust in Jesus Christ and to put our faith in Him so that we will not face the punishment of those who reject you. That you will not deal with us as the enemy, but you will deal with us as sons and daughters through the knowledge that we have of you through Christ. O Lord, let everyone here today let them be able to testify that they have relationship with Christ through faith and trust in Him. That they would not face the judgment that those who reject You will face soon. And Lord, we pray even now, even so come, Lord Jesus.