What a thrill it is to sing and to hear the words of Scripture of our confident hope. In a risen Savior, who, as we celebrate His resurrection today, we know that He will soon return. And some days we feel like Like that can't be soon enough, right? But it is in God's timing. And so we take a day like Easter, and a day where we long to see Jesus face to face. Like these folks that will talk about in the Gospel of Luke, you can turn to Luke 24 There's many figures of the resurrection story, Mary Magdalene, Peter, John, the disciples. We tend to be A little envious of these folks because they they got to see the risen Savior. Mary got to hold him. They touched his Prince in his hands. And what a wonder it would be to do that. But as we also heard from Scripture, folks, we are blessed too today because Jesus says Blessed are those who believe when they have not seen. And one day it'll make the seeing all the more sweeter, will it not? Well, I greatly appreciate uh Dr. Mike's reading uh this chapter in Luke. We're gonna go back to the chapter, the verse. That he skipped on my request. Luke 24, 13 through 35. If you were with us this morning in the Good Friday service. It's kind of a natural unfolding into all that we're describing here. We talked about the reactions and responses of the different characters. Of the resurrection narrative. And how Mary Magdalene, remember, she was the lady that Jesus had dispelled the seven demons from. She Came with a group of ladies of five women, and they found this incredibly awesome but disturbing sight that the stone had been violent Moved away, and they were left with an empty tune, and they couldn't process that. And Mary ran to get Peter and John, who then ran back. John got there first. He must have been the better Olympic runner, I don't know. But then he stopped. He was so surprised. And Peter, as impetuous as he was, nothing was going to stop him. He ran into the tomb, and they both saw. The folded grave clothes, right with the face cloth there, and they marveled. And Peter was processing all this, but it does say in the Gospel of John that John Unbelieved. He may not have had a full understanding yet, but he believed. And so we have these reactions. And then what we could tell is we put the gospels together, it does seem like then Jesus after it, well, he appeared to Mary first. We talked about that at the sunrise. Service this morning, and her reaction was first of all concern and fear. And then when she Recognized Jesus. It turned into joy and exaltation. And Jesus said, it wasn't that it was wrong for her, however, she hugged him. Or if she fell to his feet and grabbed his feet, Jesus says, You've got to let go, Mary. I've got a job for you. The response after And then Jesus appeared to the rest of the ladies as they were going down. Back to the disciples. But then we have here in Luke, we have two characters that have heard these things. They've heard the testimony of the ladies, and they've Decided, don't understand these things, and it's time to go home. They were all the way in a little village called Emmaus. We don't know for sure today where Emmaus is, but there's a good guess that it was Was about seven miles from Jerusalem, and these two men are returning from Jerusalem, and they're talking About all these things. These were two of the followers of Jesus who were there with the eleven disciples. Remember, Judas is gone at this point tragically. And his Disregard for the truth of the Savior. And these men are not excited. They're very sad and confused. And they're taught Talking and discussing the whole way home. And they want understanding, but things are just too puzzling for them. So verse 13, the very day two of them were going to a village called Ameus. About seven miles from Jerusalem. And they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened. Now, that's quite a long walk, folks, right? That must have been quite the long conversation. They had lots of time to talk. What were they discussing? Discussing how all of these things could have happened. And then the stranger Appears out of nowhere, Jesus appears as one who is caught up with them in their journey, just another fellow traveler. I don't know if he surprised them or started I don't know about you, but if I'm walking a trail or if I'm taking a walk and I happen to notice all of a sudden sense that somebody is behind me once I make sure that that presence isn't hostile, it's still a bit of a shock and surprise, right? And these men are animated in their conversation, all of a sudden they notice Somebody coming up behind them. And maybe they got startled, but they turned around to see who it was. Verse 15: Jesus himself drew near and went with them, but their eyes were Kept from recognizing him. Mary Magdalene didn't recognize Jesus at first, thought he was the gardener. The same here. It was familiar, and yet uh maybe God um blinded their eyes temporarily, or maybe there was something about his body that was different, and they didn't quite understand Who he was at first. But he enters into their conversation. Verse 17, he said to them, What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk? And they stood still, looking sad. You see, folks, they had misunderstood what had happened to Jesus. They didn't understand the truth. Truth of the empty tomb, they misunderstood the resurrection in the empty tomb. And that caused great sorrow within them. And we see here that that Confusion about the truths of what happened to Jesus and his work and his resurrection also has caused them to lose hope. Folks, today, if you have lost hope in your life, could I suggest to you that maybe you don't know the truths of what we've sung about and described here today in Scripture? That if you are dismayed and at a loss for how your life is going, maybe you've put your hope in the wrong things, and those things, those people have I 'd like to suggest this morning that maybe you are not you have not have a A full knowledge of the truths of God's Word and what Jesus came to accomplish for you. And these men are greatly confused. One of them We don't know what the other guy's name is, but one of them, Cleopus, answered him. And he's incredulous that this man that has come upon them has no knowledge seemingly Of the shattering events. These were life-shattering events to these men and to the followers of Jesus. It meant everything to them. It's all they could talk about. of what had happened the past few days. They're both shocked that anyone could not hear. Like when we have um traumatic events in our world today, immediately we're tied to our phones or to the television screens and everybody knows. And when you come across somebody that doesn't know what's going on, you're like, where have you been? What hole have you crawled out of? That's kind of their Response here. They marvel. And so Cleopas gives them an update, what he thinks is an update. And he says Said, verse eighteen, named Cleopas, the one of them named Cleopas answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? Because the only The only way that he could have come on the trail that they were on was from Jerusalem. And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth. A man who was a prophet mighty indeed and word before God and all the people, and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death And crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things happened And moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back saying that they had even seen A vision of angels who said that he was alive. I mean, that's how you have to read this. These men are again incredulous. They're stunned. They can't make sense. Sense of all this. Verse 24: Some of those who were with us went to the tomb. That would have been Peter and John, and found it just as the women had said. But they didn't get to see the risen Savior. Not yet. Ladies, you can feel encouraged this morning that Jesus. Appeared to the ladies first, right? I don't know if there's anything that we should uh you know gain from that or or take from that, but he did come to see them and appeared to them first. But they point out that all of these things are very confusing. You think about this. They're recounting all these things over the last several days. Would you, if you were In their shoes, or should I say sandals, would you not be a little confused and concerned and shattered yourself? They're referring to Jesus as I think that indicates that they obviously still don't have the full understanding of who they've been following, but they've been following him very Devoutly, and they were hoping that he would be the Messiah. But how did they expect the Messiah to react? And what did they expect? The Messiah, the one that had been prophesied throughout the Old Testament, that they've been waiting on for hundreds of years, what did they expect him to do? Expected him to free them from Rome. And that hadn't happened. And yet they were sure, as it says here, they had Had a confident hope that he was the one he was the one that he was the The Redeemer, who would bring about all the promises, the fulfillment of the hopes and promises of the people of God. And instead of doing that, they watch him with all the other followers. be crucified in the most horrible way. Remember folks, the crucifixion being uh condemned to death by By being nailed to a cross is the most terrible punishment that the world throughout world history has ever devised. It's the most terrible. It's the most Awful. And it was for the worst of the worst. And here are these followers who thought: this is our Redeemer, this is our Messiah. They see him nailed to this cross and go through incredible cruelties and humiliation. And eventually die on that cross. And so certainly they're thinking we must have misplaced our hope. Although he was used of God, he must not have been what he thought we thought he was. And then, three days, the women Come to uh help prepare the body for that for b before uh they would they were expecting to um talk to the soldiers, uh perhaps Continue to prepare uh the body with the stone rolled away, whatever they intended to do, they come back with this incredible, but just Almost crazy account that the stone has been rolled away and that there's nothing there's no one in the tomb, there's no body at all. And all of these disciples Peter and John and these men included just don't know what to think at all. And then to say that they saw Jesus. How is that possible? We saw him die on the cross. And yet they saw him. And they came back. And Mary Magdalene. Mary Magdalene did exactly what Jesus told her to do. She went back and told the disciples. disciples. He is risen. I have seen him. Again, folks, what is our response as the Followers of God who have trusted in Jesus today, what is our response today, excuse me, as we reflect on this These truths. It's to share and proclaim them with others. And so those that are confused that the Holy Spirit might use the truth of God's word to open their eyes. Needed their eyes opened. They had placed their hope in what they could see. And now they can't see And they've missed the truth of his mission. They're at a loss for understanding. And they're sorrowful and they've lost their heart. And yet, the one who has all the answers and can refuel their hope is standing among them. Verse twenty five, and he said to them, O foolish ones and slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary that Christ should suffer these things and enter into Now remember, this is a seven-mile walk. They've got plenty of time to talk at this point. He interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things Concerning himself. And as disappointed as they were with Jesus for seemingly not knowing what happened, Jesus is much more disappointed with them Because they have the truth of God's word in the Old Testament, and they still missed the reality of his death and resurrection. And so he goes back through in his grace and mercy. He's careful with them, and he reteaches everything that they should have known. And he doesn't use passages that are some sort of You shouldn't view the Old Testament as some sort of codebreaker language that you have to have a specialist to understand in order for you to understand. No, Jesus went back through the Old Testament. And it should have been obvious to them. Let me just give you real quickly here a couple of these truths from Deuteronomy 18. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your Psalm two, verses six and seven As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree the Lord said to me You are my son, today I have begotten you. Psalm sixteen, I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not Be shaken. My whole heart is glad. You will not abandon my soul to Sheol or let your holy ones see corruption. Isaiah 53 talked about the suffering Of the Messiah. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so opened he Open not his mouth. The scriptures were clear, and yet God's people had totally missed it. In most cases And Jesus is bringing light to the eyes of very obtuse, dull followers. He is showing them Where Scripture made it clear what would have to take place. Verse 28: They drew near to the village where they were going, and he acted as if they were going farther. But they urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us. And so he went in to stay with them. Of course they would do this, right? Here is a man they don't know that it's Jesus yet, but this is a man that is a Learned teacher. And they they feel like they've just met him for the first time, but they want to hear more, and he has become their honored guest. And in Jewish culture, you would always offer your honored guest And certainly your teacher, your rabbi, a place and lodging to spend the night. And so they say, stay with us. Let us take care of you for all of the truth that you have declared. And taught us, that's their thought here. So he goes in with them. And when he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to And at that point, God opens their eyes and they see who it is with them. What a glorious Moment that must have been. And they recognized him. And at that very moment he vanished from their sight. Now Jesus wasn't being rude and not taking advantage of But folks, once they understood that Jesus was risen and he was there in front of him, mission accomplished, that's why Jesus was there. That's why he came to teach them. And Jesus had a lot of other things to accomplish and do. So he had accomplished, God had opened the Their eyes, and he departed. Perhaps to go talk to Peter. He would soon talk with the rest of the disciples. But look Look at their response. Now that they understand, they have a fuller understanding of the truths of God's Word and the death and resurrection of Christ. And what does that motivate them to do? Verse 33. They rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. That's a long way. And it was probably dark out. Seven miles. Miles. And yet, they maybe they even, I imagine they were so excited they probably ran most of the way. Well, they probably had to take a few minutes to catch a breath. But they returned quickly, and they found the eleven, and those who were with them gathered together, saying, The Lord is risen indeed. There we have our beautiful friend. That we mentioned this morning, and has appeared to Simon. And then they told what had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of the bread. They had walked with the risen Savior. He had given them a personal tour through the Holy Scriptures. He had broken bread with them. Fellowship with them. That had to have been quite an experience that very few people would ever be able to say that they enjoyed. And so this experience And the knowledge that Jesus was risen and he was alive, that fueled a fire in them that no one was going to quench. And they had to tell others. It was a quick return. They couldn't waste any time. They believed. They were confident that Jesus was risen. And they had to give testimony of it. Later on, they would find out as well that, as it says here, that Peter had also seen Jesus, probably after he had talked to them. The two testify to what they have seen as well, and then as Dr. Mike read earlier, Jesus appears to all of these men, and the greatest surprise of And remember in the Gospel of John, again, Jesus says that Thomas. Thomas wasn't there at this time. Thomas sees Jesus appearing later with the group. And Thomas says, My Lord and my God. And he gets Gives confession that Jesus is not only his risen Lord, but he is the all-powerful God that can make dead things rise from the grave. And he says, You are my God. And Jesus says, Now do you believe Thomas? And that's not a mischaracterization of him. He's commending him for finely believing. But then he says, Blessed are those Who do not see and yet believe. And folks, that's all of us. So here you have this morning, you have again been reminded Of the truth that we serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. What are you going to do with that truth? Job this morning was to motivate and encourage you that we serve a risen Savior. What are you going to do with that reminder and that knowledge this morning? I'd like to impress upon all of us, the pastor included, that we're so overjoyed and excited. Out of all the religions in the world, we are the only Only uh well we're not a religion, we're a relationship, but we are the only ones that serve a risen savior. Everyone else serves someone that's already died, and they're in the grave But our Savior didn't stay in the grave. He's risen. He's at the right hand of the Father. He is King. And he will come back. And establish his earthly kingdom at some point, hopefully in the near future. Does that excite you? Are you ready for that? Do you have Have relationship with Jesus? Have you accepted these truths of His death for you? His offering of forgiveness of sins? And his offering Offering of new life that you'll be able to enjoy in his presence for all eternity and escape the punishment of eternity in hell Have you acquiesced and put your faith in these truths? Then, folks, if that is the case, then we should go from here ready to proclaim. We should have an excitement and a fire that can't be extinguished. We serve a risen Savior. Does that not light the fire in your heart? I hope as we've thought of these truths this morning That they are a blessing to you and a motivation to testify of Christ to a world, would you not agree that desperately needs to hear the truth of Jesus? Let's bow our head and close our eyes. As Leslie gets ready to play in just a minute, I just want you again take one more chance at the end of our Service today, our Resurrection Easter service 2025, and reflect on the glorious truths. Of a risen Savior who will return. And if you are a child of God, you are looking forward to that and are thrilled with the prospect of seeing Him again. But if you You are still here and you haven't trusted Christ, folks. Let today be the day that as you've heard these truths, that you take them as your own and put your faith in the word Take some time to meditate on these truths as Leslie prays. And if you'd like to talk to me later, I'd be glad to talk with you. Many others, Dr. Mike Erickson, many others Others would love to share with you further how you can have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Think on these things as the piano plays.