Take your Bibles, please, and turn to Second Corinthians. chapter 10, 2 Corinthians chapter 10. I'd like to preach you a message entitled The Power of Our Thoughts. The power of our thoughts. Second Corinthians chapter ten. Let me just say once again how sweet y'all have been. we had before the service and between the services appreciate the things that have already been shared with us. And uh like I had said earlier in Sunday school We have no desire for you to gasp, but for you to grasp. And so if we can equip you a little bit to be able to help that coworker. or that nephew or that grandchild or that that child that you may have. Uh we would love to do that. We do feel, um I don't know why I always feel like I have to say this, because I really don't But we do feel in the years uh we were really privileg privileged that Abby was so open with us. And the truth of the matter is that we're pretty sure that we extended her life with the truths of the Lord for probably a decade and uh in middle school she began really suffering uh with these things but um i pray that the lord will give you the Grace. Um I only say this also at the beginning that some people don't engage in discussions about these things with people who they actually see are getting darker and and and struggling because they're afraid that they'll say the wrong thing. Okay, let's just think about that logically. So they are losing the will to live and they are becoming very, very dangerous. And you you can't make it worse by giving them the truth of God. No matter if you mutter it out, whether you hack it up, you know, it's only a positive thing. So please don't feel like you can't say anything because you don't know what to say. Hopefully we will give you some some tools today. I want to say one more thing that uh back on our table uh there are four books resources It's self-serve. There's an envelope in there and there's a purple box. We make like zero uh off of those books. Those are Amazon. You could buy them at Amazon, uh, but it's just a way to get them in your hands quicker. There's one It's one courage. There's one that's on anxiety and depression. There's a great one that has affected both uh Pastor Brock and I called Trusting God. what's the second When Life Hurts or something? It was the original title. And then there's a an amazing book that was is so good and so Clear that I got so mad at the beginning that I actually wrote the author and told him that he was out of line by sharing things that were too good about God. Okay. That book is called Gentle and Lowly. And it wasn't long before I saw that uh Ortland was uh very much more of an expositor than I was and that everything he said about the Lord was backed up with scripture and I eventually could not argue with them anymore. Have we have we gotten the Lord prayer yet? Father, thank you so much for this moment, for this time that you have brought us together. Lord, this is not some kind of performance. This is sharing the things that you have said in your word and that you have impressed heavily upon Amy and I's heart. And uh I thank you for the good God that you are, Lord. I thank you that though you slay us, yet we will trust in you. Lord, I thank you that You are so much wiser, that you're so much greater, that you have you have prepared for us in heaven Such a wonderful thing that the struggles of this earthly life cannot even be compared to the glory that's going to follow. And I pray, O Lord, that Holy Spirit, you would have free reign. I need you, Lord. These people need you. Let your word speak. Let it run. In Jesus' name. Amen. You'll keep your Place on your device or in your Bible in 2 Corinthians chapter 10. Hold your place. I promise you we will get there. That is the main text. That we will unpack, but we're going to hit a couple of verses kind of in in prep of hitting there. As we're here today, as I said, we're equipping you and others. uh uh to help to speak directly to someone uh who may you see are getting worse and worse in darkness and pulling away and And losing the joy that they had and even the things that they used to like to do, all those kind of things. But we are not so naive that we don't understand that probably in this congregation there are people who are struggling also, maybe not to the extent of not wanting to live anymore, but there's a long road that leads to that point. I want to tell you if you're struggling, battling dark thoughts, maybe intrusive thoughts, that you're not alone. You're not alone. You're not alone even in the realm of the body of Christ by any means, although we have not had the liberty in Especially conservative Christianity to speak much about what is actually going on in our heart. There are many, many, many people and Christians that struggle with anxiety, depression, even suicidal. thoughts. And we we know this historically. We see, have you ever read the book of Date uh that David has written in Psalms have you ever seen if there's anyone that would have been classified as bipolar would have been David. At the beginning he is like just just so low and so just feeling like he's gonna be sucked in into the ground and all of that, and by the end he's praising the Lord, whatever. We think about men like C. S. Lewis, a believer, who struggled with depression. We think about Spurgeon, but most people know about Charles Spurgeon, and there are many, many more. And even concerning suicide in families, some of you know that one of the Hamiltons, Ron Hamilton Patch the Pirate's son, Jonathan, uh took took his life, and uh that was a great burden. There's another pastor who is affiliated with BJ. um whose whose son took his life as well. And uh this is not something that is done in a corner. And I want to say if you are struggling That the Lord cares. God cares that that there are people around you who truly care. And you that what it what you're going through is not something that is unique to you. And there is something about misery loving company. There is something about knowing that the that what you're struggling with with, as Scripture says, um, that the same afflictions, your brothering Your brethren are accomplishing in the world, which just makes me that that there's a lot of believers who are struggling the way you are struggling. Don't lose heart. Don't don't lean into faint I want to also make clear that the teaching this morning applies to all thoughts. If you just you know focus on the end of the road, you know, suicide, you're gonna miss what I'm trying to say here this morning. It's not just mental illness. All thoughts are what we're going to talk about, the power of our thoughts, anxiety, depression, whatever. Every person in this room can apply this message to their present thought life. The biblical discussions of mental health and suicide have historically been very taboo in most churches. In most Christian circles. And the greater church has been historically ill-equipped to handle such things because we are afraid of things that we don't understand. We are uh afraid of things that we don't know why it's happening. You know, we don't we don't run to monsters. We don't run to you know, things that that uh scare us. When we were walking in the woods yesterday at Restoration Farm, we're walking down the nice path and Amy's a little bit ahead of me and I'm looking for the tree. If you don't know what the tree is, I'm looking for the tree. And uh all of a sudden uh we roused uh two bedded down deer and almost scared the hair off my head. I think it did actually. And uh and you know Amy was Ray about twelve feet and they We we don't say, oh yes, I'm gonna run towards something I'm afraid of. We run away from it. Recently a pastor who is a friend who I've known for a long time, he uh I was talking to him on the phone and he said, Brother Whipper, I need to I need to apologize. to you. I need to apologize to you because he was considered bringing us in our ministry in and he says, brother, I am terrified but by those subjects. I don't know what to do with those subjects. I've never known what to do. And back in my day He was about 15 years older than me. We never talked about him. Pastors dealt with it this way. Ignore it. Don't ever deal with it. And uh he apologized. And we still have not gone to his church. But we've reached a time in history when we must become equipped to help those that are in jeopardy to such things. Because it is all around us. And it is in our church as well. People struggling with severe and anxiety and depression and they they can't make the songs, the hymns and the hymn book of the nineteen struggle sixties fit their situation because it was all just wonderful then in those days. Songs, right? The 2024 study showed that 61% of Americans know someone who is suicidal or who has died by suicide. And we know that that's true here. Here because of people that walked up to us and shared with us. As Amy said in two thousand twenty-three, get this get this number In your brain. Fifty -three thousand Americans. And what's interesting is a lot of people think it's a young person's problem. It is not. In fact, in several years, just recently, the the vast majority of those who have taken their life have been over 65 years old. It is not just a young person 's problem. Although I will say that this generation is called the anxious generation because our young people are struggling greatly 53 ,000 Americans. Think about 1. 75 million that attempted. I mean, in all practical purposes, they were they were dying. They were leaving. Mm, but not all of them were successful. If that happened, if some other tragedy happened and fifty three Do you think that might be on the news? Fifty-three thousand people died in California from a landslide. Fifty-three thousand people died in Missouri from a flood. If 53,000, we go crazy when a few thousand die. Remember 911, when you know when when when the number is sh a whole lot smaller than that. But every year, people, every year, and if you look at the trajectory through the years, through the decades from when they've been tracking, you know, it'll go, it'll level off, it'll go, it'll level off. 2023 is the highest number ever. 2024 slightly came down, but when you back out of that trajectory, this is what it looks like. Up and up and up and up and up. That thought of suicide probably seems so far away from you this morning. And you're probably just, you know, tolerating that we're here. I mean I say that and And that Wednesday, the thought of suicide seemed so very far from our family I was preparing the Wednesday night Bible study on the living room couch. Amy had had a procedure, and she was across the hall in the family room on the recline. To this day I can't stand Wednesdays. Many people suffer from real medical issues that either cause or contribute to their mental mental health. And there it and this is another denial of conservative Christianity of twenty years ago, twenty five years ago, that every mental problem is a spiritual problem. That doesn't even make logical sense. sense. You know, w when we uh I I was in the hospital for hunt up hunting days because I had a kidney stone that went bad and everything went bad and I I got pneumonia and everything was happening. You know, okay, so imagine the the thought process of, well, what you needed to do, Toby, all you need to do is quote scripture at that kid's You just need to put on some good Christian music. You know, you just you just gotta get sin out of your life. You gotta we we would never think that concerning our heart, our lungs, our our kidneys, whatever, and yet the most complicated organ of our body is our brain. And there was a stigma in conservative Christianity that attribute every kind of mental thing, anxiety, depression, you know, all the strange things that can happen in your mind, two spiritual issues. You need to get right with God and all that'll go away. Of course, many mental struggles have a medical component. There's a a great stigma about using medication and that some people won't even call caug a call psychiatric medicine medicine because it's just a band-aid. Just covers. Yeah, that sounds like Tylenol. Does Tylenol heal you? No, it covers. That sounds like kidney stones, morphine to kidney stones. You know, there's a time, folks. Where, you know, it doesn't matter how you got into that, a person that is in extreme mental struggle, they cannot think straight. They can never even think straight to apply a passage of scripture to the mind to the And there are a time we had a man a couple of churches ago that asked to talk to us afterward. He brought us in and he was He was a a professional, a um a counseling professional, worked at a psychiatry. He begged us that we We would help break that stigma because he saw people dying over and over and over, taking their life because they held on to the belief. That they should not take medicine. The medicine clears the brain and it's not a long-term answer. It's not it's not like heart medicine or whatever. It it is a band-aid to help you think clearer to be able to apply truth. Alright, I said that off my hobby horse. Physical, that's mental, or excuse me Excuse me, medical, physical, and then thinking, which is the spiritual side. It is not clear which exasperates each other, what comes first, the chicken or the egg. Do the mental things cause the physical things? Do the physical things cause the mental things, we do not know. But this is what we do know on this hand. We know that although we're going to leave the the the organic stuff, the biological stuff to doctors, physicians, we do know that where the body of Christ can engage, that nearly every mental thing does have spiritual components. And we can deal with that. We know God's word. We know the gospel. We know the character of God. That is where the body of Christ can engage, at least in that portion of their struggle. Thought processes. Thought processes are incredibly powerful, and yet we don't realize it. You know how I know that that we don't realize it? Because daydreaming is a part of all of our lives. We just let our mind think about anything it wants to think. I don't even think about putting a governor on my brain. I don't even You know, you just think. You're driving along and you just think. You're just whatever, you're working your job, but you're really thinking about other things. Thought processes and people People's mind who are struggling, thought processes like unresolved issues and lies that they're believing, and negativity about themselves or about God or about others that just isn't true. Guilt that they're holding on to, fear that gets out of hand, deceptions The feeling of worthlessness, failure, etc. These and many other negative and dangerous thoughts continually shuffling in their minds, shuffling, shuffling. shuffling, shuffling. They may be here at church. They may be at a restaurant. They may be at school. But there is always this background shuffling of these thoughts over and over and over in her mind. It's kind of like it's kind of like uh we're a Spotify family. I don't know, you know, if you listen to music uh like we do, but um you know there's a there's a shuffle mode that you can turn on and it will just play these random you know songs. through whatever play okay I'm I'm losing some of the old let me let me back up a little bit. So there are these shiny silver disks and they're really shiny and you put them on this tray that goes in and out like this And it's really cool when you push the button and it comes in and out. And then there's a little button that's shuffle that you push and it'll play whatever song. I still don't have some of you. Okay. Listen, there are these machines and they say eight track on it, and you put no some of you don't even know. The young people, the joke doesn't even hit because they don't even know what an eight-track is. Uh eight-tracks don't have uh shuffle and I know that because I've opened up an eight-track and it's the most cool thing. inside. It's just really bizarre. Some people call this shuffling baggage. You know, they see that some woman they say, Oh man, that girl's got baggage. You you you understand exactly what that means. Some call it demons. Okay, that there's that guy, uh, he's rough. Yeah, he's got demons in his Like what do they really mean? They don't mean f fallen angels, you know, although that may be true too. They mean there is history there. There are things that are up inside of their heart, up inside of their brain, that constantly affect their life. They're talking about this shuffling. They're talking about these thoughts that just shuffle, shuffle, shuffle, intrusive thoughts that seem impossible and hopeless to these people. Suicidal ideations, that just means when it comes to the point of not wanting to live anymore and actually thinking about dying, i they're very complicated. There's no magic wand that instantly fixes Them. I mean, the person has gotten into that situation through probably years of thinking and add on the organic part. There's no magic wand. But renewing the thought life by The truth of Scripture that confronts the lie that is shuffling is where the body of Christ Can give substantial help. So let's plunge in. It became painfully clear through the years of conversation. And journals and counseling, that Abigail had several key thought processes that she compulsively ruminated on. That ultimately led to her losing all hope that her life would ever change for the better. She had a great life in most respects. And I think that that's also kind of a stigma historically. We see someone who loses a child by suicide or someone who loses a spouse or all of that or whatever a or a parent, whatever, and we think, Oh, there must be these incredible, horrible things inside that family that must be a dysfunctional family, they must beat their children, they must, you know, do all this. That's just actually not true at all. Those who spiral in their mental health can't see all the good things around them because they are too laser-focused on the pain of a few hurtful things. within them that are unresolved. And they always are listening to the backtrack. They're always listening to what is shuffling. And that's all they can see. Things may be going great in their life. in their life. Abigail had this in this really cool job at Namor's Children's Hospital. Do you know Namor's? Are you close enough to Namor's? This amazing job where she where she was part of the employees' health care and she managed all that. It wasn't kind of fun through COVID because she had to manage those who could take the shot and those Who didn't have to take the child. That wasn't good. That wasn't a good part of it. But she had this trajectory ahead. She had a husband who loved her. She had parents that desperately loved her and siblings that she was super close to. They were her best friends. She couldn't see it. All she could see were several unresolved, hurtful things in her that was sucking literally the life out of her. Think of these dark and unresolved thoughts like a ripening. Bunch of bananas. Okay? We're gonna imagine this. So in West Virginia, that's where I'm from, we called them a hand of bananas. Okay? And I was out of college and I kept on saying hand of bananas, hand of banana, and there was this sweet little girl who came up, college student, and she said, um um Pastor Wimmer, I I don't understand why you're talking about Hannah Montana. And she thought I was talking about if you don't know who Hannah Montana is, good for you. Uh but think about a bunch of bananas ripening. Like when you get them from the store, you know, they're little green, they're tart. It's not good to eat them then. And you gotta wait until they're that that golden yellow and they're so great to eat. But what if you neglect them? They start getting freckles, right? Little spots And then those thoughts those spots kind of run and then they they kind of get darker and get bigger and bigger and bigger until ultimately if you neglect those bananas, uh they become completely black and mushy and aren't good for anything unless you're Martha Stewart and put them in the freezer and make banana bread later. Okay? They're they're disgusting. You wouldn't that's like these thought processes. It's a period of time that this shuffle is constantly wearing away, ripening, ripening, getting more disgusting, getting more mushy, getting more dangerous till the place where there is no hope left at all People who, over time, come to a place where they truly believe that their life could never change for the better. So why keep living? This is where we begin looking at scripture. There's a verse that we all know. It's Proverbs 4. 23. We're going to get to the one on your lap, don't worry. It says, keep your heart with all diligence, for from it flow the springs of life. Let me just I've heard this since since I Been a child, but it makes so much more sense to me now. Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of Life. Well, what's this talking about? To keep your heart means to protect it or to guard it, guard what comes into it. But it's not just that. Okay, that's what I heard as a kid all the time. You know, protect your eye gates, your ear gates, and what's coming in. Listen, folks, our hearts, our minds are thought factories We don't have to worry about the environment, bad things coming into our eyes and ears and our experience. We create them in our heart. We create the lies. We We create the dangerous thoughts. We create the negativity and the worthlessness. We create those things in our heart. The scripture here says, guard your heart because of that. Guard your heart. That's a powerful place. Those thoughts that are shuffling around. The word heart can be translated as mind, thoughts, feelings. It's just a broad term that means your inner man. Vigilance here means with all your effort. Guard your inner man, your thoughts with with everything you've got Out of it flow the springs of life means what exits you, what flows from you. in your actions, your decisions, your behavior, those springs, what you choose to do, the direction of your life, are directly connected. To what you allow shuffle in your mind. The belief that that creates, the thoughts, the perspective, all of that, the way you think about God, the way you think about others, the way you think about yourself. As I said, I am a proud West Virginia boy. I was born and raised in the sticks of Morgantown, which is not Six at all. It's where the university is. We had running water in our house. My dad and my mom are related, but I'm not we're gonna talk about that some other time. In my backyard, I lived on Doug Hill Road, there was a hill, Doug Hill, D-U-G. Not Doug, a guy, Doug Hill Road. There was a hill, there was the road, there was a plot of land where the houses sit, and Uh then there was a creek and there was another hill. And that hollow, just holler, however you want to say it, just wound miles and miles, just like that, okay? So if you were to go out my back into my backyard and you were to cross the creek and you were to go up the hill, there was a gully that was coming down the hill that had water flowing down the hill. And the water would flow whether it was raining or not raining. And if you would go to the top of that gully, there was a spring up there. that water that magically came out of the ground, although it's very high, it's defying gravity. Now, most of you know that there was a well, you know, a natural well of down under the ground with lots of water that push that that water up through the ground and it comes out at a point that we call a spring. It's a Exactly the same thing with your thoughts, our thoughts. That what is deep in our heart, what is down there, what we ruminate in, what we choose to believe what we're thinking about, how we perceive others, perceive ourselves, perceive God. It is going to come out. In our words , Our choices, our actions, where we go, it determines the destiny of our life. If I can fast forward your life ten years from now, It will be the result of what you're thinking right now and what you continue to think. This is such content uh consistent teaching in Scripture. Remember, Jesus said that Said this so many times in different ways. Here's one of them, Matthew 15. It's one of those times that the Pharisees were mad at Jesus' disciples because they didn't ceremonial wash the way that they should. Jesus says about the Pharisees and what they were thinking and what they were saying. He says, Do you not see that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the stomach and is expelled? Alright, he's talking about the bathroom, okay? Verse number 18, but what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart. And this defiles a man from the thoughts and from his heart, his inner man, what comes out of him, that's where the question of defilement comes from. Jesus was teaching the same thing as our proverb, the fruit that comes out of you, whether it be your speech, your actions, your path of life, comes not primarily from your environment. but from within you, what you allow yourself to ruminate on, what you believe, whether it's truth or lies. From your thoughts, the spiritual health of your heart. And Jesus repeats that many times. Consider a verse that probably most of you of us have memorized. Romans 12, 1 and 2. Okay, I'll say it the way I learned it. King James. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. We're all good with that. Yes. It's reasonable to give yourself But then listen to verse number two. And be not conformed to this world, we got that, but be ye transformed by the list of rules that Pastor Brock gives you. Is is that what it says? No. Be transformed by the renewing of your what. Yell it out. What is it? Mind. And in so doing, transforming your mind and the thought you should be thinking, you will prove what is the good and the acceptable the will of God. Your life will go in the will of God if you rem renew your thoughts To be transformed to what God says is truth. I don't think we naturally realize the power of our thoughts that we bend a truth. Meditate on. I don't think we do. As I said earlier, you're becoming what you're thinking. The doubts, the sinful imaginations, the unresolved issues. You're becoming that. It's eating away at you. And there's a passage of scripture, now we get to it, that you, that hopefully is on your lap or on your device, uh, that I had you turn to in the 2 Corinthians chapter. Alright, I gotta give a context to this, alright? If you're with me, say amen. If you're asleep, don't say anything because you you're asleep, right? Paul is saying by inspiration that he is bold against some that were in the church of Christ. Corinth where he was writing that what that believed and were spreading around that he was a charlatan. You know what a charlatan is? Like a fake guy, you know, a fake preacher, whatever. And and they were saying that his ministry was just about hit himself in the flesh and his own strength and he was just Getting money from people, he was a charlatan. Um and he replies to them the verses that we're about to read and basically says this: that my ministry is not man-made. It's not carnal. It's not coming up for my, you know, for me or from my flesh or to to for me to get advantage. But it's coming by God's authority, his truth, and his power. And it is a mighty weapon of warfare. His truth, his power to cast down lies and destructive opinions and beliefs in people's minds. And to win them to Christ and renew their mind. That's what changes life. Paul's saying, I'm not a charlatan. I am bringing a mighty weapon of God's truth, which we would think about as scripture, to transform people. thinking and it will transform their life to rip down strongholds and rip down you know fortifications that they have made about what they believe and all that kind of stuff. And so let's read it. 2 Corinthians 10 verse 1 says, I Paul myself entreat you, by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, I who am humble when face to face with you. I beg you, verse two, that when ye when I am present, I may not have to show boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh. a Verse 3. For though we walk in the fr flesh, obviously we're human We are not waging war according to the flesh. He's talking about his ministry. We're not doing that Verse four for the weapons of our warfare are are not of the flesh, but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and we take every thought captive to obey Christ, and it goes on from there. I want you to focus on verse four and five and what Paul's really saying. Paul's spiritual and mighty weapons of warfare are the truth of God. You know, we see that scripture is called in other places the two-edged sword. It's called the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. And he said, God's truth, when used appropriately, like we are, is powerful To pull down thoughts of your mind and strongholds in your mind to change your life. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion. And in and in context, she's probably talking about heresies and talking about lies that these people were believing. all of that. And notice how it says it. We destroy arguments in every left opinion raised against the knowledge of God. That's the idea of rebelling. That when I say what I am thinking, check this out, what I am feeling is more truth than what God says, that is rebelling against The knowledge of God. It's rebelling against what God says. It's rebelling against God. But I don't know about you, but I often try My feelings over what God has said. I guess I shouldn't admit that to you, but feelings feel so feely And it's hard to believe something that you don't feel, and you conclude that it must not be true what God says, because I don't feel that. These verses are the same point as we saw in Proverbs and Matthew and Romans. Our real bat battle and terrible danger of life is the battle of our mind, of what we Allow ourselves to believe and think of unresolved issues that we know, whether it be against a person, whether it be something like abuse that happened to us that we have not dealt with or some situation where we really need to deal with it. It's eating ourselves up these thoughts, these lies, feeling about what something happened, that I that I feel worthless, that I feel like I'm trash, and that that God can't love me, and that I hate myself when I look in the mirror. All of this, strongholds, destructive opinions. Need to be replaced, the lies cast down, believing what God says to renew our thoughts. To pull down those strongholds and to transform our lives. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind Our minds cannot be allowed to run afoul and free with dark, destructive, negative, false, sinful thoughts that lift themselves up in rebellion against Against God's love and his truth and his help and his ability to change things, etc. etc. etc. We must bring all thoughts, opinions, unresolved issues, fears, bitterness, whatever, into the captivity of God's truth. And if something in your brain that you think and that you ruminate on and that you consistently think on is opposite, is different than what God said is true, you're we are just rebelling. Against God. And we are destroying ourselves by continuing to give place to that. The playlist we allow to shuffle in our hearts, what we ruminate on, will become. The fruit are fruit of destroying ourselves and others. And no, it probably will not go as far as my daughter taking her life. But there's a whole lot of destruction before you reach that point in relationships, in your own life, in your fellowship with the Lord. There's a whole lot of destruction before you reach that point by not dealing with those lies, not facing them head-on, not declaring war against them with God's powerful truth. Here's our connection to enslaving lies and strongholds, opinions, and fears, and darknesses, and thoughts, exalting themselves above God's truth that ultimately lead someone to want to to die, to want to stop the pain uh that they that is in their life and it's generally true mental pl pain is strong Longer than any kidney stone. People who are poured pulled to the thought of ending their pain because nothing will change. Abby's dark thoughts are different than yours. But I want you to understand what I'm talking about, so I'm going to share Her thoughts with you, so you'll get it. She was very open with us about them And we often showed her that that was not the right way to think, whatever, but she was Either unable or unwilling to resolve several of them. Unwilling because the cost or what she would have to do to resolve them was too high a price for her I'll just share four with you so you'll understand. At age seventeen, Abby was intimately assaulted by an adult co-worker to the farthest extent. She went off to Bob Jones. We had no idea. When we took her there, uh she She was physically and mentally sick. We thought you know she had a virus or something like that. She was in incredible trauma. Five years later, she told us that ate away at her the whole time. That event continued and kept on providing uh causing a PTSD, a post-traumatic stress Of going through that trauma that that ripped her her thinking apart, she was always afraid that she would see that guy somewhere. She would call her mom sometimes, call Amy sometimes and say, I'm going to this event and there's gonna be a lot of people. He might be there, mom, he might be there. She also lived in a a false, exaggerated guilt about that abuse situation. We had been chanced encouraging her to find some closure by prosecuting this guy, the way that the scripture says in Romans that the government bears not the sword in vain. But she, the first time I brought this up, let's, you know, let's She burst into tears and ran inside her own home. She couldn't imagine sitting in a courtroom. Mo many victims can't imagine doing that and they don't because of that. They can't imagine facing their abuser. Number two, she had PCOS, which some of you women will immediately recognized polycystic ovarian syndrome that played havoc on her body and her self-image. PCOS causes many hormonal problems as well. Insulin, diabetic problems, it causes weight gain, it reduces the chance of becoming pregnant. And uh since her whatever high school years, her body was messed up. Messed up. Only a few months before she took her life, she was hospitalized and Labeled diabetic, she was able to with a lot of exercise and whatever, but that always played on her body self-image. You know, she she was a beast in the I couldn't keep up with her in the gym. She was a beast in the gym. But it didn't matter if she starved herself, if she she whatever, you know, the the skinny mini friends in her life would would eat ten pieces of pizza and they would actually lose three pounds and Abby would smell the pizza and gain ten pounds. It's just she was always fighting against the PCOS and and she hated her body. She hated looking in the mirror. She felt like her body was betraying her, and self-image negativity filled the pages of her prayer journal. She begged God to heal her on one page and to help her just to rest in her identity of being his daughter. And then a page later she would b bemoan her looks and her body. PCO PCOS gave her great anxiety about herself, her beauty. her value, her significance and image, all lies that fight against what God said. All lies that fight fight against Psalm 139, that he was the architect, that he wrote his her members in his book before she was ever created. That she was fearfully and wonderfully made, Psalm 139, in God's perspective, which is the only perspective that matters. And here are the words. From her journal. All my life I felt like the dumb one, like the failure. I'm not like mom and the girls. I really wish I could be thin. I've never been. I've always wanted to be in a different body. My chest is too big, my rear is too flat, my stomach protrudes. I feel like the redeeming quality is my face, but even my cheeks and nose. Have been picked apart by people. PCOS has made my body into something I always want to cover. The used with a constant opinions, lies, strongholds shuffling through her mind. Through Abbey's head and the minds of many people thinking about not being pretty enough, not being handsome enough, not being thin enough, tall enough, smart enough, righteous enough, rich enough, good enough, significant enough. Never enough. Never enough And if those destructive thoughts go unchecked and ruminate for months and months and years and years in years. They bring you to the point of worthlessness of not wanting to live anymore. Number three, guilt You might question why Pastor's Kid would have unresolved guilt. And I'd like to break the tension at this point and say, uh Pastor Brock, I I used to really worry about or really think about why are the pastor's kids so bad. But then one day it just hit me perfectly. The pastor's kids Are so bad because they hang around with the deacon's kids. There you go. All right. No, her thoughts, her temptations are just exactly the way yours are. You know what you fight against. It's it and being a PK, a pastor's kid, or pastor's family doesn't magically take away all the temptations. Don't put your pastor and his family up on some uh pinnacle that they can't cannot cannot ever reach up to. They're just people like you that have been that have been equipped to be able to serve you a shepherd. Do not expect more from them than you expect from yourself. In your own family. Alright. That was a little bit, yeah, I had to get that out. Guilt. Abby was a theologian in her own family. Own right. She loved theology. We often talked about theology. She absolutely knew the wonderful forgiveness. In Jesus Christ for all of her sin, her life's sin. She absolutely knew that if any man sin, we have an advocate Jesus Christ the righteous. But then some things she had allowed herself to get involved in in her teenage years she could not shake. Just couldn't shake. Number four, discontentment. Abby ruminated on several realities in her life that she refused to accept. But that she could not control. And I can't share those things with you, but basically no one should have those things in their life. And they weren't changing. And they were just there. And she could not accept it. She would not submit. Okay, Lord, in your sovereignty, you have allowed this thing that is not ideal in my life. And her mind was constantly focused on what What was not right and what would not change in her view. Discontentment. These four areas revealed a catalyst that pushed Abby to the edge. Edge, these thoughts shuffled through her mind constantly until that fateful night before she died. She had come. She had come to stay at our house for three days at her husband's blessing, because she was really, really struggling. And And um we had wonderful days with her, a couple of wonderful days of being with her and talking and all these things. And um the night before, Tuesday night before, uh I was in the living room with her. across from each other and we were talking about all this stuff that was just really she was really struggling with. And as we talked and I tried to rem remind her about God's truth or whatever, at one point Her attention turned away from me and she stared at the wall. And she said, This, Dad? It will never change. And at that moment, folks, the bananas had turned completely Black and all hope was gone. I did not recognize that as the cry of hopelessness I wish to God I would have. Folks, thoughts are powerful things. They're not benign. They're not something that, oh, I'll work on this in the next years. No, you're you are becoming what you are thinking. The thoughts of your mind and your heart become the actions, the springs of your life, of where you go and what you do and how you treat people and and your prayer life of what you think about God for better or for worse or what you think about yourself. It's not easy to believe God's truth over such powerful lies, but we must keep as our hope and our faith Foundation, the truth that God is gracious to his core, that he is good Anchoring our opinions and our beliefs and our thoughts about ourselves and Him to His character and His truths and what He has done Done through the gospel to replace the lies and renew the despair of our hearts. For instance, Abigail, won't you believe that your body was made in his image? Won't you believe that Genesis 1, Psalm 139, says that you're fearfully, wonderfully made, that you wrote all your members, even PCOS in his book before you were ever formed, that the gospel is your ultimate solution, Abby? You're going to get a new body. You're not always going to have the body that you hate. You're going to be glorified one day. And so then surrender to the sovereignty of God and believe that He does all things right and be content in Him. The truth is things can change. Abby, don't you know that God changes things through prayer? That's exactly what I said after she But she couldn't hear me anymore. After she said, Daddy, will never change. The things that seemed impossible for her can change, like they can change for you by God's power, this wonderful tool that He said, the affectional, fervent prayer of a righteous man availed much. He says over and over and over, ask me to change things. Have faith. The truth that God would be her avenger against her abuser That he had said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. The fact that he had ordained government and doesn't bear the sword in vain, Romans thirteen. The fact that, Abby, can you do you not know that God says that he thinks un unmeasurably gracious thoughts towards you more than the sand and the sea, that that you are his you are his child through Jesus' salvation. That he said that your guilt in the past is Been paid for, you are redeemed, justified, forgiven, and as clean as Christ in God's sight. Abby, Abby, what you're thinking is not true, Abby. Renew your mind, Abby. Transform your mind, Abby. There is no Condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. She declared the gospel on her death video. These were some of the powerful truths that needed to be replaced, the lies, shuffling in her mind. And that's Abby's playlist, but I don't know your playlist. And no, it may not bring you that far. But as I said before, there's a lot of destruction before that by allowing. lies and unresolved issues and and truths against God or lies against God's character and Thoughts of your own negativity, your own worthlessness, thoughts that the God says this promise, but you believe something else. There's a whole lot of carnage. before that. I've shared her playlist, but what are your negative, dark, deceptive thoughts shuffling here in your mind this morning? I'm going to tell you, for the sake of the rest of your life, you must face those things. There are people here this morning that you know exactly That the Holy Spirit is applying your heart exactly what I say about unresolved issues. That may be that you are separated, totally separated from family members because Of your pride. And it's eating you and eating them alive. And maybe, like my daughter, abuse or neglect of your childhood that has tainted every day of your life that you think about. that you can resolve, that you can get with a godly counselor, with a pastor, and bury Or or tell the people, young people, tell someone who needs to know that the appropriate action, Amy and I have counseled. Counseled uh twenty -something pastor 's daughter for I don't know, year and a half year And she has one of these situations in her childhood. And because of her thought that she might destroy the church or she might destroy her pastors, her her dad's Job as a pastor, she has never told anyone. And it eats her alive. And we have so much tried to encourage her. to deal with it. And we get texts every couple of weeks. And and she wants to die. Many of you have family and friends, and you don't know how to help them. They're turning dark and hopeless. How can you help them? So I'm gonna give you the first step. It starts with you having a very casual, non-awkward conversation with them. Says something like this. We're gonna make the guy's name Joe. Joe, I care about you. Would you trust me enough to tell me Me what thoughts are shuffling in your mind. I said that to a 40-something businessman who used to be in my my youth group and he was struggling. He had thoughts of taking his life. There was not half a second that passed that he yelled he blurted out in a restaurant, I am worthless! Always shuffling, shuffling. If you can get that loved one, that person, that friend, to say what's shuffling in their mind, that is a humongous step. Humongous when it's brought out to the open. You say, well then what? What do we do with that? Most of us in this room probably can identify those kind of unbiblical lying thoughts and pair them with real verses and what God says to begin to help That person coming alongside. It's not one and done. You don't text them the verse and it's all done. You come alongside of them and over time remind them. And slowly, slowly, as slow as the corruption that ends Entered into their mind and their heart. up. They start believing what God has said, slowly transforming their mind, renewing their mind, just like the Bible says. You might be over your head in this. That's fine. Seek out a godly counselor. Seek out a pastor. Seek out whatever. Seek out us. Every one of those pamphlets has my cell number on it, my email address. We will help you to the nth degree. We will help you with that person. For far too long, the body of Christ, the church, has become fearful or judgmental, ignored these dear people, even stigmatized very real mental health. And spiritual issues to the point that no one, like I said before, would want to come to the church for help. They would just feel judged. Can we change that stigma? Can we have compassion on these people just like Jesus, the man of sorrows acquainted with grief? Can we have compassion like him who is touched with the feeling of our infirmities and he had so much compassion on those around him? Could we do that? Instead of jumping to judgment and pushing people who are greatly struggling away. Thoughts are powerful. They change the direction of her life. Heavenly Father, I thank you. For your word, I thank you that the power of your truth and real verses of Scripture Like a surgeon's scalpel can cut out, can change, can transform our lives, our thoughts, beginning And Father, I just want to lay these dear people before you and give them courage to engage in other people's lives, of people who they're thinking about right now, that they're struggling Struggling to see that person get darker and darker. Maybe someone that is here. Let your good word, let this be a changing day, a day of change. In Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Pastor Brock. But let me say this, folks. We want to be it here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. We want to be a church that people need Know that we care about you. Whatever playlist you're running through your mind, whatever your struggles, yes, you have a savior that loves you. And we point you to Jesus Christ, but we want you to know we want to help. We're here to talk. Think through these things that Brother Toby and his wife Angel Amy have mentioned this morning, and do the first step. Reach out, let us know. The love of Jesus is enough. And he can provide what you need. But don't suffer in silence. Don't go it alone. Let those that care about you, let them know. Talk it through with them. And we want you to know here at this church that we care about you. Jesus cares about you. Let's stand.