And that has been our prayer as we have made our way through uh the book of Revelation, certainly. Um well known Passages and some ones that deeply puzzle us, and passages that even the angel warns John, are difficult to understand, and so we have to search out and trust in the guidance of the Spirit And so we have made our way through this book, Lord willing. Before the Lord calls us on, we'll uh finish this book Next week, I think we're on the trajectory to do that. You can turn to Revelation 19 as we finish up that chapter this morning and then on into chapter 20. And we have seen the bull judgments, which are the final judgments going on in this this most severe, greatest part of the tribulation, the last three and a half years that is referred to as the Great Tribulation, even in the Old Testament. And these bulls have been long awaited by God's people as they testify and as they worship him because of what will take place at the end. God's people the the followers of Christ with him in fellowship with him and communion with him and his ultimate victory over all of his enemies. And so we've seen through these things in these last three and a half years, these strange creatures. The um the very uh lame, pathetic uh replication so to speak that Satan has done, tried to do with Christ through this Antichrist, this beast, and also this false prophet and um false religion and bringing people together in this terrible harlot, the spirit of um dependence apart from God and financial matters and immorality and false religion and we have seen recently that God will deal with all of these and even more specifically today. Remember how with Babylon that great um harlot that's described in chapter eighteen. He actually turned the beast and uh the false prophet and those that she was enabling against her, and she had a violent end. And the world mourned because they realized they put their trust and dependence in the wrong thing. But folks, for the followers of Christ in chapter 19, there is great excitement. And there is energy and worship and enthusiasm as it is made clear that the judgments of God upon his enemies are taking place and everything that God had promised throughout his word is happening. He is dealing with his enemies. And these false replicas, these cheap imitations Will no longer stand. And we'll see that again today. And then there's this excitement for the marriage supper of the Lamb. And uh this introduction to the bride of Christ that we'll have more to say about tonight and even Wednesday. As God's people prepare Now, we talked about this last Wednesday in the midpoint of Revelation 19, that God's people are getting excited for what's called the marriage supper of the Lamb, as the bride has been made ready for her bridegroom. Probably best to think of the bride and the marriage ceremony as having taken place while the tribulation's going on. The church and all God's people that are there are celebrating and worshiping the Lamb. And enjoying his presence while these terrible things are going on in the earth. And now there is a recognition recognition that all of followers of God soon will be together in communing with the Savior. And so in the midst of nineteen, there's worship. of God in that. Remember, in the midst of discussing these things, John got confused and he started worshiping the angel. He's so overwhelmed by the truth of what he's hearing. And the angel reminded him, there's only one worthy of worship, and that's Jesus Christ. It's the one that all of Scripture has been pointing to, the central figure of all scripture in all history. Look at verse 10. That angel said, I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren that have test had that have the testimony of Jesus. I'm reading from the King James. I'm going to be moving back and forth from the King James To the ESV this morning. So just be uh prepared for that. Worship God, for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Here he describes Jesus as deity. Jesus is worthy of all of our worship because he is the focal point of all prophecy, of all scripture. So the angel is helping John focus on what is most important. And then, I'm back in the ESV now. Part of this vision where our focus is brought back on an amazing figure. And it's a figure that's ready to judge his enemies And I know, again, I know there's been all kinds of descriptions of judgment in this book and strange creatures and lots of heads and crowns and very ugly things. But folks, the rest of the book is all victory. It's all joy. And um it's for for God's people, it's a blessing to read. And so I'm glad here in these last few services. to remind you of the victory that we have in Christ. And that's how we're going to end the book. And a reminder of that. So we'll just read a few passes. We'll read this description of this figure, and I think you know who it is. We'll have a word of prayer and we'll continue to look at this together. Verse 11 of 19. Then I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. We saying, Great is thy faithfulness this morning. A wonderful intro. Recognizing the Savior. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems, and he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God. And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the wineprets of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty On his robe and on his thigh. He has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Father, what a blessing it is to come to this portion. of your word as we really close out the whole of Scripture with the victorious presentation of your son We marvel and we rejoice in this, knowing that we still face the enemy And we face his fierce rebellion against your word and against The things of your word. Lord, help us to be encouraged even as we continue to face the darkness and difficulties of this world Let us be reminded of the victory that is assured for us through Jesus Christ. And let us be encouraged and motivated to serve him more faithfully. Because we are the victors because of what Jesus has done. the faithful and true warrior who will defeat all his foes. Give us encouragement today as we look on these truths, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I've continued to refer to this these passages as the uh the lamb that will conquer them all. And we certainly see that in this passage as we go back to verse 11. John sees this glorious vision of the heavens opening. And now it seems that he has again this perspective while being on earth. And a figure is coming on earth to deal with this false Antichrist and false prophet and all of these things. And it says, behold, a white horse. Remember the terrible horses and the sickly green and all the terrible horses that were described earlier in the book. And this horse now is pure and white, and fitting for the one that would write on it. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges And makes war. And this is the description of Christ. And his identity obviously is evident here. He's faithful. He's trustworthy. All the other things in the world that the people of the world put their trust in have all crumbled. Babylon is gone. Um the enemies of God are about to meet their end. And all of things that the world puts its confidence in will one day crumble. But folks, for the followers of Christ who have put their faith and trust in Jesus He is fully dependable till the end. He is fully trustworthy. He is the ultimate best investment that you can put your life into, your faith, your trust. And he will be victorious. And so he is called faithful. And then true. You could really say there's a lot of um meaning behind that Greek word, the word true. But here it describes that he is the real thing. He's the real deal, not the cheap imitations that Satan has put forth in the Antichrist and the false prophet. You remember the Antichrist with the wound in his head and rising again and all these things. But very poor. Poor. Imitations of the one that is truly the Savior that we put our faith and trust in. And in righteousness, He is fully righteous. And remember that he offered up himself to give that righteousness to us. He took all of our sin on himself. And he offers now, because of his death and resurrection, this righteousness that he's described. He fully met God's standard. He's holy. He's pure coming in on this white horse. And he is the one that is able to judge and make war. He has full authority. He is fully capable of pronouncing judgment and making war, but having victory. In that war as well. We were talking with some of you folks, maybe it was the London Custom, about the Chronicles of Narnia, that series written by C. S. Lewis. and a marvelous series of books that our boys have enjoyed reading. I was thinking of the last battle that really kind of goes along in some ways with what is going on here. Now this is much more marvelous than some fictional story, but the last battle, the last um of those books in the Chronicles of Narnia, and if you know anything about those books They have this Christ-like figure. He's a lion. His name is Aslan. And he dies and is c somewhat resurrected. uh i in the place of another who had done terrible wrong and betrayed. And so uh Aslan becomes kind of the figure then. uh for or at least a Christ-like figure. I don't want to take that farther than C. S. Lewis meant it to, but the the illusions there are pretty clear And so at the end here, the last battle describes the last chapters of the time of the land of Narnia. And in these at the end, it begins with this description of this foolish, ugly, awful gorilla. and his so-called friend that is a donkey and the gorilla gets a bright idea, he finds a lion skin, and he oh he's the one that's supposedly more intelligent and he tells the donkey what to do. And he tells them to put on this lion skin and eventually he, through his communicative abilities um impresses or convinces many of the inhabitants of this land, Narnia, that this is the Aslan comeback and uh is telling them what to do, but he's telling them to do all sorts of things that are wrong that the real Aslan would not have told them to do, and so they're confused. And they're wondering what's going on. And there's great destruction. And eventually the end of the land. And Aslan comes and brings them to his land. Which is kind of a picture of heaven. Well, when these figures finally figure out that they've been fooled And that this Aslan that they've been so terrified about is actually a donkey with a lion's uh pelt or skin on him. They're appalled. They're disgusted. And really it's one of the it's it's the ugly part of this book that this um evil, ugly gorilla was able to fool so many with so with such a cheap uh imitation. When they actually saw the donkey with the lion skin fully revealed, they felt very foolish that they had Given any faith or any credence to this at all. Folks, really, that's what the Antichrist is. He's nothing more than a donkey with a cheap old lion skin wrapped around him. And Jesus is returning now as faithful and true, and he's saying, I'm the real thing. And those of you that trust me And that have trusted me and that will trust me, you will experience true victory. You've put your trust in the right person, in the right individual. And now I'm going to bring victory. Let's continue here. Verse 12. His eyes are like a flame of fire. And on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written that no one knows but himself. Now we've seen this description at the beginning of this book. Jesus with these intense eyes of fire, if you remember, that means that he sees all, that he knows all. And as he's coming, he knows right where to go. As he gets ready now, and we've been talking about this through these last few chapters, this is going to initiate, Jesus is going to initiate the Battle of Armageddon. And it's going to take place. He knows where it needs to be. He knows the the presence of his enemies. He sees all. He knows that's with him. Folks, he knows everything that's going on in each of our hearts right now as we're worshiping him. And as we're listening to his word, he knows whether we're listening to his word or whether we're distracted. He can see all. On his head are many diadems or crowns. Well, later on he's referred to as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, so isn't it fitting that ultimately that all the crowns that all the kings of the world would wear that in symbolic sense here that Christ is wearing them all. He deserves all the authority that all the other kings and rulers have just been cheap imitations of. But he is the one that is deserving of all of this authority. And he is the one who puts into subjection all other rulers. I like this from um one commentator that I've been reading and benefited from his perspective on Revelation. He says, his multiple emblems of royalty are appropriate, his crowns, because he is the King of Kings. The right to rule the world has passed to Messiah. He is infinitely more powerful than the world rulers before him. His sovereignty is unassailable. And it continues, he has a name written that no one knows but himself. This is interesting. This is kind of a um rebuttal or not a rebuttal but a rebuke to us that try or many even God's people that try to figure out every aspect of who Christ is and who God is. You know, even in the Sunday school presentation that we've been listening to, it's been so helpful. Behold our God. He has brought out that there is aspects of God that are incomprehensible, and we have to submit ourselves to that and realize that we're never going to understand everything about God And here Jesus has this wonderful name that he keeps to himself. Will he reveal it? Well, we're not told for sure But it's a reminder to us that there will always be things about God and about Christ that we will never fully know. And whatever system , well our theological system needs to be the correct one, obviously, it needs to be accurate But if you and your theological system think you've come up with all the answers to God and every aspect of how he works, well here's a reminder, there's some things that God just doesn't reveal. Jesus may not reveal this name, but he knows what it is. And he knows what he's doing. Verse 13, he is clothed in a robe dipped in blood. And the name by which he is called, here's another, again, another hint of who he is, the word of God. And John has written a lot about the word, hasn't he? John, the Gospel of John that we saw last year as we were making our way through that book. He was referred to as the Word, the very expression of who God is. And now John reminds us again, he is the very expression, the Word. When we see Jesus, when we hear him, we are viewing God, deity. God sent Jesus that we might know who God is. And He has expresses Himself in the Word of God. The robe dipped in blood. Many have interpreted this as the blood of Christ that he shed on the cross and his sacrifice for our sin. And I think that that may possibly be a part of the picture. But there is a greater part of that picture. And even in Isaiah, back to Isaiah. He is described as one that brings judgment. And part of that is the blood. And again, not to be too graphic here, but in the victory over his enemies, he will shed their blood. And so I believe the the full interpretation of this is the victory that this one will have over his enemies and will literally have his blood. on his robe. Let's just look here real quick at a couple passages in Isaiah just to see Well turn to Isaiah 63, 1 through 6. Isaiah 63. Here is a direct fulfillment here in Revelation of this very passage Isaiah 63, verse 1. Who is this who comes from Edom in crimson garments from Basrah? He who is splendid in his apparel, marching in the greatness of his strength. It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save. Does that sound familiar? Why is your apparel red, and your garments like his who treads in the winepress? I have trodden the wine press alone, and from the peoples no one was with me. I trod them in my anger and trampled them in my wrath. Again, uh intense, terrible picture, but one that's needed in the full purview of Scripture. Their lifeblood spattered on my garments and stained all my apparel, for the day of vengeance was in my heart My year of redemption had come, and I looked, and there was no one to help, and I was appalled. And then I believed that Rick read this or something close to this already. My own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me, and I trampled down the peoples in my anger. poured out their lifeblood on the earth. Well this is a terrible picture here, and yet it is needed to remind us that God will have complete victory over all of his enemies that they will not be victorious, that they will not overcome. In this vivid picture, it shows that he will send his Messiah who will deal with them in a very vivid, terrible way will show that he is victorious and that he can overcome his enemies as a warrior. Here is a picture of a warrior that knows how to fight and that knows how to have victory. And so we go back and so really I think the full interpretation of this Is the robe dipped in blood, is the blood of his enemies that he has overcome and that he has trampled. And so that helps us understand the fulfillment of this. And it is the one that is the word, the expression of God. He will fully express God's judgment. against the rebels against a world system that have rebelled against him. Now remember who are these folks specifically if we remember what we've gone through in Revelation recently. This is as we Uh get the details now of the Battle of Armageddon. I should mention this as well, that this seems to be best to be viewed as the end of the seventh uh bull judgment. Remember the sixth was the assembly of all of these kings that were loyal to the Antichrist, and they were giving him all of their resources and everything possible so that he could be victorious. And then Jesus comes to battle them, and it's the end now described of that seventh Bull judgment where he will deal in finality with this rebellion of the Antichrist and the false prophets The false religion and all of these kings of the world, these powerful kings who have assembled against him, they're going to be fully thwarted. And they're gathering together here at Armageddon. It continues. It describes someone else. That picture of Christ is amazing, but somebody else's His army is described here, verse 14, and the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure. were following him on white horses. And we just had a description of the bride of Christ We look back at first eight, arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints. That's from the King James Version here. So who are these armies? Well, some interpreters still interpret these as angels But in context here, folks, this army is all of us. We get to accompany Jesus Christ in this victorious battle. He goes ahead, but we are with him as his soldiers. As the bride of Christ, we have our raiment, we have our garment on, clean and pure. How did we get such clean, pure garments in order to be able to appear with Jesus Christ? Remember, folks, it's the work that He did in making us pure and clean. He gave us those garments, and we put them on. This was all the work of Christ. He's able to defeat his enemies. He's able to cleanse and make his own army so that we can follow after him. And we get to accompany him to a victorious battle. And here's a great thing. If you're ever excited or inspired by stories of great battles. you know, Civil War, Revolutionary War, World War I or World War II. Many times soldiers are accumulated and brought together through promises of honor and glory and all these things. And and we just celebrated Memorial Day recently where we honored those that have given their lives for our country. And that's certainly appropriate because it is a worthy thing to honor when life is lost. for the purpose of an important cause or for the freedoms of people. But wouldn't it be better if you were guaranteed as an army that you wouldn't even have to fight and you'd still be victorious? I think everybody would sign up to be a soldier in that army. Come, fight with me. And in the end, you don't have to do a thing, because the commander will do it all. And we see that here, verse 15. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. Again, this strange picture of this sword. really just reflects the power of the words of Christ. The very word of God and the power. And all he has to do is speak. And it strikes down. All of these powerful kings and their armies from all of these nations. And it says that he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will bring judgment. He is fully able to bring judgment and chastisement. This is an instrument of chastisement upon those his enemies who have rebelled against him, and he will be fully victorious. Look at the end. He will tread the wine press. Here is that Exact fulfillment of Isaiah that we read. Of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. A terrible picture here, but necessary. As folks, one day the wrath, the full wrath of the God of heaven will fall upon those who have rebelled against him. And you don't want to be on the wrong side. You don't want to be to this point and realize that the dependence that you put in in the world system and money and immorality and all of these things, you realize That you've been putting your resources into a losing team. That you are losing, that you're the losers in the battle. As the one comes who's able to bring full victory. And he will bring the full wrath of the all-powerful God, the almighty of creation, upon his enemies. and they will be decimated. They will be wiped out. In verse 16, on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. There were, my understanding is, back in the times of the Old Testament with the world leaders, whether it was, I don't know if it but if the Babylonians had this, but the Persians were marched for a f referring to the leader of the Persians as the King of Kings, and I believe the Romans as well referred to the Caesars as they this is your Lord of Lords. And so people would have been real familiar with these terms, but here John is making it clear very boldly, in the midst of a system, Rome, that said, Caesar is our Lord of Lords, John is saying, no. There's one that's coming that's all powerful, and he's power that power more powerful than any Caesar that you'll ever bring before us. And he is the true King of Kings. He is King over all the kings. He's Lord of Lords. He's the Lord that all other kings and lords and politicians will bow down and submit to one day. This is the one who is coming in all of his glorious might. And then we have here described the battle. Now notice the battle doesn't take very long. It's pretty quick. Verse 17: then I saw an angel standing in the sun. This is a picture of glory. And resonance. It captures your attention. And again, with a loud voice, these angels call us with these loud voices that capture our attention. He called to all the birds that fly directly overhead. Come, gather for the great supper of God to eat the flesh of kings. Let me throw in here. This is pretty graphic, okay? Prepare yourselves. This isn't one of those pleasant pictures, probably right before you're getting ready to eat. your meal for Sunday, but it's necessary to see the victory of Christ here. And these angels then describing how these rebel kings, these powerful kings will meet their ends. He's calling these great birds of prey, vultures, and many others. To eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses and their riders, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, small and great. And these, basically he's saying, these people, whether they're the kings or those that follow under them, all of these that have followed after the Antichrist and after Satan himself, they're as good as dead. So you carry on, you uh birds of prey, come and enjoy your own supper. This is meant to be in contrast to the wonderful, glorious supper of the Lamb. And I'm not trying to be gross here, folks, but we don't want to miss the contrast. That God's people will enjoy in fellowship and communion with Him. That will be coming soon. But before that supper , is a different supper that's described here, where the enemies of God will be the entree. And they will be totally decimated and eradicated from the earth And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth with their armies gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the horse. Can you imagine? Seeing the faithful and true warrior, the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, and here's the beast in the Antichrist, and they're basically basically saying, onward! We can have victory. How foolish and deluded can you be? How arrogant. And every one of us that hold our hand against God If there's one here today who still hasn't trusted in Jesus Christ as your Savior, how arrogant to hold your fist toward God and say, I want my own way. Well here we have the Antichrist and the beast and the false prophet and the kings of the earth saying, we want our own way, we will be victorious And look how quickly Jesus comes and he initiates this and he takes care of things just like that. Beast. False prophet, you're done. And he grabs them up. Verse 20. And the beast was captured, and with it the false prophet, who in his presence, remember? We've gone through this before. Here's a review. Had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped its image. These two that have deceived all these mighty kings and all these people, Jesus comes and I almost picture them as him as grabbing them by the nap of the neck and flinging them into really an awful, awful place. Can you imagine the rest of the armies as they see these that they've given their resources and their lives to? Just done away with in one moment. Where are these? Where's the beast and the false prophet tossed into? They were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns. with sulfur. A terrible picture here, but it is real. Some people have tried to symbolize this and say this is just a symbol of God's wrath. Some people have said, well, this is punishment by God, but it's annihilation. It's not something that will linger on and on. We'll find out tonight. We'll see Satan eventually tossed into the lake of fire. And guess what? The beast The false prophet are still there. This is eternal, folks. This is eternal punishment. It burns with sulfur. My understanding is that sulfur produces gaseous fumes that can also be caught on fire. A terrible place, but a fitting place we must acknowledge for these figures that have rebelled, who have dared to put themselves in the place of Christ And Jesus comes and takes them and flings them into the lake of fire. And the rest are decimated. Armies, these powerful armies that literally have people from all over the world. They're slain in a moment, verse 21, and the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse And I just think probably just one word. Maybe he comes, he flings the false prophet and the beast into the lake of fire, and then basically turns around and says, dying. And everyone's eliminated. That's very efficient, isn't it? That'll beat any war plan that you've ever heard of throughout history. All the great generals and all their war plans. There's nothing more efficient than a quick word from the warrior king of the universe that pronounces death and they all die. And again, this terrible picture But it's a reminder to us. All the birds were gorged with their flesh. And this is a reminder. Oh, this is a fulfillment of Ezekiel 39. You can go to Ezekiel 39. Not now. Don't go there now, because it's it's a vivid, it's a descriptive picture that will gross you out. But this is a fulfillment of what Ezekiel said would happen to God's enemies, that the birds of the air would consume them. And you might say, well, what about the guy that started all this in the first place? When's Satan going to get his, that great dragon, the devil? All these others that followed him, but when is Satan going to be dealt with? Well, turn to chapter 20. We're going to continue in this tonight, but we'll jump into this just a few verses. So that we don't want to end on such a vivid, disgusting picture that we had there in that last verse, but we want to end on something even more victorious this morning. So chapter 20, verse 1. This will begin the millennium, the thousand-year reign of Christ over the world, that his people, remember the soldiers were with him, will come and reign with him We don't have to fight the battle. He fights the battle, he's victorious, and yet he allows us to reign with him. But one person, one individual still has to be dealt with. Verse 1. Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven Holding in his hand the key to the bottomless pit. Remember that bottomless pit was the containment, was the prison of all of Satan's minions, or many of them. Some of those demons were let out to torment people for a brief time. But it is a containment center for the enemies of God. And this powerful angel has the keys to that. And it almost is described the bottomless pit in the Greek as like a shaft that leads to a containment center that is terrible. And also he had with him a great chain. And he sees the dragon, the terrible serpent that started it all, all the way back from his temptation with Eve and man's fall. It's going to be dealt with, folks. That ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan. So I think we know who he is. And bound him for a thousand years. But he's a spirit. How can you bind a spirit? God can bind a spirit. God can make a chain that will bind Satan so that he is helpless. And for the first time, remember, Satan has always had the opportunity to wander this earth as a roaring lion, right? Seeking whom he may devour? And then we saw that he's cast out of heaven. He has the privilege of going to heaven, and he but he has to get God's permission to even do his uh dangerous, his evil deeds. He's thrown out of heaven. And now he's finally contained in this bottomless pit, bound with a great chain for a thousand years, and threw him into the pit and shut it and sealed it over him. That he might not deceive the nations any longer for a time until the thousand years were ended. But remember, after that he must be released for a little while Our Savior is fully able to contain the devil, Satan, and bind him. And won't it be wonderful? One of the w most wonderful things besides certainly the um the um fellowship that we'll have with Christ is folks we won't have the temptation of sin during those thousand years Satan will be bound. He won't be able to deceive us any longer. He won't be able to try to tempt us away. From Christ. Now we're going to find out that there are those in the millennial kingdom who, even though Satan is bound, they still are tempted by the sin within. There's still that sin within that will pull them away from God, but Satan at this point is dealt with. He's bound. And now Christ is able to usher in this wonderful millennial kingdom, verse 4. Then I saw thrones, and seated on them were those to whom the authority to judge was committed. And also I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God, and those who had not worshipped the beast or its image, and had not received its mark on its for on their foreheads or their hands. They came to life and reigned with Christ for a thousand years. So here we have all of the believers, the followers of Christ that have come with him in glory to this war, this battle. And now they're able to rule with him. But now the resurrection of the martyrs during the tribulation, they also are resurrected and given opportunity to reign with Jesus. And that glorious beginning to a wonderful time where Jesus will rule in righteousness And do all things right. Why do they have that privilege? Because they did not give in to the temptation of the beast or of the image. They did not take the mark, they remained faithful to Jesus, and he will reward them. So they come to life, this glorious resurrection and reign with Christ for a thousand years. With all of us, folks, we all get to reign and rule in this marvelous millennial kingdom for a thousand years. But there is a sobering aspect. The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. And that's describing those that rejected God. They stay in Hades. They stay dead until the end of a thousand years, and they're brought up for a second resurrection and given bodies for a pronouncement of judgment, an eternal judgment on them. They've not been resurrected yet, but all of those who have trusted in Christ are resurrected at this time to reign with him and so blessed and holy is the one who shares in the first resurrection. Over such the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and they will reign with them for a thousand years. We'll talk more about this tonight. But here we find that all of us that have followed after Christ, we are the victors. And we get to reign with him and serve him And experience the victory over his enemies. And experience the kingdom of Jesus Christ without the terrible deception and temptation of Satan. What a glorious, wonderful thing we have to look forward to, folks. I hope that encourages you today. We're on the right side. It may not seem like it. It may seem like we're losing, but remember these passages and remember we will experience Glorious victory in our relationship with Jesus Christ, and he will rule over all. And all will bow to him. So let's bow to him now in our hearts And submit to his work in our heart in our lives. Father, what a glorious passage. This is what we've been looking forward to, really, for the whole book, is to see The victorious Lamb of God conquer all. He will not put up with any cheap imitations. He will deal fully with that old deceiver, that dragon, who has plagued us since the history of the world began. And we will be able to be victorious with our dear Savior as the bride of Christ. Lord, we rejoice and give you honor and glory for this reminder that victory is ours. Let us be encouraged and let us go out. Not in a state of despair or fear or terror of what's going on around us. But in a reminder that we are the victors. And to proclaim the victory of Christ to a world that needs to know Him before they find themselves on the wrong side of history. And find themselves facing eternal punishment because of their wrong choice. Defile the enemies of Christ. Let us proclaim powerfully to them that they can turn to Christ, be saved And commune with him for all eternity. Let that be our hope and joy today. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.