We hold fast to Christ no matter the storm. Children are dismissed for children. Children's Church. Although part of me hates for them to miss out on this amazing story. We'll have to teach it down to them eventually. I don't know what what they're learning today. But there's so much in this little jewel of a book. That I still I still feel like we just need uh to take some time, especially the first chapter, to kind of set things up and understand Jonah's mindset. Because again, in initial introduction to the book, especially as children, we see the Great big, and it's always a whale, even though the Bible doesn't fully indicate what it is. It's some sort of fish, some sort of sea creature. A whale would make sense. And it's some sort of a silly whale with a little water coming out of his spout and a big smile and Jonah's not smiling so much as the whale gets closer. Eventually uh they have a picture of next picture is Jonah with some sort of fire and wood. I don't know where he got the wood from. I don't know how you start a fire in the belly of a of a whale, but there's that picture, right? And he's not so Happy he's got some seaweed in his hair, thinking over what he's done. But we can look at that and we can get disconnected really quickly from this entire story. And that That wet would be a shame because there's so much here that I'm convinced speaks to each of us in this room. The story of Jonah is much more practical. And much more relatable to each of us than many times what we think. So we started this last week, and I'm entitling this series Jonah: The Rescue of a Self- Selfish servant. Because that's really what Jonah is. His selfishness will continue to be apparent throughout the study today. And yet Jonah is a true servant of God. He is one that has been used in the past and will be used in the future. And so God is going to rescue this servant from himself, from his wrong direction. And I want us to see, folks. That wherever you're headed, whatever direction that you're headed on this morning, especially the direction in your heart, if you're truly a child of God God will rescue you if you're going the wrong way. And so we saw, first of all, well, in these last week and in the next few studies, God's change. And Jonah's rebellion, we saw last week, was very blatant. I mean, as soon as you get to the third verse, it's apparent that there's something going on here that's not normal, right? And don't forget the background. Jonah isn't first Introduced to us in this book, but it's actually in 2 Kings, where God gave Jonah a mission that was an exciting mission. Go to a rebellious king and a rebellious people, the kingdom of Israel in the north, Jonah, and you tell them that I'm gonna have mercy on them and I'm gonna strengthen the kingdom and bless them. Wow. Who would Want to give a message like that. In our modern vernacular, you could say there were a lot of prophets in the Old Testament that would kill to give a message like that. Jeremiah called the weeping prophet. Because of the message of judgment that he constantly had to give. The second, he's gonna bless this nation. And God did and gave them victory, and it shows us the grace of God. Well, God's gonna show his grace again. And as we continue to work Through this book, we're going to see how he's going to do that. But we saw last week that he came to Jonah with quite a different mission and prerogative for Jonah. One that was in stark contrast to the job that He gave the mission, the ministry that he gave to Jonah before. And so look at verse one. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah, the son of Amatiah, and that word of the Lord, this is so directly Stated in this book, it's like immediately God tells Jonah, This is what you're going to do. Here's the assignment. Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it. For their evil has come up before me. There's the word of the Lord. There's the assignment. It's unique. Normally the prophets would go to their own people and warn them of judgment or let them know that something was going to happen. Happen. But in one of the few instances in the Old Testament, in this way, God is going to send Jonah to an enemy people. A people that are very Antagonistic toward the Jews. In fact, again, don't forget that Nineveh was a great city in the midst of the kingdom of Assyria, that God was using and God would continue to use eventually to bring judgment upon the kingdom of the north, the kingdom of Israel. So God is telling Jonah, remember his name means a dove, this dove, to go with this message of judgment to these people that will one day Bring great havoc and chastisement upon God's people. And these people, folks, these Assyrians were very evil. I can't even relate to you some of the atrocities, but as I studied, they were involved in some of the uh most terrible torture that I think I've ever read in human history. They were not good, nice people. It would be today like God sending a Jewish prophet or an Israeli to Hamas. Or to Iran with a message that God was going to judge. Probably wouldn't be received very well, would you say? And maybe that's why Jonah did what he did, but again As we get to verse 3, we expect prophet, servant of God, emissary of the Lord. The prophets, they just do. what God tells him to do. But Jonah, instead of going where God told him to go, he went the opposite direction. He rose to flee to Tarshus from the presence of the Lord, and he even paid in his rebellion. And he paid to rebel against God and paid for a ship and the men that worked the ship, these salty sea mariners. to take him away from the presence of the Lord and unwittingly for them help him in his rebellion against the Lord. Again, did do you want to Really think that he could get away from the presence of the Lord? I don't think so. I think what he was trying to do was he was trying to manipulate God, as we'll see in the continuing narrative here. Or maybe he just thought that he could find a place. We don't know where Tarshus is for sure, but we do know it's the exact opposite direction of Nineveh, right? And I think He thought, at least I can get away from the word of the Lord somehow. Well, it was still a foolish idea. Because Here is a servant that is blatantly rebelling against God. In fact, he doesn't even say anything to God. He doesn't say a word, he just turns around and rebels. And it says here at the end of verse 3, he tried, anyway, to go away from the presence of the Lord. That's an important step. Statement, folks, because from the presence of the Lord is really describing from uh being um in the very glory, in the very revelation of the Lord, this would be As appalling as Moses turning away from the burning bush and doing what he wanted to do, or Isaiah the prophet seeing the heavenly vision, the glorious vision of God, and turning The other way and rejecting it, folks. This is just something that God's servants don't do. And yet, here he is running away from From the presence of the Lord. Jonah is not in a good position. Notice as well that God called Noah or Jonah to go up. And The narrative here is going to keep describing Jonah as going down. He went down to Joppa. He went down into the ship. It's almost like it's describing him. Is the spiritual reality of that he's getting worse and worse in his decisions and that he's sinking lower And lower in his spiritual rebellion and obstinacy is really the picture here. Well, is God gonna let him get away with that? Verse 4. But the Lord hurled a great wind upon the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the sea, so that the ship threatened to break up. A important emphasis here in this storm and in this book, folks, is it's um frightening, but it's also so encouraging Is that God doesn't give up on his people. And here we have really the wonderful reality that those that are the children of God That God will not lose them. The spiritual reality in John and the New Testament is that when we uh trust Jesus Christ as our Savior, that we are held by the Trinity. We're held in the hand of God. We're held in the hand of Christ. We're sealed by the Spirit, and the and God will not let go of us. We're secure. This is That played out in the Old Testament. Jonah is truly a servant of God, a committed servant that had been faithful in the past. But for whatever reason, we're not told yet. He says, This time, Lord, I'm not doing it. You can't make me. I'm going my own way. And we see the picture here that God says, No, you're one of mine, Joah. I'm not going going to let go of you. to Jonah, you don't have that option to run away from me. You're one of my children. I'm not going to let you go. No. When he gave the message to the Ninevites, what did he say? He said that since you're rebelling and you're attacking Terrible, evil, wicked deeds, your torturing, your cruelty to mankind. A judgment is coming. He was, in essence, really giving them the results of their punishment, but they they had a they had a choice at that point. From being pagans, they had a choice whether to listen or God to not or not. God Was giving them that. But with the true child of God with Jonah, God doesn't give Jonah a choice. He says, No, I'm going to rectify the situation, and I'm literally Going to hurl. This is like the picture of a great warrior hurling a spear or a weapon. I'm going to throw a weapon at this rebel and I'm going to rescue them. him from his wrong choices. And so this storm, uh mighty tempest on the sea, the ship threatened to break up, and these well um seasoned mariners Many of them, maybe, they were sea captains. They'd seen a lot of things in their time. They were salty seamen who were not frayed and terrorized easily. And yet, when God sends this storm, they are in full terror. This whole picture here is they're terrorized. They are distraught. The Mariners were afraid, and each cried out to God You know it's interesting as well, verse four, the end of verse four, it says, So that the ship threatened to break up. You realize in the writing there it's actually saying the ship itself. This is again the beauty of How this is written, that the ship itself is threatening to break up. So the ship is personalized, and I kind of wonder, it almost kind of brings to mind, I don't think this is too much Much of a stretch that as God sends this storm, the very ship itself says, I'm not going to help this prophet rebel against God. I'll break up. I'll let this storm burst. Me at the seams rather than aid this prophet in rebelling against God. Silly man that thinks that he can run from God But these sea men, they have no idea what's going on. And they are terrorized. But they did do something that was important. They at least sought out a higher power. They realized in this that somehow they had made the gods angry. So these mariners are crying out to the false gods that they serve. But practically that didn't seem to do anything. Good, and so they realized we got to get stuff out of this boat or it's gonna sink. And so they started throwing out all the cargo that was in the ship and to lighten the ship so we could handle the storm. Well, where was the man of God in all this? Well, we're told at the end of verse 5, but Jonah, on the other hand, as these men are doing what they need to do. To survive God's judgment, Jonah is oblivious. He's the opposite end here And it says that he, uh Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had laid down and was fast asleep. Again. That direction of going down. Three times it's mentioned that Jonah went down when God called him to go up to Nineveh. He's going west when God told him to go west. East. He is the exact opposite, pursuing the exact opposite of what God's called him to, and his spiritual descent is not good. In fact, if If he's not careful, he could uh find destruction for himself. Except for the fact that God is going to send salvation through these circumstances. But here he is trying to hide out. It's almost Like Jonah's trying to get away from it all. Whatever God wants me to do, there's no way that I'm going to Nineveh. And I just, Lord, I just quit. And I'm trying to be as insignificant as possible. Hiding out here at the bottom of the ship, nobody will ever find me here. But God sends the sea captain, and they um they're trying to Get rid of this cargo, and you can just imagine they move a particular box, and here they find this prophet fast asleep. I have to give this to Jonah. He must have That's not a struggle too much with insomnia. For in all of this, to not feel guilty about this direct rebellion against the sovereign ruler of the sky. Who then sends a storm as discipline and chastening on Jonah, and then the rocking of the boat and the noise that was going on Maybe God sent a supernatural sleep over Jonah, or maybe just Jonah was a good sleeper. I don't know. But there's one thing: these men. Are very concerned about the situation, and this faithful prophet or this committed prophet of God, who had served God so faithfully in the past, seems oblivious to everything. Everything going on around him. And so when they find him fast asleep, they marvel, so they get the captain. You're not going to believe what we found. That guy that hide And that paid for all this, he's sleeping down below instead of helping us survive the storm. And so the captain goes down and said to him, What do you mean, you sleeper? You lazy bum? What are you doing down here? Arise, call out to your God. Perhaps your God will give us a thought to us. But God will give us a thought to us that we may not perish. You know, at this point, Jonah should have been a little embarrassed, don't you think? A pagan captain who only knows false worship to false gods discovers Jonah lounging around at the bottom of his ship And says, shouldn't you be doing something? Shouldn't you be calling out to your God? The rest of us are. So a prophet of the Lord, a A servant of the Lord has to be reminded by a pagan unbeliever that he should call out to his God. Folks, this man should have been embarrassed. This was the last thing, this is the last situation that he should have found himself in. And God uses this pagan captain to remind him, what are you doing? Call out to your God. It's only God that can save us. So seek Him. And so they convict Jonah in that way. But the storm is still going on. And so, verse 7, they said to one another, Come , let us cast lots that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us. So they cast lots Lots and the lot fell on Jonah. So Jonah's finally up with them at the top of the boat, and this was a common way that they would seek The um direction of the gods. And as you know, it was a very common way for the Hebrews, the the Jews, to seek God's will as they would throw um they would toss the the Urim and Thumum that was part of the priest's um collection uh it within his um within his uh bla brass Plate that he would wear. Um he would have those two stones to toss and they would decipher the Lord's will. So maybe they knew uh Maybe they were acquainted with the Hebrews, but in their desperation they think, well, let's just throw these lots and see if we could figure out what's going on. Want to find out. They were this spiritually sensitive, at least, they knew that this type of storm that it had to be someone on their ship that had angered the gods. And they needed to find out who it was. And God's not gonna let get J let Jonah get away with anything. The lot fell on Jonah. And they Said to him as soon as they realized that it was him. Maybe the captain had already suspected. But they said, Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. Now they pepper For him, it's an interrogation. What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you? When they realize through God's revelation that it is This man who probably chartered their boat sleeping at the bottom of it, and that it's his fault that all this is happening. They want to know all about him. They all want to know all about this guy so that they can assess in their own minds what God it is that he serves and how they can help themselves placate that God. And they want to know as much as they can, obviously, about Jonah. What do you do? Where do you come from? Where do you live? What people are you from? What ethnic origin are you? You're the Guy, you're the reason all this is happening. So tell us about yourself and do it quickly. Talk about a mariner paparazzi here, right? And Jonah said to them, Now listen, this is the first time we hear Jonah speak in the whole book. So far, he's been quietly Rebelling and running away from God. Now the rebellious prophet finally speaks. And what does he say? I am a Hebrew. I almost laughably fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. Here is the The confession of a disobedient, rebellion , rebellion, rebellious prophet, excuse me. He thought that he could run away and become insignificant. Oblivious and anonymous, that he could just quit. Lord, I'm done being a prophet. I'm just gonna be as insignificant as possible and try to get away, never to be seen. And again. And God says, Oh no, you're not. You're one of my servants. I've called you to do something. You're gonna do it. And even if I have to embarrass you You in front of all these people, Jonah. You're going to do what I need you to do. But on another level, folks, what an absolutely terrible testimony. Right? Here is the one God. Here is the one guy in the whole boat that serves the one true God. That knows the way to salvation is through the The Lord. That is from a nation who serves the God of all creation, the sovereign ruler, Yahweh. He knows he has all the information that these men need for Physical and spiritual salvation. And yet it's obvious that he doesn't care about his God, and that he's running From his God. Later on, we find out that he actually told him that. And yet he still says, I'm a Hebrew. That is a technical word that he would have used to help these men realize. That it was an ethnic name of the Jewish people. And then ludicrously enough, he says he actually has the guts to say here, I fear the Lord. And this fear has the idea of honor and respect and submission to the one true God. Really, Jonah? You really gonna say that? You gotta give him Points for boldness here. And yet what's really going on? Look, and then he then he mentions as well that the God that he worships Is the creator of all things. So he's basically saying that he obeys the Lord, which is the God of the Israelites. Right? He fears the God of the Israelites, so to speak, but then he also obeys and follows the God who created everything. And what he's saying is I am a servant of the God of the Hebrews, and I am also a servant, and I recognize the God that created you. The God that we're all accountable to, the one true God. I'm one of his servants. Nice to meet you. What is their response? Astonishment. Then the men were exceedingly afraid And said to him, What is this that you have done? And in the ESV you have an exclamation point. Why would they say that? For the men knew that he was fleeing from the Presence of the Lord because he had told them. I guess he felt like the jig was up. No reason to hide it any longer. So Jonah says, Yeah, I um I'm a Hebrew. Fear the Lord, the God who made everything, and but yeah, I'm running away from him. I'm rebelling. I don't even know if he apologized. Sorry guys, sorry I got you caught up in all this. And they look at him as basically: is this man insane? Is this man crazy? What individual that serves, that is a servant, that is a prophet of the one true God? We all serve these false gods And we hope that somehow that they'll still be effective to help us in our lives, but then this man testifies of the one true God that he serves, and he's right. From him? And he would do that to us? He would pull us into this? This guy must be crazy And is also pointing out as well that they marvel that he has no concern for them at all, that he would pull them into this thing between him and God. And that really was a legitimate condemning statement against Jonah But there's a lot of those. I want to make some applications here. Because I don't want us to miss this. We may still read this and think, yeah, Jonah was a stinker. Really, I mean, who rebels against God in that way? I mean, he had a vision of God. I mean, God's presence was there and he turned the other way. Who does this? We might respond like the mariners did. Jonah, he's an oddball. He's not like the rest of us. But let's think about that, folks. And let me ask you this question. Is there anyone here who, in their own way, is pursuing their own version of what Jonah did here and running away from God and going to their own Personal Tarsus in their hearts and then their lives? Is there anyone here that God has made clear to you that He wants you to To do something, and you've already told a no in your heart, and you're already on your way to your own spiritual Tarshish. Some people do this just by giving up on church altogether. Or maybe moving to another church, get away from their problems, or just get away from the church. Tired of the church. They're just a bunch of hypocrites anyway. And they try to remove themselves from the church. Others get involved in other sins and thinking, you know. So or just they they relinquish their faithful service to God and say it's just not worth it. Lord, I'm done. I'm throwing in the towel. You know, go go Go find somebody else on the bench to play your game. I'm too hurt. I've experienced too much difficulty. People don't like me. I proclaim your word, and I'm done. You see, God 's people can go to their own personal Tarshis, and a lot of people But I think even more than physically, I think a lot of times, I think much more maybe than we would be willing to admit, many times we've already are We are pursuing Tarsus in our hearts. That even though we come to church and we go through the motions, God has asked us to do things where we've already said in our hearts. God, I liked what you had me do over here, just like Jonah. God, I love that assignment. Give me more of those assignments, but you want me to do that? Oh Get somebody else. Talk to somebody else about that. And in our hearts, we move toward rebellion and toward Tarshius and we're chasing after, we're going the opposite direction of where God wants us to go. I think there's a possibility there could be many people in here today. That are running toward Tarshish in your heart. What has God called you to do that you're not willing to do for Him? Is a particular aspect of ministry? Is it something within this ministry? Is it something with your family or something at your workplace? It's between you and God. But many of us in our hearts rebel and go the opposite way of what God wants us to do. Folks, here's a reminder, even as we finish up the This morning, it didn't work for Jonah, and it's not going to work for us. Because God doesn't give us the option. If we are truly a child of God. God does not give us the option to walk away. He will rescue. And he will prevent us from doing that. Even if he has to hurt us Hurl a storm and embarrass us in front of the pagans. He's going to pursue us until we are willing to follow after him. After him. You know, these men thought, I'm sure, that Jonah was crazy, but I don't think he was. If I had to assess Jonah, the more I've studied this, here's where I think Jonah is in all this. I think he's trying to manipulate God. I think he's Going the exact opposite way, knowing the one of two things that God's got in his mind, in his mind, that God's got to let him go, or God's gonna have to pursue him and cut off And so that's why we're going to see next week as he gives the solution to the problem. Jonah doesn't seem to care. Yeah, do this. God hurled a storm, you hurled the cargo, now just hurl me, and it'll all be done. He doesn't even seem to care. It's like no big deal. I think it's because Jonah is to this point in his life where he says, Lord, just you better just end my life or let me go. Because I'm not doing what you called me to do. Wow, that's bold and stubborn and wickedness. But I think again, if we look into our hearts, that we all come upon times where we say, Lord, I would rather die than have to do what you've called me to do. Can we really be that stubborn and rebellious? I think we know that we all have potential for that. You see, we really do Relate to Jonah a little bit more than what we want to let on a lot of times. So, what are you stubbornly resisting God on, folks? That's a question that you have to answer. But again, even if you're to the point where you say, Lord, I'm so tired. Of serving you, that I just you're gonna have to end it all in my life because I don't want to serve any longer. God is in sovereign Control of all things. And he will pursue. And he will accomplish, even if it's like Samson, what he plans to accomplish in our lives. We can't We can't run from him. We can't manipulate him. We must submit and obey him. There's one other aspect of this this morning as we finish up, folks, and that is if there's anyone here who's running From Jesus. And Jesus is calling you, and you know that you need a relationship with him. You know that you need to trust in him by faith and seek him. So that you can have new life in Christ and have forgiveness of sins. We've talked about this many times, the gospel. There may be people in here this morning where Jesus is Calling you to trust him in faith, and yet you are stubbornly resisting him, and yet he's still calling. Trust my son, trust Jesus. Experience forgiveness. And my and the righteousness that you can have through Christ. As Christ took our sins, you can have his righteousness. Folks, today you can give up the fleeing and give up the chase. And turn and trust Jesus. And you can stop the running And the rebelling. And experience the peace of God for all eternity. That's what Jonah needs to do. There's no peace in his life right now. As he's running from God. But God's not going to let him get away. And God won't let anyone in this room that's truly his children get away. And if God God's calling you and Jesus is seeking for you to trust Him, folks. Turn to Him today. The Ninevites had the opportunity. We'll see later on if they take it or not. But don't you You neglect the opportunity to turn to Christ and trust Him as Savior today, while you have time. Let's give up our rebellion and submit to the Word of God Of the Lord. Father, what a convicting thing this is as we continue to look at Jonah's life and realize that This man was so bold and had such hubris to run away from your presence, and yet at the same time had deceived himself. And he was so foolish to think he could succeed, or to think that he could manipulate into making you do what he wanted you to do. Father, help us those here that are manipulated, trying to manipulate you this morning or running from you, help them give up that pursuit and relinquish control Control of their own lives and turn to you. Lord, if there's someone here this morning who needs Christ, let them turn to Christ in faith and know throughout eternity that they're held By the hand of God. For those of us who are children, Lord, if we're running today, if we are if we're going to Tarshish in our hearts, turn us around. I pray pray as a pastor here. You will turn folks around that are running from you in disobedience. You will help them to see the futility in that endeavor. And you will lovingly bring them back to yourself. Help us to turn to you in submission and awe And love. And folks, let's take some time to examine our hearts even now, as Leslie please. And let's turn back to God. And Father, help us to trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy and have peace and contentment in Jesus but to trust. And then obey. Help us to turn from our rebellious ways and turn to you again. We need your help. And we need We ask for it in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. We're going to sing just uh verse one of trust and obey, and then the third verse in the call Chorus as a reminder for us that our need is to have faith in God and submit and obey to Him. Let's stand together and sing the first First and the third verses. It's four eighteen in your books of trust and obey When we walk with the Lord in the light of his word. For the glory he sets on our way. While we do his good will, he abides with us still. And with all who will trust and obey , trust and obey, for there's no other way. To be happy in Jesus, but to trust and obey Not a burden. We will sit at his feet, or we'll walk by his side in the rest Where he says we will do, where he says we will come Never fear only trust and nobody, trust and nobody, for there's no other way. To be happy in Jesus, but to trust and over there. Father, help us To do that. We have a business meeting next. Help us to be trusting and willing to obey in what you've called us to do in that meeting. And Lord, help us in our hearts and attitudes to have that same Submission and obedience that we may go together in unity. Help us to be willing as a church to seek your ways. And Father, again, for anyone here today That's rebelling against you, save them from that. Now, as we go from here, may the Lord God that rules heaven and earth be with us. And guide us and direct us in his ways. For it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. We're going to take just a few minutes. Again, we're trying to facilitate this quickly. We'll have the ballots in the back. If you can go to Jesse and get your ballot, and then we'll literally start the meeting in just a couple minutes. Oh it's precious.