This is probably as close as I'll ever get to being a TV pastor. But my boys will actually let me know later on how many we're streaming. uh with us. So that'll be interesting to note. It was a little tiring walking all the way from uh the parsonage all the way over here, but we're just thankful that we live close enough we can do this. And And uh so glad for those that are able to join us this morning. Uh I do have, I'm ready to go this morning. I've got my coffee. And water and my phone right here in case any of you are experiencing troubles. Um we can do uh real time. You can let me know and I can let the guys know in the back um what's going on. So uh a little bit unique but in this age of technology really not that unique and as you can see we have the power it on and everything is ready to go. So we're glad for that. And that's what we're going to pray is that even through all of this and the ice that's coming, the frigid temperatures, this week that the Lord is gracious and let's all of us, you out there and uh the uh church facility here that it maintain maintains power and so we'll pray to that end. I know Susie attached a church bulletin. We're not going to need all of that this morning. We're definitely streamlining things. But all of the information that you'll need is in that bulletin this morning. And this week, whether we follow through on that really is gonna be a daily thing. with all of the ice and the cold. We'll just see what we're able to accomplish this week. But whatever that is, it's God ordained. that we do it and we just want to make sure that you all are staying safe and we're praying together uh for God's protection. It is a little bit of an adventure. I mean this isn't as big of a deal as what we've experienced before in New England. But for Maryland in this area, it's a big deal. Let's continue to pray for those that are south of us as well as they are getting temperatures that are unreal normally for them and a lot of ice. And some snow, but they're gonna get hammered with more ice and it's gonna be destructive. So for those that are in the south, our college students, everybody let's keep them in prayer. Uh you also we attach a prayer journal to our um weekend church email so just note all of those things. Uh Jenna Hall is still away. in North Carolina with her sister. Pray that she stays safe. Ed Troyer has just finished his fourth treatment. Pray that God will continue to to give him strength. And Dr. Mike Erickson is scheduled with mission's trips already upcoming here in a few weeks. Amazing. So we'll continue to give you more details about that. So we're glad you're here, even if it's digital. Let's have a word of prayer together this morning. Father. Um no matter what we face, we know that your presence is with us. We know that you are the author of the snow and the ice. Um and that you do all of these things for your purposes. And so even though we're um Snowed in, so to speak. Thank you for allowing us the ability to meet together online and worship together in some semblance. And so Lord, I pray that even though we're apart, separated by the snow and ice, that You will allow us to enjoy worship together and just thankfulness for your protection during the cold. Lord, we expect that, but we also pray that you will keep us safe and that you will allow us to maintain power, especially for those that have trouble getting around, that they would not have trouble. By losing that. So, Lord, thank you for the opportunity to be able to worship this morning. May all that we do honor and glorify you. For this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen Well, I'm kind of at my leisure here as to how to handle things, and I just have to admit, folks, uh even though there's no one here except me and uh three boys. It's kind of hard to do a worship service without at least singing one song. So I know we don't have a piano, no guitars. But we're going to sing at Calvary anyway. We're going to sing all four verses, and we're going to combine verses two and three, and then a chorus. So you can feel free. um to sing along with us or hopefully my voice um isn't too uh damaged by the cold and you can put up with it. But it just seems appropriate. We're gonna sing at Calvary, a song I think we all know well. Years I spent in vanity and pride, caring not my Lord was crucified, knowing not it was for me. He died on calvary. Mercy there was great and grace was free. Pardon there was multiplied to me. There my burden soul found liberty had calvory the next two verses together. By God's word at last my sin I learned, then I trembled at the law I'd spurned, till my guilty soul imploring. Turn to Calvary. Now I give to Jesus everything. Now I gladly own him as my king. Now my burdened soul, my raptured soul can only sing of calvory Mercy there was great and grace was free. Pardon there was multiplied to me. There my burden soul found liberty. I'd calvory. Oh, the love that drew salvation's plan. Oh, the grace that brought it down to me. Man, oh the mighty gulf that God did spend at Calvary Mercy there was great and grace was free. Pardon there was multiplied to me. There my burden soul found liberty I'd calvory Well, I hope that was meaningful for you. I have to admit, it's very strange to hear such an echo coming back from an empty Sanctuary. I think my boys were joining in slightly there, but um either way, we still praise the Lord, we could still meet together. worship together and be thankful for all that Christ has done for us. And to take a few minutes to express that thankfulness. Let's have a let's oh let's I'm sorry let's um read our scripture verse this morning Proverbs four ten through eighteen We have it projected online for you as well. This is a passage about wisdom. And how we need to seek God's wisdom. Ultimately, the Holy Spirit guides us in that, and we're going to see that in the scripture. Morning as well. Verse 10: Hear my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many. I have taught you the way of wisdom, I have led you in the paths of uprightness. When you walk, your step will not be hampered, and if you run, you will not stumble. Keep hold of instruction. Do not let go. Guard her, for she is your life Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil. Avoid it. Do not go on it. Turn away from it and pass on. For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong. They are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble. For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until the full day. I'm going to ask you to turn in your Bibles this morning to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians 5. And folks, I know that As we uh look to the days ahead, and we don't know if we're uh going to have uh more weather-related struggles. What's going to happen with the power and the ice? Those are unknown to us and only known to God. But we get to this time of year after Christmas. Um and we get isolated in the snowy weather, in the cold, and it can produce discouragement. In our hearts and lives, disappointment, and even depression. That happens in large degree this time of year And so I thought a good reminder this morning as we look just for a short time in Galatians chapter 5. Starting in verse 24, and then we're going to go through chapter 6 and verse 5. To be reminded That God, for those who have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, that God has provided his spirit. that helps us, that enables us, that empowers us to carry the burdens that God allows into our life So this morning I thought we would look at the burden-bearing power of the Spirit, of God's Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person. He's the third person of the Trinity. And God has given him to us to bear the loads that just candidly, folks, we can't bear up on our own. And though depression, discouragement come for a number of reasons, I think part of the problem is as well that we forget that the Spirit is there. To help carry the load. And that we need to depend upon him to do that Now, I could have started, I could have gone back to our Ephesians series this morning, but I obviously I wasn't sure how many were tuning in, and I don't want uh a good majority of our folks to miss out as we continued to finish up Ephesians together. And then this passage just hit me recently as I was preparing for Sunday, not knowing what was going to happen. happen that this would be a help to us. Paul in Galatians 5, verse 22 and 23 describes the fruit of the Spirit. And to go back to our passage in Ephesians, if you'll remember, we have been talking recently about how we can experience spiritual change. And the pattern that Paul had given us about putting off the old man, renewing our mind, and putting on the new man. Putting off the deeds of our former selves that were wicked and dirty and sinful And then through knowing God's word, studying God's word, we know the things to put on instead of the filthy rags of sin. But we find in Galatians 5, verse 22 and 23 a list of those things that we put on. They're known as the fruit of the Spirit. And if we are serious about putting off the old man, renewing our minds, then we are serious about wanting to see fruit in our lives. Galatians 5, 22 and 23 give us that fruit. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And Paul is saying, we have the ability through the work of the Spirit in our lives. To see this fruit. We are, through our relationship, our faith in Jesus Christ, we are literally set free from sin in the condemnation of the law. To experience growth in these areas. And so, as I think is needed, I try every service to mention, I want to bring just briefly the gospel. But everyone listening here this morning, my question is for you: Do you have a relationship with Jesus Christ? What does that mean? That means that we recognize through God's word that we are sinners, that we have disobeyed God's law. And that we are condemned to eternity apart from him because God cannot tolerate sin. That means that we are also condemned for eternity in a place called hell. That's the bad news, and that's what everyone is facing in this world and throughout history. Except that God loved us enough And in his grace sent his son, Jesus Christ, who was able to fully obey God's law, who was never a sinner, not even one time. And he then, as the spotless Lamb of God, came to minister to the people of the world But also to die for them. And to shed his blood, to offer his body up as a sacrifice, to shed his blood. He who knew no sin took our sin upon him. And folks, for those that put your faith and trust, believe, put your dependence in that work that Jesus Christ secured, that he accomplished Because he also was raised from the dead, and he ascended, and he's now living as king, sitting on the right hand of his father He can offer us salvation, eternal life, through him, and not through our own works. And if you this morning have put your faith and trust in what Jesus has done, not in what we've done, but in what Jesus has done and accomplished. Then you are a child of the king. You will not experience eternity apart from God in punishment and condemnation, but you will experience life with God for all eternity. Worshiping our Savior Jesus Christ in the glories of heaven. You will experience that. And so, this message today, then, for those who have Put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. This message is for you this morning. Because you can then, through submission to the Spirit, you can have sacrificial love. You can see that as a fruit in your life. You can have joy. You can have peace. Glorious peace. Folks, you don't have to be out there this morning fretting about the weather and about the ice. Yes, be cautious, be careful. But the peace that passes all understanding that is ours through the work of the Spirit can be yours this morning. You don't have to fret. You can be kind to others as we experience difficulties and obstacles. Goodness. Faithfulness. You can be faithful and increase your faith in Jesus Christ. You can be gentle. You can be self-controlled in a world where self-control Is not even honored or appreciated. You can have self-control. Against these things, there's no law. You can experience all these things. But I want to go further with this, that we have to rely on the Holy Spirit. And so we have the rest of this passage to look at briefly this morning. I'd like to go ahead and pray just briefly and acknowledge our need of the Holy Spirit this morning from distractions and for protection. protection in this unique situation we find ourselves in. Father, we thank you that as we get ready to look at this passage, that the Holy Spirit can be at work in our hearts. And I pray for that this morning. That you would help us to rely on the Spirit for peace. for self-control, for looking for opportunities to show your kindness and love and gentleness to others. Lord, these are traits that we need at this time. And help us to see in the rest of this passage that we need to depend upon the Spirit's power. For believers in Christ, we must do that even this week. And that we will see fruit and see change as we depend upon you. Give us that understanding as we continue to look at this passage this morning, for it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So we see and we will see that we need to rely on the Holy Spirit, that member of the Godhead that we're given for those that are in Christ. We need to rely on him for victorious change. You see, we're no longer subject to the things of the flesh, as we've seen in Ephesians verse 24 of Galatians 5, and those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. Because Jesus Christ sacrificed his life for us. We are in him. We are united in him in an almost mysterious Mysterious, mystical way, but the practical applications of that are astounding. way. That we don't have to sin in the flesh. It's dead to us. It's been crucified. We don't have to give in to sin any longer, folks. We can take off, as we've seen in Ephesians, the works of the flesh. And we can put on the works of Christ, the fruit of the Spirit. We don't have to be involved in the lust. And those sinful passions and desires that we used to experience. We are not servants to sin any longer, and we can be victorious. and see spiritual growth and change in our lives. It is a possibility. It is reality for those who are submitted to the spirit. It reminds me um of an experience Leslie and I we were first married. Um I was finishing up grad school Leslie was teaching Spanish at the university at Bob Jones University. She taught there for a number of years. I finished up my Master of Divinity degree. Then after that, we were still praying about where the Lord would have us to go. Eventually, the Lord called us as an assistant pastor, youth pastor, here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. But there was about two years of interest intermittent time between when I graduated and when the Lord called us. And so we found a place, a rental uh apartment to stay in for our first year out of grad school on our own so to speak and that's also where we had our our first child and brought Arden home Um but that was only available to us for one year, and then we had to find another place to live. And so we looked around and we found a house that was about the same distance away there in Greenville. Um and it was available to be rented. The Lord worked it out. And so we began to we we took all of our things, moved there with baby art and lived um at that residence for a year. And so with that we had a new landlord. And so as we were expected to do every month, we Sent a check to that landlord. It was a man that worked at the university and very good family man, and he treated us well there. And that was all expected in normal as we stayed at that residence Well, what would have not been expected in normal is after we've moved all of our things in and brought baby Arden in and lived there for that year before we moved up here to Maryland. For me to have come into Leslie and say, hey, do we prepare a check for our landlord? And she says, yes, here it is. And I said, I'll go take it to him. And then to say, uh, how about um a check? Did you prepare a check for the former landlord that we used to live with, or that we used to uh rent property from? And she would look at me strange and say, well, why would I do that? And if I said to her, well, that's important. We need to pay them. There are former landlords. It's our responsibility. My wife would have thought I'd lost my mind and said, no, it's not our responsibility anymore. We have a new landlord. We don't have to pay the old landlord anymore. Now, that never happened. I did retain my sanity through all of that, obviously. That incident never happened, but it provides illustration of what I'm talking about here, that folks, in Christ, we have a new landlord, so to speak. And we don't have to pay the old landlord. We don't have to be involved in the sins and the wickedness of that old situation We don't pay to that any longer. We're not subservient. We don't serve that landlord anymore, but we serve a new landlord. And all that we do in service and faithfulness ought to be to that landlord who is Jesus Christ. And we can do that It's unnatural to serve the old landlord any longer. And we don't have to do it. So we're not guided by the flesh, but we're guided by the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 25. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another. Envying one another. Paul describes here the fact that we are resurrected. As Jesus Christ was resurrected from the dead, we're resurrected from the dead. In spiritual death, we're not dead any longer, but we're alive in Jesus Christ. We're made alive And it's through the power of the Spirit, again, in a way that's hard to explain and comprehend, we are made alive through the Spirit's work. We were dead in sin. Do what Christ accomplish in our dependence on that? We're made alive. We have spiritual life. And so we live by the Spirit And since that's the case, we can also follow the guidance, the direction of the Spirit. We can keep in step with the Spirit. We can walk with Him. And so things like that are mentioned in verse 26, arrogance, stirring others up. Being envious and bitter towards others. Those shouldn't be a part of our lives any longer because we have spiritual life And we should be exhibiting the fruits of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, patience, and all those things we just read, not arrogance and strife and envy. Do we still struggle with being prideful and arrogant, folks? In each of our lives, do we struggle with making ourselves number one? Having the highest esteem for ourselves, making sure that everybody else understands that we are of most importance to us before anyone else. That the way that we live our lives, we're always promoting number one, which is us, before everyone else. Do we still struggle with that pride and arrogance thinking that my needs and my concerns are paramount above everyone else. Well, folks, that's just arrogance. That's not befitting. Of one that has new life in Christ that says they're following the guidance of the Spirit. The Spirit doesn't guide us into wicked arrogance and pride. The Spirit also doesn't guide us into strife, into stirring things up with people. Folks, again, let's be candid. Do we just, do we many times find ourselves, even in ministry, just loudly and boldly stirring up things with other people? Some people throughout my ministry career I look back and say, you know, those there's some folks where they still seem to be enjoying just getting under people's skin Getting on their last nerve. Just stirring people up. Well, folks, again, that's not guidance from the Spirit. The Spirit's not going to guide you and direct you. to stir up strife with other believers, with people in the church, or even people in your community. If you commend yourself that you're some sort of like bull in a china shop that just shatters everything in your path That's not new life being proclaimed and exhibited. That's an old garment of the flesh that needs to be discarded as quickly as possible. How about do we still envy and are we still struggling with bitterness for things that other people have, whether it's prestige or honor or wealth? Or technology, whatever that is. Are we still prone to being envious and jealous? Remember, it's one thing to be jealous, that's sinful, but envy is I'm jealous, but I also am taking steps to make Make sure that person doesn't enjoy what God has given them. That's envy. And it's wicked and it's wrong. And that bitterness, does it still seed within us? When others have what we don't have. Oh, folks, let's cast those off. And let's follow the direction and guidance of the Spirit who will not guide you and direct you in those ways, but he will guide you in how to be patient and careful and loving to people. But we must rely on the guidance of the Holy Spirit for change, but also secondly, as we get into chapter 6, for victorious endurance. The Spirit enables us to change, but he also helps us to endure. And for many of us this morning, it may be more of a situation, you may be struggling with, Lord, I have served you faithfully. But right now it's really hard for me to continue on because of these burdens that I am bearing. Lord, it's a new year and you know it's cold outside and there's a lot of things that I'm struggling with in my life, and I'm I'm tired of these burdens and I'm stumbling. Thankfully, this morning, as we were coming over here in the snow, we didn't stumble. It's a little difficult walking. Sometimes, folks, the journey just gets a little bit difficult to travel through. The burdens seem like they're too much. But the Spirit's power will help us carry our burdens and the burdens of others as well. So chapter 6, verse 1. Brothers, if anyone is caught in a transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest ye too be tempted, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So here is a test. Here is as I am um as I am um Encouraging you to walk in the Spirit. Here is a test to say, am I walking in the Spirit Am I following the Spirit's guidance? Here's a test. Are we willing to help other people bear their burdens? Are we willing to do that? Are we willing to disciple people that need to be discipled? Those that have recently come to Christ and are growing in their faith. Sure, the pastor has opportunity to do that. Maybe those that are in leadership. But folks, this is for everyone that we all should be ready through the Spirit, and the Spirit will guide us to people if we're open to that direction. People that need us are help in bearing their burdens and in growing in Christ. We're probably going to have opportunity in the midst of this weather to have an opportunity to bear others' burdens. Are you ready for that? Are we also ready to help those that are ensnared in sin in a moment of weakness to help direct them? through the direction of the Spirit out of that into faithful service again There are times where we all need help, but it's interesting in verse 1, it says, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness Folks, let's be clear, Paul isn't talking to those who are somehow on a more spiritual plane. We might read this and say, well, I guess I'm the more spiritual. uh more spiritual class of the church and so it's my responsibility to help out all these other folks that uh Well, they're just not where I am on the same spiritual level I am. Or the other opposite might be, well, I'll never reach that level of spirituality, so I guess I'm not going to be able to No folks, we are all have struggles that we face. And we all have areas where we are strong in our faith. And so this basically means this for us through the guidance of the Spirit to be ready to help others in an area where God has helped us and given us victory. And so those of you that are spiritual just means that you have experienced a certain level of victory with that sin and with that temptation, and now you're ready to help God someone else. But then somebody else needs to be ready to help you with one of your weaknesses. So we're interdependent upon each other. We're not all this got this category up here that's spiritual and the rest of these are just you know they're just gonna be in a spiritual hospital for the rest of No. We're interdependent upon each other. And when we rely on the Spirit, He will give us grace to have victory and show others the path to victory. Can I put it this way? Remember the movie Toy Story? All of us in the local church need a moving buddy. We need somebody to help us, as well as the fact that we're helping them. Each person ought to have someone that's discipling them. Each person ought to have someone that they're discipling and helping. And so we're interdependent and we're helping each other carry our burdens. Bear one another burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. This is Christ's expectation. What does it say later on or earlier in Galatians 5. 14? Paul has said, the whole law is fulfilled in one word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And Jesus Christ said You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. Are we ready to handle, help other people with their burdens that are too hard for them to bear alone? Don't be arrogant. That's what he says in verse 3. Don't think you're something. Well, I'm so much more spiritual than everybody else. I guess I'm going to have to help these poor schlubs. In their walk with the Lord. No, we need to realize that even as we're helping others, we could fall into temptation too, and we need to rely on the Spirit to not fall into the same temptation that we're helping others to be victorious in. That means, verse 4, we need to test our own work. And then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor, for each will have to bear his own load. Now that doesn't mean that Paul is now saying it's okay to be arrogant. But if you recognize in your life that God has given you some victory over a sin in your life, than humbly recognize and say, thank you, Lord, now as you have given me victory through relying on the Holy Spirit. Maybe it's victory over being arrogant or victory over envy or victory Victory over anger or victory over lust or victory over just stirring up other people. And we see in our lives, I'm I'm getting victory, I'm reading God's Word more, I'm being in prayer more, and so now Lord, humbly, depending upon the Holy Spirit, you have equipped me to help others. It would be bizarre and strange for us to think that we're somehow better because we don't struggle with as many things as someone else does No, folks, that's something to thank the Lord for, that we have victory because of what the Spirit has helped us to accomplish. Not to be arrogant about that. Don't boast in your spirituality that you need someone to help disciple you to be more humble. Verse 5, for each one will have to bear his own load. And what that means is God has given us each our own personal responsibilities that we can bear up under with his help. But that we will also be held responsible for when our lives are one day evaluated. And this is a reminder to those that just are constantly battling and in a weakened state and think That you can't gain victory over your sins and over areas in your life, we need to be reminded that yes, it is true that the Holy Spirit can give us victory. And that we must not be satisfied in living a life of weakness and falling to temptation. But rather we should be relying on the Holy Spirit to give us victory because we've been given things, all of us. Within the sound of my voice, if you are a child of God, if you are a believer in Jesus Christ, God has given you things to accomplish for Him And so really we must grow up, be mature, follow the Holy Spirit's guidance, rely on the help of others, yes. But so that we can grow, and then we can be a help to others, so that we can comfort others with the comfort that we've been given, as Paul says in 2 Corinthians. We must not be comfortable in an emaciated, weak spiritual state. But Paul says here, each will bear his own load. It's our responsibility. It is our responsibility, folks. to grow, to be fruitful, to be strong in the Lord Don't stay in the spiritual hospital of ministry just constantly waiting on others to help you, but pray, Lord, help me to grow in my relationship. With Jesus and in my dependence upon the Holy Spirit, He can work love and joy and peace and patience and all these things in my life. So I depend upon that and help me To be more mature, that I'm a more usable tool, strong, in the Lord, and not in my own efforts So folks, I'm going to finish up this morning with that. We don't know what we're going to face this week. But we can be strong in the Lord. For those that are followers of Jesus Christ, we can rely on the Holy Spirit to help us to grow, to help us to bear up under whatever we're going to face. This next week and this next year. But the Holy Spirit can also give us spiritual strength to be able to help others bear up under their burdens too. Until Jesus returns, and we will have finally true rest for all eternity. You ask the Holy Spirit even today Holy Spirit, give me someone. Give me victory in the areas that I struggle with in my life. But also put upon my heart someone that needs As a burden that I can help bear with them today, knowing that the Holy Spirit will strengthen me because He bears our burdens with us. Remember that today as we go about our responsibilities in whatever we face this week. Father, thank you for the reminder of your word in this passage in Galatians That those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ have you within them, your spirit within, to give them victory and to help them to bear the loads of others. Let that be an encouragement for us this week. But Lord, help us to be ready to bear the burden of many who may have struggles, who may have difficulties with things. Prepare us. And strengthen us for the work until Jesus returns. This we ask in Jesus' precious name that we pray. Amen.