That is our prayer, that as we look at God's word this morning and this evening as well, that He will open our eyes to its truth. Because in the end it's not the preacher, but it's the Holy Spirit that has to work in our hearts for us to understand His Word. And so we pray for that. That is a prayer for the Holy Spirit. To open our eyes that we can see spiritual truth. Even as God's children, as believers, we need his work. to show us these things. And we need his help this morning as well. Well, back to the Gospel of John. Our third message in this series, and it'll be one of many. John's a pretty big book. We'll see if we maybe go halfway through and then do the rest later. But John chapter 1, and we're going to start at verse 19 today. And John has given us this beautiful prologue or introduction to his gospel Where he has described the very expression of God the Father as the Word. And um we've been through all this that love to go through it again because it's so beautiful. We don't have time this morning He at the end of that introduction introduces the fact that he's referring the word is the Son. It's Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ came, the word made flesh, and came among us, ready to fulfill the mission that the Father sent him to fulfill To be the expression, the testimony, the perfect expression and testimony of God the Father that no one else could do or could be. That is Jesus Christ And so as we set the table really for this whole gospel , we now get into the next few verses and we find that it's centered, in one sense, on John the Baptist. And so you may think to yourself, well, we had this lead up and I'm ready to learn about Jesus, and nothing wrong with John the Baptist, but do we have to have a whole sermon focused on him? We want to study the ministry of the Son of God. Well, actually, what we're going to find out in the study in these few verses from 19 to 28 is John the Baptist would agree with that assessment. He would agree. In fact, he will in essence in this passage say, don't bother about me. Focus on the Messiah who is coming. And he's coming soon. We're going to see here as John actually recognizes John, who we're going to see. We're going to look at the passage where Jesus says there is no more greater born of women. That John the Baptist Recognizes his own unworthiness and has no desire to take attention away from the Christ, the anointed one, as he's referred to in this passage. And folks, as John the Baptist has that attitude, I as your pastor and you as well, that should be our attitude that We would never want the focus to be on ourselves, but we want to point to the Savior and we want to testify of Him. In other words, our attitude today needs to be just like John's, and saying it's not all about me, my personality, my wants and needs, but I want to point you to the one who can save you. That's what John's going to do. That's what we need to do. The unworthy one testifies of Christ. And that is the testimony of John himself. And we're going to see that this morning. Let's just read from verses 19 to 23. And this is the record or testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? And he confessed and denied not, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elijah? And he saith, I am not. Art thou the that prophet? And he answered, No. Then they said unto him, Who art thou that we may give an answer to them who that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? He said, I am the one crying in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. Father, help us to learn or be reminded today that John the Baptist has a lot to teach us Today, about humility and about taking the attention off of ourselves And pointing it to the one who deserves it all. Father, as we look through this passage, may we be encouraged and may be a little exhorted. To make sure that we are not taking attention away from the one that we're supposed to be showering all the attention on, and that is our Savior Jesus Christ, the anointed one, the Messiah. Father, help John to be that example to us, that we may be humble and that you may use us even more expansively and greatly And effectively to point people to Jesus. That needs to be our heart's desire, and I pray that it is For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The unworthy one will testify. It testifies of Christ, of the Christ. That unworthy one is John, and we're going to see that this morning. John is going to testify, very simply, we know this, of Christ's coming. And he has no desire to ascribe any of the glory of that coming to himself. Verse 19, and this is the record or testimony of John. Now remember, we Said already that John the Apostle is the author of this book. And yet he never mentions his own name. The only name that John mentions is the name of John the Baptist, and he just refers to him as John. That's the only John that John the Apostle wants mentioned in this book. John refers to himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved, not for bragging, but because he's overwhelmed by the fact that Jesus would love him. So, the Apostle John's main focus and even bringing John up, unlike the other Gospels which we refer to as the Synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Right? We had we read from Mark this morning, Bill read from Mark. They tell us a lot more about Jesus responsibility about John 's ministry and the specifics of what he did. All John the Apostle focuses on in his accounting of John the Baptist's ministry, that's a lot of Johns. Are you still with me? Okay. Is the fact that John the Baptist testified, had testimony. Of the coming Christ. So he says that in verse 19. John the Apostle says, all I'm concerned about here is John's testimony in relationship to the Christ. When the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? Now who are these Jews? This seems like kind of a generic term here. Jews, there's a lot of Jews in Palestine in the land of Israel. Um what Jews are these that John is referring to? Is it the all the Jews? Well, it can't be, obviously These are Jews specifically from Jerusalem. And this term for Jews actually many times is used for leadership that is opposed. to Jesus and his ministry. So more than likely when it says the Jews here, it's referring specifically to Jewish leadership in the Sanhedrin, or maybe more broadly, the Sadducees. were involved in sending a group to find out what John the Baptist's ministry was all about. And that's the purpose then of this whole passage. That's the background of this. Now, um We have to have an understanding of two groups of people, and this may seem at odds with our whole point of pointing towards Christ, but this is important, and that is these two groups are the Sadducees and the Pharisees. We're going to see them mentioned continually all throughout the Gospels and through this gospel as well. Even though the Sadducees aren't mentioned by name in this passage, it's more than likely that they, along with the High Council, sent this group to find out more about who John was. So let's just take a few minutes to understand the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Since they're brought up here. And there may be some misunderstanding. In fact, I've often thought, I learned more about this as I was studying, and a reminder. You know, all throughout the Old Testament, we hear about the Levites and about the priests. How all of the worship and the offerings and the sacrifice have centered around that group of people. And you get to the New Testament and then you hear about the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Where are the priests? Where are the Levites in all of this? You really have to understand the history of the Jewish people between the testaments. The Old Testament and the New Testament. Now, I don't have time to go through 300 years of history this morning. I'm not going to do that. So we'll just do a high fly here. We'll talk about the Sadducees first, since again, they were probably the group with the Sanhedrin that sent out this delegation. To see who John was. The Sadducees were an aristocratic group within Jewish society. They were the powerful and the wealthy Jews in leadership and society. And they came to power in again that time between the testaments in the 300 years of silence from God's Word. As Greek culture, or well actually this group, first of all, included many of the priests, and that's where they kind of filtered in To this group in particular, although the Pharisees included some priests as well, they also included more of the scribes. We'll get to that in a minute Especially the high priests were often part of the Sadducees group. And this group, before we get to the New Testament, As Greek culture had spread itself all throughout society and literally throughout the whole world, this group of wealthy and powerful priests and Jewish leaders embraced that culture and they used it to gain political power and wealth. That's what became most important to them as their distinguished um status among the people as priests. Many of these saw the Greek culture as a way to continue that status and also to make themselves personally wealthy and lead and and all of these sorts of things. And some point as well, they began to surprisingly really disregard most of the Old Testament writings. The Sadducees did. Beyond the first five books called the Pentateuch, that was the only books that they considered legitimate Maybe it was because they were trying to make their scriptures more palatable for a society who was very secular. We could relate to that in some of our churches today, unfortunately. They also rejected the doctrine of the resurrection. And even that of angels. They didn't believe in the resurrection. They didn't believe in angels at all. Um they were, in summation, a well to do group of religious leaders that lived for gain in this life only. Overall, as far as characterizing them. The Pharisees were really the exact opposite in many ways. They lived to gain entrance to the resurrected life. They believed in the resurrection and they leave they led people to live the best life and follow God's law the best that they could so that they would be resurrected at the end times. Exact opposite of what the Sadducees were focused on. So during that same period of 300 years The Pharisees sought to preserve Jewish scriptures in the culture, and many of the scribes who were heavily involved in translating the scriptures and writing the scriptures and studying the scriptures. were not surprisingly Pharisees, because Pharisees focused so much on the scriptures and helping people to understand What they meant. They were not interested in modernization with the Greek culture, but the Pharisees were interested in preservation of the Jewish culture. You see the difference between the two already? Very important. While the Sadducees were interested in their political maneuvering and getting to know the right people to gain more wealth, the Pharisees became The leaders of the common people. They ministered to the everyday folks. The blue-collar workers, you could say today. And they were considered, now this may be a little surprising to us because obviously when we come to the Gospels The Pharisees are put by Jesus himself in a very negative light, and so we tend to think of it that way, and that's totally legitimate because of their heart attitudes. But with the people, the Pharisees were actually, we need to understand this, are they were the good guys. They were the guys that showed everybody how to live the way that God wanted them to live, and unfortunately far beyond what God intended for them to live. But they were considered the friends of the Jewish people, the friends of the Jewish culture of the people So, we had mentioned already that the Sadducees were creative in what they removed from Scripture to better fit the Greek culture, right? Now you would think, well, the Pharisees were more conservative. They probably didn't get quite as creative. But if you know your Jewish history, the Pharisees were also very creative. What were they creative in? What they added to the law to preserve Jewish tradition and culture, and all the extras that the Pharisees added to help people obey the law, to help people. And so they became very good at following their own laws more than the common people, and the people looked up to them saying, wow, these guys are amazing. I could never live like that. They exalted, honored leaders in their community. Sadducees not so much, because they followed, they sided with the politicians. But the Pharisees to the Jewish people, they were the ones that were their friends. Okay? I hope that makes sense as we get into this further. Regardless, though Both sets of religious leaders did something appropriate at the beginning of this passage, and that is they did need to assess as the responsible religious leaders of that culture. Jewish leaders, they did need to assess John the Baptist's ministry. Is this guy legitimate? And as a side note This just, I reflected on this. You know, leadership, pastors included, and even churches, should never balk at someone's assessment. of their ministry. I think a mark of a pastor or leadership that we always need to be careful be careful of. If we bristle When someone comes to us with something that we may need to work on or may need to change, and that bothers us and concerns us, we're not as humble as we need to be. Spiritual leadership needs assessment. Didn't we even have that with the prophets in the Old Testament? God said, You assess those prophets that I sent. What they said comes true, you know they're from me John the Baptist ministry needed assessment, and that's what we have here. One other aspect as we get further into John the Baptist ministry. is that he ministered in a time period where there was much anticipation and expectation of political salvation. There were zealots , political conservatives many times, who sought political change and were even willing to riot and to cause chaos in order to spark a rebellion Yeah, we can kind of relate to that today. There were these people, and if you were paying attention the last couple weeks with our Christmas services, There were memories, pretty recently, of wise men from the East who, what did they announce? A newborn king, and that would still be fresh on these leaders' minds as well. So Whenever any polit or any religious figure started to amass a following, these leaders wanted to know what was going on. Because of all this, especially that was going on, the Sadducees Well, they didn't want any threat to their political power. And the Pharisees didn't want any there to be any influence or their influence over the people to be threatened in any way. So were they right in assessing John the Baptist's ministry? Yes, but the problem was, here it is, their pride. They didn't want anybody else or didn't want to even consider somebody else coming in and taking their influence away. You see, they consider themselves worthy of their high authority. And we're going to see here in these first few verses that we've already read, that's the exact opposite of John the Baptist. He does not consider himself worthy of the authority that God's given him. He's humble about this. In the midst of John's ministry and influence, which were extensive, and we heard about that in the uh telling of Mark's. Telling of John this morning in Mark chapter 1. He had extensive ministry, and yet he took none of the credit, and he had no interest at all in exalting himself. I think there was a sound from the zoom there, so I just turned it off. I just turned off my noise my s my sound there. Was it was a speaker? Okay. Never know what technology is gonna throw at us. That's why we edit the messages afterwards. So let's look at this and see John's attitude here. Verse 20. And he confessed and denied not after they asked him, but confessed. Notice that John the apostle reports that twice. John confessed. John confessed. What he's saying here is John is giving a confession. He's confessing freely that he's not certain people. John is pointing out that John the Baptist freely makes it known, I am not the Christ. But he also says, I'm not Elijah, and I'm not, it says, that prophet or the prophet. And this is referring to a great prophet that the Jewish people expected in end times. Happenings. And John says, I am not any of these. He doesn't. And it's interesting how he says this. Listen to this again. It's like he really doesn't want to take time to talk about himself at all. They ask him the question and he says I am not the Christ. I am not the Messiah, the one that is to come. I am not your political salvation. Well, okay then, John. Are you Elijah? Because remember, in Malachi chapter 4, the last book of the Old Testament, it was mentioned in the last few verses that God would send. A prophet like Elijah that would prepare the way for the Messiah. So they were waiting. In fact, I'll read to you that passage, Malachi 4. Remember ye the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet. before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord, and he shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse So there we have the prophetic announcement, and the Jewish people were waiting for that Elijah to come. And so it was legitimate for them. To ask, are you Elijah? Now what may be surprising for us is that John says, I'm not Now did that take you aback or make you kind of puzzled? Wait, wait a minute, John. That one you're supposed to say yes to. Well, why? Well, because eventually Jesus identifies him as Elijah. And I'll just read that for you real quick, Matthew 11, 7 through 15. Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out in the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that wear soft clothing are in the king's houses. But what went ye out for to see? Prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet. So that third question they asked John in a minute. He's legitimate again, Jesus says he's even greater than a prophet. Verse 10, for this is he, I'm reading again from Matthew 11. Of whom it is written, Behold, I will send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he, and he continues on with his assessment But then he says verse 14, if you will receive it, this is Elijah, which was for to come. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Jesus makes it very apparent, among other things, that he considered John the Baptist, the Elijah, the fulfillment of the Malachi scripture. So did John just get this wrong? And John the Apostle recorded it for us? Why does he deny being Elijah? Well, I think a couple of the best possibilities to answer this is again, this has to do with his humility. But there were a number of Jewish people that expected, when they looked at the prophecy from Malachi, they expected the actual Elijah to return again. Why is that? Because he never died, right? He just was taken up with the Lord, and so the Jewish people expected uh same Elijah's gonna come down. And that did happen in the Transfiguration, although a few people saw that Maybe John was saying, I'm not that Elijah. I'm not the Elijah that was taken up in the Old Testament. I'm not that guy. Probably, but I think also and better is that John is just too humble to identify himself as such. He leaves it for Jesus to do. John's saying, I'm not even worthy to compare myself to Elijah. I'm certainly not worthy to compare myself to the anointed one, the Messiah. And then Jesus later on is left to him. And Jesus has the authority then, right? To make whatever comparisons he wants. And he says, no, even John didn't fully understand who he was. He is the Elijah that was prophesied, and the ministry that he had was that great ministry. John didn't exalt himself, in other words, in ministry in any way, but he let Jesus exalt him. And folks, that's the best way, the best modus operandi for any of us. Don't promote yourself. Let Jesus do it in his time. You just serve him humbly. That's all John cared about. They continue back to now John chapter 1, verse 21. They asked him if he was Elijah. He said, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And it's like every answer gets shorter. Are you that famous prophet that will come at the end times and he basically says, nope? Are you just like, well, obviously you're somebody. You have to tell us. We can't go back, John, to the Sadducees and the Sanhedrin and just tell them, nope, he's not any of these things. We have to give them an answer, John. Who are you? Verse 22. We have to give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou thyself? You have to give us an answer. He said, Okay, I'll give you one. John doesn't take any of the glory of the coming of the Lord for himself, but he knows his ministry is preparation only for the Lord. And he points that out here. He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah. See, John does understand that his ministry is significant. Don't misunderstand me here. He does know that He knows that his ministry is one of prophetic fulfillment, and he points out that passage, Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 3, and I'll read that for you here, part of Isaiah 40. It says, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, and saith your God, speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her. That her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed It says, the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. John says, okay, I'm that guy. But I'm just preparing the way for the glory of the Lord. No glory to me. Look at the glory of the coming Messiah. Focus on him. My job is just to prepare him. Just uh another interesting aspect of this: in that original prophecy in Isaiah chapter 40, The more immediate fulfillment of that was when the exiles would come back from captivity. And basically it's talking about making the way straight or making the way um Able to be able to traverse. In other words, that a road system would be established that would allow the exiles to return Back home to Jerusalem. That was the immediate fulfillment of the Isaiah 40. What? By the time of Jesus and John the Baptist, it was understood in a larger framework that it was also referring to the preparation for the way of the Messiah. Who, by the way, most of the Jewish people miss this, in the same passage in Isaiah, it doesn't refer to a conquering king that will come, but it refers to what? A suffering servant, exactly as Jesus would come and surprise everyone by this That was clearly stated in Isaiah 40, and they missed that. That's a side note there. So If people expected that the Messiah would come, and so John then, and his ministry is basically this He insists, and we see this in the other gospel, on repentance and faith in the coming of Christ. John's ministry was basically summed up as this. The Christ, the anointed one, is coming. I'm not him, but you all need to repent and have faith in him and prepare your hearts for his coming. I'm going to prepare the way. For the Messiah to come. And that was it. And that was his testimony. Very simple, right? Let's continue on here Verse 24, and they which sent were of the Pharisees, so now we find out that some of this delegation were also Pharisees. We already talked about that And they asked him and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then if thou be not that Christ? Nor you're you're not Elijah, neither that or the prophet. Okay, John. Why do you have authority to baptize all these people, which is a religious responsibility that we have? Who do you think you are to baptize all these people? If you're not the Messiah, if you're not the Elijah, if you're not the end times great prophet that's going to come, where do you get your authority? And John answered them verse 26, saying, I baptize with water. And John here recognizes his limited authority. And he admits, okay, I do have some authority from God to baptize. I do. But that power and authority that I have are limited only till Jesus Christ comes. And John points out here that he will relinquish all of his authority in Christ's coming. He wants none of God's glory. He wants none of the anointed one, the Messiah's authority as well. And he will gladly step aside for Christ's full authority. But there is one standing , but there standeth one among you whom you know not. In other words, you haven't met him yet. You're about to. He's coming soon But he it is who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And that could basically be translated this way. The strap of whose sandal, that word really refers to a sandal, not a shoe, because they didn't have shoes back then, right? It was sandals. The strap of whose sandal I'm not worthy to untie. And John is basically saying here, if you want to see real authority, don't look at me. There is another coming soon that I am not even worthy to touch his sandals. That's how unworthy I am. The unworthy one that testifies of Christ. Folks, this is more of a humble statement than we even realize. Do you realize that a servant, one of his responsibilities, was to take his master's sandals off when he returned home. And so what is John saying here? John's saying, I don't even feel worthy to perform a servant's duties to the one that's about to come. Folks, that's humility. That's not something you work up. That's not something you fake. That's something that God works within you. And this kind of humility that John has makes for lasting powerful ministry. There may be a lot of ministries that are flash in the pan and get people excited, and the person is a great orator or they're exciting or whatever. But many times the focus comes back on that individual, and the ministry doesn't have lasting power. A ministry that has lasting power has leadership That's humble, that realizes their unworthiness before Jesus and says, Praise the Lord that he would use me. But I'm not worthy of this. Don't don't give me any of the attention. Don't refer to this church as my church. It's not my church. It's Jesus' church. The Messiah. That makes for lasting powerful ministry. And he continues on here These things were done in Bethabara, or it could be translated Bethany beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. Basically this is John is pointing out the fact this isn't the Bethany that where most of the events that take place Throughout the rest of the gospel is when it mentions Bethany, believe where Lazarus and Mary and Martha resided. This is not that Bethany that was in the south. This Bethany is north and in the desert. And John is just giving this an idea of where this is taking place, where John was baptized. So that explains that verse. Most likely it's a Bethany that we don't even really know where it's located anymore, this town, wherever it is, and it was out in the wilderness anyway. But it is a historic landmark that says this actually happened. And I want you to know, for those that had maps back then, even though they didn't have maps back then, this is where John is ministering. Let me sum all this up together as we finish this morning. And I'm going to get a little bit more personal here because this testimony of John's has so has so influenced me. And I know it's easy to then say if you're talking about humility and talking about the need for humility That the person that talks like they're the most humble is the guy that you can you can sometimes in a sick way with our sinful natures, we could talk so much about being humble that that is also a way to get attention. And folks, when I taught say these things, I'm not trying to bring attention on myself. I'm legitimately trying to explain the work that God has done in my life and explain it in the way that John the Baptist talks here. You will find a reluctance for me to have a professional sounding ministry where My preaching, I mean, praise the Lord that God, I expect that God is going to use my ministry and use my preaching because He's called me to this But I don't want, and I'm not looking for people just to come to church to hear the melodious sound of my voice. I don't really care about that at all. I've said this this for as well. That if you forget who I am and you just remember that that church that you visited, or that church that you were a part of , that he pointed people to Jesus Christ. That's all I care about. That's the greatest, the greatest compliment that you could give to me. You know, I take this a little further. My mentors at Bob Jones University, and one in particular, really helped me as far as illustrations. And that is using illustrations that come from my own personal experience. are seeing they just come across as more authentic. And plus you don't have to worry about copywriting them, right? Or somebody saying later, hey, ah yeah, that was a good story. I just read that one on the internet a couple days ago. Doesn't really sound authentic. I think it's better to have illustrations most of the time that involve my own life that I can craft as well to make application. But there's another side to that. Sometimes I do get a little nervous that as I give illustrations, maybe as I think back over, I'm like, Lord, am I just talking too much about myself? Because I don't want to do that. I want to make sure that at the end of my message, even though my illustrations need to be memorable to apply to the passage, I want people to leave thinking of Christ. Not the great story that I told, or maybe not so great, maybe not even memorable, or how awful that illustration was. I don't know Here's my point. Jesus is going to return someday, and maybe it'll be 2021, and won't that be wonderful for all of us? And folks, it's very simple. When he returns, just like John, I'll gladly hand my authority back over to him. You take it all, Jesus. I don't want any of it. I'm a poor representation of this authority anyway. Jesus, you take it all back. You know, I say that and we would all agree with that, but folks, I have met some in ministry that I think when Jesus returns, the way that they act, they might have a little bit of trouble. Given that authority back. I kinda liked that recognition. I kinda liked that acknowledgement of how well I was doing. And John will have none of that. And he will have the followers of Jesus. He will allow them none of that. And he reminds us here as we begin this gospel that as we continue, make sure that in his certainly in his life, but in each of our lives, that as we tell other people about the gospel, and myself as a pastor as I'm preaching through John, that in the end, that Jesus Christ gets all the credit. In all the glory. And whatever else happens in this ministry behind this pulpit, that is my prayer. I don't want any of the credit. Jesus deserves it all. That's in the end what John's talking about here. Can you get a better testimony than that? The unworthy one that testifies of Christ, the unworthy one, folks, that ought to be all of us. We're all unworthy. And yet Jesus gives us the wonderful privilege of being able to tell others about Him. So, as the Lord gives you opportunity, just remember. . . Get out of the way. Let the Holy Spirit talk through you. If you have some characteristics that tend to make people focus on you rather than the gospel, Ask the Lord, Lord, help sharp help smooth those edges. Help smooth these types of things in my own life that I struggle with that put more of the attention on me and that take it away from Jesus. That was John's testimony as well, as he was assessed by the religious leaders of his time. Don't live your life trying to impress others with your ministry, but impress them, folks. Impress them with your Savior. Father, thank you. Help us to be humble in this regard. That we don't want to wow and amaze people with our elegance Lord, there's some of that that's natural gifts and we're thankful for that. We're not I'm not trying to be negative of that when people's gifts and they're able to speak well and that's good and that can be used appropriately, but help us not to be So focused on those things and and focused on how um how ministry um Options and opportunities will promote ourselves, but help us to keep The same focus that John the Baptist does. That our ministry opportunities are always to exalt Christ. And then the glorious, wonderful thing, Father, that we're reminded of is that in due time you exalt us. Lord, that's of your grace and your mercy, and we praise you for that. Help us to be known as individuals and as a church family that point people to Christ. And that reflect him well, that we may see your work done and we may have effective, fruitful, long-lasting ministry. Because of the power of Jesus Christ within us. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.