Children are going for children's church. And I will be on soon, before too long, directing you to a specific book of the Bible. But this topic that we're in, we're going to take a few more weeks just to complete some things that the Lord has has really laid on my heart. And the more I study, uh, man, the the more I learn and and the more that I I want to bring Out about some things that even though we're again not diagnosing, we're not making a clinical diagnosis for disorders. As during the morning service, this particular personality disorder, NPD, narcissistic personality disorder. There's so many of these traits that bring out so many things that we just need to be careful of. That my soul is burdened to continue to discuss these things. But in a few weeks, uh look forward to as well starting the book of Revelation. Um and if if if you can't see now I'm not giving a date, okay? Let's be clear folks. of when Jesus return is. But folks, it's just like the the world is deteriorating around our eyes, around our own country, and just the the terror Terrible things that you read about every day and and the violence and the threats, and so uh how timely to have a discussion on the book of End times, the book of Revelation, and we'll get to that before summer. And here 's a summation of Revelation. It's all about Jesus. And if you have your mindset and your heart set In that way, you'll be ready. And really, folks, if we do have that mindset that it's all about Jesus, then you will have victory. Avoid so many of these traits that are so focused on self and one's own self-exaltation and dependence on oneself that really is destructive and ugly and brings so much pain To families, to ministries, and to communities, when people are living lives that reflect many traits of a narcissist. And they're not even realizing that. Again, this buzzword narcissism is something something that we're just using. It's only a little over five percent of the people within the U. S. that are actually diagnosed with it. A di narcissist by definition is someone with a pervasive pattern of grandiosity, need for admiration, and lack of And we are considering from a biblical perspective the common traits in this disorder that are prevalent and that we all struggle with. with at times. One time or another. And so this whole series is called Biblical Insights on Narcissistic Traits. And remember when uh this is something I'm convinced that the world is focused on and And you see articles all the time, when the world's concern matches up with our Christian concerns, we need to take notice. And as well, don't forget our pledge that we are considering our own hearts. In this. And that's key. Where we struggle. One of the great things, one of the many positive things about our time in New England and New Hampshire was uh that the boys had opportunities um with friends, with men in our church Which the men would offer to take them hunting in ways that I just could not offer them. Now it's not that I never went hunting as a young man um living growing up in Michigan, uh my dad and my grandfather hunted and there was a lot of hunting in the family, but we just I never had opportunity to to do much for whatever reason. It wasn't my My dad's top priority. So uh I would I am been lacking as far as the the role of a huntsman, I guess. And one of the things in being up there in New Hampshire is that we had men that were not lacking and loved it and were able to pass Pass that on to my kids. So we had a friend Bill Wilson who wanted to introduce Arden to the joys of turkey hunting. And uh I think Bill and I were more excited about it than Arden was, although he was he was interested in Interested, and that's good. Um he had found uh my friend Bill had found a spot where the the the man that owned the land agreed that for new hunters this would be a great spot. um and he kept it available for for young hunters so that they would have good opportunities and be encouraged in their first couple hunts. Um and so we uh got together really early in the morning all dressed up in in camera and all this and uh my friend, myself, and Arden, we all walked out in the woods and around, and then we came to this area where he had already set up a blind And went in and we were kind of crowded in there, you know, uh, but it was still exciting. Um and he said, now just wait. And it wasn't too long as the Sun was uh rising up that we could hear in the distance turkeys. And he said they're settling down for for the day. They're they're cut they're coming Coming down and we'll see them soon, you know, come right across that area directly to your front and a little to your right there, Arden. And he had been he had he had already Already works through with Arden gun safety. My friend Bill was who could have been a gun safety instructor. He was very good at teaching. Worked through all that. Arden was ready. This was actually the second time we had gone hunting. The first time we had been on a little disappointing. But the second time in particular, as we heard the turkeys coming closer into our area, there was one and he's and he looked like he was a pretty big big turkey that was coming from the distance. And Bill was encouraging Arden, okay, if you take the shot, if you have the shot, if you think you have it. Take it. And Arden did, and it was exciting, and he saw a feather of feathers, but then the turkey started going off to one side and trying to get away, and it was obvious it was was not a direct hit, but it was a warning shot for the bird. And that was disappointing. And the bird would have continued to uh To seek safety going to um the left, but then the bird, the turkey, saw something that got his feathers ruffled, no pun intended, and that was that there was some female Turkeys that were uh closer in range. He didn't realize this to us, and they were prancing around, and there was another male turkey there that That they were headed towards. And you could almost see, not I don't know that turkeys really think through this, but it was almost like he said, wait a minute, those are my hens, and they're going toward that other guy. And so he came right around nicely and uh very conveniently. He tramp he traipsed right around, came right up, and was going to stop Start a fight with that other uh male turkey, and Arden positioned himself just right. Got a perfect line of fire, and that now I don't know if this Make some of you sad or not. Maybe you feel bad for the turkey. But that turkey did meet his end. His own pride. And his jealousy made the ends for his own destruction. Now that was great for us. And for Arden 's pride in the right way, because this was a good sized turkey and we ran out and we picked it up and we took pictures and he's holding it up and it's like wow this is this is It's great. It was like a 23-pounder. And uh later on we uh Bill showed him how to dress it and we enjoyed uh that that turkey event It was a great success, but it was not a great success for that Tom on that day. You know that's a male turkey, right? A Tom? Okay. And I'd like to think in some ways it is a representation of the fact that in his pride and his envy and his selfishness. He brought about the seeds of his own disaster. Okay. Now, that's an illustration, folks, of something that can happen, unfortunately, very easy with any any of us and related to this topic is that our pride and our jealousy and our desire to want something that is not Not ours, if left untethered, if untethered and left um without being rain excuse me, without being reined in Can cause great destruction in our own lives and great damage in our families' lives. And so we're going to continue to see that. And specifically today and probably next week. What um I have continued to see as uh we're emphasizing some uh very serious sins that sometimes we just don't take so seriously. They're in God's word. But there are certain sins that I think in one way, uh one some ways or another we tend to Christian Christianize. And we give good excuses for why they're in our lives, and sometimes we don't even recognize that we're struggling with these That is certainly someone who is diagnosed as a narcissist rarely, if ever, is able to reflect on on their own weaknesses and inadequacies and their their sinful behavior. And they need help for that. They can, if they are a believer in Jesus Christ, they can have victory, but it's hard. And so that's why we must focus on our own hearts this morning. Well, the first of these sins that is so commonly prevalent And is a major, let's say, narcissistic trait is the sin of envy. I want to encourage us. That we rejoice and celebrate with others rather than be envious of their success. Envy and the NPD, the narcissistic personality disorder trait number five, is that these folks experience extreme envy When others are honored or recognized in a way that overshadows them. Now, as we're talking about envy , we need to understand that envy is a Heightened, intensified form of jealousy. It's not just wanting something that someone else has or wanting something that we don't have. have. But it's wanting that person having a negative or a destructive desire to see that person lose what they have or to take Take it from them. They don't deserve that. I do. And so they shouldn't have it. Oh, envy is ugly. And it's very concerning. And we can we can be jealous and envious over so many things, can't we? We folks? Financial, financial things , things that other people own, technology. Someone has a business Better home than I. Um, I'll just say that even as I was listening uh to even as we continued to go through our ecclesiastic studies this morning with uh Mike Erickson, uh some of the things that he mentioned just so seamlessly um lead into what we're talking about today. Uh looking for our worth and our value in in our our our finances and in what we own and what we have. And that if that is what we worship, if that is what we Then we will be susceptible to jealousy and envy when we don't get what we think we deserve. You can guarantee you're gonna suffer Struggle with that. There's all kinds of ways that we struggle with jealousy. And it might be good even now as we continue to talk about these things. For each of us to check our hearts. And say, Lord, what do I struggle with jealousy in? What things are important to me that when I see us Other people have them, it just makes me angry. And um it makes me um it brings me in opposition on almost treat that person as an enemy because they have something I don't want. Or they have something I do want. Well, we need to be clear. God's word comes out very strongly against jealousy and envy. Now, God, now don't misunderstand me, folks. All sin is unsightly and is um Is objectionable, is disgusting before our God. But there are some sins that are listed, and it is interesting. that we would all agree, yeah, yeah, those those are things that we definitely wouldn't want in our lives. Mark 7, just turn there. Go ahead and turn to Mark 7, verses 20 through 23. This is just one list. Let's just say, again, all sin is bad Don't misunderstand me. But in our human experience as believers, sometimes we can tend to think, say, well, here's a list of the really bad sins. Okay, so if you want to go that way, here's a list of the of the really bad sins. And this is what Jesus says that a person commits these sins because of what's in their heart. Mark 7, verse 20. Jesus said, what comes out of a person is what defiles them. Him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts. Sexual immorality. Okay? Sexual immorality. That's bad. Right? All agreed. Theft. Stealing. Oh, that's terrible. Murder. Oh, definitely. Definitely one of the worst ones. Adultery. Coveting. Wickedness, deceit. Yeah, those are all pretty bad. Sensuality. And then right in the middle, envy. Before he hits slander, pride, and foolishness. It is interesting, in the midst of many of these sins, you will find envy right in the midst of Middle of it there. Lord, folks, envy is a particular form of sin that is wicked and destructive. And damaging to our lives. And Jesus says: all these evil things, they are all evil. They are all wicked. Let's not candy coat. It's not gloss over jealousy and envy. If it's in our lives, it's wrong. It needs to be dealt with. They defile a person. They corrupt us. And when you let the fires of envy build up within you. You are being filled with corruption. You are tainted. You are not pure, folks. And we need help from God in this bad. Against jealousy and envy. James is even more straightforward. Okay, as we would expect from James. Turn to James chapter 3. Look at verse 13 through 18. Of course, now Jesus obviously said it as it is. But James, his brother, as you would expect, the same Yes, yes, growing up with the Savior. James puts it very bluntly as well. And this is actually a very helpful passage we're going to return to. to again on this whole topic of narcissistic traits, because this is an important passage. James 3, 13 through 18. Who is wise and understanding among you? All of us, would you not say, I hope that your desire. Sorry, I'm stepping away from the The verse for a minute. I hope that your desire within this church, if you are a true follower of Jesus Christ, that you desire to be maturing in your faith and you desire to be wise. I hope that's a desire of your heart. Think even Mike mentioned this morning in Sunday school. If there's anyone out there in the in our congregation That says, I'd like to be a fool. I'd like to be a foolish person. Well, we would have great concern for you. Nobody would say comes out and says, yeah, I want to be the fool. I want to be that guy. Nobody wants to be that who's a true child of Jesus Christ. If you're not a follower of Jesus, then the Bible says you're automatically foolish. And you need to turn to him. But if you want to be wise and maturing, then James says, by his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. This is a person that is humble, that is growing and letting the Holy Spirit work in his heart. He is meek. The meekness there is not weakness. It is a life and spirit that's under the control of Jesus Christ. And following after the wisdom. This is a person who is not given to self-promotion, but one who promotes the love Lord. But here's the contrast to that person. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth Well, this is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual. Yes, folks, it really does say that. It's the For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, this is remarkable, there will be disorder in every vile practice. And that's from jealousy. From envy. Would you agree with me? But what James is saying here is this is a destructive Force. And we need to be careful. He's saying, don't deceive yourselves If you are a follower or a supposed follower of Jesus Christ and say, I am a wise person, you should. And as many that have narcissistic traits, Tend to do, you should listen to me because I have all the answers. I'm the wise person. And James says here, wait a minute. If you're struggling with envy, with just jealousy and selfish ambition, which is a common character trait that we're referring to here in your hearts, don't fool yourselves. Your boasting is not accurate. You are not being truthful because you are not getting that kind of wisdom. From Jesus Christ. Oh no. You're tapping into something that is from the enemy And if you are promoting yourself as a wise person within the church, and yet you constantly struggle with envy and jealousy. Jealousy. Folks, you're not, you're not tapping. I don't want to. I want to be kind here, but you're not tapping into the wisdom of Jesus Christ. You're tapping into the demonic influence of the enemy. Because he says again, we're jealousy and selfish ambition exists. That is the springboard for all kinds. Isn't it interesting? We have the word disorder there. I find that very interesting. We're talking about disorders and every vile practice. That word vile means yucky, insidious. Gross. Wow. All of that can come from my being envious of someone else It's what God's word says. But then, thankfully, he gives a contrast. But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, then gentle. See, it's not tainted by Um jealousy and desirous and covetousness. It's not tainted by that, but it's gentle. It's open to reason. It's reasonable. It's full of mercy and good fruits. Impartial and sincere. Oh man, that's a w Wonderful list. I much would rather read that list than the list we read before. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. If you see someone around this church who has a lot of good, solid relationships, and people not respect them because of their own marketing ability and their own self-promotion. But just because they want to be around them, because when they're around them, they sense the presence of God and and just it's it's a peaceful relationship. Those people are wise people who are trusting in the Lord and giving all the glory, again, as we heard about in our ecclesiastical Ecclesiastes uh sermon are studied this morning, giving all the glory to the Lord and taking none for themselves. Some of the most folks, some of the most um engaging people that you can be around. Are those that take the attention off of themselves, that refuse to take attention for themselves themselves, are very rarely trying to self-promote, but are always concerned for those around them. Those type of people are a delight and engaging And they are wise, filled with understanding, because they understand that they needed to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And follow his ways and not promote themselves. Ephesians two, eight through nine says this. Actually, I'm sorry, that's not the right reference. This is in Proverbs. I've got my you don't have to turn there because I've got my references mixed up. Up here, but here is the verse from Proverbs, a tranquil heart gives life to the flesh, but envy makes the bones rot. Have that right in front of me. I have the wrong reference here. But it says: a tranquil heart gives life to the flesh, but envy makes the bones rot. Is that not a picturesque? description of the results of letting envy and jealousy contaminate our lives. Those that are at peace and are submitted to the Lord Jesus Christ, oh, they have life. But those that are given in to envy It it it it um it corrupts right down to just making it it rot it rots the character really of the individual. Something more to say about this as I was really thinking through. You know, how do we how do we Christianize Envy. When we then when Scripture obviously says how terrible it is, how do we Christianize it? Well, I'm convinced, and I've seen before, that in ministry Envy can sometimes play out when someone who has a like a checkered past, this is just one example, but I'm convinced that this is one way that we are Many times as followers of Jesus Christ in the local church to our own envy, and that's what I was trying to think through. One way I think hap this happens is when we see someone who has what we would consider a checkered past, who has had all sorts of difficulties in the past, who have had great sin in their lives. They've repented, they've moved on, and they're honored over one who has, in their own minds, played by the rules. And sometimes we can get frustrated when we know somebody's being honored and we say, They're not deserving of that. Don't you know their past? Don't you know what they're they've doing done. Let's go Luke 15 to a well-known passage, Luke 15, verses 21 through 32 of the prodigal son. And this is one that we know well, but there's a second part to this that is so germane. To this argument this morning that we sometimes miss. And that is the part about the older son Did you know in the parable of the prodigal son there is actually an end that deals with his brother, the older son? Sometimes we we missed that. But let's start. We're not going to go through the whole story of the prodigal son because I want to focus on his older brother. But verse 21, we can't just skip over the beautiful part. Where the prodigal son, who is, and really this this whole parable should, I think it should be tied up. The Loving, Forgiving Father is the one that should be highlighted. But regardless, this is how we know this. And remember, again, just a brief summary, but this Jesus is giving this parable, story with an important meaning. Two sons, wealthy father. The younger son says, God says, Father, give me all that I'm going to receive now. I don't want to wait on it. Give me my inheritance now. His father didn't have to do that, but interestingly, his father does go Go ahead and give him that. He wastes his money away in riotous living. He realizes as he comes to the end of himself, literally eating with pigs. Ugh. He says, I need to go home. And maybe my father will there's no way I could be a son again. I'm too far gone. I'm too great a sinner. Oh, I'm not deserving to be a son again, but maybe he'll let me serve him. And so he comes and he sees his father in the distance, and his father's been waiting for him ever since He left. And you have this beautiful part in verse 21. The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son. It is interesting in this confession. This is a repentant confession, but the son doesn't go into all the sordid details. Did you notice that? Father, I have I I wasted your money away with women and with all these sorts of things. He just says, I've sinned against God. I've sinned against you. I'm not Not worthy to be your son. And before he finishes with his spiel that he's been practicing all the time where he's been returning on his trip Home. , His father interrupts him and said to his servants, Bring quickly the best robe and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, his shoes on his feet, and bring the fatted calf and kill it. And let us eat and celebrate. For this my son was dead and is alive again. He was lost and is found. And they began to celebrate. And they were celebrating the unrighteous one who was the great sinner. Who had returned and repented and put his dependence in his father And yet there was one person that wasn't participating. Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing, and he called one of the servants and asked what what these things meant. And he said to him, Your brother has come and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him back safe and sound. But he was angry, that was the older brother, and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him, but he answered, and his father's pleading with him. Come on in. And as to note, the older son, the brother, had a responsibility to be one have one of the leading roles in honoring This brother, who they were giving this celebration for. So this older son was refusing his responsibility to be at the side of his repentance. So his father pleads with him, Come celebrate with us. And he answered his father, Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your commandment. Man, and you never gave me a young goat that I might celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours came who has devoured your property with prostitutes, find that interesting. Maybe the older son's saying, look, your your younger son isn't going to tell you all that he did, but I know, and I'll tell you, Dad. I'll give you all the gory details. He was with prostitutes. And you killed the fatted calf for him. And the father said, Son, you are always with me. And all that is mine is yours. You have access to all of this. Because of your committed service to me. But it is fitting, it is right to celebrate And be glad, for this your brother was dead and is alive, and he is lost. He was lost and is found. Folks, here is the glory of the gospel. Because there is not a one of us here that's deserving of the grace and the love of the Father, and yet He is there waiting for us. And He is provided because of our sin. Again, An opportunity to quickly go through the gospel this morning. But because of our sin, we have separated ourselves from the God of heaven And yet he sent his son to be the perfect sacrifice for our sins. To become A part of mankind and to obey and to not sin in a way that no other human being could. Jesus, his son, never sinned once, and he was Thus, the spotless Lamb of God that was able to offer himself up for the sins of the world, for your sins, for my sins. We're all sinners. There's not a one of us that's worthy of anything but eternal. Eternal condemnation apart from God. None of us. But because of what his son accomplished, his son shed his blood, provides cleansing from our sins. sins provides uh the ability for us to be declared righteous because Jesus took all of our sins on himself and he offers up his perfect obedience to us And when we put our faith and trust in him. And because he was raised from the dead and conquered death and the enemy. We can trust in His actions, in His sacrifice, not in our own righteousness, and experience this glorious grace. But folks, sometimes I'm convinced, for those of us that have done this, that when we've been followers of Jesus Christ for a long time, we forget. And we can start to forget the grace that God showed us. And you know what's interesting? Here's our human failings that we struggle with until Jesus returns and we're glorified in our new bodies is that, you know, some sins we're willing to put up with a little bit more than others. others. Each of us have a has has a list of sins. And some of them we're much more understanding when people around us commit them. Well I can understand that. I mean yeah I kind of struggle with that myself. myself. So yeah, I'll give them a little grace. And there are other sins though that we are adamantly, okay, that that sin crossed the line. Like Jealousy and envy. Those sins cross the line. And those people need to be dealt with in this church. And I can't support that. And I'm afraid sometimes we forget the grace that God has given us and we cease Someone who is repentant and God is restored, and then back to this whole thing about narcissism, they somehow get some sort of honor and inside We're envious and angry. They don't deserve that. How dare God let them have that honor? Doesn't He know what they've done in their past? Folks, let's just be candid here at the end of the message today. Can I be straightforward? Get used to it. God is in the habit of celebrating repentant people who are undeserving. You might as well get used to it. You might as well not let that bother you and provoke you to envy. Because This is ministry. None of us are deserving of the great grace of the loving Father And for us then to be envious, because we've been more righteous than another, is totally anathetical to what ministers And yet, if we're honest, it happens more than what we're willing to admit. You see, when we give in to envy and jealousy, and sometimes we can we can pretty it up really well. Well, you know They've done this and and and this and and I have never done and and we we we we we sometimes um objectify envy because we know God's word says it so It's so wicked. So we try to minimize it in our lives. Well, I don't really envy. I just don't think that that person whatever Whatever it is. Folks, as we finish this morning, let's just be willing and we think about this particular trait that is so hideous to God. Let's just be willing to admit if we're struggling with it this morning, and if you feel called out, repent. Let go. Remember the grace that God has shown all of us. Let God honor who God will honor. That's his choice. Who are we to fight? Who are we to argue about who God will honor in this church But if we're constantly desiring secretly all the honor and prestige for ourselves, maybe this morning God's calling us to repentance. Maybe he's convicting. And so maybe he's saying basically, get in line. This is what I do. I celebrate when wicked sinners come home and they repent, and I embrace them You embrace them too. Envy and jealousy has no part in my kingdom. Let us repent of this And see it as the sin that it is this morning as we continue in this series. We have a lot more. We haven't even covered like we will next week on the nigga. Manipulation tactics and a lack of empathy for people. We'll cover all that soon. But let's go to the Lord now and ask for his help To not fall prey, and if we have fallen prey, to seek to live in a right way before him, humbly, in meekness.