Habakkuk chapter three. And uh we're gonna be spending some time in this the last chapter over the next few weeks so that we can just really take in the truths here because this is a dramatic ending to a powerful book And I don't want us to miss what's going on here. As God has reminded the prophet that he is coming. He reminds us today. And so we need to be prepared for his coming, folks. For those of us that have trusted Christ, that have trusted Christ, that are God's children. We're prepared, but we ought to even further prepare with obedience. Continued further obedience in our lives to the great king who one day return and visibly rule us. Well, we know, as believers, that that is our responsibility, but let's face it, we lose track of that sometimes. When things get really hard, when things get really frustrating. But even God's people around us don't act in the way that they should, or the way that we think that they should I mean, Lord, I know that some people need more growth than others, but seriously, this person needs a miracle in their lives. And maybe they there might be somebody looking at us thinking the same thing. But however we're facing, sometimes we can lose sight of the fact In our experience, when our experience doesn't match up with what we know from God's Word to be true, sometimes we can falter and sometimes we can doubt. Let's just have it out there. Sooner or later, even this week, you may find yourself experiencing some sort of doubt. questioning of God. Is it okay to question God after we've we've finished the first two chapters of this book? Well you ought to know the answer by now If Habakkuk the prophet can question God, then certainly God would allow us to do the same, but we have to do it out of respect for him. Right? We have to, we just have to share our hearts with him. Because our Heavenly Father already knows. God wasn't surprised by one word that Habakkuk Spoke to him in his questions. And then God immortalized it in Scripture for all eternity. But what we have to remember is we have to be respectful, and we can't demand an answer from God. What was one of Habakkuk's wonderful responses? to his questions. He said, You know, I've had my qu I've given, I've asked my questions, Lord. Now I wait. Now I'm quiet. I know that in your good timing you will answer my questions. And so I wait and I continue on in my responsibilities. Let's not forget that example of Habakkuk because so many times Christian Christians do the exact opposite. Habakkuk said, Lord, I'm frustrated. Here's why I'm frustrated. Here's my question. And now I'm going to wait for your response and I'm going to keep serving you. And unfortunately, a lot of times today We tend to do the opposite and say, Lord, I'm frustrated and I'm not even going to pray and talk to you. I'm just going to quit and leave. That's the exact opposite opposite of what true servants of God should how they should respond. Certainly we we need to share our hearts with our But then another thing as well, folks, as we looked through this, don't expect that God is going to answer every every one of your questions in detail. He may give you some general principles to remind you about who he is. And then he may say, okay, you have enough of an answer from me. And of course we have all the answer that we need from God. His word. We're so much more blessed than even Habakkuk and the prophets of the Bible because we have the full word. We can go to God's word and not wonder what he expects from us. We have it all here. And when he answers our questions through the working of the Holy Spirit, he does have the right. Remember at the end of chapter 2 and verse 2. twenty he says, but the Lord is in his holy temple. He was admonishing all that would worship those silly Non -effective idols that his people would make, take all this time to create this wood and this metal, and then sit down and bow down before it. And God says, that's foolishness. That's crazy. You're not going to hear anything from them. So you will hear something though. There is a God in his holy temple. That is real, that is dwelling, and that is worthy of all of your praise. So forget, leave all those idols behind. We saw this a couple weeks ago. And God basically, I think, here becomes the divine shutter. Let all the earth keep silent before him. It's one Hebrew word there for that verb, and it basically, shh, no more. Time for you to meditate. On the truths of who I am and stop doubting, Habakkuk, and be faithful with what I've called you to do. Well, none of us really like to be shushed, do we? And we have a hard time with that. But folks, when the divine sus shusher says silent, we need to Follow through on that. Notice how Habakkuk responds then in chapter 3. There's no more questions. There is nothing more than a song of praise. Because Habakkuk has gotten the message. He's been reminded. Oh yeah. Yeah, all those things that I knew about God, he's He's really going to do those things. And he's coming soon. And so after he is shushed, so to speak, Habakkuk then responds in praise to God. Which is where all of our questions should ultimately end, folks. When we question God and we have these concerns, and God makes it clear from His Word what He wants us to do, then we should always end in prayer Praise. Now it says here, I know it says a prayer of Habakkuk the prophet according to the Shiganoit. That's an interesting word. Well you said it was a song, Pastor Brock. Well how do I know that? Well it seems as if that um shig shiganoif boys say that fast five times This seems to be a musical term that's basically saying this is an energetic song of triumph. And so, yes, it's a prayer, but Habakkuk means it This is 's a song. A song to be sung with gusto and vigor and energy. Habakkuk is rejoicing and excited because he's been reminded of the The truths of God's Word. And whenever we're in despair, folks, and whenever we're doubting God, and God makes it so clear to us in His Word what we need to do and what our attitudes need to be. that ought to produce excitement and joy in us. We should never stay where we are in our despair and despondency Because if we're submitted to the Holy Spirit, he will answer us through God's word, and he will give us cause for rejoicing. So here we have a backing. No more questions. He is just praising God with energy. And so, verse two. O Lord, I have heard the report of you, and your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of years, revive it. In the midst of years, make it known. In wrath, remember mercy What is the package saying here? Lord, I got it. I got the message. Took me a while. I was a little dull. I admit that. And we can all be a little dull at times But when he understood, he said, Lord, I get it now. I understand. I'm reminded. And I have heard and I have understood. God and your grace, you have helped me to understand Again, who you are and what you are doing in this world. And I am grateful for that. I'm grateful for the understanding. Folks, do we just praise God for giving us understanding of His Word? When you're reading God's word, as again we should be on a regular basis every day, and he gives us that understanding from the Spirit, do we take time then to say, oh, Lord, thank you. I get it now That's what Habakkuk is doing as he meditates. And he realizes as we continue further with that verse, That the power and might of the Lord would be dramatically revealed to God's people. And to his enemies. But it's in God's own time frame. It's one of the things Abac kind of failed in, or he was, he, he sinned and messed up in, is that He was kind of demanding God to act within his own time frame. Lord, you're not. I know who you are, and I know your word, but I'm not experiencing you who you are, and I'm not experiencing Experiencing your word in the way that I think it so you need to answer and respond to me right away, and you need to fix some things, Lord. Um, I think that was what Habakkuk was thinking In his mind. You need to deal with these people around you. These people that are supposed to be your people and they're doing all these sinful things. I'm getting impatient, Lord. And then God, that was the first question, Lord, what are you going to do with all these your people that are sinning against you and doing these terrible things? And then God told him, and he said, wait a minute, Lord, I I question that now. Are you really going to use a pagan enemy who doesn't who worships themselves and not you to bring judgment upon your people? I'm not sure that sounds like the right way to go. You need you You need to maybe rethink that, Lord. And God says, No, no, this is my plan, but Habakkuk, remember who I am. I will not let sin and arrogance ride and reign and rule forever. I will deal with it. And Habakkuk, when I do deal with my enemies' rebellion and their anger and their pride, I will do it most effectively I will have the final word. So Habakkuk, now that I've answered your questions, shh. And Habakkuk now says again, Lord, you're right. I remember. Verse 2, let's look at that again. Your work, O Lord, do I fear. Lord, I'm in the right place again, because now I'm in awe and fear of your power and your work. I could put it this way, I don't know if this is too colloquial or whatever, but maybe Habakkuk was saying, I got a little too big for my britches. I got a little too airy. But Lord, I understand now, and I'm I'm humble, I'm submitted again, and whatever you want to do, I remember the power and majesty of your work. And I now, Lord, have a proper respect and fear I kind of lost that Lord, but I have that again. And folks, when we question and doubt God and we go to Him and share these things to Him, We need to be ready to then get in our place and again fear and respect Him as we seek the answers from God's word. Even if he doesn't answer all of our questions, that's frustrating. But we still need to come back and say, Lord, you are King. I am not. You have the big picture. I do not. I am very limited in what I can see around me. And so, Lord, I fear you, and I know your power, and I know that you will act in your good time. And God, Habakkuk says, I know that you will act. And so he says, Lord, I'm ready. The middle part of verse 2. Are you with me there? In the midst of years, revive it. In the midst of years, make it known. I love this. Because it seems I think this is my interpretation of this, but I think Habakkuk's saying here, okay Lord, um as you see fit, I'm not saying you need to have a I'm not imposing my demands on you any longer, but Lord, as you see fit, however long it takes you, in the midst of years, make your truth known. I long for people to know your truth. I long for these pagan enemies who will soon come in and take your people away and will provide discipline for your people. I long for them to know who you really are. And Lord, it's in your timing. I'm not putting any any demands on that In the midst of years, make it known. In the midst of years, revive it. But I'm submitted to whenever you want to do that, Lord. That's fine I'm just waiting. And I'm looking forward to seeing you make yourself known amongst all of these arrogant, hateful people. But then that last part is a beautiful end of that verse. He says, In wrath, remember mercy. Mercy. Not that Habakkuk had to remind God to be merciful. But God had described to Habakkuk that when he dealt with his His straying, disloyal rebel people, and when he also dealt with the enemy one day, that it would be a terrible judgment. That the all-powerful God is fully effective to bring judgment and correction against people that will not acknowledge him and that stray against them. Him. And so Habakkuk says, Lord, I'm ready. We're ready for those enemies of yours to see your power and to look upon you and to know you and your sovereignty once more. and for all, but Lord, in the midst of that judgment and wrath and anger, also I pray for mercy. Are we willing to be That today? Don't we get frustrated with politicians and leaders and people in our world today that just shake the their fists at the things of God, that twist the morality of God into something of their their own creation, as Paul said in Romans And the call good evil and evil good. And we want to see that turned around. I told you this at least a number of times now. I'm kind of hoping that when Jesus returns and we're all bowing before him and singing, that I'm allowed to at least look around and see some po certain politicians and presidents and maybe foreigners Presidents that are also bowing before the king of the universe. Maybe that's carnal, but I think I'm gonna enjoy that. And we want to see these people that have rejected God in their arrogance and are worshiping God. themselves. We want to see justice done and people dealt with, but folks on the other side of it, when we have a real realization about where they're headed and they're eternal destiny , and also ought to move our hearts to say, but Lord, give Him grace. Remember mercy I know your judgment's coming. I know you can effectively deal with your enemy. And you will in your time frame. But Lord also give grace. Grace. And again, I think really what we ought to look at this is Habakkuk acknowledging, Lord, I'm thankful at the same time that you have you have revealed to me that your judgment will come upon them, but I'm also thankful. That you are a gracious God, and that you will have mercy, and that you will bring salvation. If you think about it, remember Jonah? That's the one thing that Joseph did Joseph. Jonah lacked. He wanted to see God's judgment on the enemy. He didn't really care about mercy. In fact, Jonah got kind of irritated and upset when God showed mercy to those Ninevehites. Abacuck says here, Lord, I know your judgment's coming, but I'm also Glad you're a gracious and merciful God. As we are angry and justifiably appalled by the evil and wickedness of our world. In our nation, folks. We also should be at the same time moved to say what we know what is the end for those that reject Jesus. And so, Lord, continue to have grace a little longer so that we may proclaim Christ and proclaim the mercy of God. When I pray for our nation, I find myself praying that more often. Lord, we're not a nation that deserves any of your mercy or grace. We're a post-Christian nation nation. We're broken, but Lord, show your grace upon us a little longer that the church might proclaim Christ. Give us a little bit longer. So we can do better. job of that. In your wrath, remember mercy. The eternal God of Akaxin here will appear to work his sovereign plan and his works will reveal his power and greatness and his mercy And his appearance will also reveal his glory and majesty. And this is interesting. At this point, you have the prayer of the prophet. This is all a song. But for the rest of this, this is now God's answer. It seems as if starting at verse 3 that God answers Habakkuk and gives Habakkuk another vision. Remember, I could kind of sum up Habakkuk's concerns at the beginning of the book, where he was saying, I think it affects experientially, Lord, where are you? And all this sin and debauchery and brokenness. Where are you, Lord? And all of a sudden God gives him this amazing vision of his entrance In his coming. And so he prays, Lord, looking forward to you coming, looking forward to you making yourself known, looking forward to seeing justice done, but also mercy. And God says, Okay. Okay, here's a vision of what I will one day do. And now Habakkuk 's describing this vision that God has given him in answer to his prayer. This is really a theophany, which is a glorious appearance of God's presence. Verse 3: God came from Taman and the Holy One from Mount Haran. Now that's quite a bit of insight and helpfulness, isn't it? What's going on here? Well, you can probably get up some apps eventually And look that up. But this is how to summarize this very quickly. As the prophet is reflecting on his God, on Yahweh's saving presence with his people, he Sees this vision of God coming up. These are regions from the south, from Egypt. And just as Habakkuk at the beginning Beginning of the book was saying, Where are you, Lord? Now he sees this vision. It's almost like God is appearing from the horizon. He's looking south. Wow. That's God. He's coming. I can see him in the distance. He's coming from Taman. The Holy One is coming from Mount Peran. God is on the move. Headline banner. I doubted. But look, folks, God is on the move. He is doing what he said he would do. He is on his way. And then it's interesting, he puts that word sela. What is that? Interesting little word anyway. Is that something that folks tacked on later on to kind of help with? Well, we don't fully know. No, that's that's inspired, and that seems the best that we can In the midst of a psalm that Habakkuk is writing here, when we see that in the Psalms or in this song, it really means, okay, you have just heard truth. Take a moment to pause. And then Meditate on that truth. So Backup says, he's coming. I wanted to see him come. He's coming. God's on the move. And then he says, okay, think about that. There's some people that are really excited about that. God's on the move. There's some people that aren't going to be excited about that at all. Pause. Reflect. He's coming. And then this wonderful description of his splendor as like a beautiful sunrise, God's appearance. Erupts from the south in a brilliant display of splendor that really brings, elucidates praise from all corners of the earth. And so let's look at that in verse, the end of verse 3. His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. His brightness was like the light, rays flashed from his hand, and so there he veiled his power Here, God, like a sunrise in this vision of Habakkuk, he says, Habakkuk, I told you I was coming. Here it is, I'm coming. And like a beautiful sunrise, he appears over the horizon. And Habakkuk says, He's coming! And it's so bright I can't even look at it. And another interesting thing is that the very nature, his creation itself, erupts. In songs of praise. Folks, when God appears on the scene, the soundtrack of magnificent praise always accompanies him. And if it's not his people, then very nature itself, the rocks, the trees, will cry out in a hymn of praise when God shows his presence. And that splendor far surpasses the most beautiful sunrise. We get to see some beautiful sun rises and sunsets around here. I always uh loved to look at uh Marcia Russell's pictures because she posts some great sunset sunrise pictures. I'm like, oh man, what I wish I had that view. I was at a conference this last week and I thought, man, I gotta get over, because it was close to Lake Erie. I gotta go to Lake Erie. It's a clear night And I might be able to get to see a sunset. And I did, and it was it was glorious. Because things are clouded, and so many times around that area, if you get to see a sunrise, Or sunset, it's cloudy, but that enhances the blues and the purples. And it was glorious. And just watching the sun setting, and then It got dark. Well, folks, as much as we enjoy those things, or maybe you're on the beach and you watch the sunrise and you enjoy that, that is nothing Compared to the sunrise for all eternity of the sun of heaven that will come and erupt in glory and splendor. That'll be something worth taking time to look at. But you need to be careful at the same time. Because God says his brightness was like the light, rays flashed from his hand. more powerful than the sun itself. And so he had to veil his power, or we couldn't even look upon his glory. And it seems as if as God erupts from the horizon and Habakkuk sees him, then God says, You can't handle my full glory, so I'm going to put a veil on so that you can still continue in this vision, Habakkuk, and not die or lose your life. So I'm going to veil that so that you can continue to watch my glory as I come closer across creation to have a reckoning with the people that you're writing to. Uh we've had a lot of interesting opportunities in the past number of years, all of us, to to view some eclipse eclipses that the proper I know that Randy a number of weeks ago, and maybe some of the rest of you, they went all the way out to Ohio. Some of you were probably already in Ohio or different areas where that last eclipse where you could see it in its full glory. And it was beautiful. And some of these photographers up in New England were getting these amazing pictures. And here we are in Maryland just like No, it's not nothing that big a deal. Because we couldn't see. It was veiled from us. Well, in 2016 I remember there was another one of those eclipses that we were supposed to be able to see well and you know Leslie's in the middle of homeschooling and the boys were excited. And so we got these special glasses. But I I was I was probably a little overdoing it, but I was a little extra nervous. And so I was reading the fine print, you know, okay, if I use these glasses and the kids use these glasses. And they look up, you know, is this really good make sure that it's not going to damage their eyesight and it's not going to hurt them. So when they look at it, uh And and even as we put the glasses on and we went out and looked at the sun, they looked up, and you know, I'm I was counting the seconds. One, two, three, four. Okay, put your put your head back down. Put your head back down. Don't look at it for that long. Okay, now you can look at it again. Uh I was a little paranoid, I will admit. And there was one time I thought I looked at it too long and for the rest of the I was like, oh I think my eye hurts. Oh no. Because the sun is very powerful. And we can do dance to ourselves to stare at it for too long. And so what Habakkuk is describing here is the almighty power of God that if he were to show us the full display of that glory, we would dissolve in dust. We would be burnt up in a moment. And so he has to veil it. And then it describes a God getting ready to judge. Verse 5. Before him went pestilence. And plague followed at his heels. This now, as God is getting closer from the horizon, Habakkuk saying he's coming, it now describes God as being ready to prepare judgment On the earth. And it describes them pestilence and plague. And I think what Habakkuk is referring to there is that God is getting ready to, just like He did with Egypt, now send His pestilence And plagues upon his enemies, those arrogant people that God described that he would use to correct and discipline his people, Habakkuk said, now he's ready to bring punishment to them and the very plagues that he brought to Egypt, but an even more intense fashion of those. You thought the plagues in the e in Egypt Egypt or something, now God's preparing something even more intense for his enemies. And of course, this is ultimately referring to the end times. And so it's saying here that really God is bringing that word for plague at the end of verse 5 has the idea of intense heat. Probably fever or sudden sickness. He's bringing terrible illness that will dehabilitate all of those who oppose him in an instant Back to the city 's getting ready. Everyone be ready. And then this verse in verse 6 actually describes God preparing the earth for his judgment. He stood and measured the earth like the divine tape measure. And he looked and he shook the nations, and the eternal mountains were scattered. And the eternal hills sink low, his were the everlasting ways. And so as God is preparing these areas for judgment, I can just kind of pick This divine tape, this ruler or whatever, preparing them, it's as if uh the greatest um land structures in the world tremble The greatest mountains tremble as God prepares judgment upon the enemy, upon those that have rebelled against him. All creation and all nations, all mankind tremble. And the everlasting hills sank low. That's such a vivid picture that God, in a moment, he's so powerful that he can take the most beautiful, the greatest. The longest standing mountain range. And in a moment he could cause it to crumble. We were reminded of this in New Hampshire. There was an event that took place on May 3rd, 2003, that still affects the people of New Hampshire to this day. day. They lost the old man on the mountain. Now some of you might know who that is. I can show you a picture later. But in the White Mountains in New Hampshire, we've driven by it many times, although the old man isn't there anymore. There was since the beginning of the settlement of the people of England. Into that area, as they came by this mountain, there was this beautiful overhang of rock that looked like an old man's face. And so it became known as one of the main figures, and actually became Became the icon of New Hampshire. It's still on license plates today. I can show it to you on our license plate. And people fell in love with that reminder of Creation and of nature. And one person said, I'm reading from an article here , he was talking, they actually they started to realize toward uh the end of the 1900s hundreds that this thing needed some help because it was it may it may crumble soon. So they found some people to take care of it. And one guy says my dad took care of it. Um everything from birthdays with my dad uh near the old man. My wife and I had our second date near the old man. I mean these These things tied into our love of New Hampshire and our love of that overhang, that rock overhang. He said as a kid my dad told people that he went to the old man to give him a sh And a haircut. And they would drive steel wires and poles around this to try to keep the old man from falling. It was even in the early part, there was in the early 1800s, there were illustrations of this. But finally they couldn't keep it up any longer. They couldn't keep them intact. And the old man, his face fell. And it still affects people even today. One guy says, I do feel the old man was a part of what made New Hampshire Distinct and it was a connection to the North Country. It's wonderful that people remember it. He says it's one of the few things that we all have in common here. We live, we die, we pay taxes, and we love that old man on the Well that's quite a connection to a rock overhang that people thought would be there for a long time. It's always been, it always will be. And yet they found out in May of 2003 these things don't last forever. Even the most majestic figures, rock hangs on a mountain, has its time frame, has its location limitations. And that's what Habakkuk is describing here is that even the greatest mountain will tremble and will fall before God in his presence. All of these things, these beautiful things in these mountains that we look and say, that is strength, that is formidable, will last forever in the face of God. It's temporary. And so he continues here as we finish this morning. I saw the tents of Cushion and affliction, and the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers and your indignation against the sea when you rode on your horses and On your chariot of salvation. This describes as we end here today that only God is eternal. All creation, even the old man on the mountain, has a time frame, has a limited time. And as God is approaching from the south, all creation and all people are trembling as they see him prepare for judgment. And they're all asking this question: who's God gonna get it? Who's he coming to judge? Yeah, I know you guys can relate to this because we all have this feeling at one point or another while we're driving, do we not? As we're driving along and we're enjoying the drive, or maybe we're in a hurry and we're behind schedule and we're trying to get to where we need to go, and all of a sudden we see a beautiful array of red and blue lights behind us. And somehow that always reminds us, oh, I better check my speedometer. I better slow down here as they get closer and you're watching Everyone that's in front of that police car is all wondering, is it me? Is it me? And then we breathe a sigh of relief when they go by. It's like, oh, it's that guy. Well he deserved it anyway. I saw him driving too fast. But there's that moment of unease, isn't me? Folks, this is what Habakkuk is describing, the presence of God in judgment coming toward where he and the enemy Me are all of nature and creation is saying, uh oh, judgment's coming, is it me? Is it me that he's preparing judgment for Yes, there is that. And the sobering reality is that God will one day send his anointed one to deliver final judgment upon his enemies by the very words of his mouth. And they will tremble as he gets closer. But the wonderful truth at the same time, folks, is for God's children As he prepares for judgment upon the nations of the world and the rebels of the world and upon creation itself for God's children, he will be a chariot of salvation. He's coming to finally redeem the world. And we will be able to enjoy the kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ forever and ever. That is the mercy that the prophet talked about earlier on in this very song. Fury for those that have rebelled against him. Mercy and salvation. For his own. And this, Habakkuk said, was always his everlasting way. This was the way that he had planned and from all time that he would come. So folks, as we finish today The next time that you're tempted to doubt God and to doubt what he's doing in your life and then what's going on in the events of the world, just remember Habakkuk's Psalm here, that God in his time wills eventually with all of this. He will take care of it. And we need to make sure that we're ready when he comes. And he will come. His kingdom will be established in the person of his son. And for those that are still rebelling against Christ, I want to just have a message for you here. That you have heard, and even in the past few weeks and in this ministry, who Jesus is, and how He loves me enough to die for me, and what His death on the cross provides for us, and how to repent in faith. And if you're not sure that you have done that yet, folks, judgment's coming. You can turn to Jesus Christ today in faith and repentance. And then for those of us that have trusted Christ, the children of God, folks, don't let doubt and despair rob you from the joy. Of knowing that Jesus is coming. The Lord will come, and his presence is with you now, but it will come in a more glorious way, and it will be the brightest, most beautiful sunrise. And glory and majesty far beyond what we could ever imagine. And we don't have to tremble because Jesus Christ has taken care of everything for us. and we have his righteousness and we can rejoice and we can enjoy that sunrise in a full and eternal way. The Lord is coming. Judgment upon the enemy. Salvation and grace for those who turn to Him. Folks, in the end, whose side are you going to be on? Father, thank you for this reminder And my prayer is that if there are those here today that need to embrace Christ as Savior before judgment comes and final judgment comes, God is maybe preparing the world even now for that. We see in some ways the very pillars of society shaking He may be preparing for that judgment even now. Lord, help us to be ready. And if there's someone here who still has not acknowledged Christ and has not bowed the knee , to him as king and trusted in him as Savior. May today be the day that they would do that. And for those that are believers, are children of God, let us again be reminded that you are coming and rejoice, but also proclaim mercy. Upon those who desperately need it. And so, folks, regardless of which side you're on today, take some time and meditate on that. Choose the Lord and choose Proclaim him as Leslie Place. Be thou our vision, Lord. Help us as Habakkuk was able to see. Give us that vision that you are coming. And that that prepares us. That wakes us out of our apathy and our sleep, our spiritual sleep, and prepares us to proclaim the mercy of God. Of Christ again while there is still time. And Lord, for those that have apathetically chosen not or to reject Christ again, may they trust Him as their Savior today. May they come to me or someone else and seek out the knowledge or gospel of Christ