Trust and have confidence. That is what the Lord is calling Habakkuk to. Turn back to Habakkuk, Habakkuk chapter 2. And we started this passage last week. Hopefully we'll finish it in the next few minutes. Verses 15 through 20. And God in the midst of Habakkuk's questioning, Habakkuk looking at his people around And saying, Lord, how long are you going to put up with your own people's disloyalty and sin? Lord, you see this, don't you? And God replied, Oh, I certainly see It, Habakkuk, and I'm going to send a uh nasty, cruel nation, the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, To teach my people a very sanctified, purposeful lesson. But it will be a harsh lesson to learn, Habakkuk. It will be Terrible, they will be cruel. They will not even recognize me as Lord. They will worship themselves. They will be the epitome of arrogance and pride. And so Habakkuk said The second question was, Lord, how can a righteous God allow people like that to be an instrument of teaching to your people? They don't even recognize you as Lord. They're arrogant. They think, Lord, you're going to give them opportunity to have victory over your people. And they're gonna think they did it all. Well, that's not right. And so this second response then is what is God's second response to Habakkuk's second question. And his second response says, Habakkuk, I will deal with the enemy that I'm going to allow to overthrow my people. But I will do it in my timing. Because Habakkuk, remember, I am a righteous God, as the prophet pointed out earlier in the book. I will deal with evil, but I'm also a gracious God who gives pagan people and those who've rejected me time To repent. But there will be a time where that time of grace will be over, and I will deal with the enemy that I'm going to allow to be cruel to my people And that's this whole response, then. Look at verse six. We saw this last week. Shall not all these take up their taunt against him? And this is all of my people will take up their taunt and their scoff against And riddles against the enemy. He says, at some point my people will turn back around and they will scoff and they will ridicule the enemy who ridicules them. They're going to do this with scoffing and riddles for him and say, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own. And then here's five woes. For how long? And loads himself up with pledges. Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations. All the remnant of the people. Shall plunder you for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to the cities, and all who will dwell in them. And he says to the prophet and to his people, I may allow cruel people to mistreat you and do what they want, but I will turn it on them tenfold. Whatever they do to you, they will receive in much greater measure. And we'll talk more about that here in a few minutes. Here's the second woe. Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house. Set his nest on high. He thinks he will be safe from the reach of harm. You have devised actually shame. You'll be shamed for your house and by the cutting off many peoples. You have forfeited your life. These people that have murdered and killed and done such terrible things to the people of the world, God knows, and they will forfeit those Those deeds, they will pay for those deeds with their own life. For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond. Woe to him who builds a town! With blood, and found a city on iniquity. Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire? The end of the first truth that God is giving here. He's saying, All those people that have rejected me and they're do providing all this chaos and think that they own the world and that they're king on the mountain They are all their efforts are literally for nothing. They're of no value. And that's Habakkuk, again, chapter 2, we're in verse 14. God says, Habakkuk, remember this: that those people will have success, but their success will ultimately be worthless. It'll mean nothing. And here, Habakkuk is the only thing that will be meaningful at the end of time, and that is verse 14. The earth will be full. Filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And God says, In the end, I will send My son, the Lord, and for all eternity people will worship him, and all of these other enemies of mine will be forgotten. And isn't that really the case? Folks, would we even know of the Chaldeans of the Babylonians if they weren't included in God 's word? Probably not, except for archaeologists who really get into that kind of thing. And how about the people that overthrew them? The Persians and the Medes? What do we ever know about the Assyrians? With the low state of many of our education , Institutions today, we might not even know much about the Romans. All of these are people that God has allowed into power for a time. In fact, it's kind of amusing, isn't it, when you see these uh newscasts They do these or these talk show hosts maybe that do these um polls with young people and they'll ask 'em who their president is and who their senators are, and half of them don't know. Like I don't know. Or they get the wrong person. Or they'll ask him who is George Washington or Abraham Lincoln. It it it's sad in one sense, but in another sense it certainly does um Evaluate what God is saying here that people forget. And the very people that bother us, the very politicians that are in concern voting. I'm looking forward to the day when we won't have to vote again. King Jesus gets all the votes and he reigns forever. Amen. Story done. He's the only one that we'll remember in the end. So Habakkuk continues in verse 15, and this is one of those more awkward descriptions in the Bible. Bible that hey, you know, God has written his word and he's allowed to put in whatever he wants, but it's another woe and description of what he's ultimately going to do to the Babylonians, this enemy That he's allowing, that he will allow soon , to defeat and rule over his people. He says again, Habakkuk, don't worry, I will deal with them in the end. Verse 15: Woe to him who makes his neighbors drink. You pour out your wrath and make them drunk in order to gaze at their nakedness. You will have your fill of shame or your own fill. The enemies of God will be shamed in and of themselves. That involves personal and public disgrace. They will be publicly Disgraced for what they will do to God's people. Instead of glory that they sought after, they will drink and they will be commanded, God will command the enemy. To drink yourselves, and what will happen, what you did to those people will happen to you. Show your own uncircumcision. I think we know what's going on here. And uh just a little bit of explanation is I think this is describing more a spiritual reality, but it's describing the fact that the Babylonian Would come and pour out their wrath and cruelty and oppression upon God's people and upon the people of the world, and they would make them drunk with their own wrath. They would make life miserable. They would totally oppress and overtake these people. And then it says in order to gaze upon them, this is really Describing that they would then mock their vulnerability. It's a very vivid way of saying that. But that the enemy would come and God would God would use them to mock their victims and their vulnerability and just mock and tease how powerless they had made God 's people and the people Of the world. And yet God says, Habakkuk, there will be a time where I will turn the tables on the Babylonians, and my people will mock them. They won't get away with this Habakkuk. They won't get away with this mocking of my people and mocking in the cruel sense of people People that are um in held in captivity. Think even of World War Two and the Nazi Nazis that imprisoned so many thousands not only just made them vulnerable, but gave them no dignity and mocked and did awful things Things. Well, God dealt with the Nazis too. And God will deal with these Babylonians As well. Again, I think back on that public disgrace that happened to Nebuchadnezzar. I mentioned that last week. I won't spend much time on that this week. Nebuchadnezzar, proud and arrogant, look at all that I did. And God said, Oh, your time for bragging on yourself and disgracing and oppressing all people. Is over. Now I'm going to shame you. I'm going to humiliate you, Nebuchadnezzar, like you've humiliated so many others. And he ended up a wild beast in the field. Chewing cut. See, God says, When I want to, I can turn things around, Habakkuk. You tell the people, I can turn things around and I will, and this will not these people, these evil people will not reign forever. They will be disgraced themselves and publicly, and everyone will know who's really in charge. The end of verse 16, the cup in the Lord's hand will come around, will boomerang really back to you in utter shame, public humiliation. will come upon your glory. It will come back to them. And so he continues Verse 17. beast that terrified them. For the blood of man and violence, and that word violence again is Hamas. The blood of man and Hamas that the enemy that the Babylonians have committed God says the destruction that these Chaldeans will bring upon my people and upon the world will be a one-day marriage Back out on them. And their destruction will be permanent. It will be total. Really, this has that that that word overwhelm in verse 17 has the idea of being totally wiped out. I'm doing some research. Uh just something I enjoy doing in our family history, and found that the Maudsley family came to this country back in the late 1800s from Lancaster. Lancashire, England. And they came to Michigan. And unfortunately, they picked the wrong year. I found as I was studying that they picked the year 1881. That was when a Massive fire overtook the whole foam of Michigan and many counties. And it was from poor forestation techniques, and it was from high winds, and from some Some other fires that had happened in another part of Michigan, and it fanned those winds, fanned the flames, and the fire spread to the thumb of Michigan, and it just destroyed, totally wiped out land. Um hundreds of miles and engulfed families. There was one story of a farmer who took his family in order to keep them safe. And then he went into the house to try to save some things and came out eventually and to his horror saw that the fire had taken the field. Family with it. Everything was gone. We can talk about modern disasters as well, where that takes place. Floods, floods, tsunamis, where the The power of nature takes control and wipes everything out. That really is the picture that God is saying will happen in the end with the enemy. Habakkuk, I will allow these people for a time to teach my people a lesson, but I will deal with their arrogance and sin in my own timing. And even as we talk about fire, folks, let's be really sober here for a minute and evaluate this. What in the end is the ultimate Wiping out and destruction for people that reject God. We know this from the New Testament. It's ultimate eternity. Eternal punishment forever in a place called the lake of fire. And when we remember that, we remember then, right? We should. Yes, God will deal with the enemy. And it'll be more terrible than what we even want to consider. And Habakkuk couldn't understand how God could allow a cruel and terrible people To overrun his own people. But in the end, here God reminds him Remember, my servant, that they are facing the ultimate destruction because of their choices. And folks, whoever your enemy is today, whoever's persecuting you, who's ever persecuting us as a country, okay, who's ever um fighting and opposing Christianity We may tend to get mad and angry and say, For how long, O Lord? But don't forget the words of the Lord here, that those that they don't turn to Christ, those that oppose him Will be wiped out for all eternity. And maybe that will help calm our Desire for revenge and vengeance a little bit, right? Because the very people that oppress us even today, if they don't turn to Christ, they will deal deeply The ultimate, they will be dealt the ultimate punishment and the ultimate terrible future that is pictured here Why would God do that? Well, verse 18 makes us clear. What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? A metal image, a teacher of lies, for its maker trusts in his own creation. When he makes speechless idols Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, awake to a silent stone, arise, or stir up to action. Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, but there is no breath in it at all. Okay, let me just sum this up very quickly. Because I know we're all hungry. Let me sum this up. Why would God bring such terrible devastation and in context eternal devastation to anyone? It's because people will not recognize him as the creator of the universe and they literally will make, and he's describing being the Chaldeans who would shape their own images of wood and of stone, and then they would set them in places of recognition and say, wait, and say, Okay, I'm ready if you And God says to Habakkuk, these people are ridiculous to make something with their own hands and And then set that up as their God and that person, that image could somehow help them, that they could teach them That they could call to them, awake, arise, have life, and then help me, O God that I've created. That may sound ridiculous. Ridiculous to us today, but folks, we have some things, some theories and philosophies today in our own society and culture that are pretty ridiculous when you think about it. For those of the Rejected God, a theory that is supposed to replace the uh God that created the whole universe, that says basically that we all evolved from nothing. And yet in the end, there's no proof. There's no actual tangible proof that something can come from nothing, that matter can come from nothing And you have to hold on to faith to believe that as well. Those issues, whether we believe in God created us and have faith in that, or whether we believe And believe that matter came from nothing, they're both faith because there's no evidence. Right? Oh, we have the evidence of the Holy Spirit in our lives. And that's That's all that we need. But those that trust in evolution, really, in the end, is it any more ridiculous to trust in that or many of the other philosophies that people trust turn to when they reject God? Aren't they truly done just raising up their own images of false worship and waiting for them to speak? And God says at the end then of this whole thing, I have I'm uh I'm at the end of my Answer to your question, and here is the last thing. Here's my final words, Habakkuk, and all of this. Verse 20. The Lord is in his holy temple. And let all the earth keep silence. In contrast to this picture of someone that would make a false god who is quiet, and someone makes this God and then expects it to speak almost like Trying to be a ventriloquist as a puppet. That's how foolish this is. False idols. Oh, come on, try to talk. Here we go. God says, in contrast to all of that, I am the one true God, and I am speaking. And I am calling all mankind at this point to be quiet. The very opposite. Really, folks, in the Hebrew, you could say it like this: the Lord is in his holy temple. Tell the earth, shh, hush, silence, be quiet. We don't always like shushers, do we? We do that with our kids a lot. But as adults, we really don't like to be shushed. If our kids would be so bold to shush us, we usually have some things to say. How dare you shush me? Or even someone else? Did you just shush me? I won't be shushed. But folks, here in the end, we end this response to Habakkuk's second question, and God basically just shushes us No more. Here is the final thing that we must understand when we bring questions to God is that we must not expect that God is going to answer. Answer all the questions. We can certainly bring those to him. We can pour out our hearts to him because he already already knows that we're questioning. But God doesn't isn't Authorized, where he doesn't place upon himself the responsibility to answer all of our questions, and then there may come a time where God just says, Shh, I've said All that I need to. Here's my word. Worship me. Take some time now to worship me and be quiet and meditate on what I say. And when God is the Shusher, folks, better just to submit to that. As we finish next week, we'll see with Habakkuk and the the upcoming weeks. His glorious. There's no more questions at this point from the prophet. There's just praise. Because he finally gets it He's reminded the Lord is in control, the Lord is sovereign, and his ways may not make sense to me, but I trust them anyway. Just like today, the whole idea of God sending his son to die on the cross for us and shed his blood so that we could have forgiveness of sins. We don't understand Every aspect of that. We don't understand how his blood could actually cleanse sin. Even to the uh most fervent follower. Those things amazing And yet, whether we have understanding of every aspect of the gospel, we must come to it in faith and say, not my will But yours be done, Lord. I believe in Jesus that He died for my sin, that He took my sin on Himself, and His sacrifice, His blood cleansed And when I trust in Jesus, I get his obedience to your law, his righteousness, because he took all my sins. And he's all I need. And I may not understand every aspect of that, but I believe and I trust. And so then we have that message that we saw recently at the beginning of chapter two. The righteous shall live by their faith. Folks, you will live and have eternal life and escape that eternal punishment from hell. By believing and trusting in Jesus and worshiping him. And at the end, no matter what questions we have, at some point, it's probably just better Just to be quiet, read God's Word, meditate on its truth, believe, trust, and Worship the one who gave all for us. No matter where we're at, in our doubt, in our blame, and our frustration, as we talk to God God, it must lead us again to quiet worship and saying, Lord, I don't understand it all. I probably never will. But I love you. I trust Jesus. And I know in the end, I know in the end, you'll make everything right. Do we believe that this morning? Because in actuality, that's the answer to all the questions, is it not? Father, thank you as a reminder that sometimes it's just best To meditate on your truth and worship you in silence and in quiet. Lord, I pray that that truth will evolve even today, that if there's people Here that don't know Jesus, that they will understand that they are headed for an eternity apart from you because of their sin, and that they need Christ. And that they will turn to you and trust in Christ and put their faith and dependence in Him, and thus have eternal life forever and they won't face the judgment that's described here. Lord, help us understand. Judgment is coming. We shouldn't doubt that. It will come. But we can escape the judgment that's coming that we deserve by trusting in Jesus and His work and His taking on Himself What he didn't deserve, and giving us your righteousness, his righteousness, and our freedom from sin and new life that we don't deserve, but you give by your grace Lord, let us meditate on that. And those that don't know Christ, today may be the day. Let them quietly meditate on that truth and trust Jesus. And for the rest of us, let's put our questions and doubt aside and trust Jesus. And remember that you will work everything out in the end.