Folks, there's our hope. If you've come this morning feeling a little hopeless, I hope that through what we've sung already and the scriptures that we've heard proclaimed And these wonderful truths that you have found your hope. Because it is in the return of Jesus Christ. And we're going to continue to look at that this morning, turn with me again to First Thessalonians chapter four. First Thessalonians chapter four. And just again a little bit of uh alert here. We'll probably we'll go a little bit longer than normal. Not real long. I'm not too Long of a preacher, but these are important truths that Paul was emphasizing to the believers in the church of Thessalonica, and that we need to be fully aware of as well. Well, in summary, so far in our study, uh Paul has rejoiced with these believers in their effective Evangelism and discipleship not only to the city of Thessalonica but to the whole region. He has also exhorted these same faithful believers who have Have accomplished so much through the power of Christ working in their lives by faith, as we just sing. He also encouraged and ex Exhorts them to continue to grow in their spiritual walk, to not uh be entrapped by immorality , to continue to show love and kindness to the brothers and sisters in the local body, um, to uh make sure that we are following and we are being responsible with the duties that God has done Given us as far as our personal lives and as far as what He's called us to do in the church, and then we're not distracted by other people's business that may not be our Our own business. That we're not distracted by gossip and hearsaying all of these things, but that we are focused on what God has called us to do. Well, Paul Paul is going to in the next few weeks we're gonna see this, he's going to finish up this letter, and he's gonna address some real concerns that remember he sent Timothy to check on the church, Timothy came back and gave a report, and it seems as if in this report, Timothy said, Paul, there are some issues that this church is really struggling with. Not in sin, we've already covered those, but with their misunderstanding of eschatology. What is eschatology? It is future events, it is the coming of Christ. And he says, because Timothy must have said to Paul, because of their misunderstanding, they are struggling with great Concern and grief in a particular area. And so Paul is going to address that in some wonderfully comforting Verses, 1 Thessalonians 4, 13 through 18, that are read many times at funerals in the midst of the grieving process to remind God's people. of the great hope that we will see them again. Now, as we get to these verses, these verses are also used many times as a defense and teaching of the rapture position position uh that we hold to as a church, pre-trib, pre-millennial. That's important to us. Whole idea that we will be raptured from the Great Tribulation and we will miss that entirely. That is important, but I do want to make note here that when we come to this passage We if we're not careful, we can kind of skip over everything else that Paul has said and go to this passage and say, see, this is, or at least act like this is why Paul wrote the book. So that we We can have a better understanding of the rapture. Well, that's not really, that wasn't the intention of Paul at all. He is giving more information that's helpful, but he He isn't trying to convince them of his pre-trib position or give them some good material for some great end-time maps. We all like to look at those, and those can be helpful. But that wasn't Paul's goal here in giving us this evidence that we believe as a church family points to the certain rapture of God's people But this wasn't the primary purpose for Paul writing this book. With addressing a concern that these people have. In fact, if you'll look, uh, don't know if you've noticed this before, but the word rapture doesn't even occur in this passage. Or really in Scripture at all. Well, don't let that be disconcerting to you. As we study Scripture in the Full context, we do believe of in the rapture of the church. And again, to describe that, it is a rapture of believers. Jesus will come for them and then usher in the greatest Uh seven and a half years of tribulation that God will allow to happen on the world as punishment, and still yet call people to Christ. We believe that we will miss All of that. But the word rapture itself does not actually appear in the text of the Bible. Well where do we get that idea from? Did some creative leader just come up with that sometime in church history? Well no. It actually comes from a Latin word, uh rapier. I think I pronounced that right. It means rapid And the Latin word that that's taken from means we shall be caught up. So rapture comes from the Latin word, the Latin language which came after the scriptures were written. Okay. Well, where where do we tie that in with scripture then? If it's not there, if it's a Latin word. Well that Latin word was originally taken from the Greek word harp harpazo, which means to seize upon, spoil, snatch away, or to take to oneself, and it is used in these passages of And it's translated that way five times out of the thirteen times that it appears in the Bible and related Now, so just a little bit of a tie-in there about where we even get that concept in that word and what that Now, the rapture is an important doctrine to us. Um, but at the same time, we have to remember there are good Good people who believe a little bit differently. Some folks believe that we uh will go through part of the tribulation and then be raptured during the midst of the tribulation in the middle. That we're going to have to go through the whole thing. And then we'll be raptured at the end. And some don't believe in a rapture at all. That's frustrating for those of us who hold to a rapture position But we have to concede to those folks that the intention of Paul in writing this, again, was not to prove the rapture, but it was encouraging. For God's people that their future is bright, and that no one will be left behind in that glorious celebration when those of when when we are caught up Together to be with Jesus forever, no one's gonna be left behind. And Paul's using this then again to encourage, he's using this relationally like he has The rest of the book. What's important to Paul is his relationship with other people, that they're encouraged. Not that they agree with his rapture position, but he wants them to know That all of us will be caught up together and no saint of God will be left behind. Let's just admit it Life in this present world is hard. And the Bible refers to it really as spiritual warfare, right? That on this earth we will have spiritual warfare that the it will be a constant battle and I think uh as we go throughout our lives and even as we get older that becomes more and more apparent. Some of us get battle Weary. We just get tired. We understand that everything isn't as it should be in the present um in the present existence that we experience. And some folk folks we have to come to grips again because I think many times This affects our um attitudes and affects our disposition is that we still, even with that understanding, we still tend to look toward the things of the world world as that they will bring us happiness or that they will somehow bring us healing or or um satisfaction. And what Paul Is reminding them here in talking about what will happen in the future is that our ultimate comfort and satisfaction isn't in the now and now, in the present, but it comes in the future. Because this sin-cursed world is fundamentally broken. We don't experience life and peace the way we would like to. And Paul reminds us that's because eternity that's coming in the future. But this world will never function as it intends. And so we as God's people need to look forward to what will take place and not look, let me put it this way, not look to this world to be our paradise. How often do we do that? We get so angry when family members don't operate in the way that we think that they should, or when our job situation things don't go the way that it should, or we go through suffering. Or we have uh to deal with the the brokenness of sin and crime um and even people's um sin and and different things affect Our schedule. And we look at so many areas of our life and we realize this is not how I want it to be. This is broken. And many times we get angry and Frustrated. How many times have you gotten angry this week with something that didn't go the way that you wanted it to? With people that were just not operating in the way that you thought they should operate. In traffic. At the grocery store. What is ultimately one of our biggest problems? The Lord really, folks, has been impressing this upon my heart. And that is that we kind of expect paradise to be in the now and now, in the present. And we get frustrated when it's not. And yet what Paul says here is the paradise That we will experience for all eternity is in the future. That is our hope. We shouldn't be surprised by the brokenness of what's taking place now. In fact, in 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 6, I'll read quickly: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again. Again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you And it says in verse 6, in this you rejoice. Paul Peter says, you don't rejoice ultimately in the circumstances and the brokenness of the world around you right now, but you rejoice because Because you know that paradise is coming. A future eternity is coming that will deal with all of these things and that will provide us ultimate rest and peace and satisfaction. We should never expect to find ultimate satisfaction, folks, in this world. And isn't that where we go wrong so many times? This world doesn't live up to my expectations. and my family and my life. Well, God never promised that it would. Because we're living under the curse of sin. But we look forward to the future. And Paul is pointing these people then to the future for their hope. And there is a misunderstanding, it seems, from maybe some things that he has Taught them in the past, or perhaps he is giving them new information here, but it is about those that the Bible beautifully describes have already gone to sleep and are asleep. And Paul's going to point out here the future hope of effective ministry. Why do we do what we do? What motivates us to serve Christ faithfully? It is this future hope that we will be with him forever. That is what should motivate you. That is what should motivate me. And Paul says first of all points out there's a future hope for believers who sleep. Look at verse 13. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about the For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord will not Not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead Paul is helping them give further understanding that Jesus' resurrection has provided for the hope of those who've already passed and for those who have Those of us who are here living and breathing in the presence, that even as we read in Peter, because of the resurrection of Christ, by the way, which we get to celebrate in literally About a month. Easter's almost here. That's amazing, right? I hope you look forward to that celebration with joy. I hope the Resurrection Sunday and the Easter celebration is one of your most joyful times of the year because we celebrate the power of Christ that enables us then to have new life and to be able to have eternity with God. Because Jesus conquered death and hell, we will also conquer death. And we will live with Christ for all eternity through what Christ has done. His resurrection is our hope. Paul is now in these verses that I just read, it seems, imparting some new information. To a real concern that these believers in Thessalonica had. Something that we would all understand. They were experiencing grief in relation to Believers who had passed on. And again, they're described as being asleep. Do you know, by the way, that when Paul talks about death, for the believers, he talks about But when he talks about Jesus' death, it's the full, real, raw picture of all that Jesus had to go through so that believers in our death, we just fall asleep for a while. Because of what Christ did, death is not as scary and as terrible as it was before. But those folks are literally just asleep waiting for something to wake them up. The alarm clock of Jesus return. That beautiful picture of death was only possible through the terrible death that Jesus went through and through his glorious resurrection. But don't misunderstand here, Paul isn't admonishing Them in verse 13 at the end. He says that you may not grieve as others who do not have hope. He's not saying something trite and just um just kind of Of a throw-off, like, come on folks, stop crying so much. Stop stop being so concerned. Stop being so depressed. You have a hope Paul understands here that when we lose loved ones, those who have trusted Christ, that there is a deep sorrow. Why? Because in the bond of Christ, especially, folks, we share the love of Christ with those individuals. And when they leave, that strong love, we're separated from them. for a while. That's always hard. Nobody enjoys that. We've had two funerals already this year, 2024. That's that's not something you know that a pastor looks forward to having to do and we pray that um we're that doesn't continue this year everybody stay healthy But it's hard when that happens. Paul isn't minimalizing that here and saying, oh, come on, just get over it. You guys know what the future is going to hold. No, he understands that there is great But he is pointing out that even beyond the grief that we experience when a loved one in Christ goes to before. With the Lord, there is a greater grief. There is a greater pain. Do you know what that is? That is those who say goodbye to loved ones who don't know Christ. The greatest terror and grief are for those that say goodbye to loved ones who don't know Christ or don't have a relationship with Christ and they do not have relationships. That hope. And Paul says, yes, it's hard, but don't act as if you're never going to see them again. Don't act as if there isn't a greater hope. In the midst of your Grief, remember, there is a joy in knowing that they will be taken care of because they're in Christ. This aspect of never seeing that loved one again because they don't have relationship with Christ, that aspect of grief will never or should never be a part of our suffering. Sorrow folks, because it's inappropriate. We'll see our loved ones again. If you've ever been to a funeral of someone who you're certain, and I've had I think I've directed one where I was pretty certain the people involved didn't know the Lord. There is an atmosphere and a terrible loss and grief that is just heart-wrenching. Folks, as God's children, believers in Christ, we never have to experience that level because of what He's done. We don't grieve as others grieve. Why? Because our hope is grounded in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Jesus offering up himself as a sacrifice. And then his being raised from the dead, his victory over sin and death, provide us all the hope that we need, that there is something better than this broken life. Verse 14: Since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. Through the sacrifice that Jesus has given for us, God is able to provide spiritual and physical resurrection for all those who have trusted us. I don't remember if it's one branch of the military or a number of branches, but there is I remember uh I like to read uh stories and novels of different world World War One, World War World War II I've done. and have enjoyed just reading about the camaraderie that soldiers have with each other. And when soldiers get really close, one of the Commitments they make to each other, whether they can follow through on it or not, they're not always able to, but they say, Um, we'll never leave a soldier behind. You've heard that. And when they do, it costs Well, folks, in a true sense, we can say That Jesus will never leave a Christian soldier behind. We are all taken care of who have trusted Christ. But we still don't know the specifics of why these people are grieving. And that's what we have in verse 15. It gives us more understanding of why they were grieving. Over this. Okay, they're going to see, they know their loved ones are going to be with Christ, so what's the problem here? Look at verse 15. This we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive Who are left until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep. And then it continues on with verse sixteen. Verse fifteen, it seems as if these people Had a misunderstanding that the resurrection as an event that would take place, those that were living would get to experience that, but those who had already And they understood how joyful and they looked for Forward to that day when they would be resurrected and meet Jesus in the air. the first time. And they were concerned that the people that have already gone on wouldn't get that opportunity. Really, the single most important event that every believer would want to participate in, right? I hope that's the case for all of us. Jesus returned and run. Resurrecting of us. We all want in on that. And yet these folks thought, but those have died, they're gonna miss out on that. Well, I can understand that. Um there have been many events in our recent family past that I haven't been able to be a part of, and it's I told you this story a couple weeks ago. I'll just give the uh the quick version now. But that is for years as the youth pastor here, I had the wonderful privilege of taking teens to camp every summer. And I I will uh readily admit I probably went a little overboard as far as our attention with them. But I w uh myself, the clients and many others, we love to get into the action. We love to take pictures of the teens. Uh we had that presentation at the end that we would show and just being involved with them and seeing how God was working in their lives. That was important to us. I enjoyed that. I loved seeing in real time God work in our young people's lives. It was one of the great blessings of ministry still to this day that I experienced. Well, COVID happened and ruined everything. And we were planning on taking the boys to the sending them to the wilds of New York New England and there was the same expectation I had that I'd be able to be with them and enjoy the games and things. Um and the next sum they had to cancel because of COVID number in twenty twenty for that summer, but the next summer they opened up camp again with the restriction to the leaders and the parents that you had to stay on site the whole time in kind of a bubble structure so that you didn't bring any diseases or anything in. Well, we only lived 20 minutes from the camp. It didn't make practical sense for Leslie and I just to stay be down the road and stay down the road twenty minutes away for a whole week, waste of finance and resources. So that just wasn't uh possible for us. So I had to send my kids off to camp and I will admit it was killing me on the inside because I realized I'm not going to get too experienced and these are my own boys. And some for Kendall it was was his first time ever at camp. I'm like, oh Lord, I want to be there so bad. I want to experience everything that that they're experiencing. I want to see them enjoy. I want to see God working in In their lives. Why? We saw some pictures afterwards, but it just wasn't the same. I wanted to be there. I wanted to experience that. Our family just got, or Leslie and the boys just got back from a multi-day speech regional tournament up in New York State. If you notice this morning that they're a little t Tired. It's because they got back really early this morning. And I'm just thankful that Leslie was able to play the piano this morning. And so they're a little tired. But But Hudson and I stayed back and I had to hear o about these speeches and what the boys were doing through Leslie and that was hard too because I wanted to see them. They'd worked hard. Um they had Had a number of different speeches, Arden had debate as well. Um, and not being able to actually see them follow through on this, something they've been working on for months. That was kind of hard too. Well, that's what was going on. The concern that the Thessalonian believers had is that what happens if Jesus returns when While we're still living, and we'll get to experience that glorious moment, and all those folks that have gone on before us, they'll miss out. They won't get to enjoy that celebration Paul says, wait a minute. Here's new information. They actually will. Be there, and they will be able to experience it. And so he gives the details in verse 16. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command. Now, here is a list of things that will happen. In consecutive order, that we ought to look for these things. So this Paul says, this is what will happen at that resurrection. The Lord Jesus Himself will descend from From heaven, there'll be a cry of command. There'll be the voice of an archangel, probably Michael the Archangel, although doesn't say that for sure. And with the sound of the trumpet of God all of these things will take first in a detailed consecutive planned out way and then Then what does he say? Actually, you don't need to be worried at all, Thessalonian believers, because the dead in Christ get to go first. They're first in line. To enjoy the meeting with the Lord in the air. Thessalonian believers, your dead loved ones aren't missing out on anything. In fact, they What an incredible comfort and encouragement that must have been as the people read this letter from Paul and heard These things and realize, yes, that we will all participate in this resurrection. One of my seminary professors and former pastor, Dr. Gary Emer, said it this way: The resurrection of believers is as certain as the gospel. If you believe in the truths of the gospel, then we must believe as well. It's certain. We will be resurrected. We will have a new body. We will live with God forever, folks. That is our hope. We need to stop acting like our hope is in this life That's why we get so frustrated and angry sometimes. Well, things didn't work out. People didn't act the way that I thought they were going to. Well, yeah, this world is broken. Nothing Nothing works the way that it's supposed to. This will never be paradise. In fact, God gave us paradise, and we kind of messed that up. But he's going to be sending us to paradise in the future that will never be marred, that will never be broken. And that is our hope. And that is what we must look forward to. And yes, whether your loved ones have already passed away or whether we're still living, we'll all be together for the celebration when it happens. Won't that be a marvelous thing? I can't even the thought of it just you know going up together in the clouds and being together with the Lord. Well then you might think, Well, what about the rest of us? Well, verse seventeen then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. We will always be with the Lord. Immediately after the dead are raised with their new bodies, God will give them their new bodies. They'll be resurrected. They'll be with Christ in almost immediately afterwards. It won't be long. Maybe a couple milliseconds, we'll join them. We'll be caught up. There's our word, our Greek word, from what the Latin, we get the word rapture. We will be caught up together, raptured up together to meet Jesus in the air. Now, real quick, there is some other passages in Scripture that talk about a resurrection, that talk about Jesus coming to earth. Like in Matthew 24, 25. And it is one of the reasons why people have so many differing opinions, pre-trib, mid-trib, post-trib. Now we don't have time this morning to go into all that. So let me just tease you a little bit here. For those that come in the evening service, we're going to look in a little bit more closely of why people have different rapture positions. And we're going to go over again why we believe that pre-trib is the most accurate based on the data that we have And we're going to talk about what people that believe that will go through the whole tribulation, why they believe that. And it's a misunderstanding between these different resurrection passages. And we'll have a better, more detailed understanding as we look at it tonight. So there you go. There's some incentive to come tonight to the evening service or at least to stream in. We'll talk more about that. Plus, if you'll notice here, believers are snatched away. We're not moving on our own to run toward Jesus who is on earth, but we are literally being caught up Snatched away into the clouds, flying up. All of this leads us to think that the rapture pre-tribosition is the best. But let's put all that aside for the end of this, okay? Because again, proving a pre-tribosition isn't the point here that Paul's getting at. What is the point? The final point Of this whole passage is that the end result of all of this is that we will all have glorified bodies and never be separated from the physical presence of Jesus again. Ever, ever. That's the point. The point is to give us joy and hope, and that the dead that have already gone on will assuredly be a part of this glory. Reunion. They're not going to miss out. They're going to be there first. Paul is encouraging people with that understanding, not trying to argue. A particular theological position. He didn't want this to be a passage that would be ignored or passionately disputed throughout church history. He wanted simply to be an encouragement for God's people that may misunderstand the end times. What is one of our great hopes? Then, and let's take this from a pre-trib, a rapture position, folks. What is one of the great hopes that we have that Paul describes here? It's that we'll be taken away from that terrible, awful time of judgment called the tribulation that we won't have to go through that. Don't really haven't studied how terrible that time will be. We won't want any part of it. We won't want to stick around to see what happens in the Great Tribulation. We'll want to be as f Far from that as possible, and here we have the indication that we'll be taken away from that, caught up to be with Jesus forever. Time somebody talks to you about your rapture position, just be careful. I know it's hard. But be careful. Don't get involved in a spirit of argumentation, but rather point To them, as this is a great source of comfort that Paul intended for people to rejoice and not to be discouraged by. Paul offers it to us today. This is to motivate our service for Jesus today. That one day in the midst of all the terrible things that happen in this world, it will all be fixed We'll be with Jesus forever and we'll live with him forever. Folks, paradise is in the future. It can't be in this present world. I know we know that. Sometimes we Forget that. And many times we operate as if somehow we can create a paradise. Doesn't matter how many happy posts you put on Facebook or Instagram, this life Isn't a paradise, but it's coming. That is our hope. And we can serve Jesus effectively, be motivated. By knowing the King is coming and we'll be with him forever. Father, what a great, beautiful hope that is For all of us who have trusted in Christ, we can now be reminded again that we will see our loved ones again. Lord, I know there's people in this uh congregation this morning that have recently lost loved ones. And the pain is still raw and it's hard. And we understand that. And yet we know we are going to see those folks again. And they'll get there first. And we're grateful for that. Father, help us not to be so torn down and frustrated and angry about the broken world that is today that we forget about the eternity, the future hope that we have in God. Christ forever. Help us not to get so selfishly bogged down in the world today that we forget that there's a better world coming. And this isn't it. And help us to live in light of the perfect kingdom that is coming, the glorious light of the presence. Of our Heavenly Father and of our Savior forever, and let us long for that and proclaim that to a dark world that needs to hear the truth. As Leslie plays now,