That second verse, you realize we just sang praise to the Trinity there. And that second verse specifically talked about the Holy Spirit Children are leaving for children's church at this time. And we are in the midst of, as I have mentioned now many times, I just think it's a very good illustration and helpful. Paul in this wonderful description at the beginning of a Ephesians is providing for the faithful church, the people they're meeting in the metropolis of Ephesus, a large community, a large city in Asia Minor in New Testament times. That where the church was thriving, but they were fraught with many difficulties and many antagonisms Toward the gospel. Paul reminds them of all that they have in Christ. This long sentence of 250 words that goes from verse 3 all the way to verse 4. 14. We're finishing that up this morning. And we took our time through it, folks, because it's important because we need to see what Paul's emphasizing here. In order to understand the rest of the book. And so I've been referring to this as his fireworks display of blessings that we have in Christ. And so if you are here this morning and you You know you're confident you have a relationship with Jesus Christ because you're depending and you put your faith and trust in Him. And folks, we are truly a blessed people. No matter what What we're facing, the death of loved ones, the death of morality, perhaps, in our state or our nation. The struggles that you have on a daily basis at work, the difficult people that you interact with. The sin and brokenness all around you, and yet we have this reminder of all that we have in Jesus, and it is enough, it is more than enough to carry us through. And to make us long for him to return. That then is the point of taking us through all of these things. So we have seen God's and and Much detail, God's choosing of his children, his election, his predestination, and the fact that his children are adopted. We are we have been grafted into it's fully legal, folks, in the heavenly sense of the word, that those that have put their faith And trust in Jesus are the true children of the Heavenly Father. We sang this morning about Jesus being our brother. That's part of our inheritance. We have so much given to us the cleansing of sin, the forgiveness of sin. We're released from the curse of sin. We don't have to sin any longer. You can have victory in your life over the sins that beset you and that tend to conquer you. You can have victory. We have an inheritance that God has determined, that He has guaranteed for each of His children from eternity past. Folks, whatever guarantee you've gotten in the past couple weeks about something that you've purchased or a deal you've made or whatever, even the world's greatest deal maker. Maybe our president thinks He's one of those. Even if he is, pres President Trump himself can't offer the guarantee that our Heavenly Father offers us here. That we will receive all of our inheritance because it is decreed from eternity past, and because it brings him glory. Isn't that remarkable? As we finished up, let's look at verses eleven and twelve again In him we have attained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the Counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ, that means that those that Paul is writing to who were the first group of people to experience the blessings of Christ that would continue throughout church history might be to the praise of his glory. Yes, God has chosen us and loves us with An eternal love. And he loves you in an unconditional way. But folks, he's also made us his children so that That he would get the glory. And we should be okay with that. In fact, we should desire to want him to get the glory. Oh Lord, you receive all the glory for what you've done Done in my life and the blessings that you've given me, because I am so undeserving. I'm a sinful wretch without the blood of Jesus Christ cleansing my sin. sins, and so Lord, of course I would give you all that all this be to the praise of your glory. It being appropriate and ugly for me to take any of the glory in my own salvation. Or in the inheritance and the rewards that we have through Christ. It's not my merit or my works that has provided any of that But it's all our Heavenly Father and His gracious goodness. And so He deserves all that glory. And you could end there, but then we're going to see today in verse 13. The continued, the finality, if you want to say this, the final display, the finale of the fireworks display is something that we receive, and that is the third Person of the Trinity to guarantee that we are sealed and that our salvation is secure. Looking at verses thirteen and fourteen this morning in Ephesians chapter one, and we're We're going to see that our inheritance is not in doubt because it is assured by the work of the Holy Spirit. God, his spirit in us. Amazing thought. And yet for those that are truly God's children, you know the work of the Spirit in your own life. And can attest to that. So verse 13, in him you also, when you heard the word of truth, remember that's in Christ. When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, when you heard and when you believed, place your faith and trust in him. You were at that moment sealed with the promise, Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Oh, the grace that the third person of the Trinity resides inside of us. What implications that has for victory over sin. And yet, when we realize these blessings, we give all the glory to God. Because we're so undeserving. First of all, our identity in Christ is sealed by the Spirit And so let's look back at verse 13. In him that's in Christ, you also. That's those of you who have relation with Christ, those that are the chosen ones, and again, we've talked about all this. You read back through those verses this week and familiarize yourselves again with these truths. But in Christ, you also, when you heard the word of truth. Where do we find the word of truth, folks? It's only in the word of God. It's only in this book. And to the effect that all other All other entities proclaim truth. It must measure up to the truth of God's word. This is the word because Jesus in , remember John the gospel The gospel of John says, Jesus is the word. of He is the word of truth. Jesus Himself represents the truth. So these also, this is the process. You hear God's word proclaimed, and when you hear God's word proclaimed, it will certainly include the gospel That emanates from Scripture, the good news of salvation. And Paul, remember, Paul had the wonderful opportunity to Give the gospel to so many of these folks in this large city of Ephesus. He, him, but also others who he had discipled, they had seen, they had proclaimed Proclaimed the gospel that came, that was the word of truth from God, and many believed in him and trusted in him. And Paul is writing to them now. You know, this would be a good time. It certainly seems appropriate for me to offer this invitation as Paul does even now. Even now in this part of the message. Those here this morning who are hearing from the word of truth, that is the scriptures that God has given us, you are hearing even now that the good news of Jesus Christ that Jesus died on the cross, that he lived a perfect life and perfectly obeyed all of God's word, and so he was the perfect sacrifice that God offered up on a a cruel cross, and his blood was shed so that those of us who really deserved that death could be proclaimed Claimed innocent and be made free and cleansed of our sins You see, as we're talking about Jesus, you need to know for those of you that may not have a relationship with Christ this morning, he took all of our sins on himself. so that you could have his obedience that he earned on this earth. And he provides salvation, as it says here, the gospel of your salvation. What does that mean? That salvation from the curse of sin, the curse of eternal separation from God forever, in a terrible place called the lake of fire. We were deserving of that because of our sin. But Jesus took our punishment on himself. And we can go to him and trust in him and receive salvation from that terrible future and have the hope of a blessed future. Where we'll be with Jesus and the Heavenly Father forever in His presence, we'll be cleansed of our sin. And we'll sing His praises throughout all eternity. In a truly blissful state. Know what your eternal destiny is for sure. And maybe you're thinking, I don't know if I'm still under the punishment and the curse of sin and I'm heading to hell, but I want to head I want to know that I'm headed for an eternal heritage in heaven, then you can trust Christ this morning, just as Paul's describing here, and believe in the truth of the gospel. If you want to know more about that, please come talk to me. Come talk to some of our leaders, Dr. Mike Erickson and many others. We would joy in sharing with you the Good news of salvation through Jesus Christ that Paul refers to here. And so with us, those of us that have trusted Christ, here is the guarantee, folks, that we cannot lose lose that salvation. Isn't that one of the main questions? Well if I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ , can I somehow lose that? If if my faith somehow isn't enough, or if I sin, or is there an unpardonable sin, somehow I can lose my salvation. Folks, I want in these last two verses to put to rest, maybe I could say put to death the idea that for those that are true children of God, that you could ever lose your salvation. Salvation because it is impossible to lose your salvation. Because of what we see in the These words, because as soon as you put your faith and trust in Christ, you are sealed with the third person of the Trinity, the promised Holy Spirit. And that Holy Spirit is a guarantee. Let me make one more um reference to that phrase word of truth. This is interesting. Interesting from what uh archaeological data and scholarly data we have about the people in Ephesus at that time. Uh you remember in our our uh Preparations in our intro messages to Ephesians, we talked a lot about the people that lived in Ephesus and their reliance on satanic power. in black magic. And these people in this great city were worshiping Diana and they were fully enmeshed. in the occult. And what they would do is they would talk together. They would talk about how they had a word of truth from these powers. That they had black magic documents and words of incantations that they trusted as words of truth to work in their lives and to get them. them through. And it does seem like Paul is turning all that around so effectively in this, and he's saying, all those words of truth, those incantations, and all those things that you thought were effective. That you were living your life according to. The ways of the world, he says, I have given you, we have given you the true word of truth. And it is genuine. And you can bank on it and trust in it. Because when you trust Trust Christ. You can trust the word of truth from the gospel. And you have the Holy Spirit to mark you as genuine and real. I have a couple pictures here, guys. You see those in the presentation? These are pictures of ancient seals. And you know, we don't need archaeological evidence. Evidence to help us to fully put our faith and trust in the Bible. But it is nice that when archaeolog archaeologists find these things, that it does help support what we We've already been trusting in. These uh seals, this one in particular, if I remember correctly, this is actually, it was found not that long ago in Jerusalem An archaeological dig. And it is a seal of antiquity that was used at the time of Jeroboam II, one of the kings of the northern kingdom of Israel. Those of you that have been with us on our evening Bible study, that might sound familiar to you. This is one of the seals that he used for legal documents. And this is This is the picture that Paul is giving here. You see, a seal could function in a lot of different ways. A seal provided legal protection on a document. If a document was sealed, there were only certain people that were allowed to open that, and you could be in big trouble if you did not, if you opened it. And you were not one of those that were allowed to or had legitimacy to open a document. Those seals as well also marked personal property. They also used these wax seals. Well, at this time they were seals made of clay. Go to the next one, guys. This is another one that we It was probably used about the time of King Hezekiah, toward the end of the history of the kingdoms of Israel, not too long before uh Nebuchadnezzar came in and And took the people into exile. But this was another seal made of clay, and they would also use these to safeguard intellectual property and to mark ownership. These seals would say, This is mine. Do not touch. And so they would use these to secure legal documents to mark one's personal property. To say when someone came up with something and came up with a process or an idea, this is mine. This is kind of like a copyright. They would use us as well. And to make ownership. And so a seal had multiple functions to mark as genuine or real. To keep something protected and secure, to signify ownership. As I say those things, folks, do you see what Paul is saying and why he's using the word of seal in regards to the Holy Spirit? Does it make sense to you? All of these things the Holy Spirit accomplishes in us when we are the children of God, when we've trusted in Jesus Christ. That seal of the Holy Spirit signifies God's ownership of us. When we become one of God's children through the work of Christ, And as we put our faith and trust in that work, God says, This one is mine. They are sealed till the day of judgment. And they will be with mine for all eternity. Beautiful picture there. But also that seal of the Holy Spirit marks us as genuine or real. It says, these people are the real deal. They are truly regenerated. They are truly my children. This seal says you can have confidence. They're the real deal. And also the seal of the Holy Spirit on our lives protects our inheritance and protects us. And it means, folks, that you don't have to doubt that God is going to seal See you through till Jesus returns, your blessings are secure. You will receive the inheritance. You've been cleansed from your sin, and one day Jesus will stand in front of you and you will receive a new body and you will live for him with him for all eternity. And you can have confidence in these things because Greater than a clay or wax seal, we have the third person of the Trinity that seals us and protects us. And says 100% God 's own. Folks, that alone this morning ought to leave you. You ought to be able to leave your Encouraged no matter what you're facing. One scholar, Harold Honer, said, I love this quote, the sealing ministry of the Holy Spirit is to identify believers as God's own and thus give them security that they belong to Him. The very fact that the Holy Spirit indwells believers is a seal of God's ownership of them. You look back, true believer, in your life And you see the Holy Spirit working in you. Do you have more of a love for Scripture? Do you pray more than you used to? Do you trust more in Jesus and the things of the world just seem less and less exciting and important to you? No, we're not perfect, but folks, if you can look back. And see the changes that God has made in you, you know that the Holy Spirit's working, and that is a evidence that you are genuine. So put your We are sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. And that means promise, that means That was a part of God's plan. It was prophesied in the Old Testament. His plan was to always provide his children with the way that they could become more like his son and please him. In their lives. So he is, we are sealed with the Spirit. And he is also the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire the possession of it. Which means this. That Greek word actually means earnest, or it's the down payment of the Holy Spirit for our full salvation. In Greek times and New Testament times, this Greek word was an actual commercial term to describe a partial payment. made to secure full rights of purchase, a down payment confirming the attempt to pay in full. And at that time, folks, in Bible times, if you made a down payment You were saying I'm serious about purchasing this. If I put a down payment on it, maybe even sometimes by my own life, I'm saying I will be good on paying the rest of this. It's a little bit different. um ways that reflects how we use down payments today in different deals and and and loans and things, but it was much more serious. And so when people read that the Holy Spirit was literally the down payment or the earnest that they would one day be fully perfected, that they would be glorified, and they would no longer struggle with sin, that they would in fact one day receive a new body that would be eternal and we'd be able to enjoy it for all eternity. We may hear these things in scripture and say, uh, could it really be true? Is that really possible? As I'm getting older and my body's degenerating almost more every day, will I really get that new body one day? Does God really love me enough to follow through? And folks, the answer is the Holy Spirit Working in us, there's your guarantee. Don't doubt again. God put the down payment And it was the price of the death of his son. Many times when we put a down payment on something, it costs us something, right? It's a sacrifice. But folks, no one has ever had to put a down payment and uh at the cost of their own son. And the Father sent the Son to provide us down payment, to redeem us, to buy us back the sacrifice of his son. And he gives the Holy Spirit to us to remind us that he's good on the rest of it. So do you still have cause to doubt this morning? Do you still struggle with, well, can I lose my salvation? All you have to do, folks, is Look at what the Holy Spirit's doing in your life and the work that He's doing and say, My future's guaranteed. There's no way I could lose my salvation. I'm sealed. Think about it this way. Doesn't Jesus in the Gospel of John say that we are held, that his children are held in the palm of his hand? And then doesn't Jesus say that he holds us as well in his hand? And then if I could have someone come up here, I won't this morning, but if I could have someone Somebody put a third hand over these two hands. come up The sealing of the Holy Spirit. Folks, what the Bible says is God's children are sealed, are protected by the power, the hand of the Trinity. You really gonna tell me that you're gonna doubt the grip of the Trinity Our inheritance is secure. Your salvation is secure. And God gives us evidence of that by his very own person of the Holy Spirit that he gives to us. The guarantee of our inheritance until that day, that blessed day when we acquire possession of it. And we give him all the glory and grace. And so, again, folks, Paul is saying as we finish. Up this morning, you will see Jesus and you will acquire all the inheritance that God's children have been promised. It's a done deal Don't doubt. And so that those those words of truth, if I can use the very word of truth Those words of truth ought to blow up, ought to expel the whole idea, the phrase from our lips that somehow we could lose our salvation. God's word says it's not possible. You will be seen through to the end. What a glorious truth that is. So folks in application, I just think have you recently and in your work Or in a personal loan, or something that you've put your security into, your finances Have you ever had a financial or workplace agreement that you thought was sound and secure? That you were confident was going to carry You through. We do that with retirement plans, IRAs. We have all these different things that we place our confidence in and say, I I'm confident I'm gonna receive what we agreed upon. But we find out so many times that we're disappointed or that we don't receive the full amount. or somehow something that was guaranteed to work utterly fails. We live in a world that loves to downplay guarantees. In a world that isn't able to follow through on its promises. And we find ourselves cheated or disappointed Do you have a friendship or a relationship with a loved one that you thought they had your back, and they let you down? And you feel cheated. And disillusioned. Folks, all of those things I think are reminders of where our faith and trust needed to be in the first place. That our faith and trust is only and should be only in that beautiful spiritual inheritance that we'll receive one day. That we can guarantee on. We can bank on and we can have guaranteed for us. Because our Heavenly Father has sealed that deal himself by his own Spirit. And so as Paul finishes up this beautiful fireworks display of all that we have in Christ, what is the purpose of all this? Well, here's what I'm convinced it is. As we continue further in this book of Ephesians We need to look at these first verses and think of all that we have in Christ and realize where our true treasure and value lies. And then live lives that are effective witness to Christ. Live our lives for Him in service to Him. In dedication to him. Lord, my inheritance is secure. Your Holy Spirit is in me. I believe that. And so I'm going to dedicate the rest of my life to serving and following you. I'm gonna let go of the other things of the world that so entrance me and get me excited and energize me, and I put all my money and Effort into those things that are not lasting, that are not eternal. And I look at this list and I'm reminded again that my true inheritance is in Christ. And so that motivates me to serve you even more passionately. And the rest of the book is going to be how to do that. I think of one more thing as we finish up this morning, folks, that this reminds me of. And that is many times we get uh we we get um distracted about why we're even in church in the first place. Many co to church on a on a weekly basis And ministries are all involved in a type of consumerism. That is, how can I best please the people that are in the audience this morning? And many of the people come to a worship service in many in many church buildings and say, how can I be satiated? And I hope I get to enjoy this. And what are they going to do for me? What are you going to do for me? For me, Church of Jesus Christ? And yet, when we understand all that Jesus has done for us, folks, our attitudes ought to be what as we come to worship Together, what can I give for all that Jesus has given me? Put the consumerism aside And that's my prayer for you, for our church as the pastor, is that when you look at all that you have in Christ that that would cause you to say, What can I give in return in my local church? Instead of what can I get? That is a true mark that you understand All that Jesus has done for you. Are you mesmerized by this fireworks display this morning, folks? Oh, we've seen some good fireworks displays this last week, haven't we? Bright, loud, impressive. But nothing should stir our hearts and impress us more than the realization of what we have in Jesus Christ. And I hope you leave with that a better understanding of that this morning. Let's pray. Father. I have a simple prayer that if there are those here this morning that don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ, That today they saw their need because of their sin and their eternal destination apart from you, that they see their needs For Christ and would trust Him today and trust His sacrifice on their behalf. And they they they Would become your children and experience all the blessings that we've talked about in the last few weeks. And then for those here, Father, that are truly your children. That they would go from here reminded again of all that they have in Christ and be so moved and in awe And marvel at the fireworks display of the spiritual inheritance they'll enjoy for all eternity, that this would motivate them to serve your church and to serve Jesus Christ. Rather than selfishly sit back and say, What more do you have? What more do you have for me, Lord? Let us be mesmerized By our walk with Christ and relationship with Him. Father, as we think on these things this morning.