Receive we can see that we have all that we need to forgive others. And folks we must see that And so we're going to talk about forgiveness this morning. The Lord has laid this on my heart as we finished up our series on worship last week. I really think this topic is vital to Christianity in general. Our children can go to children's church as they're already doing. I like that. They don't need my help. But the children may not need our help to attend children's church, but folks, we need God's help to forgive. Forgiveness is so important, but to be quite honest, it's also very misunderstood. Because there are things where people hurt us deeply, and we ask the question many times, how can God expect me to forgive that? Or if someone hasn't asked forgiveness, what do I do then? We're going to see God's word makes that very clear as we talk about true forgiveness. He makes it clear in Luke chapter 7, verses 3 through 4. We're going to start there. You can turn there. Luke chapter 7 Will also be in Matthew and finish in Mark. We'll be in the Gospels today. Looking at the teaching of Jesus about forgiveness. And I may just have to say up front, I may have to ask forgiveness. This may go a couple minutes over than normal, but the importance of the truth here, folks, are worth it. He says, Pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. And if he sins against you seven times in the day and turns to you seven times, saying, I repent. You must forgive him. Why? Because in Isaiah and many other passages it says that God blots out our transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sin. Lord, help us in this. This is a struggle for all believers. We get angry and we legitimately get hurt in many ways. And it's hard for us to get over that. And we need again the clear resounding picture of all that Jesus went through so that we could be forgiven. So therefore, that we, regardless of the offense against us, would be willing to forgive others. Father, I plead for that understanding this morning For it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I always think when I get to this topic of a situation I had in growing up. Uh well one thing I guess I guess I have to make maybe an embarrassing uh revelation here. But my family, my mom, uh we grew up watching, you probably have some TV shows that uh were standard in your family. And I have to admit one of those in our family was Little House on the Prairie. And I still enjoy Little House on the Prairie, believe it or not, from time to time. Try to get my boys, hey it's a great episode. Oh damn And then they they really get into it, they enjoy watching it. But do you remember the main nemesis of War Angels Wilder was Nelly Olsen? Boy, she was a mean creature. And she could do some things that could get under Laura's skin. Well, maybe in one sense we could all point to somebody like Nellie Olson that we've had in our lives. When I was a teenager, I did have someone like that. It was an individual that just knew, and it wasn't someone in my family. Who knew how to push the right buttons to get me upset and to hurt in many ways by the things that were said and the mocking. Um and it it was a difficult part of my high school life that this person continued um to act with the way that they did at certain times. Well , as uh in God's plan, as he many times does, this person and I ended up at the same Christian college for undergrad. And we had kind of we had kind of called a truce. We're getting along a little better. But I still, still held some of those things in my heart of the instances that I And the pain that I had literally gone through in high school because of this individual. And we decided even to go together with a group to hear a specific message being preached at this Christian college. Um it was required anyway, so we thought why not go as a group if it was chapel or something like that. Umference. And this man preached an amazing message that was impactful about our need to get serious about our relationship with Jesus Christ as young people. And I remember at the end of that message something that I never really experienced before, seeing hundreds of young people go forward and weeping and broken over their sin and wanting to get right with God. And I went up as well because the Lord was working in my heart and went to the back and somebody there was multiple counselors there, one person uh was there to counsel me, and I looked over to my right, and here was this individual with tears in his eyes also being counseled. And he looked at me and had a smile on his face. And I smiled back at him. You know, it didn't take long for me to realize that he had changed and that I was changing and we were able to forgive. I was able to forgive him at that point. And you know, we had a sweet relationship from that point on throughout the rest of my college years of that particular individual, because I realized that part of growth in my life was being willing to forgive other people. that had hurt me deeply. And God gave a sweet spirit and a sweet friendship after that with that particular person. Well folks, that's not a limited experience. That can be the experience for any of us here in this room. And really, God expects that to be the case. As we begin to talk about forgiveness, really, I think that forgiveness is a good test of how well we understand God's grace. The more we understand The unmerited favor that God shows each of us, the more we grow in that, the more we're willing to forgive those that may have very well hurt us deeply. And so it is a test. Do you really understand God's grace? If we're here this morning and we're still harboring bitterness and unforgiving spirit towards others, I present to you that we have not truly understood God's grace in the way that we need to. Well, let's just get started with Luke 17. Here's the first question. When does God expect us to forgive others And we're going to see here in this passage that forgiveness should be given whenever it is asked for. This is what I would call horizontal forgiveness. That is, when a person comes to us, comes to you, and says, I was wrong, I need to be forgiven. Christ Himself makes clear that forgiveness should always be given That's horizontal. That's between two people. Well, actually three. We'll see more about that in a minute. But it's person to person saying, I will forgive. That doesn't mean, however, in this area of forgiveness, that sin is just excused and it's not confronted. Sometimes we misunderstand. Sin has consequences. So look at Luke 17, verse 3. Pay attention to yourselves. That means Jesus is saying, you listen here and you get this right. You make this right in your own life. Pay close attention. If your brother sins, rebuke him. That means that the sin is being dealt with. And then if he repents, forgive him. And then it continues on with the amount of times that you forgive. But Jesus isn't saying that forgiveness involves you just um glide over and forget the offense and you don't deal with the offense. That's one of the many misconceptions about forgiveness, folks Laws must be followed. Now I can give you an extreme example of this that we would all understand. Let's say that I'm counseling a family whose had uh they they lost a family member due to someone that had taken the light, a criminal or whatever, and I would counsel them that they need to forgive. I'm not counseling them that that um persons being convicted of that family's member's murder doesn't need to be punished for that sin. I'm not saying that that murderer shouldn't be tried and he shouldn't face the consequences. And if that family were to go to that individual and say, we believe it's right, we've given this over to God. And he expresses a desire for forgiveness, they should forgive him, but that murderer then wouldn't expect that he should just be freed because he's forgiven. Because there's consequences for our sin. So let's be clear. Forgiveness does not always entail that we just forego the consequences. That can't be the case. There is consequences for sin. But in the midst of that, we can still forgive our brothers and sisters in Christ. And it says here, if he repents, forgive him. If he says he's sorry, asks for forgiveness, you make sure that you give that to him. And if he sins even seven times in one day and turns to you seven times saying, I repent, you must forgive him. Some another misconception here that I want to just take out of the way at the beginning of this conversation about forgiveness, and that is that somehow we need to forget the offense. That forgiveness for us means somehow we just forget it or we wipe it away from our memory. Folks, I would not counsel that because, in a very practical sense, we know that's impossible. Some people hurt us deeply enough that we can never forget that offense in this life. It's not impossible for human beings. It isn't possible possible for us to forget all of those things that were done wrong against us. Well, where do we get this idea that somehow we should just forget? And I think some people bring it back up in their mind and they feel guilty about even thinking about it again. Well, I've forgiven that. It shouldn't come up again. I think part of it is because we hear passages of God describing his forgiveness towards us Isaiah 43, 25, God says, I, I am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins. And that is that beautiful description of God 's forgiving work in our lives that he does not hold our sin against us. It's his work that he's able to cleanse our sin and he doesn't hold it for us against us when we come to him and repent and certainly come and accept. Accept Christ as our Savior. God sweeps, He He cleanses those sins. God is sovereign. It doesn't mean I don't believe that God somehow forgets about our sin. But it means that he doesn't hold it against us anymore. But listen, because God can do that doesn't mean that he expects us to never think of wrongs that are done to us or feel the hurt, folks. When we forgive someone else, that doesn't mean that the hurt goes away. God can give healing. God can help. But he doesn't expect us to forgive He expects us to give it over to him and let his grace work. We can't do the work of God in redeeming and cleansing. It's not our job. But we must forgive. What is forgiving then? Well the very word forgiveness means releasing, to let it go, to not hang on to that offense any longer. And again, Jesus makes it clear in this passage that if someone comes to you and asks for forgiveness, then give it and release that offense. And don't hold it against them any longer. Now, sometimes we read over this without really thinking it through. We might think, okay, seven times in one day, alright, I understand that I need to do that. But do we really? How often are we willing to forgive even people that irritate us when it keeps happening in one day? Somebody says a comment that irritates you. Like, okay, I need to forgive you Forgive. I forgive you. He asked for forgiveness. He comes back, or she comes back a little bit later, says the same thing. A couple hours later. Oh, I'm sorry. I need to forgive. Alright, even that second time it's like, okay, I'll forgive. Third time on one day that person does something irritating to you or takes something from you or hurts you. We're up to three times, folks, and I think we know. That is wr we start to get really irritated and we know we have to forgive But by the time we get to seven, that same person in one day, I think by about four or five, we're pretty much done. And we think we're saints for putting up with it for that long. Seven times in one day? Yes, if that person comes to you and offends you seven times or more in one day, forgive them. Jesus is requiring us to forgive. There's three people in the midst of a forgiveness transaction. And if the offender is willing to repent, it is a responsibility in repentance that they apologize, that they say that they're sorry and that we must forgive because the transaction is between us, that person, but there's a third person. It's between God. We say before God, I will forgive you because you've asked for forgiveness. And however many times I need to do that, I'll be willing to do that. That's a hard concept with adults. Many years ago, when our children were young, and we had heard this preached, And we had considered this. We had plenty of opportunities for our boys to seek forgiveness and to do what was right And so when it came time, when we addressed the issue of the wrongs that had happened between an altercation between our voice It wasn't enough. We didn't feel like it was just right to have the one boy go to the other boy and say, I'm sorry, because many times it ended up something like this. I'm sorry Well, that doesn't really look like you're really understanding the spirit behind it And so what we required of them, what we asked them to do, is not just to say that they were sorry, but also to say that they were wrong, and will you forgive me? I'm sorry, I was wrong in that instance. Will you forgive me? That's hard for a voice, for young children to do. But folks, let's be honest, that's hard for adults to do. I'm sorry, I was wrong. Will you forgive me? And yet, if we have offended another person, that is exactly what needs to take place for true forgiveness to take place. And then the offended needs to say, I will forgive you, because God has forgiven me and He is watching. He is a third person in this transaction, and so I will forgive. There's a great book called The Peacemaker written by an author named Ken Sanders. I love this. He gives four promises of forgiveness. And I think this ought to be a part of forgiveness. Number one, I will not think or meditate about this incident as much as is possible. Number two, I will not anymore bring this incident up and against and use it against you. Number three, I will not talk to others about this incident. Once it's forgiven, we're done. Case closed. Number four, I will not allow this incident to stand between us or hinder our personal relationship And folks, if we have offered forgiveness to someone and we keep bringing it up, that's wrong. It's sin. It is not true forgiveness. We must not allow it to stand between our fellowship any longer once it's forgiven. Well, that's hard. Even that description that I just gave, that's very difficult to do in practice, is it not? And that's why we have this next passage to remind us. Of how we can forgive in that way. Turn to Matthew 18. This is the very familiar passage of the man that had the great debt. And was forgiven. But had his own trouble with forgiveness Matthew chapter 18, verses 21 through 35. Sin needs to be confronted. Sinners need to be forgiven when asked for. But when we don't give that forgiveness, what we see in this passage is forgiveness withheld from others brings us misery. And so we must be willing to forgive continually. Look at verse 21. Then Peter came up and said to him, that's Jesus. Lord, how often will my brother sin against me, and I forgive him as many as seven times? And Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. Now I think what was going on here personally as I read this, I think that Peter came up to Jesus in the midst of the other disciples I should mention that the expected forgiveness ratio among the leaders of the religious leaders of that time was three times. You forgive three times, the religious leaders would give allowance for this, and then after that, you know, they've had their chance, you don't have to worry about it anymore So I think Peter was going to Jesus here in front of the other disciples and kind of trying to make himself look good. So Jesus, this whole thing about forgiveness, I'm willing to forgive at least seven times. Doesn't that make I mean that's four times more than the religious leaders expect? That's a whole lot better than three, right? And Jesus says, well, that's a start. But how about this, Peter? Seventy-seven times. Or in some translations, it's 70 times 7. So then we have kind of a little bit of a confusion here. Does that mean some translations say it's 77 times, or is it 70 times 7, which would make it 490? Well which is it? Because we got to know. Because I gotta be able to, if I'm gonna forgive someone, I gotta count off those 70 or those score ninety, or I think you know I'm being a little ridiculous Okay. Because is it really the point that we're able to some of you mathematicians probably loved that, right? It's gotta be 490. Is that really the point, folks? No, the point is it doesn't matter the number. Forgive as often as you have to So Peter, you forgive as often as that person comes to you. As often as the opportunity is given to forgive, you forgive regardless of the number count. And to emphasize that then, Jesus gives this well-known parable here. And that is, folks, when we refuse to forgive, we literally disregard God's grace. that he gives to us through the sacrifice of his son. Verse 23, therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king. who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him 10,000 talents. Now we hear that and we think, well, 10,000 is a big number, but we really don't know what talents mean, so it kind of eludes us how big this is. Some scholars have taken this amount and applied it to today's terms and said it represents maybe as much as 20 years' wages or more. Others have said this could be around six billion dollars. Well what does that mean then? Not again that we get focused on the amount, but folks, this is a debt that this person will never be able to pay. None of us can pay six billion dollars back. This man hears that he owes this debt from this king and he realizes the sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach, I'll never be able to repay that. I'll never have that kind of money. And what is that a picture of then, folks? That's a picture of our sin debt before God. We can never repay what we owe. And so we deserve the full punishment that God has to meet out because of that sin death. We owe more than six million dollars. And we need to keep that mindset before us at all times I believe here that Jesus is addressing believers with this commandment. And that he's picturing forgiveness is release from a debt. You can't pay this debt. I release you from it. And Jesus, folks, did that when he died on a cross and shed his blood and was tormented for our sin. He paid the debt that none of us in this room could ever pay. And we are provided forgiveness of sin through Jesus' sacrifice. So what is our response to that? To take him up on his offer and receive that repayment and receive the forgiveness of that debt. That's exactly what this man did. And since he could not pay his master ordered him to be sold. There's the punishment, and his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made. In in this time If you owed a debt that you couldn't pay, you literally not just lost the shirt off your own back, so to speak, but your family was sold into slavery, and many times they were never seen again. And this man realizes he's about to lose it all. And so he bows down and says, imploring him, have patience on me, and I will pay you everything. I don't have the ability to pay you this debt. Well, that's not what he said, is it? That's the truth. But this man is deluding himself. He thinks that maybe somehow he can pay it. The point is it's a very it's a pathetic picture of a man who is desperate. He's going to lose everything. And he's seeking help. Please help me. And what does the king do? This beautiful verse of grace, folks, verse 27, and out of pity for him, out of compassion. The master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. He forgave him all. Do we realize, do we remember on a regular basis that Jesus forgave us all? Then why do we still have trouble forgiving others? It's a simple question, right? But profound. I would suggest that the more that we hang on to our bitterness of others, the less we have reflected on all that Jesus Christ has done for us. And suffer for us. And so we may be called, once we're forgiven, and we will be called, count on, to forgive someone Who has also a costly debt toward us, but in comparison, it's so much less. Well, we would hope the story's if the story stopped there it would be great. He's forgiven. He gets to keep his family and kids. Praise the Lord. But unfortunately, we have this second part of the story, right? And it starts at verse 28. When that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. Now that was probably a few days' wages. And would you agree with me, folks, before we just totally dismiss this, if you lost a three to a whole week's worth of wages, would that be a financial hit and a hardship to you? I would say that it would be. The point is there's real hurt involved here. And that's not let's not discount that. Nobody wants to lose that amount of money. That can prove to be very difficult. That can be painful for us, hurtful. Difficult. But what are we going to do when we have legitimate hurt and loss that's the product of another person? I don't want to discount folks who are hurt this morning. Each one of us here has been hurt and some deeply by someone else. And I don't want to just gloss that over and say, oh, I just forget and forget. No. Sometimes some people do to us really do hurt. And they're hard. Well, what do we do with those things that really hurt and we have an opportunity to forgive? Well, this man unfortunately chose the wrong way. And he seized him and he began to choke him, taking out his anger on me. You could see his face getting red. Pay what you owe And so his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, have patience with me, and I will pay you the same grace he is asking of this man who had received so much grace for so much more And when his fellow servants saw, oh, excuse me, verse 30, he refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt I don't like to see people hurt folks. We have one of our boys in particular, but our boys in general, they had a certain pride when they were younger, not so much anymore. When they were little, you could tell by their cry and by their frustration whether they were really hurt or whether they were just irritated and there were those times where I could tell that one in particular was really hurt and in despair and that would make me angry It just it was almost like a setting off an alarm in me that says, you need to deal with that because you have a small child that's hurting. It's that you know that father, that parent protection thing that needs to be dealt with. Well folks, just as a parent, I hate to see my kids hurt. I hate for them to see go through difficult things as a pastor. I hate to see our congregation and our folks go through difficult things and hurtful things. And I have been hurt deeply myself in many ways over the years. And I don't want to pass over that. I want to acknowledge that there are painful things that we have to deal with, but listen to me. Here is the most important thing about this Regardless of what's happened to you or what's happened to me, no one has nailed us to a cross and put nails in our hands and our feet because of someone else's sin. None of us have had to go through that. And so don't you think that when we compare the two That really we need to be more willing to forgive those very hurtful things when we're called to do that. Folks, if we don't, the rest of this passage is for us. We are condemning ourselves to misery when we refuse to forgive. Look at verse 31. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed. And they went and reported to their master all that had taken place, this ugly picture of this unforgiving servant. Then his master summoned him and said to him, You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. And should you not have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And even the greatest hurt that we have to suffer, that question is for each of us. Should you not have mercy? Should you not have mercy? The question is, of course, for all that Christ has done for us. And in his legitimate anger, verse 34, his master delivered him over to the jailers until the He should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart. This is misunderstood and therefore I think we lose the immediacy of this. But what is happening here? Well, this man is being thrown into prison. And some commentators and some people have looked at this and said, well, this must be imprisonment in hell. This is eternal punishment. But is it really? Because if we interpret it that way, then it says, until he should pay all his debt. So it does seem to indicate that there may be some way for him to pay his debt in the future, but the debt is too great And remember what we said at the beginning, this is referring to believers. So can believers, if they don't forgive, actually be thrown into torment for all eternity? We know from other passages of Scripture, folks, that can't be the right interpretation. So what is it? It's even more poignant for believers. And this is a picture for believers, and this is what I believe Jesus is saying here: that when in our bitterness and anger we will not forgive, we are thrown into a prison. of bitterness and hate and guilt that keeps us captive until we forgive God withholds fellowship, and we are tormented by our anger and guilt. I believe that's the right interpretation because, folks, I've seen Christians who seem like some of the most miserable people on the planet. Angry, bitter. And they're believers. But they're imprisoned because they won't forgive. And can I encourage you folks as someone who has experienced this in my past, when you let go of that offense and give legitimate forgiveness, Because of all that Jesus has done for you, there is such a sweetness and a joy that comes flooding back. I guarantee you, when you forgive that person that has hurt you so much, there is a sweet joy And rest that comes that God intended that totally over overblows anything that you were frustrated about before God wants us to experience that kind of freedom, but we have to be willing to forgive all people in the way that Jesus was willing to forgive us in an even deeper way. And let it go. Well, there's one more thing here as we finish up. I told you we're going a little long this morning. Turn to Mark 11. Won't be too much longer. Now for those of you who are thinking through this, you might come to the point, well then Pastor Brock, that's great. Okay, you've described horizontal forgiveness between two people, the person has come to you. Ask forgiveness, and so I forgive them before God, we're good. That's right. Well, what do you do when the person doesn't ask for forgiveness? Aha. Now I'm legitimate in being angry and frustrated then, right? Now I can give in to my desire to to be angry and bitter and maybe even hatred toward them because they are not going to ask for forgiveness so it's all legitimate. Well this passage shows us that is obviously not correct. But what do we do? Because legitimate forgiveness, forgiveness can only take place, and let me be clear here, if that person has asked for it. We can't forgive in the way that Jesus can, right? We can't forgive other people's sin. We can't provide cleansing for that. That's not possible. So, in one sense, there's a type of forgiveness I can't give. That's the forgiveness that Jesus gives us. So if that person doesn't come to me and ask for it, what do I do? This passage shows us then what I call vertical forgiveness, and that forgiveness then must be given over to God when unsought. Mark 11, 25 and 26. And whenever you stand praying, forgive. And if you have anything against anyone, in other words, if anyone has done or hurt you in any way , And you are meditating on that while you're praying? So that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. It says, forgive if you have anything against anyone, so that God will forgive you, provide healing. But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your trespasses. Now, this makes the point. If you look through this, how many people are involved in this transaction? There were three before. There's only two. It's the person who's been hurt that's God. So what do you do? Well, first of all, I think part of this is that you should make an attempt to let people know when they've wronged us. Folks, sometimes people don't know. The question is, what do you do when people won't haven't asked for forgiveness? And sometimes I'm convinced that people don't know that they've hurt us. And we have to then decide, have I been offended enough that I need to go to that person? And let me just say in our society today, I think you would agree with me, too many people are too easily offended by Small things. So we have to decide, first of all, is this important enough for me to go to that person and seek forgiveness and let them know they've hurt me, or do I just let it go? If it's deep enough that you need, and you let that other person know, and they will not ask for forgiveness, what do you do? It says here, forgive. And it has the idea then, forgive. This means to give it, release it, but who do I release it to? Folks, you release it to God Vertical forgiveness. I can't forgive that person. They haven't asked for it, but God, I'm bitter, I'm angry, I'm frustrated. I'm going to release this to you. And you deal with it because it's too much of a burden for me. And that's an area, folks, who's better to deal with your anger and hurt? You or God? Our Heavenly Father can much better handle the situation than we can, but so often we take it on ourselves. I'm going to be angry and frustrated with that person until they repent. And God says, no, just give it to me. Give the full wrong to God. Well, what good does that do? Well the benefit is for those who have been hurt, for those that have been offended. They can maintain their fellowship with God He will, this has a picture of continuing that sweet fellowship with God because we don't have that angry and that bitterness, bitter hurt holding us back from that any longer. Again, that author from The Peacemaker, he says this will keep you in a position of forgiveness in which you pray for the other person and are ready to pursue complete reconciliation as soon as they repent. You're not angry anymore. You're ready. Lord, you do the work. That's your job. And I was trying to do your job. And I need forgiveness for that. And now I'm going to wait, you do your work, and I'm ready whenever they come, because I'm not angry and I'm not bitter anymore. And true forgiveness can take place. Maybe you're not convinced yet. I have a story here that I found is very poignant and helpful on this issue. has to do with a lady named Corey Tinboom. You've probably heard her name before. She was during the Holocaust She was gathered together with her sister and her father and taken toward the very end of the war. They lived in Europe and they were taken at the very end of the war to concentration camps. And unspeakable things were done to them. But in God's province, Cory was released during due to a clerical era, just one week before the other women in Ravensbrook, her age, were executed. God spared her. And so in thankful gratitude, she literally went all over the world to tell people about his salvation and deliverance in her life. But there was one service that was particularly sobering for her. It was a church service in Munich. She was sharing the need of forgiveness, and she was confronted with her need. in a very direct way. She says, it was at the church service in Munich that I saw him, the former SS man, who had stood guard at the shower room door in the processing center at Ravensbrook. He was the first of our actual jailers that I had seen since that time, and suddenly it all came back. The room full of mocking men, the heaps of clothing, my sister's pain-blanched face. And this man came up to me as the church was emptying. And he was bowing and beaming. How grateful I am for your message, Frona. said, to think that as you say, he has washed my sins away. His hand was thrust out to shake mine, and I, who had preached so often to so many people that need to forgive, I kept my hand at my side. And even as the angry, vengeful thoughts boiled through me, I saw the sin of them. Jesus Christ had died for this man. Was I going to ask for more? Lord Jesus, I prayed, forgive me and help me to forgive him. I tried to smile. I struggled to raise my hand. I could not I felt nothing, not the slightest spark or warmth or charity. And I again breathed that silent prayer. Jesus, I cannot forgive him. Give me your forgiveness. And as I took his hand, the most incredible thing happened. From my shoulder along my arm and through my hand, the current seemed to pass from me to him While into my heart sprang a love for the stranger that almost overwhelmed me. And so I discovered that it is not on our forgiveness any more than on our goodness. But he is the one that does the work. He gives, along with the command, the love itself. And so as we finish this morning, folks, the question is, is there people that it's too hard for you to forgive that you don't want to let go of that offense for? Certainly. You might say, Pastor Brock, I can't do it. I can't forgive. It's not possible. And you would be right in that. It's only through the power of Jesus Christ in our lives that we can forgive. But it is possible to allow forgiveness to take place. All that Jesus went through, folks We've never been nailed to the cross. We've never faced a concentration camp. Isn't it time to let go? And experience the healing and sweet forgiveness of God in our daily lives. Father, we need this message here In this church. Some people have been hurt very deeply, I'm sure. Probably in ways that I don't even know And yet, we understand in an even more emphatic way our need to forgive, not because it's easy But because Jesus gave up all for us, and so we can forgive through his power and enablement. If we're willing to just do it, to release it, either to that person who's asking forgiveness or release that bitterness to you and let you handle it. Father, help us. Help folks in this room that are harboring bitterness and anger to today, this morning, let it go and let you work. Now I would expect, as we're to this point, keep your eyes closed, that there might be some that are being convicted by the Holy Spirit right now that God is working in your life in a specific way. Folks, I want to encourage you, you can come up here, you can talk to me, or you can wait, you can talk to me in the back at the end of the service. Either one is fine. But if God has put on your mind a specific person, a specific hurt that you need to deal with and that you need to release to him, don't wait any longer. Free yourself or let God free you from the imprisonment of anger and unforgiveness. Take some time as the wand is playing now. To meditate and be willing to forgive others. Lord, thy blessings are secure as they are glorious. Lord God, without the pardon of our sin, we cannot rest satisfied. Without the renovation of our nature by grace, we can never rest easy. Without the hopes of heaven, we can never be at peace. But all this we have in thy son Jesus. So at the end of this we say, blessed be his name. Amen.