Alright, well , appreciate that. And that is a message that Paul would have for the people of Philippi. And what he is reminding them of He could very well say, Don't forget these things. Things that many things, anyway, that he's bringing up to the church there in Philippi, that he's asking them, don't forget these things. And he's going to be doing that as we look in the passage tonight as well. Be looking at Philippians chapter 2. Took us a month to get through chapter 1. That won't always be the case, but we will be in Philippians at least for a few more months. Together. And it's kind of that conflict. We're actually going to be looking back at a couple verses that we looked at last week. It's hard to bring out everything. in the time that I'm taking as we look through this together. Um, that's the dilemma of any pastor, is there's so much that you want to bring forth and portray to your people, but at the same time you realize that even though you could go an hour talking about the passage, that people start to glaze over after about 30 minutes or so, and there's a kind of balance there. So it's hard to bring up everything and I want to go back. There's a Specific emphasis that Paul has in the passage that we went through last week that's going to help us further understand this week's passage. And it goes to The main theme or one of the main themes that I really believe that Paul is trying to emphasize in the book of Philippians that's on his mind, and that is the theme of Unity and working together for the cause of Christ. Now last week we saw that he did talk about suffering and the expectations that we should have as Christians that suffering and difficult And he doesn't want us to be surprised by that. In fact, he points out that as we are one with Christ in our union with him as Christ suffered, we suffer. But we also experience the victory that Jesus experienced. And one day we will experience fully that victory as Jesus comes as King Jesus. Jesus. He's already ruling, but he'll come and rule his physical kingdom, and we'll have victory with him together. Even with that, though Paul has this emphasis that he wants to get back to about unity. And he's really stressing this. Look back in chapter 1 at verse 27. And he uses terminology that I want us to be reminded of. He says, only let your conversation, that is your manner of life, or your sin. citizenship in the kingdom, be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of you your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel, and in nothing terrified by your adversaries or your opponents. Paul is using very strong language here that I don't want us to miss. It's the language of military affairs, of military engagements, and also of athletic contests. He's using these different pictures to emphasize to the people there in Philippi that you've got to be working together in the Spirit for the cause of Christ. Paul wants them to stand firm, and this idea of standing firm has the idea of soldiers courageously and unflinching. in their position in a unified front to stand against the enemy. It's a very vivid picture Of an army, of a group of military men together that realize they have to stay together in order for them to be victorious over the enemy. When we moved up to Maryland, one of the things that I learned pretty quickly is there's a lot of Civil War history in Maryland, obviously in Virginia. Maryland and Pennsylvania. And I really got fascinated by that. I love history anyway. Having visited Gettysburg a few times, I love to go there and just there's so much there that it really takes a number of visits. To really comprehend the whole battle and all the different things that went on in those three days and just really still enjoy going Going there, seeing different Civil War battlefields. But one thing that I learned early on is that the battle turned or um went bad for either side, when they lost their unity within the group, as they were fighting, these different units, whether it was in the woods or among the rocks or in the plains, in the in the fields. Things went bad for them when they were broken apart. They lost their unity together and they were scattered. And that's obviously what the other side was trying to do. Do was scatter the forces and get chaos going so that then they could take care of them more quickly. Many of the turning points in the Battle of Gettysburg involved men that stuck together. For obviously the northern side, um for the Union side that stuck together and continued to fight in the midst of very difficult obstacles, but they won the battle, or that portion of the battle. Because this idea of standing firm, staying together, so important when you're in a battle with the enemy. And Paul is saying, we are in a battle. Again, we are citizens of the kingdom. And yet, we find ourselves warring against the forces of Satan and the forces of the world. And Satan can get at us much more quickly if we if we scatter apart and become self-focused rather than being focused on being unified and battling and Working together. Satan knows that if he can get us disoriented and strung apart, that he can work on our weaknesses a lot more quickly. But if we're together serving, and Paul's saying here, stand firm, stand fast, that we can be more effective. So he's using this terminology. Then he also says, striving together for the faith of the gospel. This has the idea of an athletic event. Or an athletic competition where the team is striving together in unity to be victorious Now, all of you that have ever been involved in sporting events, I was involved in basketball in high school for six years and was never the best player, but one of the things that I did learn was that you had to go together as a unified team and work together to really have a successful season. Our coach would always get the most irritated at somebody that just went, even though they may have been a talented player, Went and did their own thing and were all focused on themselves and their own glory, and they forgot about the rest of their team. You have to play in a unified fashion. Paul's saying here, we have to play together as a unified team in order to have victory over our opponents. Striving together. And this isn't just the game that he's referring to here, but it's for the cause of the gospel. What better reason for us to be unified and working together as a team than for the cause of the gospel? And that's why Paul is taking the time and using such vivid pictures. To get us to do this together. And then he says, and nothing terrified by your adversaries or your opponents. And it was brought up to me last week that this Greek word terrified has the idea of horses in chaos. That when a horse gets spooked, or especially a group of horses, they can run, cattle, run all over the place, and be picked off a lot more quickly. Paul says that shouldn't be the picture of a Christian as we face the difficulties in this world Terrified. This, by the way, as a side note, gives us a little bit of an idea, I think, about the opponents that the people in Philippi were facing. And scholars actually spill a lot of ink and get really into who the identity of the opponents were that were causing trouble for the Philippian Christians. Now, uh, Paul doesn't tell us for sure. So I don't get that much into trying to figure it out when it's obvious Paul didn't give us names. But a number of people think that it might be Judaizers. If you remember, when Paul wrote Galatians, he was writing to combat the philosophy and the teaching of Judaizers. Jewish people that were calling themselves Christians that were adding works to salvation. And a number of scholars think that that's what's going on here. However, I don't think that's the case. As I mentioned last week, I think the opponents that we're referring to here are the pagan officials in the government. These are Gentile believers, these aren't Jewish believers. For the most part. And although the Judaizers would be a concern for them and maybe a frustration, I don't think they'd be terrified by them But Gentile Christians would be terrified by a pagan government and by people around them that are noticing that these group of people are giving allegiance to another Lord and Savior. Besides Caesar. And that can involve all kinds of trouble. Imprisonment, even torture, and death. And so I think the Christians in Philippi really, there it really was true that they could have been tempted to be terrified and disunified and spread all over the place. And Paul says, don't do that. Be together, work together. It seems to be an important theme. And as we go then into chapter two, we're going to continue to see this Let's go ahead and read this passage together, and then we'll pray and continue to look at it. Verse, chapter 2, verse 1. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, fulfill ye my joy That ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. But in lowliness of mind let each other let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things But every man also on the things of others. Father, help us tonight as we continue to look into this letter. Where Paul emphasizes the importance of spiritual growth and rejoicing, but also very important, the unity of belief. The working together for the cause of the gospel. Father, help us to have more understanding And recognize our need as Village Chapel Baptist Church to be striving together, to be standing firm in spiritual growth and in determination. Determination to get the gospel out as citizens of the kingdom of light. Father, help us to be faithful in this till Jesus returns. Help us to take to heart what Paul says in these in these verses. And practice them throughout this week and the coming weeks. And all this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. So Paul here has look has used the picture of fighting in battle, soldiers fighting, athletes. Competing together for the cause. And now he comes in this passage, and he's going to call them to unity by reminding them of the blessings that they have in Christ. And that this should motivate their service. Yes, there is suffering, and he's just emphasized that, but lest the Christian get discouraged. Well, Paul, that's great. Looking forward to all that suffering that you talked about in the Christian life, Paul now goes into verse 1 of chapter 2 and reminds them, but the blessings far outweigh the sufferings that we have together The blessings that we have in our relationship with Jesus Christ. And Paul does this in a creative way here. He says, if there be And then he gives us a list. Paul's not saying here, you know what, there's a possibility with Christians in the Christian life that you might have these blessings. He's not trying to to say that. What he is saying is something along the lines of, you all know that these are blessings. You know If these things were to happen and wink wink, we all know that these are a part of the Christian life You can almost say Paul's saying, he's saying, since there are these blessings in the Christian life, what are these blessings? Christians experience blessings that the world longs for. And therefore, we see in these that these are things that every Christian should be thankful for But that the world is trying to find replacements for all the time. These are things that as Paul gives us our list , The world in greatly desiring to have these things fills it with other things that are poor replacements. And we'll see that in just a minute. But the first one, consolation in Christ, encouragement in Christ Here we have in the midst of suffering, we are encouraged through Jesus Christ and through the people of God, through the church, we have encouragement. We have, as Paul continues to talk about, God reminds us of what team we're fighting for, of the victories that He is going to give us That He is always there for us, and the encouragement that we should have among each other as fellow believers. All of these are blessings, many ways that God uses to encourage us through our relationship with Jesus Christ. We need encouragement, don't we? If we're going to go through the suffering that Paul's talked about in the last few verses, and it stands to reason, we're going to need some encouragement to continue on. And God doesn't leave us stranded in the midst of Of our difficulties, but he provides that encouragement. He might provide it in the form of a card, or even a text, or an email, or somebody coming up to us And saying, hey, I prayed for you. Since we've been here, and it has just been such a blessing to me, but I have not lacked every Sunday morning. I have one of my friends either from Maryland or another pastor um that I've gotten to know over the years that will text me and just tell me, I'm praying for you this morning. And I'm praying that you'll have the power of God as you preach and that God will work in the lives of your congregation and I can't tell you how encouraging that is to me. I didn't seek that out. I didn't call my friends and say, hey, you know, give me some encouragement here. I haven't heard anything from you guys. Come on, let's get with it. No, they just they just Freely God moved them to give that, and it is such a blessing to me. And God does that for His people. We need encouragement, and it's there. The world doesn't get that kind of encouragement Oh, they may get they may figure out ways to be motivated to continue on with what they want to do. But because they don't have that encouragement and comfort and many of these other things, they They seek it out through alcohol, through drugs, through extreme sports, trying to fill the void that we know can only come by knowing Jesus Christ. And that Jesus Christ then can provide us real blessings that truly fill the needs that we have. And one of those is encouragement. Another is comfort from love, the love of God that we experience, that only believers can experience, that provides comfort. When we feel lonely, when we feel like Everyone's abandoned us, maybe even sometimes the closest people in our lives. They've either maybe we feel like they've they've hurt us, abandoned us, or they're just not able to help. In the way that we need help. God's love says, I will be there for you, and I will be what you need. Even the Old Testament, as he introduced himself and uh revealed himself To his people. He said his personal name, I am. What did that mean? And I am everything you need. Everything that you need and you Your spiritual life to serve me and follow me. That's what I am to you. And God gives us comfort when we're hurting, when people despise us, when we're disappointed. A kind of comfort that only believers can experience, that the world desperately is striving for, wanting to be comforted from fear and judgment and war, and they reject God. And they don't get to experience that. But we get comfort through Jesus Christ. If any fellowship of the Spirit or participation In the Spirit. This is that fellowship, that glorious, wonderful fellowship that we have as believers, and that we have as a local church that is provided by the Spirit, through the power of the Spirit. We are able to fellowship together. We can talk about God's word. We can talk about spiritual things. And we all have an understanding of what that is and how God has blessed us. And beyond our church, even have you ever heard Been on a distant trip. I uh led a group of young people and their parents to Ireland last year. Had my first mission 's trip ever. And it was a blessing. But you know you have to find out as you go overseas and as you meet Christians, there's still that bond of fellowship, that bond of love, that understanding, even though you may they may sound a little different from you. They may do things a little different from you, even if they speak a different language. That bond of fellowship in the Spirit, there's an automatic understanding and bond and relationship there that can only come through trusting Jesus Christ. That fellowship of the Spirit, another blessing. If any, then the King James here says bowels or mercies. Well what does that mean? That's kind of strange word to use. Well back in these times that meant the New Testament people People in these times looked at that area like the belly as the seat of affection or the seat of emotions. Like we look at our heart today You know, I love you from the bottom of my heart. And we talk about how our heart's desire is for someone. We use that heart. Back then they would talk about the belly. And really when when you you when you're feeling emotional or when you're having distress or whatever, um what tends to feel what part of the body tends to feel it more your heart or your stomach? You say my stomach's all worked up about this thing. So we can kind of of understand where they got that from. But I kind of like the idea of the heart better. It just sounds more more poetic and poetry and everything. The heart is saying I love you from the bottom of my heart as opposed to I love you from the bottom of my Belly, whatever. There's a Greek word for that. And the Greek that the Bible uses is referred to as an unspoken language. And what that really means is we we don't know how they used to pronounce things. Okay. But people have tried to kind of put together um some sounds in things that that might have been a way to pronounce things in the Greek and so the word for affection in the Greek could have been pronounced like this. Um 's that for a great word. Splinksna or splaxna. I mean I it's kind of I kind of wish that that had been preserved over the years because it sounds like it sounds like a great word for an organ inside somebody. How's your splaxna doing today? You know. Um it's just a great word. I don't know if that's how they pronounce it, we're not for sure, but that has the idea of the um seat of affection and of emotion. And here what is Paul saying? He's saying that we have, we get to experience through affection and mercies or affection and sympathy. The feelings and actions of care and concern. In a relationship with Jesus Christ, we have people in our lives that really do. care about us. They care about us from the inside. They're really moved when we're hurting. When we're hurting, they're hurting. Jesus comes when we're hurting to help relieve us of that and to help us work through things. There is in the bond of Christ true affection and love for each other. And concern. And concern that will act on these things. Not just, I feel really bad for what you're going through, but I feel really bad, and God has motivated me to help you. Because of that. Wonderful, wonderful blessings that we receive as Christians and as believers that the world doesn't receive. They don't know what it is to experience the love of Christ and that kind of concern and affection. It's only through the local church and the church. That we experience that kind of fellowship. Wonderful blessings, right? That the Christian experience that the world longs for. And so then Paul says, since, or if you have experienced all these things, and I know that you have, since you have experienced these blessings, he says, could you do something For me then. Could you kind of help me out? You've been blessed. God has done these things in your life. And I'd like to request then, because of that, that you would then help me out in a specific area Now that may sound kind of selfish and self-serving, but even when Paul may sound that way, we know that there's always a deep spiritual connection to what he He's going to ask next. And isn't it interesting? Okay. Eva Paul's greatest needs and desires always have a spiritual connection. So he's not going to ask them for something worldly or physical that he needs, but what he says here, fulfill ye my joy. He's pointing out Christians can serve together in unity because of God's blessings. And he says that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Paul says, you guys are filled up with the blessings of God. And I am too. But I'm going to ask. For you to help me out on one more thing. I want to experience more joy and be filled up even further. This has the idea of fulfill you my joy, complete my joy. When you go to a diner and you ask for a cup of coffee, and many times if if if you have an attentive waiter or waitress, they'll come by and they'll say something like Like, hey, can I fill it up? And they'll fill it up to the top. Maybe sometimes they'll get a little carried away and it might spill over the edge. This is the picture that Paul is saying here is fill up my cup. overflowing. I'm already joyful in what God is doing in your lives. I'm already joyful in seeing the blessings of fellowship. That you all have. But now I want to be filled to overflowing. And this is how you can do that. Be like-minded or be of the same mind. He's saying here, have the same goals and purpose, because we all have been on the receiving end of God's blessings that I just described. Now you go together, serving together, having the same mindset, the same goals, the same purpose, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. fully committed together for God's purposes. Now what Paul is not saying here is he's not saying Leave your personality behind. Leave your own thoughts and ideas behind, and somehow get in this group think where we all are robots and where we all function the same way, think the same way, and we we act the same way. Paul isn't saying that What he is saying is, take your talents, your personalities, your individual strengths. and bring them together and come together in unity and work together for a greater cause, for the cause of the gospel. You can see here how important this is to Paul. And we might be tempted to say, even as we continue on and look at these verses, okay, Paul, we understand. You want the church to be unified. Okay, let's move on to another topic. We got this. But Paul knows that even though we may think that we understand, that we still need to do better And even as village chapel, as a church, that are striving together to want to see people come to Christ and to be of a testimony, as we talked about this morning, salt and light to our community. There are always ways that we can be better and be more unified and work together as one mind, having the same life. And Paul is calling us to do that. Well, that's hard. I don't know about you, but I tend to, in my own personality, be kind of a A loner. It's not that I don't like people. It's interesting that I feel that way because then God called me to be a pastor, which is the last thing you can be a But in and of myself, when I was younger, I always had this idea of, you know, I'll go and I think I told you this before, God, I I 'm a graphic designer. I'm I'm an artist, I'll get a job, serve the church, go to church, maybe be a deacon or something, get married, have kids, and then just have a nice house and kind of do things on my own and get together. with the church on on Sunday and an occasional you know um work day or something like that. You know, then I can kinda be off do my own Because in and of myself, I would rather I'd rather work things out on my own is my natural is my nature. I'd rather be able to do it myself. You know what? Sometimes you just can't depend upon people. So if you gotta get it done right, you gotta do it yourself. I understand that And so when Paul calls us to this, even in my own spirit, it's a little bit of a okay But, Paul, that means I'm going to have to be patient with other people. And I'm not necessarily very good at that naturally. And Paul, things may not get done in the order that I want them done. And Paul, really? Is it that important? Paul says, yeah, it is. Because we need to be together in order to accomplish what God wants us to do in our community. We must be others focused in our ministry service, Paul is saying here. As we serve together, we must realize that all of us serving together have difficulty Difficulties, we have problems, and we need to help each other and encourage each other. And what is the motivation? What how do you motivate someone who's a loner and who would rather do things on their own? Well, you do what Paul does and you remind that person of What would motivate us? Well, if nothing else, the fact that Jesus died on a cross and suffered all that he suffered and is now reigning and is our king. That should motivate us to say, okay, Lord Jesus, I'll do it. I'll do it for you. I'll work with people. And you know what, thankfully, don't misunderstand me. I'm very glad. God has given us a great group here to work with. And I'm not reflecting anything of saying, Lord, why did you put me here? Anything like that. No, I'm very grateful. You all are a wonderful group. group and I'm thankful for what God is doing in your lives. It's a privilege to be here. Don't misunderstand me. But unity is hard at times. And God promises He will help us. If we're unified together and we're not focused on ourselves as a church group, Then we can go out into the world and not be self focused, but focused on others and giving the gospel to others And Paul says that here in verse 3. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Strife is selfish ambition, rivalry, vainglory. Is conceit or desire for personal glory. And Paul says we can't have any of that in ministry service. If if there is a person who is constantly in everything that they do focused on themselves, how can I promote myself How can I better my situation? How can I look better in front of other people? And they're constantly thinking about number one, and that's themselves. Paul says you can't Can't do that and have effective ministry. It's not the way Jesus works. Everything that you do, if it's all for your own ambition. Then we're not living the way that God's called us to live. Desire for personal glory, the desire for personal attention and honor and recognition. You know, we do that in so many ways. Some people say I could never get up in front of people like you do, Pastor Brock, and and speak. I mean just all that attention and and I would just be too nervous. And first of all I'd say, well, God works miracles. Because twenty-five, twenty years ago I'd totally be with you on that. And yet God works in us and gives us boldness and allows us to do things. But even if that is our case, there are other ways that we have in our weakness tend to, we have our own ways where we try to bring the glory in ourselves. And those are numerous. Where we try to promote ourselves, whether it's how much wisdom we have or whether we're the fundamental Person in the room and always trying to let people know, hey, I'm here. Don't forget me. Paul says, No, that desire for personal glory. That shouldn't be done. Ministry shouldn't be done that way. Well then, how should ministry be done? Not solely self-focused, but in lowliness of mind, let each other esteem others better than themselves in lowliness In humility. There we go. There's that theme again that Paul keeps bringing up. We keep seeing throughout these studies: lowliness of mind. And it's not that kind of thing where people have this false humility where they're constantly talking about how weak they are and how unable they are to do certain things. Okay, and it's really hypocrisy because they're trying to promote their own humility and in doing that promoting themselves by showing people how humble and how weak and how um lacking of things. And abilities that they have, that's yet another weird, twisted way of getting focus on ourselves. Paul's not talking about that kind of thing. But in lowliness of mind, it's basically Um instead of thinking of ourselves, not thinking of ourselves at all, but looking at other people and thinking how we can minister A truly humble person will not be a person that necessarily stands out in the group in a lot of ways than what we would think. But it'll be the quiet person who maybe doesn't always get recognized, but is always looking for people that they can serve. The humble person that Paul is saying talking about here may never get our attention in a lot of ways. And they're okay with that. Because they're not trying to exalt themselves, but they're trying to serve other people. So focused on serving other people that they're not even thinking about themselves. He says in verse four then as we finish up, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. And I think here what Paul's pointing out, he says, look not every man on his own things. What he's saying here is he's recognizing that naturally we're going to take care of our own affairs. He's not saying, don't ever take care of your own responsibilities or your own affairs, just constantly be doing things for other people to the point where you neglect all of your own responsibilities. Obviously, Paul would not say that. But what he's saying is, is, look, I know, Christians and Philippi, it's natural you're going to be looking out for your own things and accomplishing your own responsibilities and doing Doing things for yourself. And that's not necessarily wrong. God has given us personal responsibilities that we need to be about doing. We can't neglect those. But Paul's saying, in the midst of all that, don't forget to look out for the things of others. Don't get so consumed by your own agenda and schedule and responsibilities that you're not looking around and realizing the world out there that needs Jesus Christ. You can do both. You can accomplish what God has given you, your own personal responsibility Responsibilities, those that are involved with your family, and in the midst of all that, still serve Jesus and not close ourselves off To what's going on out there. But to be others focused. Paul expects that we're going to take care of our own needs, but we also need to look out for others as well. The Lord taught me this vividly one summer when I had come home from my junior year at a Christian college. And um I had I had had a pretty good year. I came home And was looking for a job and different things. And at that time, my family lived in Miami, Florida, or near Miami, Florida. And the Lord used that summer. I came home, and it's let's just say it's very warm in Florida, and it's very Even extra warm and humid in Miami. I came home and my parents said, you know what, while you were away, the air conditioning unit gave out, and we don't have the money to fix it. So we're just going to do the best. Here's your box fan. Put it in your room at night and just do the best you can. Okay, thanks, Mama Dad. So laying in bed at night sweating, waiting for it to cool down enough to where I can just survive. During the day, just like lethargic. It wasn't exciting in that way, obviously. Looking for a job and ways to make money Wasn't working out real well. It wasn't the summer that I had expected. But the Lord was teaching me that actually, in a lot of ways, I had been very self-focused. Focused, and he was teaching me this lesson, showing me that I had actually been very selfish in the friendship and not others-oriented. And even in ministry, not being others oriented. And then to top off the summer, my parents went away to visit some family members in Michigan and some friends. friends. And I had one brother that went off to college early before I could. So it was me and my brother Wade, four brothers, and it was just me and my brother Wade staying Staying at home. And I had been out with a friend and I came home it was Saturday, I think it was Friday evening, um, and uh my brother says, Guess what's on the news? I don't know. He said There's there's a hurricane coming this way, and it is coming directly toward us. And the name is hurricane, if they've called it Hurricane Andrew. And I thought, oh wow, that sounds pretty intense. He said, no, you don't understand. It's headed directly for us. And as I'm watching the news, I'm realizing, wait a minute. Um I I I don't know anything about how to survive a hurricane and I don't know what to do and then what you're supposed to do and you know, they were telling you on the news you need to board up your windows and everything. I'm like, I don't know what to do So I called my dad and I'm like, Dad, there's a hurricane coming and I don't know what to do and it's just me and and and Wade and he doesn't know what to do either. And he said, it's okay. I've got it all taken care of. I've got the supplies that you need behind the house. You just do this and this. And another thing is you need to do is move all the furniture from the lower um area to the bedrooms in the higher area in case of flooding and included a piano and different things. I'm looking at this I'm like, Dad, we only have 24 hours. Well, uh sorry son, I can't get there from Michigan. You have to do the best you can Ken. Thanks. Well, thanks for having the supplies ready. And he gave me the name of some friends that I could call, and I called those friends, and they helped us get everything together. And then it was an interesting thing, and this happens in disasters, but you always have the people that want to stay in their homes. And as the hurricane was being described and I'm hearing about the power of the hurricane, there were a lot of people who were saying, ah we're just gonna I thought, you know, no, I'm really not interested in doing that. So we and my brother went to our church uh building that was also a school. It was very fortified. Um it was a safe place to be. And we waited it out. I remember going to the windows and seeing for the first time the power of a hurricane. And watching trees that were huge palm trees literally wave back and forth as the wind. came and uh street signs, handicap signs that were posted there on the parking lot, literally spinning around doing 360s as the wind came by and and trees Branches of things blowing by. And thinking, wow, that's that's pretty intense. Afterwards, thankfully, what happened was As it came ashore, the hurricane actually turned half a degree and ended up going 30 miles south of us rather than hitting us directly And so we felt that for the people that were south of us, but I was very relieved and thankful that God had allowed that to happen. And he kept us and protected us. Um it wasn't too long after that. Okay, I'm trying to wind up the story here that my brother Wade had a high school coll uh trip that he was going on and I got him on the bus bus and they went off. And so here I am in a house with no electricity, nothing, nothing to do, nobody else there, flat on my back. So I'm reading God's Word. And I think God led me to this passage or a psalm, but basically it was, I remember it was a passage that started dealing with me about my self-focus over the past number of years of my life. And showing me that I had had too much focus on self and my own desires and my own situation and that I wasn't being focused enough on other people. in a ministry. And I remember thinking, well Lord, this is a funny way to show me this, but I'm flat on my back here. I have nothing else to do. Do. I'm stuck here. So you've got my attention. I'm listening. And through verses and through meditation on his word, God began to show me that some of the friendship And some of the things that had happened in my life were very self-focused, and where I had damaged those relationships. Relationships by not having a focus on other people. And I learned a lot from that. And I went forward, and through that, God taught me and was preparing me for ministry situations That I would have in the future. It was a difficult thing to go through, but I'm so glad the lesson that God taught me. He was basically saying, I'll do whatever it takes to get the focus off of yourself. Even if I have to send a hurricane. I'm not egotistical enough to say that God sent that hurricane directly just for me. But he did use it. God will do whatever it takes to help us get our focus off of ourself and onto others. But Paul is pleading with the people here, please. Just remember all the blessings that God has given you, and be willing to work together in unity and be willing to serve me. Faithfully and to help other people because of what Jesus has done for you. So let us be reminded of that as we go out this week. Father, thank you for your word I pray that this has been encouraging and helpful. We needed this reminder. We need the reminder To get the focus off of ourself and look at the world around us. Look at the hurting among other believers. And I'm so thankful, Lord, for the testimonies tonight of these men Many who have even in the midst of their own difficulties have gone out and encouraged others in our church. What a blessing that is. What an example. Help us to work together in unity. Here, so that we can then go out and show the world the love of Jesus Christ, and that a church that is unified under the power of Jesus can do miracles. Miraculous things and c and accomplish much as we look toward others and sharing the gospel, most importantly, sharing with those that desperately need Comfort and consolation and affection and encouragement, sharing with them the Savior that can provide All of that for them. Help us as Village Chapel Baptist Church to be unified together and a good example of all that Jesus has done for us. And may we be faithful until He returns For it is in Jesus' name we pray, Amen