You turn to Ephesians chapter four, and we have some more glorious practical truths. for you to consider this morning. And this really is the second part of the study of Ephesians. Because for the first three chapters, and I I want to thank you for your patience as we, especially at the end of chapter three, we took our time going through that last uh chapter. part of the passage of chapter three because I think it was that important to ground us and to root us in the love of Christ as we get into the practical sections. You see, the first three chapters of Ephesians covered the theology, gave us the information that we need to know about God, and really Jesus and the Holy Spirit, the Trinity. The theology of the Christian experience. And if you, I'll just go through a list of all the wonderful topics that we covered in this study for the first three chapters. We covered the beauty and the confidence-giving fact of God's sovereign selection, predestination, our adoption as children of God, our redemption through Jesus. Jesus Christ and his sacrifice on the cross, his revelation of his mystery, how we can understand the truths of the gospel in a way the Old Testament saints never could. Our inheritance, what we have in Christ now, and what we look forward to, being with him for all eternity, and new bodies that will never fail, that never need a warranty. Oh, don't you look forward to that. We talked about all those things and more. Our sealing with the Holy Spirit, that he seals us. protects us. That God, as if we are God's children, folks, he will see us through. You will get through to the end. Because you're sealed with the Holy Spirit. How could you not? Sealed with the Holy Spirit, we have access to God's power over and over again in chapter 3. The words power, dunamis. And God's work and our confidence in his ability to do what he said that he's going to do. The power of God in our lives, the nature of the church. The fact that we need to be in unity and the fact that we are the very temple, the people are the temple, boggles the mind. We're unified through the love of Christ. And it didn't end there. Talked about our new life in Christ and how we're not the people that we used to be. We're not the enslaved sinners that cannot experience victory. No, we have new life in Christ. We are new people that can experience victory in this life. The church are the works of the Spirit, our nearness to God, his peace offered to us the church as the new church temple of God, the display of God's church before his creation, how even Satan and his minions, and certainly the angels in heaven that serve the Lord, they marvel at what God is doing. We are on grand display in the ultimate drama of all of history, the church, and what God is doing through the church. The confidence that we can have in our access to Christ and the ability to increase our understanding of His plan throughout history. of his plan for our for his church and increase our understanding of how much he loves us, even though we'll never be able to fully understand that. Folks, that's a lot to cover in three chapters. But it's things that we needed to know and we need to understand because now in the last three chapters we're going to get into the practical application. Now I hope that you were in awe of the beauty and you marveled over all that we learned about God and about Jesus and his sacrifice and the power of the Spirit. I hope that was of interest to you. And that it was of importance to you. But you may have heard those things and say, well, yeah, but what does that mean for my daily life? And Paul in these last three chapters is going to give us the answer to that, what it means for our daily lives. He's going to discuss the application of these glorious truths to our lives as believers. But I want to make a point. I think it's important in this book. of Ephesians, especially. Of course, Paul writes these books to these letters. We consider them books now, but they were letters, epistles, to specific churches. But I think there's more of an emphasis, a particular emphasis in Ephesians than in the other books, that he's not merely just talking to individuals. We'll see today. Um we'll be encouraged to walk in humility, gentleness, patience, bearing with one another in love. But it's not just for each and every one of us as individuals to take to heart. But Paul is saying as the church of God, we must all act in this way. It's a responsibility for all of us. And we shouldn't be satisfied with some victories that we've seen seen in our own lives, but we ought to be encouraging each other because it's important that the whole church is growing in the Lord. And he's speaking to the church as a whole that this is a walk that we can do that should represent the whole church and the church living out its testimony. for Christ. Folks, everybody in this room today is responsible to walk worthy of the Lord. If you are a child of God, it is a responsibility Responsibility here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. And where one of us stumble, in some ways we all stumble. We need to be together in this and growing and in unity. It should be an all-member mentality we're all in. We've learned about the God who gave us life. You know what we need to learn now as a church family? About the life that we need to live before Him. We learned about the God who gave us life. Now in these last three chapters, it is the life that we can live before Him because of what He has done, He has called us to. It's a knowledge of God, and now he's going to give us wisdom to follow him. I was reminded as I was preparing for this. I had the wonderful opportunity to be a camp counselor many, it seems like many years ago, all the way back in 2001. Most of you know that I have a strong connection with the Wilds Christian camp, North Carolina, and now in New England has really been a blessing. to my family. Well, even in the 90s, um, God had used that camp to really direct me into full-time ministry and just help me change In a lot of ways, and it had a lot of meaning. I finally had the opportunity to be a counselor on in the summer of 2001, and I gladly accepted that responsibility It was quite a summer. It was exhausting in many ways, but it was thrilling to be able to be used in the lives of young people in a real important way as we saw them make decisions for Christ and God really work in their lives. Well my first week was a big learning curve And not only that, but I had younger teenagers, and they also overpacked my cabin with two extra teenagers than most, a lot of cabins normally received. And so I thought, well, I can handle this. You know, I'm I'm one of the older counselors. I was older at that point, one of the oldest ones. Thought with my age and ability I could handle two more campuses. Well I have to relate that that week was somewhat of a failure. Um it was what I began to realize as now the Wilds has many other camps, they had camp checks every morning the camp uh uh the cabin cleanup and then it was checked afterwards and there was a point system and you know the best cabins would win for cleaning keeping theirs the most clean. I there was just a couple kids, only a couple kids in my cabin. I just could not get to line up their shoes and do everything the way they were supposed to line up their clothes and the clothes lined up you know, that were drying off and keep their dirty clothes and this for cabin cleanup. And there was a couple of these kids that just failed miserably every time. I could not. And I was like, you know, the rest of the kids are doing so well, but by the end of the week, we had such low cabin scores for cleanup that we ended up with a special responsibility. for those cabins that really had a hard time getting it together. And that was that we were selected because of our low scores in cabin cleanup of having an hour where we had to for punishment clean up the the camp area in certain respects. Now that was humiliating folks. Here I am my first week as a cabin counselor. You know I'm an older counselor first time. I thought I was going to do great. And here people are almost laughing at me, you know, other other counselors and things. Oh look at Brock, he's got a cleanup. And it was a reflection on me and reflection on the cabin. Well, I just thought, you know, the next week, okay I'm done with this. We're going to try something new. And what we what I decided to do is we're going to kind of circumvent this whole thing. And I got the the bright I think it was one of the brighter ideas I had that summer, but the second week Um I noticed that in you had a counselor's bed that was right in the middle of the cabin and it had these drawers underneath for the counselor to use. So I thought, you know, I don't need to use all these drawers. I'll put my clothes in one. I said, guys, every morning since last week I had so much trouble lining up the shoes and lining things up on the clothesline outside the dirty clothes. We're gonna, I'm gonna pull out this drawer. All your shoes go in there. I'm gonna pull out this drawer, all of your wet clothes from the clothesline go in there. Third drawer over here, all your dirty coats. Right in there. Close them up. Sweep it out. We won't have to worry about any of this stuff And do you know that worked supremely well? And we got almost a perfect cabin score every day, to the extent that at the end of the week, and I had some big guys that were football players, they were able to play play the games well. They did. It was just a great week. We ended up getting cabin of the week on my second week. And that was thrilling to me. But a lot of it was this realization that you know what? If one of us fails, all of us Fail. And therefore, we all need to do our part. And I did my part as the counselor as well to bring the whole cabin to victory. Well, folks. With the church as well, Paul calls us to realize that it's not just for a few spiritual people, but the whole church has to be involved in this. And it's a project that you can be successful in. You can walk, each of us worthy of our calling, because the power of God works in us. There's no excuses. As a local church body, we can all of us follow through on the things that Paul uh describes in the last three chapters. We can have victory in these areas, not because we're good people. Or we're better at being righteous than others, but because as God's children, the Holy Spirit works through us to enable us for these things. So today we're going to see walk worthy of your calling, and that first of all, we must walk worthy of our identity in Christ. And God's calling will motivate our worthy walk. And so look. Ephesians 1, chapter 4, verse 1. I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace I note here that as Paul jumps into this practical section, these next three chapters, and he calls us to do a lot of things. He calls us to let the Spirit work through us in a lot of areas of our life. And he knows that's going to be hard as we hear these things. Lord, really, can I change in that area? Can I change In this area, it's so hard. I think that's why Paul says, hey look guys, what I'm gonna tell you next that you need to work on and change through the power of Christ working in you, I know what it's like to go through hard things. I'm a prisoner. I'm chained to a Roman soldier. I don't get to decide when I get to do things. I don't have my freedom of schedule. I know what hardships are. I'm a prisoner. You know, the food here isn't that great. I don't have a lot of freedom. It's kind of dirty and yucky in myself. I know. And yet, God is doing this work in my life So if I'm going through these difficult things, God can do the work that he needs to in your lives as well, no matter what you're going through. And that's a good reminder for us today, folks, that God can change us and give us victory in areas that we need, even though we're going through struggles. Well, I'm just I really struggle with this and and finances are hard and I'm really struggling with my relationship with other people. Okay, but God can still do change. Are you chained to a Roman soldier? Is your time your own? Are you in a cell because of your your testimony of the gospel? Well, no. God can work in your life too. And so Paul says, hey, I'm going through tough things, and yet I'm going to urge you, and that is a word that has real meaning. He is. It is something that is important to Paul. He says, this is important, and I urge, I plead, you need to make these things that I'm about to say next a priority. I am urging you to walk in a matter worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And he reminds us. Of God's sovereign call for us in salvation. Yes, that call is there. But not only did God call us and sovereignly choose us, but folks, when he calls us for change in In our lives, that is a change that will happen. You can be confident in that. And so If your life truly is changed, if you are a child of God, if you have that new life, we will see changed behavior. We will see a difference in each of our lives. Because we truly have relationship with Christ. Paul is urging us here to make sure that our lifestyle matches our new identity in Christ. Paul is saying, hey, even as a prisoner, I am united with Christ and I'm devoted to him. I will do whatever Jesus asked me to do. And so you, Ephesian believers. You do whatever God calls you to do as well. If I can do it in my situation through the power of Christ, you can do it too. And this is what I call you to do, to walk in a manner worthy of the calling. What does that mean to walk? It means to walk worthy in the new life to which they were called to by God. And that beautiful, that that very understandable picture of just walking. Walking's a great exercise, isn't it? I've been walking and walking more lately, just trying to get exercise. And just enjoying creation outside. And that walking is literally taking one step after another. And if you don't Stumble, if you don't fall, then you keep your sure footing and you go in the direction that you need to go. That's a beautiful picture of our walk with the Lord. That step by step, everything that we do on a day daily basis that we can be pleasing to the Lord and we can be sure of our of our foundation and stable And that our lifestyles ought to match our identity and they will in Jesus Christ. A picture of our life lived out on a daily basis. And a life that can be lived out pleasing to God by His grace. And also that we can give grateful service And regular committed service because of the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives. You used to hear this a lot. I don't know if you're here as much anymore in small towns. Uh you know, men would uh be involved in in and they would grow up and be involved in big things, men and women. Um sometimes they would go off to war. They would come back and you would hear the people about the town say, They're so and so's boys. Boy, they have l really lived up to their name They are really outstanding citizens. They're really outstanding soldiers. Or that particular young lady really is a credit to her community. And they have, they lived up to the name that their last name in their family. They've made their family proud. Folks, in one sense, that's what Paul is saying here: that if as the true children of God, we ought to live up to the name. That people ought to know that we're God's children. They shouldn't have to guess. They shouldn't have to wonder. Wait a minute, what's going on with that person? Why are they involved in that? I thought that they were a believer. I thought that they trusted in Jesus That's strange. No, we don't want people to have to doubt. We want it to be clear whose family we are, that we're being a good reflection of the family name that we bear And we can be, folks, because again, go to that word at the end of verse 1. God not only chose us for salvation. But he also calls us and chooses us to live a transformed life. And a transformed life that's possible because of the sacrifice of Christ. God's calling motivates, gives us confidence that we can change. So, as we look around the church, we may be tempted sometimes to say, oh, they're so-and-so. You know, they're really having trouble in their marriage. I just don't know if they're ever going to have victories. No, that's not true. Because if they're really children of God, they can have victory. Oh, they're so-and-so. Boy, they really have a problem with arrogance and pride. I don't know if they're ever going to change. No. They can change. In fact, they will change. Because God has called them to do so. Oh, there's every hope that the child of God will change No matter what our struggles, and we have that hope here. We're called to that change. What folks, the really d um disturbing Of someone is when you look at someone and say, you know, I just have never seen any real evidence of change in them at all. You know, they call themselves Christians or part of our our church family, but I just don't really see that they're involved in any type of service and you know their life lives out, they don't seem to be be following after the ways of God. Folks, that ought to really concern us, especially if people are talking about one of us that way. Because, count on it, we've been called, just as God has sovereignly saved us, we are also sovereignly called to change. And here's the point: if you're a child of God, you will change. There's no doubt. Some of us may change a little slower than others. But if there's no change and there's no sense that that person is a child of God, then what the correct thought ought to be is, are they truly a child of God at all? Because God's power is working in them, they can change. And that knowledge motivates us. To serve him more effectively. Also humility, being humble and not prideful and selfish will help sustain and put us in the right frame of mind for God to work in our hearts. So let's look at verse 2. For all humility He calls us to live this manner, to walk in this manner on a daily basis. Folks, we ought to be humble people. We ought to be gentle people. We ought to be patient people. We ought to be able to put up with each other. We ought to be eager, and that word means, oh, I'm ready. I want this. I really want this and desire this to happen. To maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That ought to be one of our greatest goals in our Christian life is to see unity within the church body, eager to see that, not satisfied with anything less. But back to that word humility. Let's go back to verse 2. I get ahead of myself. Humility, that in the Greek means modesty, of low status. It means that we don't think too highly of ourselves. We recognize that we're only who we are and what we are by the grace of God. And we humble ourselves before the recognition of where we've been and what God is doing in us, and we're ready to do whatever He's called us to do, where that description. Where would we find the best example of that description of humility that I just gave you? How about Philippians 2, 5 through You don't have to turn there. But this is the ultimate example that we see in Jesus Christ. If you want to know what Paul's talking about when he says he's pleading with us to be humble. Philippians 2, 5 through 8 basically gives us the answer to what that looks like. Have this mind among yourselves. You be the same way, people of God, church of God, which is yours in Christ Jesus. It is yours to obtain. You can be this humble. Who? Though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of God. of men. And being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. The one person who deserved the accolades of heaven, right? When we see the angels in pictures of praise of God in the Old Testament, and the prophets falling down on their knees in reverent worship of the Almighty God. Folks, Jesus was worthy of all of that and respect And yet he was willing to say, I'm not going to grasp that because of be in order to follow the will of my Father, to be obedient to him. and to show love to these rebels, I'll throw it all aside. He was still God, 100% God. But all the honor and the glory that he was worthy of. And instead he came down and became man and offered himself up for our sake. Folks, there is no greater example of humility than our great Savior, Jesus Christ. And he calls us today to be that humble. To put aside your selfishness and your pride. Is there someone here that you just can't get along with or that you're struggling with in your relationship? Is there something that you feel God's calling you to do and you just say, I I just can't do that. I I can't give up my my prestige and and maybe my my financial situation. Whatever it is, folks, whatever your struggle With God calls us to humble ourselves before what He's doing in our lives. It's a key attitude. You can't change until you humble yourself before God. And Jesus is our example in that. Certainly, if Jesus was able to go to the cross as God and offer himself up for our sins There's nothing that we shouldn't be willing to do that he calls us to do. You get it right? Humility and also gentleness. This gentleness is a meekness, a strength under control. a tempered spirit. It's not a weak word or like a sissy word or anything like that. It admonishes or expects that people do have great strengths, that all of us, God has gifted us with great strengths, but we keep that strength under control in meekness and gentleness to use as God would have us to use, or God would use it. Strength under control. And folks, this is an essential trait when we're working through grievances with each other. Is our strength under the control of the Spirit? Are we gentle? It's hard to be gentle with people. We have to be submitted to the Spirit in a powerful way. Sometimes we just want to let people have it with our words. Be sarcastic or be critical or we know what's really going on with them and we're going to let them have it. But no, be gentle. Be controlled by the Spirit and your responses. Be humble. Be patient. Long suffering is really described here. Bearing with one another in love. Not just, okay, I can put up with that person's. . conversation for about five minutes and then they're leaving and oh that's good. Now I can really enjoy my conversation with other people at church. Boy I was patient a whole five minutes. I put up with having to listen to that person. Oh this is so much more than that. This is bearing under the aggravations of others Even when they do hard things, even when they betray you, even when they slander you. Are you willing to bear up under the difficult circumstances that other people cause in your life? We all of us know. the anger and the irritation and the rage that boils up within us whenever someone keeps us from doing what we're trying to do and accomplish in our lives or actively works against us, even when we're driving somewhere. somebody cuts us off or somebody's driving too slow. They're in our way. We've got to respond in anger and yet we don't have to. When people bring difficult circumstances into our lives that we weren't expecting, we don't have to respond in raging anger and irritation But we can catch our breath. Lord, I know what I would love to say to this person right now. And I've got it right here in my mind. And it would be so satisfying to just let it come out and let this person know what I really think. But Lord, I need to be long-suffering. I need to tolerate minor faults and grading personality quirks. Let's admit it, folks. All of us have a part of our personality that grates upon somebody else. Maybe just ask your spouse sometime. Now they love us. They put up with a lot. But there's a lot of things in our personalities as husbands. As wives as well, that just irritate after a while. And there are certain characteristics of people in the church that It just irritates there's there's always two or three people in your life that are in the body of the church that you try to steer away from or go the other way. That when they finally, when you when you meet them face to face, your prayer is, oh Lord, let this conversation be quick and over soon. Amen. Because they just irritate us to death. But what Paul is calling us to is for patience. Patience, bearing up. You know, that conversation that I may have with that person that's too harsh and too confrontational, that may irritate me, that may bother me. But I have to remember that my Savior was crucified on a cross and shed his blood for my sin. So you know what? I think I can put up with that person for a little. longer. I think I can show them the love of Jesus. I think I can forgive them when I really don't want to, but I humble myself and let go of these things because Because of all that Jesus has done for me and bear up with people in love. What does all of that do? Verse 3, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That humility, that gentleness, that patience enables us to be in unity together, that we can serve and worship together One theologian said it this way. His name was Ernest Best. Christians have regularly to deal with what they regard as the faults of their fellow Christians, and for this, Christian love is essential. I know I ask a lot of questions during a message, but let me ask this one as well. How important up the totem pole of services or things within the church or goals within the church Let's put it that way, of goals within the church ministry. How far up the totem pole is unity for you? How important in each of us Need to answer this question is above all else is unity with our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ as we meet together and as we contemplate how we can serve and be a light for Jesus Christ in the this community, how important is doing that in unity and in the bond of peace. How as important is it for each of us to have peace and to live in peace with each other? Unfortunately, we have a lot of things many times in ministry and in churches as church members and even as leaders that are far more important than living in peace and serving together in unity. But what does Paul say? No, we need to be eager. This needs to be a top priority This needs to be one of those above all else unity. Now I have to be careful with that. Because there's some things that obviously shouldn't unify us. And I'll get to that in just a minute. But are we eager? Are we ready to go the extra mile? And that's why Paul says, oh, that's why you need to be humble. Oh, that's why you need to be gentle. You need to be careful with your words. Oh, that's why you need to bear up and be long-suffering toward other people. Because if you really are eager for Christ working among us and being in example in our midst of the glory of God in this temple to shine in this community. Oh, we have to have unity and peace. That's essential. Be eager. Do whatever you have to do to have that in the church. So important. Every effort must be given to maintain this while realizing our dependence on God to do so. Folks, would you not agree that the world is in chaos, that our country is in chaos? And shootings and violence and shouting and angry words, oh, the tumult and the chaos is Is confronts us in the news and in our lives on a daily basis. Would you not agree that when people come into the local church, a local Orthodox church that is Is truly preaching God's word and is preaching the gospel, that they should not see the bitterness and the anger and the chaos of the world within the church. That should never be. We must be better examples because people need to see that. When people see the anger and the fighting in the world and they come in here and they see people getting along. And at peace with each other. Oh, this is amazing. I've never seen this before. I've hadn't seen this in a long time. Something's different. God must be at work among these people. And that's the point. So do you have an offense against another sister in the church? A leader? Do you have an offense? A concern with a family member? We be willing to go to that person and talk it out and bear up, work through things. We had a part of the leadership seminar yesterday was a wonderful description of how to show empathy towards others. And to work for a common goal. Really, if you weren't there, Dr. Mike would be glad to share some of that with you. It's excellent. And it's all about keeping one of the most important things, the unity of the body. We must walk unified in our identity as the church. One of our major aspects of our identity as a church ought to be that we're unified because we have the Holy Spirit. And the presence of the Father, we have the Trinity working within our midst. So let's look at these last two verses, verse 4. There is one body. And one spirit, just as you were called, to the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. That phrase at the beginning of verse 4, one body. Now I'm not trying to be gross here this morning, folks, and our kids are downstairs. But one of the most disturbing things that we can see or even hear about, even we read um Narratives in the Old Testament sometimes describe this, but if you've ever read a news story where it talks about a dismembered body, that is even the thought of that's abhorrent to us. That because there's there's something totally unnatural about even the thought of a body being dismembered, the human body being treated in that way And crimes where that happens just make us abhorrent, and we call for justice in that. And yet, can I suggest to you that many times Times when it comes to the body of Christ, we're perfectly comfortable in being dismembered. Lack of unity. Lack of work I can be this straight up, just a bunch of body parts coming together, but dismembered, no unit. That ought to be as abhorrent to us as the thought of our own body being dismembered. The thought that we are a bunch of body parts coming together, but there's no unity and no life, that's unnatural. It should never be named in the Church of God. We're one body and we have one spirit. It's interesting in the city of Ephesus before these people were saved They were involved in all sorts of demon worship and magical incantations. And one of the things that they believed in is they would call on multiple helper spirits which were considered assistants who would reveal to you everything that you needed to know and to be your companion through life. Now, that's false teaching, but I honestly believe that there was also some demonic activity involved with that And these folks were actually relying on other spirits besides themselves to help them and be their companions. And now Paul says, here's the reality of it, there's only one spirit. God's Spirit. That's all you need. You don't need all these demonic spirits, but now as believers, you confess allegiance to the Spirit. Not all these demonic spirits, but the one spirit who can help you and who calls you And who enables you to have victory, your call to the one hope that belongs to your call. And God's gracious work is that eternal hope. See, the Ephesians, before they were saved, felt subject to the whims of magic and fate. Whatever fate brought their way is what they had to deal with. But what Paul is saying here, that because they're believers, now they have the hope that they are in the midst of God's plan, that they'll be saved for all eternity. And their future inheritance is God's kingdom. They have a hope that God is doing something with them. They're not at the whims of fate and demonic and magical activity any longer. But no, there is one body and one spirit, and you're called to that hope. Because God has called you to change and called you to be his children. You have the ultimate hope that he is doing something within you. I know we don't have time. We need to get through this, but verse 5, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. That word one Lord has the it is actually a type of the Jewish tradition of the evening recitation of what's called the Shema prayer. And they would say, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And what Paul is saying here is that very prayer to Yahweh, to the God of Israel, to the Heavenly Father. He now in a bold way says, this is Jesus as well. He is your Lord. He is God. And he is the hope of our calling. And one faith. I'll go back to real quick here before we end that whole idea of what should univ unify us versus what What should divide us? Unity at all costs is not what I'm saying, folks. But what are the things in your mind that divide and cause you to be disunified? What are the most important things in your life in your in your mind as you think of our church that are so important to you that you would cause division within this bond of unity? Unfortunately, on some people's list, it's things like curtains and decorations and Bible versions. And music. And there are all kinds of things that people say, oh, if that happens, just forget it. No more unity with me. Division. And yet what Paul says here, what ought to be the only dividing line for us is our faith. And that we're true to the gospel. What ought to divide us is that we adhere to the The truths of the gospel, and we will not stray from them. The truths that Jesus is our Savior, that He's our Redeemer, that He has shed His blood for our sins, that He is God And that he will accomplish what he's called what God has called him to accomplish. The truths of the gospel ought to be our dividing line where we say, I go no further. But so often such petty things. Like all these other things I mentioned, divide us so quickly. And many times, then we don't have the uh commitment to the gospel many times that we should. We get it turned around. Oh folks, don't let these petty things divide us. But let us be unified in the truth of Jesus Christ. Let us say together as a church family, we believe. In the truths of Jesus Christ, that He is our Savior, that He has died for us, all of these things, we adhere and we go forward proclaiming those truths, and we're unified. In the proclamation of the gospel. That is what drives us. That is what motivates us. And that's what we're eager to be unified to do together. And we won't let these other things dissuade us. We will submit to the Holy Spirit's work in developing Christ-like virtues that strengthen the unity in the church. Are you willing to submit to the Holy Spirit today? One author stated this, I think it's very helpful as I finish this. Morning. If we are quick to get angry, we need to work on patience. If we have a tendency to be proud, arrogant, egocentric, and boastful, we need to work on humility If we are insensitive, bullish at times, rough, bossy, or quick to impose on others, we need to work on gentleness. If we struggle with being intolerant with the shortcomings of other people, we need to work on bearing love with one another in love. If unity among our fellow believers in our own churches is not a priority for us. We need to make it the priority. And God can help us to do that. Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. As a church, not just as individuals. Let's pray. Father, what a wonderful reminder That literally the power of the Trinity is at work in your children to accomplish these things that seem impossible. It's hard for us to be humble. It's hard for us to respond with gentleness. It's really hard sometimes, Father, to forbear others It's hard to make unity a priority. It's hard to be committed to the gospel And yet, you have given us everything we need through the Holy Spirit and through the power that you offer to us. The power of the God of the universe and our Heavenly Father to work that change that is so needed in our lives. And so, Father, help this not just to be an individual commitment, but help this to be a church-wide commitment that we will be committed to walking in a manner worthy of your name. And Father, if there's someone here that doesn't know Jesus as their Savior, may today be the day that they put their faith and trust in Him and experience true change. They don't have to be subject to the whims of fate. And they don't have to be a part of the darkness of chaos and violence that's out there in the world today. But they can come experience the love of Jesus Christ and the unity of his people. In the midst of this temple, in the midst of your glory, through relationship with Jesus. And I pray that today they would make that choice to put their faith and trust in Jesus today and know true peace. And true love. Lord, work in hearts today. Folks, you let these thoughts and truths work in your hearts as Leslie plays this morning