The rest of us, do you remember where we were? It's been a few weeks. Ephesians chapter 4. And Just appreciate even Jonathan mentioning that he is doing a Bible study through Ephesians with the Yemenis all the way across the world. We have the privilege of working through that again this morning. And again, if you need a little bit of a reminder about where we've been, we've had these first three glorious chapters of description of what our Heavenly Father has done for us through the Son, through Jesus Christ, and what He has done for us and the blessings he provides And folks, that just even as I think about that, if you want to have a thankful heart, even uh this morning throughout this week, go back through, please, and read through the first three chapters of Ephesians. And that'll be enough to spark a motivation for gratitude and thanksgiving. I can't think of a better way to start out the Thanksgiving. week than reading back through that chap those chapters. We don't have time this morning to do that, but they are a great preparation. Again, describing all that our Heavenly Father has provided, and all that we need to do is put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ and believe in what has been provided for us. The gift of salvation, of sonship, of adoption. of eternal life, of cleansing from sin. All of that is offered freely. And we in faith say, I'll take that gift. Not anything that we do. No works on our end at all, but we take the gift that's freely offered. And we have all the blessings described in the first three chapters of Of this book. Paul is writing to a large church in the metropolis of Ephesus. Home churches meeting around the city. And he is reminding them of their blessed status and hope in Jesus Christ. And we need to be reminded of that too. We're not too far from the metropolis of Baltimore. And we're a church gathering together, we need to be reminded of these blessings as well. And then we get into the last three chapters, and we've started in chapter four, where it Paul says, because of what we have in Christ. Now, this is practically what you can expect in your lives. You can experience victory. God can move and work within you And so that's how chapter four starts out. And if he's going to uh continue a theme he started in verse one, look at Ephesians. Ephesians 4, verse 1. He says, I therefore a prisoner for the Lord, and again he's pointing out, hey, if I can experience victory and change in my life and I'm chained to these Roman guards, then you who are free can certainly experience this as well because It's the power of Jesus. And so he says, I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Walking, that is our daily steps. Everything that we do on a daily basis, do they reflect Jesus Christ? Is the power of the Holy Spirit, are we submitted to what we're learning in God's Word and submitted to the Spirit so that it can change our hearts And literally, our walk for the rest of our lives can gloriously reflect our Savior. We can walk worthy in a manner of that we're called. God has called us to salvation. He's called us to live for him. He expects us to live in a way that's pleasing to him, but he gives us the ability to be able to do that. What does that look like? Verse 2, humility, gentleness, patience, putting up with one another, if I could put it that way, showing the love of Christ. Eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Oh, folks, again, we ought to desire to be unified as a church body. It ought to grieve our souls when we fight and when we bicker and when there's dissension. That's not what God has called us to be as a church family. And then we found out, we continued to go through chapter four, and we find that Jesus Christ gives us gifts to be able to work together in unity. Some of that were the leaders and the teaching and the shepherding by the leaders. But also, Jesus gives us spiritual gifts, our leaders, and the spiritual gifts that each of us have to be able to work together to help each other to grow in Christ. Christ-likeness, to help each other to be mature. And that's where we ended up Recently, a few weeks ago in Ephesians 4, let's look at verse 15. Again, this is background for the verses today, 17 through 24. But Paul says, rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. We are to be a healthy body. And our head, our leader is Jesus Christ, from whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped. When each part is working properly. That's each member, folks. Remember, Ephesians is not just a study to one or two people in the church, but it is everyone. Paul is saying everyone in within the sound of my voice, every believer, you all have a responsibility to work properly. To function in a right way so that the body will grow and you will mature and you will be healthy and be an example of the love of Jesus Christ. Again, folks, don't we need in this world today this sin um tainted, wicked, evil world where so much darkness reigns. We heard about darkness. uh as Jonathan mentioned, um the Middle East countries, Yemeni and other places, and what they face in Detroit, Michigan. That's everywhere. We need to be as a church, not just one or two people, but all of us, a proper example of the love of Christ. Because people desperately need to see that People need to see the Holy Spirit working in us to do a miracle, and that is to bring us to be unified together around the truths of Scripture. And that takes a miracle that only the Holy Spirit can perform. And so we need to be submissive. We need to read God's word We need to submit ourselves to the work of the Spirit within us. I could kind of sum up the recent verses that I've just read in this Folks, no pastor wants to lead a church with a bunch of toddlers. Now we love children. Don't get me wrong. And if you have toddlers in children's church today or you have uh infant in the nursery. That's great. We're excited about that. But a pastor would be grieved to lead a church full of full-grown people who are still acting like toddlers because they won't grow and mature. No pastor wants to go around and say, hey, I pastor nursery Baptist Church. Because everybody's so immature it might as well be a nursery. Now I'm not saying up across Baptist churches that way. I praise the Lord for faithful service here. But you get the point. Paul is saying it's it's strange. That shouldn't be the case. Or we talked about how sometimes some portions of the church are growing and growing stronger and others are weak and emaciated. So I mentioned a few weeks ago remember Popeye, that old cartoon comic strip that became a kid's cartoon. Some of you teenagers are like, what in the world is he talking about? about. Well it's this guy that eats spinach. He's a sailor man and um he can do powerful things when he eats spinach. So there you go. There is uh little advertisement to eat your vegetables. Or kale. Kale's a good thing. If Popeye ate kale, he'd be even stronger, right? But the weird thing about Popeye was he only grew in his arm his forearms, right? I think his legs and everything else, he was st Now that was funny in the comics, but no pastor wants to pastor Popeye Baptist Church, where there's a few of us that are really strong and bulging, and the rest are weak and emaciated. No pastor wants that. No, we want to, I want to see a church that's growing together, that's strong. In the Lord. And Paul says that. Each part growing, working properly, making the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. And now, Paul, in these next verses. is going to go into back to that theme of walking in the Lord. And he's basically going to point out there's two ways that you can walk as a believer. One way is really bad. It's not advisable. The other is what should be going on and the right way to walk. Many of you have apps now on your phones that track your steps and things, and it can almost get annoying sometimes. Your phone tells you in the evenings how well you did or how really badly you did with your exercise and your steps. Well, Paul is going to point out in our spiritual walk, those that do badly and are not successful versus those that are successful in their walk with the Lord. Eh? And we're going to see today we need to walk in the knowledge of Jesus Christ So first of all, verse seven, our walks should not reflect our former sin nature. Our lives should not be a reflection of the spiritual emptiness that are in unbelievers, that are in The world. Verse 17. Now this I say and testify in the Lord. That again, that has the idea of you listen to what I'm saying. I'm about to say something that you really need to pay attention to. And he's calling as a witness the Lord as he said these things. So Paul's saying, listen up, this is really important. So let's make sure we do that, all right? This is the wrong way to walk as believers. Listen up, that you may it must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. That word futility has the idea of spiritual emptiness. That as believers, we can either walk reflecting the power of Jesus Christ, which he'll get to in just a minute. Or we can still walk reflecting the lack of spiritual power and looking more like someone who hasn't trusted in Jesus Christ. Who has rejected him? Paul says, don't act that way. The Gentiles, he's not being racially insensitive or anything. Remember, in many times in the New Testament Paul's writings, you have two groups of people. You have the Jews in New Testament times that were the people of God, and then the Gentiles are all of those in a Jew general sense who have rejected God. Now his audience is in Ephesus, a good mixture of Jews and Gentiles that are following Jesus Christ. That's not the point. But he's saying basically is don't walk as unbelievers do. Don't walk in the same way that you did before you trusted in Jesus Christ as your Savior. That would be inappropriate. You see, before Jesus entered into your life, your life was futile. That word there means empty or without purpose. And he's saying that all of those who have rejected Jesus, who have not put their faith and trust in Jesus, Jesus Christ, but have rejected him, or for whatever reason haven't trusted in him, their lives are empty, their goals and their directions are meaningless, they're futile. They have ultimately no purpose. They're walking around living for themselves. They have no objective for their life. Their minds are futile. They basically walking around aimlessly for their own purposes, disconnected from what is really the only truth. Purpose in life. What is that, by the way? What is the true goal and purpose of mankind? It's to glorify God forever. And those of us who have a relationship with Jesus Christ, we can walk in a way that's pleasing to our Heavenly Father and glorify him. But those that don't know Jesus, that are Gentiles, that are unbelievers, they have no way to please God because their sin has not been dealt with. They've not accepted the cleansing blood, the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, and they're still in their sins, and so their whole lives are purposeless, meaningless. Because they don't understand the true purpose of glorifying God with their lives. So again, so appreciate Jonathan's. testimony. There is a family and he's teaming up with other people who desire to see God glorified in Dearborn, Michigan. And in Detroit, in that whole area, in that specific area of the Yemeni population, they want to see God glorified, and they're praying to that end. They're praying that people People will come and trust Jesus and will understand because if they don't, their lives are futile and they don't have any idea what the true purpose of life is. I'll make an admission here, along with many teenage parents. We allow our young men to play video games sometimes. And one is still popular. I'm amazed it's been around for many, many years. Now I haven't played it much. I I keep telling them that maybe at some point I'll find some time to be able to play. You know, because I'm trying to connect with with my kids, but I just haven't found that time yet. This video game is called Minecraft. Okay? And it's interesting. You can play it in a lot of different ways. You build your own world and you build all kinds of different things. and you kind of make a life for yourself within this. Now I know I'm probably uh skewing a lot of the objectives of this game, but it's a popular game with young people. I've seen my boys play it before, and you have a couple different modes. One is where there are monsters uh running around that can hurt you, and the other mode is where they uh still walk around but they can't do anything. So as I'm watching them for as long as I can endure it to play this game and they're going through and they're going through these caverns, these different things that they've made, every so often you hear these creatures behind them and they're chasing after them and making weird noises, but they can't do anything because they're not in the right mode. for them to be able to hurt them. So this just these creatures that wander around aimlessly, just pop out of nowhere, just make weird noises, and they can't hurt you or harm you. They have no objective at all. Now maybe there is an objective that my boys can explain to me later, but I've never understood that. But it's kind of strange. Well folks, in a real sense, Paul is saying People that have rejected God walk around without any objective, just kind of bumping into things and making strange noises, but they have no meaning in their life. The people that have rejected God, have rejected God, have rejected the Savior, have no aim. They're futile. And Paul says believers should never act that way. Because we have the ultimate objective to mature and to be more like Jesus Christ Paul continues this description of these unbelievers, verse 18. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of hearts. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. Back to that word understand. Verse 18, they are darkened in their understanding. Understanding is the idea of the capacity to be able to think, to plan, to make moral judgments. and lifestyle choices. And Paul says, without Christ in their lives, providing that change as a new person As a new man in their old ways and as in and as an old man, they are ignorant, they cannot understand They're not able to make moral judgments and able to please God in the way the believers can. Their reasoning, even, is darkened. Because they're disconnected from Scripture, from God's truth, and they don't understand it. And they're walking around in emptiness. Paul is going to point out later on in this passage that believers Through the power of the Holy Spirit, we are enabled to understand the Word of God. That's a glorious truth. That when we come to God's Word as believers in Christ, That we have the Holy Spirit within us, that the Holy Spirit illuminates and gives us understanding. Those who have not trusted Christ, Do not have that understanding. They're disconnected. They come to Scripture and they may say, oh, that sounds nice. That sounds really um I don't know, uh moral and uplifting and encouraging, but they can't understand it because they're totally disconnected From Jesus Christ. Until they put their faith and trust in him, they are ignorant of God's truth. And that's what he continues to say there. Alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart. They're hardened towards spiritual things. And they have no desire to seek after God. And so that has made them even c more callous. And they give themselves over to all kinds of of sinful behavior. This is a gross list here. Disgusting. Sensuality, greedy to impractice every kind of impurity. Just kind of like jumping into the garbage can and just enjoying all of that garbage and impurity. That's the picture here of those who have not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. They are they'll never understand. They're cut off from the life that uh that a relationship with Jesus Christ Can provide. They'll never experience true life, real life. Really, what Paul is describing here is a group of people that are on one long event. Eternal death watch. Once they lose their physical lives, they're dead for all eternity. And it's truly sobering. But at the same time, he says they're culpable Because they have rejected God. It's almost as if many times when you talk to people who have rejected God and they've um they're they're they're hanging on to other possible solutions. Well, it can't be. The Bible, it can't be. There can't be a God out there that allowed all this to happen and that created and allows evil to happen. So there must be some other reason why We must have evolved or aliens must have come and started all of this somehow and got it uh going and you know, one day we'll meet those aliens or just whatever silliness. Why do people, why do people, why are they so enamored and attracted to wrong thinking and cults? in false religions. I think a lot of times what it is is in secular philosophies as well, they come to the Bible, they come to hear about God and they say, whatever the answer is, it can't be God. There's no way that I can imagine someone who is over me that tells me what to do and wants to direct my life. I have no patience. I have no time for that. So whatever the answer is, it can't be God, so it must be something else. Give me any other answer but the fact that there is a God in heaven who will hold me accountable one day because I just can't stomach And they are hardened to the truths of Scripture. They refuse to consider that there is a real spiritual connection and real life through Jesus Christ. They don't want to consider that option. So they reject him. And they continue as walking zombies who are facing Eternal death. Folks, that's a sobering picture. Paul also talks about them as being hard and calloused. They're insensitive. It actually, the uh Greek word has the idea of medically hardening or thickening a bone. They're calloused. They've hardened themselves to God's truth and his will. They want none of it. And because of that, they don't have feelings of shame and They're not sensitive to spiritual truths. And so they get involved in whatever they like. It's almost like they have no sense of spiritual pain. There's actually a word for this in medical terms. It's called congenital insensitivity to pain or CIP. One doctor said this, of the CIP patients I've worked with in the UK, so many of the males have killed themselves by their late twenties by doing ridiculously dangerous things. Because they're not restrained by pain. Unbelievers are not, are unrestrained toward immoral attitudes and behaviors, and so they perceive Sin with reckless abandoned and they're greedy to be involved in more. Give me more. Give me more. I can't get enough sin. Insatiable desire for all kinds of uncleanliness. That's a sobering picture of unbelievers, folks. Would you agree with me though that Christians have no business reflecting Reflecting that type of hardness toward Jesus Christ. It's unnatural. Paul says You shouldn't look like the unbelieving world that's enjoying their sin and is callous toward the truths of God's word. It's unnatural. It's inappropriate Of course, we don't want to reflect the world of the unbelievers as we walk with the Lord. There's no testimony to Jesus Christ in that. But rather, our walk should reflect our new life in Christ. And our lives should reflect the truth of Christ. Let's continue to read here. He says after verse 19, practice every kind of impurity, but then he gives an alternate But that is not the way that you learned Christ, assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus Christ. He says, that's not how the Holy Spirit is working in your lives and helping you to understand the truths of God's word. If you know Jesus Christ, you won't be able to act and live your lives in that cold, callous, sinful way any longer. It's not possible. He says you haven't learned Christ. That involves and that describes a relationship. That those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ are have a relationship with Him, and He is their teacher, and He is teaching teaching them. How does Jesus teach us today? Well when he came to this earth he had disciples and he taught them with the words of his mouth and then they eventually became the apostles and wrote scripture today Jesus teaches us through his word. And we can understand spiritual things by being taught by Jesus himself. We're not um we're not just learning cold historical facts or cold facts about other religions and cults or you or or studying a biography where you learn interest Things about people, but it doesn't really affect you. No, Jesus is the embodiment of truth. There was a book written many years ago that really helped me as we get into these next verses. Understand what was going on as far as the process of change and how believers ought to look in their lives. Many of you have probably heard of it and read it. It's called Change into His Image by Dr. Jim Berg. And he said this about the process of sanctification, which is described in verses 14, I'm sorry, verses 22 through 24. He says this process of sanctification has been designed by God to be a cooperative venture between God and And us. God teaches us things. Our Savior teaches us things through the work of the Spirit. And we change. We don't stay hard and callous to the truths. Paul says, I'm assuming that those of you that have claimed Christ, that that's a reality. That you really have put your faith and trust in him, that you're not faking it. The end of verse 21, he says, the truth is in Jesus. And those of you that are true believers. Are finding that truth to be satisfying and fulfilling Our lives should be a desire to study the truth of Jesus Christ found in Scripture. The whole of Scripture is the message of Jesus Christ. And folks, we ought to desire to want to know more on a regular basis. As believers, do you desire to have Jesus teach you in his word every day? We desire all kinds of food, don't we? And drink, and yes, I enjoy coffee as much as the next person. There's lots of wonderful food out there that we enjoy together, but so many times we neglect our spiritual food, which is even more important. Jesus can teach us every day the truths of how we can walk more and be more like him. And Paul gives us that process then in verses 22 through 22. So let's look at this together. How can Jesus teach me to be more mature? Because Paul is now going to say Um don't walk in the way of the Gentiles. Don't act like an unbeliever. It's inappropriate. It's not right. But you, you Follow and walk in a way where you're growing in your relationship with Jesus Christ, where you're maturing in your faith, where you're looking more like Him. So the question is, well, how can I do that? How can I do that, Paul? What is the process for me to be more mature so that I'm not a part of Nursery Baptist Church, but I'm a mature believer That's growing in my faith, and I'm an adult that is able to help others. So, everything okay? Okay. Alright, let me know if we need anything. Okay. Is he all right? Okay. We'll keep an eye on that. Let's look at this process then in the few minutes that we have. Folks, most of this, you've heard this before. It's not a hard process, but look at verse 20. To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds. and to put on the new self created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. How can I mature in my faith? How can I move from the nursery of Christianity to the maturity of being an adult in Jesus Christ? How can I be reflect a wise person that when people see me and hopefully everyone within our church when they see us they say that is a room filled with wise people Who seem to be confident in their relationship with God. And they always know what to do when difficult things come. How can we grow and have that type Well, first of all, you put off the old self. Well, what does that mean? Belonging, that which belongs to your former manner in life and is corrupt through deceitful desires. Here's really simply what that means. Okay, stay with me a couple more minutes. This is what that means. That rather than being involved in all that sensuality and sin and carnality, that Paul says, no, that's how the unbelievers react and act Don't be involved in that. Instead, you put those things off. You don't allow those things to be a part of your life. The old garments of sin. You put off and say, I'm tired of this robe of sin, these tattered garments. Right? When you come home, if you if you are involved in a lot of physical labor on a regular basis, and it's been a hot day, and You've been sweating in those clothes and maybe you've worked hard and some of them are torn and they're gross and the first thing you do when you come home many times hopefully is you want to take a shower and you want to take those dirty clothes off. Maybe they're spattered with mud and uh there there's sweat throughout them. And you say, oh, I need to get these off because actually tonight I have a special event. I'm going with some friends or my wife to a special restaurant and the last thing hopefully you would do is look at yourself and say, well you know what we don't have a lot of time tonight. I know I'm sweaty. I know I'm muddy. I know my clothes Are torn. I know we're going to a nice restaurant, but I can get away with it, right? And just walk in and you know you're tell your wife, hey, I'm ready to go. And she says, Oh no, you're not. You know, my our boys may be able to get away with something like that. Yeah, it's still kind of sweaty, but it's still got some life in this shirt. I can go ahead and go to church or go And it's like, no, no, we're going to learn what it means to be grown up. And we we shed the dirty old clothes and we put on the new. And so, folks, we ought to be ready to shed the dirty old sins and things that have been a part of our lives in the past. Well, how do you do that, Pastor? Pastor Brock. Well, Paul is emphasizing here that we need to know God's Word well. The more you read God's Word, the Holy Spirit will point out the old clothes that you need to take off. The old clothes of lust. And um greed and selfishness and um you know narcissistic behavior. Um and so many other things. The Holy Spirit will point out as you read the Word. He said he'll say, you need to take off this dirty, tattered garment here. you need to change here. And that is when we read God's word, that's the second part then, verse 23, to be renewed in the spirit of your minds. That's not where you just sit around and you um you Get into a yoga position and you just try to meditate on nothing. That's not what Paul's talking about here. How are we renewed in the spirit of our minds, folks? It's through knowing this book well. Getting into it and studying it and saying yes to the Holy Spirit. As the Holy Spirit shows us things in God's word that we need to change, we don't say, no, no, I'm not going to change. change that. I love that sin too much. I love that tattered, muddy, stinky old garment too much. No. We say to the Holy Spirit, I'll be willing to change. Because you've shown me what I need to change and how I need to change. So we're renewed in the spirit of our minds. And then number 20, verse 24, to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God. In true righteousness and holiness. It's not just enough to take off the old garments, but we need to put on the new. And that are things like the fruit of the Spirit. We put on the garments of people who are changing and becoming more like Jesus Christ, who are spiritual What are the fruits of the spirit? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. The list goes on. On and on. Those are the garments of the new man and woman. And so we come to God's word. We learn the sins and the things. We don't revel in sin like we used to as unbelievers. We're not hardened against God's word any longer, but we have hearts that are open to what the sin Holy Spirit is trying to teach us, and we're open to that, and we want change. And we pursue the fruitful works of the Spirit. And we see God change us into people that are more and more pleasing to him, that we are more righteous and more holy. us We're more separated and purified to serve Jesus Christ, to serve our Heavenly Father in a right way through the work that Jesus does in our hearts, not our own efforts. You see, this process is really pretty simple, isn't it? Don't walk as people who haven't been changed and love their sin and love the garbage. But you walk in a way that's pleasing to God, and yes, you can do that by knowing his word well, and as we come to God's word, we say, Holy Spirit, we pray, do a work of change in my heart. Oh, there's this sin, there's this filthy garment, there's this over here. I gladly will take that off. And I put on the garment of the spirit, of wisdom, and the love of Jesus Christ and gentleness and joy. And holiness and purity. Because I'm a new man. I'm a new woman. I am a member of the kingdom of God. This world is not my home, and I ought to dress appropriately. in the fruit of the Spirit, in the work of God, as someone who has another kingdom who will live with Jesus forever, I should much more reflect the kingdom of God than the kingdom of Satan. And the world. But Paul says we have a choice. We can walk in a way that reflects our former sin nature. But we shouldn't choose that. We should choose instead to walk in a way that reflects life with our Savior, Jesus Christ. Dr. Berg and changed it through his image says this. This means that our changed lives must be revealing Christ to others God uses the first two responsibilities of restraining the flesh and renewing the mind to establish a Christ-like character within us. God intends next to use what He has produced in our lives. To have a Christ-like influence on others. How do you want to be remembered, folks, when you go from here? I've been doing a lot of work. in the s um going over the cemetery and those that are buried there, not because I want to, but because we have the cemetery policy we recently passed and I have to make a lot of phone calls and finding out who still wants plots and different things. And so I've been having a lot of thought about eternity. And about where we go afterwards and how we're remembered. And I I so I'm listen I'm I'm getting to know people that were buried here and their families, and people are remembered in certain ways. How are you going to be remembered? If you die before Jesus returns or I die? Are we going to be remembered for somebody that just liked to have a good time? And was fully immersed in the ways of the world? Or are we going to be remembered as people that reflected the character of Jesus Christ? Well, those people weren't perfect, but they were godly. And I could tell that that person loved Jesus with all their heart I hope that's your testimony that you desire. That's a desire that I have. That when people remember me, they'll remember Pastor Brock pointed us to Jesus Christ, and he reflected the character of Jesus Christ in his life. Oh, what a glorious testimony! We can do that in our walk when we are submitted to Jesus Christ, learning his truth, submitted to the Spirit He can do the change, and our lives will count for eternity, and we can point others to Jesus as well. That is a great epithet. And a great way to be remembered. Father, thank you for this reminder. Father, I hope that everyone in here truly has a relationship with Jesus. Jesus Christ and desires to be remembered as those that in some way or another reflect the character of Jesus, not those that reveled and partied and had a great time in this old world. Because we know this world is passing away and the new is coming. So I pray, Lord, that everyone here has a testimony That they are a part of the kingdom of Jesus Christ through faith. In the shed blood and sacrifice of Jesus, and that through his resurrection they can be confident that they have eternal life because they're depending wholly on him. Their faith is entirely in him. Lord, I I pray that that's the case. And if that is the case for those here, I pray that you would help us to change and better reflect Jesus in our lives Because you have provided the way for us to do so. Through your word and through submission to the Spirit, the renewing of our mind , you will change us to look more like Jesus. Folks, two things. If you don't know Jesus this morning, come talk to me. I would be glad. Jonathan, Bishop, others would be glad. To direct you into how you can know you can have a relationship with Jesus and be changed forever, for all eternity, for the better. For those of you this morning that do have that relationship, which way have you been walking? Have you been reflecting the world more than our Savior? Oh, folks, you can turn from that and you can better reflect Jesus Christ even this morning. You commit yourself to Scripture and to the Holy Spirit. You take time to meditate on those truths. The piano plays.