Again to be able to have Mark Logan speak for us. Had him here, supported him for 35 years, and uh I hope by the way that you're able to get a booklet. We still have some. That covers the whole conference. In the middle of that booklet, you'll see a world map that shows where all our supporting missionaries, where God has called them. But with Brother Mark, we just have at the bottom here International Missions Uh because he covers a lot of territory. And the Lord has led him uh to places that many people can't go to share the gospel. And so So we're just so thankful for the Lord's work. It's the Lord's work. And we're humble servants. And Mark has just been faithful. You'd be in prayer as well again for his wife and his family. And for Mark as he tries to figure out how best to get home living in Asheville and all that's going on there. But he's gonna come now and speak for us and brother just share what God has has on your heart. Not gonna jump up there like I used to be able to do. Great to be with you folks. This uh you you've been a real Joy to my heart supporting us for many, many years. Uh, remember pastoring a church in Canada, the first missions uh effort that God had called me to do, and it was very exciting. And we saw the Lord grow that church in the all through the 90s and in the 2003 up in the Toronto, Ontario area. Came down many times and talked about how my Blue Jays had won the World Series two times in a row, and you Orioles fans just had to bear with me back in those days. I'm really happy for the Orioles, though. I really am. They're doing well. Uh I just love your you folks and many of you. Go back uh for many years in my uh uh relationship with you and I thank you for all you've done. It's a joy to go into all the countries. After pastoring for thirteen and a half years, the church had grown. Uh Um we'd have about two f hundred and fifty people in the morning service and most would come back that in the evening. Uh if there wasn't a snowstorm or some reason, we just had a uh tremendously um uh growing and exciting ministry, ha seeing many people saved, um uh and and baptized. Uh but God put in my heart that there were a lot of people uh Um that weren't being reached around the world because missionaries were being sent home from places like India and Myanmar and China even. And I've had the privilege of being in China on two different occasions. Since I surrendered to the Lord to do that. That was a calling he put on my life to leave that church. And a good pastor took it over, actually, one who assisted me for many years. years and started a little Bible institute, a very strong fundamental man. And and now there are several churches planted in that area. We helped plant two or three. Well one of my deacons um lived Well, before he was a deacon before he ever visited our church. He he was our neighbor across the street and we just had a great time with him. He was a believer, but uh a Lutheran and not d casting dispersion, but you know You know, he uh he personally was born again. He was going to one o one of those Lutheran churches that did preach the you know that you had to be born again. And um but you know he was dissatisfied trying to bring his family up. There were some things that that he just ha did not feel comfortable with there. Uh so uh we g uh um we got uh his children involved in I wanna and this happened many times. Get the children involved in I wanna and then as they would bring their children on on Wednesday night, I would see some parents and say, uh do you have a church uh that you go to on Sunday? Well well come over and and uh if your children like a one I think you'll like our church. And next thing you know, you you they come to know Christ and be baptized. And uh so there's a lot of ways and you're you're doing them. How you can reach people. And um so uh Uh it was very exciting ministry, but God uh definitely called me to leave that ministry uh in another shepherd's hands and uh and come down where I could uh be very handy. To go all around the world to the Atlanta airport. Uh and by the way, I'm supposed to leave Thursday for India. And quite honestly, um Asheville is a war zone. zone when it comes to weather right now. I mean it's just I'll be uh blessed to be just be able to get home. They've closed all the major highways. There are just a few roads that are open at times. Uh by the time I get down that way I have to go all the way down south near near Greenville to come up. Uh so you know that wouldn't be the way you'd go there. So I I ask that you pray for me. Uh that And uh now, you know, uh from what I understand, someone one one of the ladies told me this morning that where where my two banks are that I send wires to around the world to support my national leaders who need And they have many churches that they answer to and have planted. And so they're underwater. So I don't know what. Uh the the the my wires are supposed to go out Monday And um I don't know if a bank's underwater, can they still send bank wires? You know, that's a good question, isn't it? I'm I'm laying a few burdens on you folks. I wish you'd pray for them because the whole ministry Around the world. Um, if they don't get their support, you know, in these poor countries where they are, and I use my support to support all these works in in in India, in Pakistan, in Myanmar, uh in Malawi Africa, in the United Arab Emirates. I'm supposed to be with my guys there uh uh for for the whole month of October. So all of it's just really, you know, I'm still planning to go. My tickets are bought, ready to go. So, but you know, God knows about the weather. And somehow uh he arranged for that hurricane to go kind of off course. Would you agree? Hurricane Don't you know, but the worst part of it is the rivers. I mean when you get twelve inches of rain in a few hours and it's now the wind did blow some trees, but the rivers uh in that mountain area are are mighty and they have just washed away everything. That's why the banks are underwater, from what I hear. And I can see it in my mind. It's in a low spot near the Biltmore house. you've ever uh visited that. And so I I'm in the middle of trouble. So if you could pray for me, I'd appreciate it. Um but God knows all these things, doesn't he? You know, speaking of of being in trouble. If you put your finger in the middle of Africa, you'd hit where I was raised As a child, when some of the I can see some children in here. And um it's been sixty years since um there was a rebellion there, and uh nineteen of our missionary families lost their lives because the Simbas from the east part of Africa who are still uh there's still a problem in that area of the world, but they were communist inspired You'd be familiar with that. And uh the the communists came over, gave them weapons and strong form of marijuana, and said, Yeah, just go kill those colonialists. And they did. And nine by the time they were done In 1964, 60 years for almost to the month, uh they had killed nineteen of our uh missionaries, including several children that I used to play with. Because you know, when you're just a very few missionaries in a you know maybe a hundred mile uh radius uh uh uh you you play with the other children if if every so often if you s go see them, you know, and in the main city where you get your food. So uh that's where we were in um what is now Kisangani. Um uh uh in Swahili was the language and so sixty years ago Today. And one of my heroes in missions, Hector McMillan, uh, he didn't lead my dad to Christ, but he mentored him after my dad got saved in his twenties. And Hector McMillan McMillan and his family, seven boys, went to the Belgian Congo. And three years later, my father took our family to the Belgian Congo. And we lived about 40 kilometers. away from him. Well the Simba soldiers in nineteen sixty four in October, they they came um they came in and and uh were getting ready to conquer the city of Stanleyville. We had a A few years a couple uh yeah about three years earlier, we had gotten out of there. Uh we were at uh you know missionaries have four years and usually try to take a furlough. And so uh in Independence had struck and that group, the Simbas, came in and started a rebellion against the government. They were repelled, but not until American paratroopers that were percent came down to Stanleville, uh which is now Kisangani, and repelled their efforts. And we caught literally the last plane out in those days. So I wasn't in the Congo when 64 happened and the nine Nineteen people were slain. But I remember uh as a young boy hearing the reports of of families, the Sharps and the Straits and the course the Macmillans. Let me just tell you about Hector McMillan. Najep came up uh to uh his residence where hi his family, seven boys, his wife, uh, and and a few of our other missionaries were. And uh And um the uh these guys were stoned on on hemp. And so Bob McAllister, Hector McMillan walked out of the door of of where the all the other missionaries were cracking Crowded in basically one room just out of, you know, of concern to be out when when those we knew the soldiers or they knew the soldiers were around. And um Hector was shot instantly. They just shot him him down on his doorstep and Bob McAllister had a bullet go by his head, much like what we've all witnessed on TV recently. Um I won't get into that. But um and he fell but he was just flesh wound But and I have this little um pamphlet I own 's written, the his wife, and uh he took uh she took the opportunity and by the way th those those soldiers then went into the room and sprayed gunfire out and hit two of the boys, one in the hip and one just a a small flesh wound. But they all they they all but Kenny, the one that was shot in the hip who couldn't move Came out uh and and after the Jeep had gone uh and after the commanding officer had dressed down those um stoned um uh warriors, so called. Uh Very devil inspired, very under the influence of of d of a strong form of marijuana. And um so uh she came out and the missionaries gathered around Hector's dead body. And here's what she said in a little pamphlet, Christ is sufficient, that I've had in my Bible for many years. So I said to the boys, You see your daddy here this way? There's nothing we can do to save his life. Now you can cry if you wish, but I don't think I will, because I'm so proud of him and so glad that he could give his life for Jesus. That and other stories have inspired me, but God called me to be a missionary, to leave a pastorate that I loved. Souls are being saved, churches. being planted. But as I look back in the last 20 years of going into all the world, and that's kind of my theme, into all the world. I have a few books in the back and you're welcome to to take one if you like one many of you already have them. Um it's just it's it's it's it's what God has has has for my life to go into all the world. And I'm just thankful that these other missionaries are going to places that are they all need the gospel. But the places where I feel called to go are the places where missionaries have been evicted where missionaries are not welcome. I go in as a as a visitor, a 30-day visitor visa everywhere I go, and so they just think I'm a tourist and that's okay. I can take Bibles in. They don't even look at my luggage. That way. But God has allowed me to be able to start Bible colleges in several of these countries. I teach in every year, and then a couple others that I teach in that others have started, and my national leaders Leaders are supervising in Pakistan thirty-one pastors in Africa, hundreds. And in Mozambique, we've trained six that are planting churches in Mozambique out of all the um uh the the a hundred to two hundred uh graduates over the years. But so God's been really uh uh um just uh he he's just really uh blessed my life and I love the uh cause of missions. I guess that's what I'm trying to say. Cause of missions is in my heart. And I'm thankful that you've always been a church that loved missions, supported missionaries. You support have supported me for over thirty years and you really take missions conferences seriously. I I love the way you've laid it out. I thank God for uh brother Steve and and Skip. and others that allowed me to stay up there at Restoration Farm and on and that's been beautiful, very quiet, very peaceful. And um you you you just can't I know you just can't Do enough for missionaries, so I commend you for that. So let's turn to our Bibles, and I don't have a long message, but I just want to leave you with uh something here. First Thessalonians chapter two. I love to teach on this chapter, and I do in all the books. Bible colleges because it it talks about Paul's pattern as a as a uh missionary and therefore the pattern uh of a pastor, how how the pastorate ought to be conducted. And so he recites how he entered into the lives of the Thessalonian believers. And um but but I just want to uh look at a couple verses and then go on from there. Verse 11, he's speaking to the believers now that were now part of his missionary uh uh churches that supported him. Philippi and Thessalonica were both Macedonian churches. As ye know, verse eleven says, How we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children. I love this verse, that you would walk worthy Worthy of God, who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory. And so the title of this little message is Walking Worthy of the And you know he's talking to believers, not talking to pastors here. Missionary, and of course he he left it to others to pastor the church, but it his burden here in this chapter is is that the the believers would walk worthy of God. God's calling. Then he clarifies in verse thirteen, because God uh he says God's called you to his kingdom and glory. Certainly that must happen. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye receive the Word of God. See, that's man's part. God calls man's gotta believe. That's that's that's always the way it is. Which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, because many do receive the word As men and the seed of God's word doesn't get planted because they don't respond to it in salvation. But it goes on to say: but as it is in truth the word of God, which if So I want to talk to you this morning about um being effectual in our in our walk with God so that we would be faithful in what God has called us to be And so uh let's go back in our Bibles to uh the Old Testament, oddly enough. I want you to see somebody, I I don't know if you've heard of this person who was called, and uh the challenge is to walk worthy Of God's calling. Sometimes we think it's just pastors who are called and they should be called. Sometimes just missionaries, and yes, they should be called. Otherwise, I don't think it's going to be successful. If a missionary just kind of feels, oh I think I should do this. No, if God hasn't called you, stay home. Because you can do a lot for the Lord home. And uh and that's what I I want to talk to you about. be desiring to walk worthy of God's calling. So Exodus thirty-one, we meet a man uh named Bezaliel in verse two. See, I have called by name Bezaliel, as God is talking to Moses in verse one. Bezaliel the son of Uri, the son of And I have filled him with the Spirit of God. Huh. Wow. This Old Testament. Somebody's filled with the Spirit of God. That's rare. That didn't happen in the Old Testament very often. Okay. Uh here in the New Testament, every believer is is then indwelt by the Spirit of God and sealed until the day of redemption. But that didn't happen in the Old Testament. But these guys were. Oh, so they must have been great missionaries, right? Verse 3, and I have filled him with the Spirit of God. understanding and knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, to devise cunning works, to work in gold and in silver and in brass, and in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship. Uh a successful church has to have people called to do things that the pastor can't do and wouldn't know how to do. And I'd be the first to admit, I'm thankful for God called people who are skilled. Who are craftsmen, who are who have a plan. I believe you could call Bezalil the architect of the Ark of the Covenant. Because up till now, God wanted to visit with his people, but he had nowhere that was sacred and set apart for him to do so. So God had a plan And he called a certain man who he knew was as skilled as they come, filled with wisdom. Then he put in that man the Spirit of God to do exactly what God wanted to do Now, uh, here's the thing. If you go to and we can't read all these chapters, but sometime you'll you'll find Find it interesting to peruse them. Exodus 25 to 30. God is meeting with Moses and Joshua up on Mount Sinai. And he is talking about the Ark of the Covenant. And all the sacrificial offerings. He's talking about the incense, how to prepare it. He's talking about all the details of how to build the ark of God. And if you were Moses sitting there, you might have had a notepad. Obviously, the Ten Commandments were given to him. But could you imagine what Moses is thinking? I can't I can't do that. God is telling me the details of something I wouldn't know how to do. I'm in a pickle here. I can't say here's Jehovah in his glory. I can't say, well God, you got the wrong guy. No, he is sitting there with Joshua absorbing it, thinking to himself, how am I going to do all that he's asking Asked me to do to the specifications. Read chapter 25 to 30. God is very specific. In fact, later on, God had a couple of Aaron's sons killed because they didn't care about the specifics of the worship. And and so God is being specific, and I can see Moses going, oh, okay. But you see, what Moses didn't know was God already had the plan for the architect. Not only the architect, but if you read on in that chapter, uh he's got a he's got a buddy who's the crew chief and he names him verse six. And verse chapter thirty one verse six and behold I have given with him a Holiah the son of Ahizmach of the tribe of Dan and in the hearts of all that are wise hearted I have put wisdom. So other people were involved too There was a whole crew that God had in mind, and he knew it while he was talking to Moses, but I guarantee you Moses didn't know it. Sometimes God puts a burden on the heart of somebody to do something, and the first thing you missionaries know this is, I'm not going to do that. God's already got a plan. He's already got people who can do what you can't do. But those people have to be willing. And that's the God was looking for somebody who's willing. He found two of them and others who helped, and God was able then to do something that Moses couldn't do. And Moses was was a tremendous man of God. So God calls talented men, spirit-filled men, for a talented man Secondly, some that he calls don't obey. In the next chapter, chapter 32, a terrible story of Aaron's fall from From grace. S Aaron was called, he was the high priest, but he failed big time in chapter 32 And again, we can't read all these chapters, but you know what he did? He made a golden calf in verse 5. And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made a proclamation and said, Now notice, he wasn't forsaking Jehovah. That's the Lord. That's Jehovah. Tomorrow we're going to worship Jehovah. But he changed the way it was going to be done. And they rose up early on the morning, offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and to drink and rose up to play. Hmm. Unfortunately, I think There's churches that major in play. So God had uh He had a real problem with that golden calf. that that Aaron had made. The worship that Aaron was now espousing had to be visual. You had to see it. There had to be a calf. Up to that time you knew that Jehovah was not to be seen. But now it had to be visual. It had to be fun. It had to be pleasurable. It had to be sensual. Look at verse 17. And when Joshua heard the noise of the people, as they shouted, he said unto Moses , There's a noise of war in the camp. And he said, It's not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is the voice of them that cry for being over. But the noise of them that sing do I hear. Now let me ask you a very basic question. Do you know a type of music that is like war and it's like singing? I don't believe it has a place in our churches. I love courses. I, you know, I'm not a hymn-only person. If something's been written in the last five years, I'm not against it. But I do have a problem entering a Baptist church, a church ought to know better, and being jarred out of my wits Have you had that experience? Well, that was the experience here. And it got worse It was casual. And it was sensual in in reverse 20. And he took um uh and it came to pass as soon as he came nigh to the camp that he saw the calf and the dancing. And Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and broke them beneath the mount. He took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the fire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and made the children of In verse 24 , Moses tries to give an excuse, and he says, I said unto them, What's whosoever whoever hath any gold, let him break it off. So they gave it to me and and I cast it into the fire and out came this calf. Can you picture that? That he is seriously suggesting that he threw the people's gold into the fire and out comes. Ah, it's amazing what people who should be leading the people of God will make excuses for allowing in their worship. So it was random worship. Casual worship, verse 25, they threw off their clothes. Moses saw the people were naked. Now that term is like when Peter was out fishing and And he had to put a c uh uh some clothes on because he recognized Jesus was out there. He had to cover himself up. I it never means that a person's stark naked. But people were dancing, the music was loud, it was sensual, and they were casting off their clothing. Random, casual, sensual, pleasurable, more visual. A God-called man must please God, not please the people. Moses, thank uh thankfully, I I believe he repented. And you continue to see he had a a a a a godly attitude towards it all, but at first it wasn't so, was it? Began to make excuses. So some people that God calls like Aaron, they don't obey. God had to deal with it. But then they then went on Bezileel and Aholiab, and the rest of the chapters you can see that uh they started the construction. They God purged the sinners. The chief sinners, thousands were killed by God at that time because of their disobedience, and then they moved on to do what God had wanted them to do. And I want you to see the third thing, God's willing people got involved. So far we've seen the leadership, both good and bad. Now we see the people getting involved Involved. And in chapter 35, they brought the materials. And Moses gathered all the congregation of Israel to them, said unto them, these are the words which the Lord hath commanded. And he reminded them about the no work on the Sabbath day, and then he talked to them about bring you a willing offering, verse five. Whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring an offering of the gold of the Lord. Gold, silver, brass, blue. In other words, to construct this thing, God wasn't going to drop it out of heaven. Like he had done the manna. I mean, he could do that, but he wasn't going to drop the gold. The gold had already been strawed down the brook. It had all vanished because of of the golden cast. So you might be thinking in your mind, well, where's the gold coming from? Well, willing people had withheld it. That's the only explanation. They had thought in their minds, mm-mm. No, no, then my goal's not going to go for that. So they held it back. And so now that that episode was over, God said, okay, now bring your offering. And all the willing people, and I believe far more who had held back than the several thousand that God had to slay, and and and and all the gold that perished going down the river, started to be brought. And not only the gold and silver, but the ram Skins, the for the for the curtains, oil for the light, verse 8, and you can read all about it. The tabernacle tent, covering boards, pillars, sockets, all of it was donated. And they kept bringing and bringing verse 22. And they came, both men and women, as wen and many as were, here's that good phrase, willing hearted, brought bracelets and earrings and rings and tablets, all jewels of gold. And every man which was found blue and purple and scarlet, so and go again there's so many verses. I mean, God has written several chapters on this Incident. We should know about it. It's an important story, and it does apply in some principles to the way we worship God. Would you Great. All the women whose heart stirred them up. The children of Israel, verse twenty-nine, brought a willing offering unto the Lord, every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring all manner of work which the Lord had commanded to God wants us to be willing in our giving. And so it was chapter 36. They received of Moses, verse 3, all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the uh sanctuary to make it withal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning. I mean what a scene that would have been. Every morning. Even uh you know all the gold, all the materials, and then they still brought more Unto the point where here's an unheard-of verse in all the Bible and in all Baptist thinking. Verse 6. And Moses , not that we Baptists were in the Old Testament. I understand that. M Moses gave commandment and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing. For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it and too much. Has there ever been a pastor who said to his congregation, no, no, no, no? No. Please don't bring any more for the building line. Please don't bring any more for the beautiful pews. Don't bring any more for missions. We have not only enough we got too much. much we gotta find some other project. I I don't know of uh there's probably been a few. I don't know of pastors. Nobody's ever said that to me. I think this was the most unusual event in the Bible. That's why it's record Recorded. But you know, the best part of it is God was well pleased with the result. Go go to the end of Exodus. Now they're having the ceremony. They're dedicating the Ark of the Covenant. It's built. All the gold plated uh uh wood was where it was was was was was held holding up the beautiful curtain That were made, the Ark of the Covenant was inside, and Moses was there, and the the the you know, the cherubims, all the things that you could read about are beautifully done. And can you imagine here Aholiah and Bezalil and all the people who spent maybe weeks crafting all that. They're over here, and Moses is right here beside the Ark of the Covenant. They're having a celebration. Notice the last verses of chapter 40, verse 34. So Moses finished the work, end of verse 33. Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the Lord. Lord filled the tabernacle. Wouldn't you have loved to have been present for that event? The glory of the Lord had been up on Mount Sinai, only two people even got near it at that point. Now the glory of the Lord wanted to indwell that human effort, the thing that God 's servants who were called and filled had accomplished. Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation because the cloud abode thereon. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children went onward. In all their journeys. Can you imagine Bezalel and Aholiab as the glory of God descended and think to themselves, I had a part of making that. The glory of God 's descent on what I've just spent weeks building. All of them. It wasn't just those two. They were the leaders. And you know, I think about one day, and go back, and I'm closing with this, go back to First Thessalonians chapter two. It's in the same chapter. It's not there by accident. Verse 19. For what is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye, you, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming. One day, missionary. Are going to stand in their place and watch the people from every tribe and tongue and nation come through the gates if that's how they enter. at the rapture or and and and and you know they they're they're gonna look and say and and the ones coming in will say Thank you, thank you, thank you. That's what it's going to be like the glory of God being beheld by weak but willing servants And all those who did what God's called them to do and gave , they were part of that process. God did not give the materials. They were in a desert. They couldn't find those materials. But they had to work to find those materials. And they had to give the gold and the silver and the precious stones that they hadn't already wasted on Aaron's failed attempt. One day we're going to be in God's presence. So he closes out by saying, For you are our glory and joy. And missionaries, we think about the People that God's allowed us to bring to Him for His glory. One day we're going to behold them. And one day, you're going to know that the fruit, those people from all these nations will Not be there if it weren't for you sending missionaries. And you've been doing it for many, many, many, many, many, many years. And you're going to have that great Joy, that crown of rejoicing at that day. May God bless you, motivate you to do all you can, because the time is short that we'll be in his presence. Hey God bless you. Hey gospel. I'm so thankful Brother Mark shared that passage this morning because folks, if I could put it this way, that's the end game. I know we're I know that we're gonna receive when we get to heaven as As believers, for those that are faithful, some sort of crowns, and they may be actually crowns you can hold. But what better crown than to see people who you had a part in leading to Christ? I don't know about you, but I don't need any other crown than to see those folks come and know that you had a part. And it was all God's work, but he, in his grace, allows us to have a part. So let me end this way. If there is anyone here today who still doesn't know Jesus Christ and you don't have Have a relationship with him, and you don't know for sure that one day that you will be with the rest of us in eternity, praising God forever. We want to see you What a great way to end the conference today by someone trusting Christ and uh seeing when Jesus returns, you with us praising him forever. That would be the best way to enjoy this conference. And so, folks, come talk to me. Come talk to Brother Mark. We've got plenty of missionaries here, Victor, Josh, and others. We would love to show you how you can have your sins forgiven and eternity with God forever rather than eternal justice. Through faith in Christ. It's all in Christ. And we call you to trust in Him, have faith relationship with Him today