So good to be uh with you all this Lord's Day morning. And I don't think I told anyone, uh I may have told Pastor Brock about my message, but that last song And complete in thee is such an encouragement, especially in light of what I want to uh talk about uh this morning regarding our glorification. But before I get started, I just want to Open in a brief word of prayer. So let's bow our heads. Father God, you are a holy God, and we stand And so far apart from you regarding our own holiness, yet we are mesmerized at how incredible your holiness is, Lord. And Lord, you have made provision for us to come into your presence by your son. And Lord, so often we minimize this and we think of it. As old hat. We don't contemplate our salvation as we should. And yet, Lord, it is the most important thing in our lives. And so Lord, as we study your word this morning, Lord, I pray that our hearts recognize deeply how important and crucial Our salvation truly is. Lord, I pray that you help me to speak clearly. Help me to articulate this message clearly, Lord. Lord, any failures in this message, Lord, I own entirely. Lord, I pray that you give me wisdom as I preach. Lord, I pray that you would convict our hearts From this time together, in your name, Lord. Amen. I want to start with a question. What causes you to marvel? Is it the expanse of the Grand Canyon? The imposing nature of the Eiffel Tower? Perhaps it was the birth of your first child and Seeing your child for the first time. We all have moments that cause us to be astonished. These moments take our breath away and we can we can barely utter words. A lot of times we say words like whoa or wow or maybe it's an inaudible gasp of amazement at what is happening. We all marvel at amazing landscapes and the birth of children, but how often do you marvel when it comes to yourself? Salvation. This morning I want to encourage you that your salvation is truly amazing. It is marvelous. And so if you take nothing else from the This message, I want you to take this. You must marvel at your salvation, because it is supremely wonderful. In the book of First Peter, we see three reasons that we should marvel at our salvation. And so if you would, would you turn to First Peter chapter one? But as you're turning there, I want to give you some background on the book of First Peter. You see, 1 Peter was written to Christians in modern day Turkey. But these Christians had been dispersed, and they were known as the dispersion because they were suffering persecution. And they had suffered Scattered from their homeland, they were away from family, and they were on the run because of their beliefs and because of their faith in Christ. And so Peter is writing with the specific purpose to encourage these believers to remain strong in their faith in the midst of opposition. And in the midst of trials. In 1 Peter 5:12, it says, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand Firm in it. Stand firm in the true grace of God. And so Peter's message to these believers is that their status As a chosen race, a holy nation, God's own people, should motivate them to persevere in faith. He felt it necessary to write to these believers. Because they had become, they had started to doubt the legitimacy of their own faith. They considered their sufferings and they questioned whether or not they were truly saved. Perhaps you have questioned whether or not you're truly saved because of your sufferings. They thought, maybe I have unintentionally sinned. Maybe somehow I am displeasing to God. Perhaps I'm not truly saved, because if I was truly saved, would I be experiencing these trials? And so Peter is writing to assure these believers that they are indeed on the righteous path and that their trials are actually to be expected. They have no reason. to doubt their faith because of these trials. And so we're going to be in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 8 through 12, and we're going to work through this a couple of Verses at a time. And so I want to draw your attention first to verses eight through nine. Let's look at this together. It says this: Though you have not seen him You love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory Obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And so I want to provide three reasons that we should marvel at our supremely wonderful salvation. And the first reason coming from these two verses is that we should marvel at our salvation because it is confirmed. In the midst of suffering. The trials that Peter's readers are experiencing do not warrant hope. These believers are Scrapsing through a world that is dark. This world has beaten them down, scattered them from their homeland, and they are bloodied and bruised. Can this actually be the way? Peter comforts these believers that they are actually on the righteous path. They are on the righteous track, and their salvation is confirmed. Confirmed, even in the midst of their suffering. And Peter highlights two demonstrations of their salvation that can Notice with me what it says in verse 8. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not know see him you believe in him and so believers demonstrate both love for and faith in Jesus Christ. It says in the text that though they do not see Christ, they love him. They believe In him. Remember, most of these believers probably did not see the historical Jesus. Yet they are demonstrating belief in Jesus Christ. Does anyone find it ironic who is writing these words? This is a man who denied Jesus three times. This is a man who Jesus asked three times, Peter, do you love me? Peter denied Jesus three times and was questioned on whether Whether or not he loved the Lord. But this was the same man who would be the rock, the foundation of the church. And he would ultimately die as a martyr. Of all people, Peter was uniquely qualified to understand and recognize genuine love and faith in Jesus Christ. And he's calling that Out in these believers. The love and faith in these believers was confirmed as genuine because they demonstrate love for and faith in Jesus. Christ. John 20, 29. You might remember Jesus' interaction with doubting Thomas. What does he say? He says, Thomas, have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. This is Peter's readers that he's talking about. They have believed and they have not seen. And so Peter assures these believers that they are Because they demonstrate love for and faith in Christ. But we have a second demonstration in the In these believers that confirms their salvation. So first, they demonstrate love for and faith in Jesus Christ, but second, in the midst of suffering, believers demonstrate supernatural joy Our text says, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. What's the source of it? Inexpressible joy. Look with me at verse nine. Says this obtaining the outcome of your faith The salvation of your souls. These believers were looking forward to the day of glorification, and they would be with. Christ. The source of the inexpressible joy is the hope of salvation. Now Peter has the full culmination of salvation. Remember, he's already speaking to believers, and yet they still have hope. And so these believers, they are justified. They have been freed from the penalty of sin. They have ex they are experiencing their sanctification. Sanctification, that is freedom from the power of their sin, but they are also looking forward to being free from the very presence of sin in their glorification. see that this is Peter's purpose in writing and focusing on the future aspect of our sap of our salvation when we look back up at 1 Peter 1:5. Look with me just up the page it says this who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed when In the last time. Future. Peter's view of salvation in chapter 1 is a future outlook of salvation. And so when he writes that this joy is inexpressible, he's saying that the joy these believers have when contemplating their own salvation, it can't Can't be fully commonated or understood in human words. It's like when we see the Grand Canyon and we say like we can't we can barely utter words. Whoa, wow. Gasps of a Astonishment. This is the inexpressible experience. Now, joy is not the natural response to trials. This joy is confusing. Because often trials seem to contradict this. Remember, these believers had lost their homeland. They were scattered throughout the Mediterranean, and they were being persecuted. How can they possibly have joy? It seems almost absurd. I want to read 2 Corinthians 4, verses 16 through 18, because I think it gives us a little clarity. For how they could have joy. So we do not lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to the thing That are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Had a future outlook. They were looking forward to a day of glorification when their pain would be gone. They would be free from pain, free from death. Free from barrenness, free from cancer, free from dysfunctional relationships. They could have joy because their eye was toward the culmination of the joy. Of their salvation. Though unbelievers are focused solely on our world, believers, we have a hope that extends beyond our world. It's a hope that looks To the eternal rather than the worldly. You might receive a diagnosis of cancer. You might Find out that you cannot have biological children. You might receive a call from your child saying that they want nothing to do with Christianity. Of our trials may be different than what Peter's readers experienced. You can have joy in the midst of suffering because you have the power to look Beyond your suffering to the culmination of your salvation. First Peter five ten says this And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and Establish you. You can demonstrate supernatural joy because your salvation is rooted in the certainty of your future glorification. Now, I want to take a brief moment to talk about false religions. Because there are several false religions that preach this doctrine we call karma. Do good, get good. Do bad, get bad. They claim that if you are suffering, this is the result of your very own wickedness. If you are blessed, you must have done something good. Millions of people today ascribe to this false religion. And it takes many different forms, karma, but one of the forms it takes. This false religion teaches that if you go to church and contribute to your tithe and report. your Bible and pray daily, then God is obligated to remove your suffering. If for some reason you suffer after upholding, quote, your side of the bar And God has somehow failed you, or maybe you just didn't do enough. You might say, God owes me. This is nonsense. This is unbiblical. Because Peter explains that you should actually expect suffering. This is not the result of missing church or holding back on your tithe or God somehow quote failing you. May I assert that God owes you nothing? Can expect suffering in this world, but it's not the result of bad karma. Remember Jesus' words? In this world, you will have Tribulation. Your suffering, though, is temporary. And you can have joy when you look beyond your suffering to the calm Of your salvation. But you would be grossly mistaken to claim that as a Christian you should be absolved of suffering. Your salvation is confirmed by your love for Christ, your faith in Him, and your joyful response in the midst of suffering. We should marvel at our salvation because It is confirmed in the midst of our suffering. But secondly, we should marvel at our salvation because it clarifies and fulfills Old Testament prophecies. Look with me at verses ten through eleven. Of 1 Peter chapter 1. Says this Concerning this salvation, which we just described, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours Searched and inquired carefully, inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ in the subsequent Glorious. And so Peter is continuing his thought from verse 9 by highlighting the role of Old Testament prophets. And I want to describe three unique roles that these prophets had according to 1 Peter. First, the prophets prophesied about future grace. The object of their prophecy was grace. And I think the best way to do this is to actually look at some of these prophecies. Prophecies that were in the Old Testament. And so if you would, would you turn with me to Isaiah 53? And as we Look at some of these prophecies regarding from Isaiah. I want us to recognize the grace of God that was prophesied in the Old Testament. So this is verses three through seven of Isaiah fifty-three. So it's this. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne Our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. For our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. His own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter. And like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Now we don't have enough time to fully unpack uh this prophecy of Them rejected, smitten by God, pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities, he was chastised to bring us peace, he was led to the slaughter like a lamb And we are healed by his wounds. This is Jesus that Isaiah is prophesying about. born. It's like if Leonor Leonardo da Vinci or Geoffrey Chaucer made a prophecy 700 years ago and it was fulfilled today. Another passage in Isaiah, and you don't have to turn to this one, but is Isaiah 7. Isaiah prophesies, Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, the incarnation of our Savior Jesus Christ Was prophesied in Isaiah 7 and was fulfilled in Matthew 1. In Matthew 1, if you remember, Joseph has a dream, and an angel comes to him in this dream. And the angel says, She will bear a son, that is Mary, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet, who was Isaiah. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, seven hundred years before Christ was born. Now turn with me to Acts 13 We're going to be in the latter part of Acts thirteen in verses forty-six through forty-eight. This is uh when Paul and Barnabas are at Antioch and they are Preaching to Jews, but the Jews are rejecting the gospel. And so it says this in Isaiah in Acts 13, verses 46 through 48. And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, It was necessary that the word of God be spoken first to you, Jews, since you thrust it aside and judge Judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we are turning to the Gentiles, that is, non-Jews. For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, I have made you a light for the Gentiles. that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. These Gentiles were rejoicing because all the way back in Isaiah 49, Isaiah prophesied about grace coming to the Gentiles. Salvation would be for non-Jews. Though grace was always part of God's blessings and nature, the greatest manifestation of his grace was Sending his son to be for all people. It was far more extensive than the prophets observed. It would be through a suffering. Suffering servant, that is God's grace. God in the flesh and for all nations. The prophets prophesied about future grace that was more wonderful than they could have even anticipated. But they had a unique interest in their prophecies. And this led to the second role that we see in the prophecies. According to 1 Peter 1. So if you would turn back with me to 1 Peter chapter 1, and it says this in verse 10. Who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully. These prophets searched with intensity. They investigated multiple points of view, trying to uncover how their prophecies might be fulfilled. It's like a treasure hunter who's looking for precious Stones. They may look at the ground and they don't want to miss any details. They're meticulous in their craft. And they might look at the ground from multiple angles and using multiple tools. Because they don't want to miss a single detail, because they care about finding these precious stones. And the same is true for the prophets. They studied their previous writings. They studied other Jewish writings, all in an attempt to piece together how and when their prophecy might be fulfilled. They inquired what person or time Is the Spirit of Christ coming in? Times events. Daniel says this in Daniel 12:8 at the very end of the book. Daniel says, I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, Oh my. My Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things? Daniel had a keen interest in how his prophecies would be fulfilled. What was the Lord's prophecy Response. God said this. Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end. The timing was not for Daniel to know. The timing of the fulfillment of these prophecies was shrouded in mystery, though it was known by the Holy Spirit. Look with me at verse eleven. Inquiring what person or time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicating when he predicted the sufferings of Christ. Christ in the subsequent glories. Notice the two events that the Holy Spirit predicted. The Holy Spirit predicted the sufferings of Christ The prophecies that we read in Isaiah all point to a suffering Messiah. But this was inconceivable for first century Jews. We hear this today and we just recognize this as our faith, but to them a suffering Savior? How could that be? Though the prophets wrote by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, they also were confused at how Their prophecies would play out. I can't imagine a Messiah that must suffer. Second, the Holy Spirit predicted subsequent glories. These are the glories experienced after the Messiah's sufferings. The Messiah's resurrection, ascension, assumption. Of the throne, return, his reign, his glory as judge of all. The suffering of Christ plus the glory of his resurrection. Is the entirety of the gospel message. Though the prophets struggled to understand how this could be a single person, this has been made clear for us through the person and word. And I think we can relate to the Old Testament prophets and how they were keenly interested in the fulfillment of their prophecies. We have different views on end times events. Everyone has a different idea on what is actually going to transpire. And we have questions. And it's Shrouded in mystery. When is the tribulation? How long will the tribulation be? Will there be a tribulation? When is Christ returning? Who is the Antichrist? Christ. We all have questions about the end times events, and these are shrouded in mystery. We have pieces, but we don't have Have full confirmation. Now, as we talk about how the prophets prophesied about the grace of the gospel, I want you to notice one more fact. God 's plan from the beginning was the cross. One commentator put it this way. The suffering and death of Christ was not an untimely accident or a tragic mistake, but rather a necessity that had long been foretold. Plan from the beginning was Christ crucified to pay the penalty for your sin. The prophets sought the timing of the Savior, and Peter is saying, Search no longer, he is here, and his name is Jesus Christ. And so the prophets prophesied about future grace. They searched into the fulfillment of their prophecy. But the prophets had one more final role. The prophets served you in their prophecies. Look with me at 1 Peter 1, verse 12. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you. By the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Verse 12 indicates that not only do these prophecies apply to Peter's readers, but But these prophecies were intended for Peter's readers. So why is it so important to recognize that the prophets served you? Peter is high The supreme privilege you have following the incarnation of Christ. Of all the times to be alive and Human history. You live when you clearly see what was shrouded in mystery for the prophets, the fulfillment of the messianic prophecies. It's like someone who receives corrective lenses. They may without glasses look out on a scene and they might see some symptoms. Shapes, but it's blurry. Then with corrective lenses, they see the intricacies that they clearly missed. They see the different oranges Shoes of the sun. They see the shadows that delineate between different hills. They see the wisps of clouds in the sky. Hang like ornaments on trees. You see clearly what was blurry to the Old Testament prophets. Because the manifestation of God's grace has played out Matthew thirteen says this, but blessed are your eyes for they see, and your ears for they hear For truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous people long to see what you see, and they did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it We should marvel at our salvation because it clarifies and fulfills Old Testament prophecies. But we should marvel at our salvation. For one more reason. Look with me at verse twelve. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves, but you in the things that have now been announced We should Marble at our salvation because it fascinates angels. Notice what the object is that the angels are looking at. They look upon the salvation That the prophets have prophesied. This includes the sufferings of Christ, Christ's glorification, the grace bestowed to believers, and the gospel message But notice the intensity as well with which they look into the salvation. It says that they long to look. This verb of longing to look is the the same word that was used of the disciples and the women as they peered into the tomb of Christ. Luke 24 says this Peter rose and ran to the tomb, stooping and looking in. It's the same word. It's like if a preacher says, hey, take note of this passage. What do you do? You crane your neck and you look closely because you don't want to miss what the preacher is about to say and what the text says. Or you might think of if a celebrity walks through a crowd. What does everyone do? They all look and they're trying to get a glimpse of this celebrity because they're fascinated by that celebrity. And the same is true for the angels. They long to look into the gospel message. But I think we have to ask the question, why? Why are angels so fascinated by By our salvation. Though angels have an important spiritual role as God's messengers, angels don't experience God's grace or redemption like humans Do. They are fascinated by the experience of salvation because your salvation glorifies God and they do not get to experience that. They experience glorifying God, but they don't experience salvation in the way that you do. May I remind you that the angelic world elsewhere Is seen glorifying God in redemption. Just so I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God. God over one sinner who repents. That highlights how the angels long to look into these things. Why does Peter highlight the fascination of angels? Peter is emphasizing The supreme privilege you have compared to angels. Because you actually get to experience redemption. Angels don't experience the gospel like you Humans do because they are not redeemed. You actually experience Christ's redemption, which fascinates angels. The Old Testament prophets experienced salvation, but they didn't understand How God's grace would be manifested. The angels understood how God's grace was manifested, but they could not experience salvation. You fully Understand how God's grace is manifested through Christ, and you get to experience salvation. This is why your salvation is supremely wonderful You must marvel at your salvation, because it is confirmed in the midst of your suffering. Your salvation clarifies and fulfills Old Testament prophecies, and your salvation Fascinates angels. Now I want to turn to a few brief applications. First, when going through trial Trials, you must meditate on the wonder of your salvation. When we go through trials, it is very easy to be disheartened. And to have a siloed look that only faces on the here and now. Rather than give up and be filled with despair, the wonder of our salvation and of our glorification. Should cause us to hope in the midst of suffering. If you receive an unfavorable health diagnosis, if you struggle to care for a wayward child Or if you are contemplating how your career is not where you want it to be, you can meditate on the wonder of your salvation and recognize that you possess what the prophets could not clearly see and what the angels could not actually experience and that is the eternal salvation of your soul. Hebrews twelve one through two Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set Before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the of the throne of God. When we focus on The joy that is on the other side, we are able to endure trials with magnificent steadfastness. Second, we must savor the Old Testament There are churches today that are falling into the trap of dismissing the Old Testament. This may be subtle, such as not Preaching from the Old Testament, or it may be more egregious by claiming that the Old Testament is somehow outdated and no longer important for central truth This is a lie. Luke 24, 25 through 27 describes an event. And he said to them, O foolish ones and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Who spoke these words about going Back to Moses and all the prophets. He was Jesus Himself. Jesus taught from the Old Testament to point to his fulfillment of the old Testament. When we study the Old Testament, we must recognize how the Old Testament points to Christ. We are missing a crucial aspect of the gospel, if we don't understand how sin entered the world, if we don't understand the sacrificial system required for sin, if we don't understand Israel's desire for a king and God's sovereign plan. We are missing a crucial aspect of the gospel if we deny these things. Points to Christ. We are missing a crucial aspect of the gospel if we minimize the Old Testament. Third and finally If you do not know the Lord, I urge you, recognize how marvelous salvation is. The God of the universe sent his Only son to die on a cross to take the penalty for your sin. This was a penalty that was yours to pay, but it was impossible For you to pay that penalty. The punishment for your sin was death. Jesus Christ was perfectly holy and satisfied that penalty By dying in your place. In the words of the Apostle Paul in 2 Corinthians 5, he says this: I am Implore you, on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. For our sake, He made him, that is Jesus, to be sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. This was the most marvelous act of grace. This marvelous act Act of grace, this salvation is confirmed in the midst of our suffering. This salvation was prophesied from the Old Testament prophets And this salvation fascinates angels. If you do not know the Lord, I encourage you to call upon the Lord today. What calls upon Causes you to marble. Is it a picturesque vista, an unexpected accomplishment? Is it a thrilling experience or your relationship with a loved one? My hope is that as you contemplate what causes you to marvel, nothing captures Confirmed in times of suffering, prophesied and inquired with intensity Fascinating to the angels, you must marvel at your salvation because it is supremely wonderful. Let's close in a word of prayer. Father God So often we minimize our own salvation, and we forget how sinful and destitute we are apart from your grace. Lord, Lord, I pray that we are routinely astonished when we contemplate our salvation, when we contemplate the cross, and when we contemplate That we can have salvation that our salvation is confirmed in the midst of our trials. When we contemplate that we see clearly what the Old Testament prophets saw only blessing And that when we when we contemplate that our salvation even fascinates angels. Lord, let us go out today And be thrilled when we contemplate that you saved us, the worst of sinners. Not because there was something lovely about us or you wanted us, quote, for your team. but simply because your nature was a nature of love. Lord, I pray that you bless the rest of today and in your powerful name, amen.