As we turn to our scriptures this morning, let's continue to let those thoughts, and as the worship team goes down pour the message This song reminds us there's no excuses to not be thankful and joyful for what God has done. The very power of hell will bend the knee. So what do we have to be afraid of? So many things inhibit our singing and our joy and our fellowship with God. And yet as we just sung, it's clear that he is all powerful. We've sung about the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit arms us for victory. There is no excuse to not sing and praise God with full joy for all that He's doing for us. And that message is what we're going to see this morning in three passages. You can get ready to turn to the Psalms. And even more specifically, we'll start with Psalm 96. And we're going to continue in a series that I started when I was candidating, when we were candidating here, and that is on worship. Folks, I'm convinced if God's people really reflected and were reminded. I don't think that anything that I'm going to be sharing is brand new Some of it might be something that you haven't thought of before in these number of weeks as we continue in this series. But most of this is just a reminder. That if we really get a hold of our need to worship God and our desire to want to worship Him faithfully and with joy, that it will transform our lives. And it will bring unity within the church. As we're unified together, let's praise God together for the works that He has done. And so, even in that message a few weeks ago, what I emphasized Is worship is one of the primary emphases throughout Scripture. And it really is one of God's central commands to his people. We miss that sometimes. We'll see that today. But unfortunately, it's often trivialized. or misunderstood entirely among the Christian community. And yet it's something, as we'll see this morning, that is vital for believers to understand accurately and proclaim wholeheartedly. And that's the purpose of this continued series. What is the primary purpose of our worship? It's not in the end to worship the way that I want to. Or to make sure that different components that are important to me are included in the service. No, the first question or the primary purpose is to obey God and to please Him in our worship rather than ourselves. Remember, the first question that I had said must be asked after the service or should be asked is not what did you get out of the service or what did you think about the service, but it ought to be what did God get out of the service today? Was he pleased? Was he magnified? And then of course, as we're doing that, folks, there will be a joy. We will have satisfaction. We will enjoy the participation as we're obeying God in our worship together. Well I have another perspective again from that uh somewhat sarcastic uh parody site. I thought this would be helpful and interesting for us. I think we can probably relate to a few of these. This parody site had an article and it said, so you haven't been to church in a while, huh? We get it. Dragging your family to Sunday services week after week isn't easy. If you're running out of excuses, here are some perfectly valid excuses, that's tongue in cheek by the way, that cover you for at least a while. Number one The song leader keeps singing in keys that are way too high for normal humans to sing in. How are you supposed to worship God in a too-high key? Number two, you just like don't feel like you've been getting anything out of the sermons lately and stuff, and of course, this is entirely the pastor's fault. Number three, you need to find socks and shoes for all your kids to wear, and those of you that are parents of young children, that's no small thing, by the way. An impossible task before you meet here at 11 a. m. Number four, there's a sermon series on sin, and you don't need that kind of negativity in your life. And you're probably not that much of a sinner anyway. Probably. Number five, greeters. You're an introvert, and yet the church still posts greeters at the door. This is an abuse. Number six, you got into a big argument with your spouse this morning and you're still mad. This might have more application than we want on that. It may be too hard to fake a convincing smile to the greeters And then number seven, some weird person was sitting in your pew last week. You just can't deal with that kind of awkwardness again. We could go on. Those are supposed to be humorous because I think we understand that those shouldn't be a part. And sometimes those get a little too close to home, don't they? Those make the point, folks, that many times we make worship all about us and what we're dealing with, and we miss the fact it has to be about God It must be focused on him. Worship is attributing glory to God and contributing something to him A friend of mine said worship is the process of declaring by whatever means God ordains that the Lord is full of glory. And so today we're going to look at worship fundamentals. Turn to Psalm 96, verses 7 and 8. And we're going to see here that right worship gives glory to God first and foremost. And that God commands us to give him glory. God commands us to worship him. Look at verse 7. It says, Ascribe, which means give unto the Lord, O families of the people. Ascribe, give unto the Lord glory and strength. And that word ascribe means to attribute or to give God what is meaningfully, what is appropriately his. He deserves this. And then in the last part of that verse, that word glory is so important because glory is the weight and the full weight and heaviness of God's majesty. That's not a negative word. That means that it's worth something, that it's weighty, that it's important. And so all that God is and his attributes is deserving of this weightiness, this glory, this distinction. It's deserving of our full respect. And awe and marvel. And so here we have again in this verse 7 that giving him this type of glory that's important That's weighty is our duty. And also, folks, it ought to be our delight. It ought to be something we recognize. God commands us, and I need to do it. I need to honor him. I need to give him glory But I delight in doing that because he's so worthy of that and even more. We are to recognize God's greatness. You know what's interesting sometimes we miss this. Turn quickly to Romans 1, 18 through 20 Did you realize one of the reasons that man faces eternal judgment is because he does not do exactly this. He does not worship and give God the glory that he deserves. Verse 20 of Romans 1, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world and the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. And it says before that that they do not recognize the attributes and the character of who God is, and so they are fully worthy of eternal punishment. That may sound severe, folks, but it makes the point. We are responsible to give God the weight, the glory, the recognition that he deserves. We must do that as his people. We must ascribe, we must give attention to and recognize his important worthiness of all our respect and honor. One of the reasons that he is worthy of that is because he is holy, he is pure in his character, and he's in control, he's sovereign over all things. And by the way, it doesn't say that give this to God as if he's deficient in any way. Maybe give this to God and somehow help fill up that glory that he needs. No. He is not deficient in his glory in any way. We are recognizing alone his full majesty and worthiness of worship. Look at verses 8. Go back to Psalm 96. And look at verses 8 and 9, we'll see this. Ascribe to the Lord the glory do his name. Again. David is reminding us, God is worthy, it is right for us, He is due, our worship, He is deserving of it all. Bring an offering and come into his courts. That word for offering is really interesting. It's the idea of a basic offering of grain that was an act of worship. And it could even include the poor people 's offering. And what that means is that when we come to worship God, all peoples ought to be involved in that. Regardless of how little they have or how much they have, all of us are responsible to give God glory. Does he command us to give him glory? Yes, he does. Well, if God is commanding us to give him glory, isn't that almost arrogant? Well, let's be candid, folks. For us, it would be. It'd be full arrogance and pride Because we don't deserve that. But God is fully deserving of all of our worship, and He deserves To receive this from us. He is do this. And so whatever we can bring and give, we ought to gladly do that. Look at verse 9. Worship the Lord and the splendor of holiness. The idea of holiness is that He is pure without sin, but even more so that He is unique among all individuals. He is God. He is the unique holy one that the full interpretation or the full fulfillment of this was when Jesus Christ as the Son of God came and came and and lived among us as man, and he is fully deserving of all of our power of all of our glory and worship as well. And so is the Father, because of his unique separateness from all of his creation. And then it says, tremble before him, all the earth. And yes, people do when they when they get a a powerful glimpse through reading God's Word. of who God is, it does cause us to awe and to tremble, folks. It should. When's the last time, on a side note, that you have read descriptions about God and his word and been in awe and literally trembled over that? You say, wasn't that a little overdone, Pastor Brock? Well, isn't that what Isaiah, Jeremiah did? As they saw the visions of their calling of God upon their lives, and they trembled, they fell to their knees. And then God enabled them to get back up and to worship Him appropriately. There should be that trembling. But here's something interesting. I really think in context here This is describing people trembling in anticipation and excitement. They're ready, they're excited to worship God. And as we think back over all that God has done for us, folks, can we ever give God too much? That's not possible. Let's do the best we can with excitement and anticipation. Well, like all good parents, as our kids have grown up, we've taken multiple videos. of them and various events and different things because we wanted to remember those things. Now, unlike some parents, we don't post a lot of those videos on social media and things. We don't want them to girl up and look back and say, you posted that and everybody's seen it. But we are those parents who are looking forward to the day when we get those videos out and when they meet their spouse one day And we can share all these wonderful videos of how crazy our kids were when they were young and things, and so the spouse can enjoy that and the soon-to-be spouse. You guys didn't know we were going to do that, did you? Then about they're like dad stoss marriage yuck. That's okay. If Arnhem were here right now, he'd be a little nervous. One of those videos though every Christmas it was so it was so um satisfying for Leslie and myself as we would get ready to do the presents Uh the boys, of course, they would get up before we would, and you know how that goes with small children. And they were so excited and energetic and there was these almost um just this overabundance of enthusiasm. And yes, we are those parents that make your kids wait at the top of the stairs while we get everything just right and how we have to do the stockings first. And then we move up to the presence behind the tree. We admit fully that we're those parents. And so they had lots of opportunity to wait in anticipation And sometimes there was there was holding a breath, and sometimes there was jumping up and down and all kinds of crazy noises because of the excitement of what was going to take place. And we can understand that But folks, do we ever get that excited about worship to God? Now I'm not saying as you come in today that I should see a bunch of jumping up and down and holding your breath. And clenching all these types of things. But you know, if I did see that, that wouldn't be a bad thing. But I'm talking about is an inward sense of anticipation. We get to worship God today. That's so exciting. I can't wait! That is what we ought to have as we come to God every day or every Sunday and worship Him together. Well, Pastor Brock, look around me. Some of these people are a little hard to worship with Well, then you're focused on the wrong thing. When we see all that Jesus Christ, what our Heavenly Father has done for us the past week, folks. We can give him the glory he deserves. Because he does deserve it. So let me ask you some questions then. In our worship service at Upper Crossroads. Do we recognize God's importance and greatness in our singing? In our praying? In our reading of Scripture? In our giving? In our listening to the message? Do we emphasize, as Psalm 96 verse 9 said, do we emphasize his holiness in our daily worship? Or in our daily work, in our private activities, in our personal prayer and meditations on Him, are we reflecting our enthusiasm for who God is? And his greatness. Well, we should be. And we need to be. Don't get distracted by other things. The more we focus on God and His greatness and His power in our lives, the more we can be successful in what He's called us to do, folks. So it's commanded, right? Worship is commanded, but it also rejoices over the character of God. Turn quickly to Psalm 135, 135 verses 3 through 6 And this calls on us to joyfully express praise to God for who He is, for His goodness And his goodness means that everything that he allows into our life, even the hard things, is for our benefit, and that everything that he does in his holiness and in his character is good. It is right. It is appropriate. And his goodness then deserves our glad praise. What do we do so often when difficult things come into our lives? We, let's just be candid. Remember, we talked about this last week. We're all rather messes in our in different ways And what happens is when we have tough things and frustrating things come into our lives, rather than glad praise, we give over to God dark doubt. God, I'm not so sure on this one. You know, you normally get everything right, I understand that, and you're good, but in this situation, what you're allowing me to go through right now, what you're allowing my family to go through. I don't know. It's a little too much this time. And yet, folks, we should at all times be given giving glad praise. Maybe it's not on the outward smile and things like that all the time, but there is an inward sense of God still deserves my honor and recognition because I trust Him. And whatever he's doing, it's going to be for my good. And so in our singing and our experience of worship, always ought to be glad in our hearts And really Psalm 135, 326 describes this. Praise the Lord. That word for praiser is exclaim hallelujah! Rejoice in the character, in the nature of our God, of our Lord. Praise the Lord. The Lord is good. That's not a question. That is a statement that we can put our full conviction and faith in. He is good, folks. Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant. And maybe you've had those times where you're just down and you're depressed and you're discouraged and the darkness is seeping in. And God gives you a song to sing. And you hear that song, or you're singing that song, and the darkness starts to go away And the joy and the reminder of who God is and what he's doing in your life, even if you can't see it, brings you back to that pleasantness of worshiping Him. Continue here, verse 4, for the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel, as his own possession or his own peculiar treasure. Again, we mentioned this last week in Ephesians, but we are God's treasure, folks. That's not just for the Old Testament saints. That's for us today. We've been chosen out of his grace and love to be his treasured possessions. And with that knowledge How can any of us do less than our best in praising him? Folks, for those that have put their faith in Christ, you're not facing eternal punishment in hell You're not facing a void without God that every human being needs, but you are experiencing the work of the Spirit and the love of the Savior in your hearts and the encouragement and the comfort that comes and the peace that passes all understanding. That's just sometimes the Lord brings it into your life and you can't explain it to other people, but you know he's working there. We get all of these things because we're his chosen people. And we need to have hearts again that are ready to praise him for this. And the psalmist continues in verse 5, for I know, I am convinced, are you convinced? And what the psalmist is convinced in here, I know that the Lord is great. And that our Lord is above all gods. I know he's above all things, he's above all powers, he's above all politicians. Don't forget that He's above all things. And so verse 6, whatever the Lord pleases, he does in heaven and on earth, in the seas, and all the deeps. And we look around and we say, some reason God has a purpose for this. He's allowing this. This isn't fate. This isn't chance. But God does what he pleases. But then we also have to look at our own lives and say, oh yeah God also does what he pleases in my life. And I need to be submitted to that because he knows better than me. He's my creator. He's the one who made me. And so I will acquiesce and I will submit and I will gladly praise them because I know that the God that loves me and that treasures me is in control of all things. So Lord, please continue to do whatever you please. And I know you will. And I'm confident in that. Because you're great. And you're above all. I remember a time when I was a teenager that my parents allowed me to go to a Christian concert. a well-known singer and one of the reasons they did is kind of a singer that uh uh kind of um spanned all the the age groups and um So it was it was a large venue, went with a group of my peers, and we were there and it was powerful. It was a huge place And the the Christian singer was singing all about the Lord Jesus Christ and reminding us of who he was and what he had done for us. But in the midst of this, and just a lull at just actually the right time for the girl two seats over from me, who was part of our group, but the wrong time for the rest of us We heard this piercing scream of like, I don't know, excitement or whatever. And then we heard the words, you are awesome! I love you and then she this girl yelled out the name of the singer and all of a sudden I'm looking under my seat like is there any room for me to crawl under here and get like three four rows back and just get away because everybody's looking at us. This is not good. Well, folks, the only reason I'm even telling this story is not um to be uh derogatory toward the singer or the venue or anything. The singer had spent the whole concert pointing us to Jesus Christ. It was obvious who we were supposed to be worshiping. But in that moment , this young lady had just gotten things mixed up, and she had forgotten this basic rule. That it's not the singer or the instrument that is worthy of the worship, but it is the God that we're singing about. It is the Savior that we're singing about. In that moment and the excitement, and it wasn't even wrong that she was excited because we ought to have emotion about our relationship with Christ, but she just forgot where the worship was supposed to go. And we know that we all have a tendency to do that. But it needs to change. Our joyful praise is based on our recognition of God's greatness because He's superior to all others. And so what we need to do then is prepare our hearts for worship by reflecting on the work that He has done in our lives before even we come to this worship service. Think on God's sovereignty, the joy and the hope that he gives, his power and his greatness as The psalmist describes here, and be ready to praise him and be ready to focus on him alone, because we rejoice over who he is Well finally as well, right worship submits to the truth of God. Just quickly here, turn to John 4. Just two verses. We're almost done. And this is so important as Jesus Christ Himself gives us this principle on worship. John 4, 23-24. Right worship submits to the way that God expects us to worship, and it's submissive to Jesus Christ. This is Jesus talking to the Samaritan woman there at the well, answering a question about worship that was profound. And he said verse 23, but the hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God himself, folks, what Jesus is saying here is he is seeking people who are ready to obey him in worship. And he will bless those that are submitted to what he wants in worship. God is looking today, here at Upper Crossroads Baptist Church. For those that are submissive to his way of worship, and to those that are, folks, you will go away from here with a blessing as you reflect on all God has done for you. But if that there are those here that are angry or bitter or distracted or frustrated that certain thing isn't happening in the service or whatever and the focus is more on themselves and on God, you'll miss and you'll miss the blessings and you'll miss the purpose for us being together because that's not submission to God's way The Father is seeking those who are submitted to Him as they worship Him. Those are the true worshipers. It's that simple, folks. And we just need to submit ourselves to that truth. We submit to what he wants in worship, but we also finally hear, even as we worship together, you realize we're such a mess? That we can't even worship him in the right way without dependence upon Christ. And that involves a relationship with Jesus Christ. And really that is what Jesus is pointing to here. Look at verse 24. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. God is uniquely transcendent as spirit. And mankind then can only worship him through his grace. And what Jesus is describing here is a relationship with Jesus Christ through faith and trust in him that provides a new spirit, a new birth, a spirit of worship. And enables us to obey the truth. And who is the truth, by the way, according to the Gospel of John? It is Jesus himself. Folks, you cannot worship God in a right way without a right relationship with Jesus Christ. There are people all over this world today That are engaged in false worship because they don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ. The amazing thing is there may be some people here this morning that don't have a relationship with Jesus Christ. And all that we've just gone through and all that we're talking about is meaningless and void to you Because you don't know the Savior. You don't have the Holy Spirit helping you to worship and bringing us together and helping us all ascent together of the truths of God's Word because you don't have a relationship with Him. Jesus is saying there will come a time through my atoning work that all my people will be able to worship together through the work of the Holy Spirit and they will have my truth and know how to do that properly. You know, let's just be again be honest. God knows, right? He knows who here has a real relationship with him and who doesn't. And he knows each of our hearts, folks. He knows which of us are obedient and worshiping him in the right way right now in your seats and in the pulpit. He knows. There's no surprising him or faking it. But it really is a tragedy for those of us that know Jesus Christ that we could still not worship him in the right way. Because we're not submitted to him. We have everything that we need to worship God in the way that he wants through the power of Christ. The work of the Spirit, and yet we may miss all of that because we're too focused on our own carnal wants and desires. And yet Jesus says God is looking for those that are obedient, submissive to Him, and are depending upon Him to give true worship. And are willing to worship according to the truth of God's word. And that's really the rest of this series, what God's Word says about worship. And are you willing to submit to that? And if you are, God has great blessings for you, for each of us, and for this church. And if you're not. then you're never going to fully experience the joy and the unity that God expects. And God provides and is ready to give for his people. So the question is here at the end. Are we as a church, Upper Crossroads Baptist Church, submitted to Him in our corporate worship today? Are we ready to say not what I want, Lord, but what you want? Is what I want to give to you in worship. What are the worship fundamentals then? They're giving in glory, rejoicing in who He is, and submitting to His ways. Are we ready, folks, as a church, to worship God in this way, in the way that he returns? Father , Thank you for the truths of your word. We have some that we have hearts that are ready to hear them. Speak, O Lord, as we come to you. Now we've heard your truth. And I pray that our folks would be ready to respond to that. For we all need to do better in this area, we freely admit. Myself, I've been distracted in uh certain ways in this service. And I need to repent as well. But my prayer is, Lord, that we will have a group of people here that Is submissive and wants to worship in the way that you have called us to. And that is ready to hear more and ready to change. And to give you what you require. You are deserving. You are worthy. You deserve the full weight of praise and glory that we can give to you today. Help us to be willing to do that. In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.