Back in uh the Gospel of John, last week we skipped ahead to John chapter 3. I need you to bounce back to chapter 2 Back in our chronology here, chapter 2, starting at verse 13. And uh John has had a focus on the ministry in the northern area of Israel and the region of Galilee. In this passage, he's going to turn south to Jerusalem. Jesus is going to head south with his followers, leave the region of Galilee , and for a very specific, very important purpose for every Jewish person, and that is to celebrate the Passover. This, the first Passover during Jesus' public ministry, he and his followers And remember, just recently we talked about his the first sign that's mentioned in the Gospel of John. The signs, or seven that John mentions, their miracles, and therefore a specific purpose, that is to proclaim something about Jesus Christ and the fact that he is the Son of God, different aspects of that. And he has just given a sign of his power and his glory in a very remote region of Galilee, small town. That is turning the water into wine at the wedding feast. But now all of a sudden John sweeps us up, takes us to Jerusalem, where Jesus will demonstrate his messianic authority in a very striking, very public way in the city of David itself in Jerusalem This will be the cleansing of the temple as it is referred to many times. It is interesting. John's account of Jesus' actions are different from the synoptics in a number of details, but one very specific one, that is the others describe it as happening at the end of Jesus' ministry, right before his arrest and crucifixion. And John describes it here at the beginning of Jesus' three-year ministry in this first Passover. John very meticulously marks out all of the Passovers that occur during Jesus ministry. It's one of the ways that we know that Jesus' ministry was about three years. before his crucifixion. And because of this then, a lot of scholars, you know, scholars love to debate so many important detailed points, right? And this is one of those where they look at this and say, well, okay, the synoptics got it right as far as accuracy on the timing. But what John, Apostle John did in his gospel is he moved that event toward the beginning of his gospel for thematic purposes. In other words, it fit his whole message to just go ahead and discuss Jesus' cleansing of the temple early on. And you know, it it's okay. It still is still what took place. John just has it at a different at not an exact timing chronology as the others are more exact in. Well, does anybody have a problem with that? You know, actually, as you read John, John is very careful about his details and careful about his chronology and his timeframe. If your goal is to write an accurate portrayal of events, historic events, it's very important for you to get those right. You don't see many historians say, well, we'll move ahead to this battle and we'll and we'll bring that back over here. It didn't happen during this time, but it just seems like an appropriate time to talk about this battle. And so just kind of We don't do that a lot of times. And furthermore, it should disturb us that that would take place because we know that the Holy Spirit is guiding the Apostle John in his writing. And so to have any error in time that John would um misrepresent somehow when this took place just doesn't match up with what we know of the Holy Spirit leading And so there's really another simple alternative that doesn't have to include this possibility at all, and that is there's two separate events. Two separate cleansings. There was one at the beginning of Jesus' ministry and one towards the end. And that kind of fits nicely. Now scholars think that's kind of boring, but we want to be accurate with Scripture It's important to us. So two separate events. And in these actions, in this event that took place, where Jesus drives out the money changers. And the others described by John. Here, John is making a point to describe Jesus' authority as Messiah. And this is many times missed in this account, Jesus' expectation for true worship of God to be unhindered. We're going to see this is very important. to Jesus. And again, it's kind of the speme that keeps coming back so far in our times together here, but knowing Jesus more, knowing his heart. Knowing more, understanding more about Him with the idea to motivate us to serve Him better. Well, we need to know then that true worship of God is very important to Jesus Christ. We're going to see first of all, well we're going to see here, the overall message is zeal for true worship or pure worship. Now let's go ahead and read verse 13 through at least 17. at the beginning here. The Jews' Passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem and found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changers of money sitting. And when he had made a scourge or a whip of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep and the oxen, and poured out the changer's money. And overthrew the tables, and said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence. Make not my father's house a house of merchandise. And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up, or consumed me. Now that phrase should be familiar to you because that is the psalm that Bill just read a few minutes ago, was included in that, that this is quoted from the disciples, remembered that psalm. Eventually, as they looked back on this event, let's have a word of prayer and think on these things. Father, as we look at your word, we're going to see today that you And your son are very concerned about how we worship you. That we don't just get to do it in whatever way we think we feels best. or what we think is appropriate, but that we must and and even to be careful in the times that we're worshiping Lord, that we are doing it with a focus on you and not distracted. I pray that we'll come away with this from this passage today, having a greater Understanding and respect and desire to when we worship you publicly or privately in prayer, we will remove distractions. That we will do it unhindered. And so make you the focal point as you're supposed to be in worship. Help us remove the distractions And the hindrances from our worship. And let it be true and pure as we participate in it. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. We see zeal for true worship this morning, and that Jesus is very concerned to remove any barriers from true worship. And he'll confront if he has to. And this is one of those moments where Jesus confronts. In the midst of all those passages of his love and care and concern for us, we're grateful for those. We talked about Wednesday, how Jesus heart, how he's meek and lowly in heart, and how his burden is easy. All of these things are true. The grace of Jesus we marvel, we revel in. But there is this other aspect of Jesus' holiness where certain things he will deal with if they need to be dealt with in a very powerful way and memorable way The other side of this here is what we see. One of these rare demonstrations of Jesus really is anger, but a holy anger, not an impatient, frustrated anger. And Jesus confronts here the problem of sinful worship with his actions. He will confront them. So verse 13, the Jews' Passover was at hand, and it says here, Jesus went up to Jerusalem. And if you've ever looked on a map, you'll see why. So didn't they have to go south, Pastor Brock, to get to Jerusalem if they were in the northern area of Galilee? Well that's true. But the reason why scriptures say up is because it was a higher elevation to Jerusalem to get there on a hill, and so it makes sense. It is accurate to say that they were going up in that higher altitude to get to Jerusalem. This first Passover that John mentions probably takes place on the Passover for the Jewish people normally takes place at the end of March, the first beginning of of April, however that calendar falls in line with ours, and was probably between AD twenty-eight and AD thirty about this time. What is the Passover that they were so it was so important for them to attend? Well the Passover meal that they would be a part of that was uh would begin actually the feast of the unleavened bread Which continued for another seven days. What was the Passover then? That meal that began all of this? It was the most important celebration to the Jewish people. Why? It celebrated their deliverance from Egypt. And as they thought and commemorated the passing over of the death angel, as he looked, and they had obeyed God's command to Wipe the blood, the smear the blood on the doorposts, and that blood would save them, the firstborn, from death as it was applied to the doorpost. And that picture of the blood that needed to be shed and their deliverance was one of the Probably the most important thing that the Jews celebrated. And so of course Jesus and his followers would be there. It was one of the three Jewish feasts. That Jewish men were expected to observe in Jerusalem no matter where they lived. And so you had people, Jewish people from all over the known world, coming to be a part of this, Jesus and his followers included, and they go to they they come to Jerusalem, they're ready. for this wonderful time of celebration. In verse 14, they go to the temple. The temple here, the word refers to the area surrounding the temple. And I meant to tell you this during Sunday school, but you can take advantage of this afterwards. I've got three nice maps out on the desk out behind us here in the foyer. that have an artist rendition of what the temple would have looked like from the ESV study Bible. In fact I have the Bible up there as well so that everybody doesn't fight over one. I've got three separate ones for you to look at And I've highlighted where the court of the Gentiles in particular was located, because most likely In this description, this is where Jesus is, and this is where this commerce that is described is going on at the court of the Gentiles. This was an outer area of the broader temple complex. where it gave boundaries and there is actually archaeologists have found a stone that has an inscription at the edge of this boundary that told the Gentiles they could go no further on The threat of death, even. This is very serious. So in this courtyard, this was as far as the Gentiles could go. They could not go any further into the inner court. So really, this area where all of this is going on is the only area that the Gentiles can worship and pray in. And can you imagine them trying to do this, this most important thing? And there's all this marketplace activities going on all around them. Verse 14, let's look at this again. And found in the temple, again, this is probably referring to the court of the Gentiles, those that sold oxen and sheep and doves and the changers of money sitting. Jesus gets very angry with this, but why? What is going on here? Was this really the fact that they were transacting these things and all this was going on? Was it wrong? Was it an offense? Well the actual um Commerce and exchanges that were going on were not wrong. In fact, they were needed. It was a needed service, the sale of these animals, first of all, that it describes here If you think that people, Jewish people from all over the known world, are coming and part of the Passover and all of this is the sacrifices and they have to bring the animals as sacrifices, well if you're coming a long distance, it's a huge inconvenience. It's even more inconvenient than being out of state, right, in our country today, to bring cattle and animals And even pigeons, if you don't have a very or doves, if you don't have a very good cage, they can get away. It's just much more convenient many times for these folks to arrive in Jerusalem and be able to buy the animals they need for sacrifice. Then and there. Not everybody would, but a good majority of people would. It was a needed service, practical service. Cattle and sheep, as described here, were required for the various offerings, and the doves Or the pigeons were used for purification and cleansing sacrifices. These were animals that were needed for these things to take place. What about the money changers then? Well the money changers actually performed a valuable service as well They would exchange the foreign coins that people would bring in that lived in other regions, and they had a specific type of coin that they requested for the temple tax, which was one that had to be paid at this time. It fell about this time. In fact, all the Jewish males, twenty years or older, were required to pay a temple tax at this time. And they would at this time of year have these tables set up. And just as if you've ever traveled to a foreign country and you've had to do a currency exchange, it makes sense to us, it's the same sort of thing here. The leaders, the Jewish leaders , The Pharisees, the Sadducees, what was required money-wise was a Tyrian shekel that was high silver in content. It was very valuable. And so people would exchange their currency for this Tyrian shekel, and they would then be able to give the temple tax that they were required to give. Now, at an earlier time in Jewish history, this commerce didn't take place in the temple area. It took place in the Kidron Valley, actually on the Mount of Olives, the slopes there. far removed from the temple area. But the problem is it has slowly creaked, probably for practical reasons, and just trying to see how much they could get away with because The closer you are to where the people are worshiping, the more convenient it is for those doing business. It has fully creeped to within the boundaries of the worship area itself. Now it's interesting, you know, the pastor as well, when he's studying for things, many times learns new things or the Lord impresses upon me things that I hadn't thought through before. And I had always been under the impression that the religious leaders as well were getting some what we would call a kickback or a certain percentage of the money that the money changers um or or the fee, the money changers would ask for a fee to do this service And the religious leaders would get some of that in return for allowing them to be there in the temple. Now that could be, but honestly, as I studied through this, I don't see any actual evidence that that was the case. I don't really think that's what we should focus on. The money changers did provide or charge a fee for their service and let's be honest practically speaking I'm sure it was a little exorbitant exorbitant that it was a little bit higher than what they should have been charging for these people that didn't have a lot of money. I'm sure they took advantage of that situation But to think of this as Jesus being angry because these folks are taking advantage of this situation really, I think, misses the whole point. The real problem Jesus is addressing here, as we're going to see in the next verse, is that the very presence of these people doing this in an area where people are supposed to be worshiping, that very act is what is wrong. And that's what he's angry. You can imagine. It's hard enough to be able to pray. And even in our church service today, there's so many different ways that we can be distracted. It's hard enough to pray and to repent before God and then to have um The distractions of noisy commerce and animals and the clinking of money and all of this be almost impossible to be able to worship And Jesus is rightly angry because true worship is not able to take place. Something that is needed, a service that is needed, is not being done in the right way. And it is interrupting true worship taking place And Jesus is angry about that. And so at the end of verse 15, or go to verse 15, and he made a scourge or a whip of small cords, or these might be reeds, actually. He quickly tied together. He drove them all out of the temple, out of that court of the Gentiles, that open area, and the sheep, and the oxen. And poured out the changers' money, the coins, and overthrew the tables. Jesus is confronting here with his actions. And he's very forceful. I'm sure his followers were quite surprised as they came up and he takes this whip. And, you know, they're they're they've they've given their lives over to following him, and it's just been maybe a few weeks at the most, and already it's interesting, Jesus comes in and does this public confrontation. And it must have been amazing. But here's one thing. Remember as we're reading through this, Jesus was forceful in this because he had to deal with the situation. But don't think of him as losing his control and being cruel like we tend to Um get angry sometimes when even when we're righteously angry, many times we don't always handle it in the way that we should We shouldn't see Jesus as wildly out of control and throwing this whip around at whoever, I don't care who's in my way, I'm just going to make a memory, uh, uh memorable. seeing here so that this will never happen again. He's not being cruel here, but he is being forceful. Many times, if you've seen some of the paintings that were done of Christ throughout the Middle Ages, especially, Bob Jones University, they have a museum and gallery there where they have these incredibly old Paintings and these depictions of Christ, and almost all of them where he's very emaciated and weak and thin And you know, whatever reason the artist decided to pick to depict him in that way, I'm still not for sure what all of that was all about. But folks, don't ever have that picture in your mind of who Jesus was. To do something like this, this would take a strong hand, a powerful man. Jesus was a powerful individual, not just in his deity, but also humanly speaking, to be able to drive out these cattle with this whip. Jesus was the very epitome of a manly man. And he had strength to match that. But on the other hand, these actions that took place weren't so disruptive that they generated a full city uproar. So we need to kind of have in mind what actually happened here. It wasn't so big of a deal that the whole city became in an uproar because the Roman officials would have had to come and deal with that, right? So some people say, well, how could Jesus do this at the beginning of his ministry and not get in trouble or even be arrested? And that kind of thing. Well, even though it was remarkable and it was striking, no pun intended, in its effect. It still wasn't enough of an event to get distributed and to be broadcasted throughout even maybe the whole city. But it was enough to make the point that they were just these people, these men were disrupting people's worship and it needed to be stopped Zechariah 14, 21 is probably a fulfillment of this. I'll read this for you, this very action. Verse 20 of Zechariah 14, In that day there shall be upon the bells of forces holiness unto the Lord, and the pots in the Lord's house shall be like the bulls before the altar. Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be holiness unto the Lord of hosts. And all they that sacrifice shall come and take of them and seethe therein. And here's the prophecy. And in that day there shall be no more the Canaanite, or probably a better translation, there shall be no more merchant in the house of the Lord of hosts. Jesus is fulfilling again another scripture passage of prophecy in his actions here. Well, he confronts with his actions, but he also confronts with his words. And here he has a command in verse 16, and said unto them that sold the doves, the pigeons , Take these things away, hence, make not my father's house a house of merchandise or trade. And Jesus then this command is specifically an indictment for these people to be doing any business at all. It wasn't an indictment on whether it was wrong or right business. It was an indictment upon you guys shouldn't be here at all. Look at these people trying to worship, and you're hindering this. And I can't allow this as the Son of God to continue Because worship to my Heavenly Father is most important, even more important, the needed services that can take place elsewhere. You go away from here and let these folks worship, pray, repent, weep over their sin without distraction. Jesus has the authority to decide we see here how worship should take place. And folks, that is a good principle for us to remember. Today as well, for the Church of Jesus Christ. We so often, and this has just become kind of an expected philosophy within church ministry broadly, even evangelical church ministry. That worship should be most importantly what moves people, what makes people feel good, what moves them emotionally. Now, there's nothing wrong with being moved emotionally. In fact, if you're worshiping God and you're not moved in your emotions, something's broken Don't misunderstand me. That should take place as we're singing even before this message. The Holy Spirit ought to be moving within us the truths of Christ. Even, you know, we won we won't complain if we see a tear shed or whatever. That's perfectly appropriate. But to make the overarching guide for worship whatever makes us feel good. Jesus makes it clear here, no, ultimately it's what he says is best. Jesus is the one that decides, has the authority to decide how worship ought to look. And Jesus makes it clear he does not want distractions in this worship time, whatever that time is. This made such a mark on the disciples as they were watching this incredible event take place. And meditate on that even today. Imagine Jesus in righteous anger with this whip driving these people away. In verse 17, his disciples remembered that it was said, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up, or it hath consumed me. And what this points out, and that's from again the passage that we read in the scripture reading, Psalm 69, 9 Where the psalmist says, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up or consumed me, and the reproaches of them that reproach thee are fallen upon me. Folks, how can we not understand reading that how important this is? If it is if Jesus is zealous over this and it's literally consuming him with passion. That's really important, right? What is important to Jesus as we're desiring to get to know him more? It's that we worship him unhindered and without distractions. And we worship him in a way that he says is appropriate because he has the authority to say so. The disciples remembered this psalm later on as they thought back and they connected it. You know what's interesting, as we're going to see in this next passage here, this next part of the passage in a minute? Jesus was so consumed for worship and having a right relationship with God between his people. Folks, he was so concerned about that that he would literally. before too long give his very life for that, so that we can have right relationship with God. I'd say right worship is very important to Jesus Christ, wouldn't you? And we need to make sure. What's application then? Well, one thing I just thought of. Are we zealous in the same way? Are we passionate in the same way that Jesus is? That our worship be undistracted? That we are more concerned with how God, whether God is pleased with our worship or whether it makes us feel good? Do we have a passion to make sure that He ultimately is pleased with how we're worshiping Him? We should be. Even more practically in the service. And as uh we do think through these things, I think through these things, and those that are involved in the music ministry and those that are reading scripture, all these things, I'm always, and I'm even more driven after studying this passage to always be thinking, how can we remove distractions? How can we remove hindrances from the worship service? Because if it's important to Jesus, it should be important to us too. Are we careful of distractions in our personal and our corporate worship? Do we assess the elements of our worship to make sure do they take away from or distract? There are a lot of things that we may enjoy and worship, but one of the things, even in the music that we are constantly evaluating, does this help worship? Does it promote our thoughts toward Jesus Christ or even something that's wonderful and beautiful, is it somehow distracting from worship? Because we don't want to do that. It's important to Jesus. It should be important to us too. Am I more concerned about being God-pleasing than man-pleasing? You know, even in my preaching, I have to be aware of this. And I pray by God's help that this won't be the case. I'm more concerned in my preaching with accuracy and making accurate application as you leave from here that you leave thinking about the scripture passage. Now there's a lot of different styles of preaching and everything out there, but folks, I'm uncomfortable if people leave the service and they're thinking about how entertaining the pastor's message was. Not that you can't have stories and things, obviously. I do conclude stories from time to time. But if you leave here, and the only thing you can remember is the story I told, well guess what? That story's been a distraction. Because we're supposed to be here understanding the passage. Every my my goal, personally, by the way, is that every illustration that I give helps buttress and helps support the whole message of the of the passage. Not that, oh man, the folks are really going to love this story this week. Oh, they're just going to make them laugh. And hey, if that happens, that's great. That's fine. But the ultimate goal, I don't want to provide a hindrance, even in how I deliver my message, from the message of God's word and from your worship. It's that important. Do we make an effort to remove distractions from our personal time of worship in prayer? You guys know this. There can be so many distractions. When you go to pray, it's amazing how many texts can pop up on your phone. or how many phone calls or um how many children need your attention or all kinds of different things. It's amazing. And we really have to pray, Lord, help me not to be distracted Because obviously this time is important to you, it is important to Jesus. It needs to be more important to me. Lord, help me in my private prayer time. To not be distracted and hindered from my worship to you. Jesus is zealous for it. We should be zealous for it too. Well, Jesus also here proves his authority to determine true worship. And as we've already mentioned, he has the authority, the authority of God, to determine What's true worship and what's not. And that's the question that the Jewish leaders then have for him. Jesus has the authority to determine true worship, and they come to him, verse 18, and that's what they're interested in. And these Jewish leaders that come to him, by the way, they did have a responsibility to question this display of authority because that's what Jesus had given. This was unmistakably Jesus showing a display of authority saying, I'm in control here. And they had the responsibility to check this and make sure that this was legitimate. So we don't dis we don't um dishonor them for that. It's another interesting thing too as I was reading this. You know, they don't seem to be particularly bothered by the very act of what Jesus has done here, by the act of cleansing. And I kind of wonder as I we get ready to read verse 18, if they kind of if they knew that as they allowed these services to creep closer, they knew that sooner or later that God would address this. And so I don't find that they're surprised by that, and they're not even really that concerned, unfortunately, by the fact that these Gentiles can't worship God effectively. But they do want to know, specifically, does Jesus have authority to do what he's doing? Because they know this is a sign, a messianic sign of the Messiah. And there has been a lot of fervor in this portion of history and desire to see the Messiah and expectation of the Messiah. And remember, it wasn't that long ago. That there were three wise men, at least three, probably more, that came to Jerusalem saying that a king would be born I think these leaders were mentally prepared that there were going to be messianic figures, and so they were doing their due diligence to check To see if this one was indeed the one. In their pride and arrogance, they expected, I'm sure, that he wasn't. But they focused on Jesus, you prove your authority. And you have to give us a sign to prove your credentials. Verse 18. Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign showest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? They ask for a sign. Jesus gives them a tremendous one. Verse 19: Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. If you look at the pictures out there when we're done at this temple, it truly was a magnificent structure. The Herodian temple that King Herod had built for the Jews was incredible, overladen with gold. Let's have a little temple history here, just quickly. The original temple was built by who? By Solomon, right? King Solomon. It was destroyed in the 6th century as was prophesied because of Israel's sin. Judah's sin. And then as the exiles returned, there was one built on a much smaller scale. It wasn't nearly as amazing and as impressive as Solomon's by any stretch of the imagination. Well, over those hundreds of years between the Old Testament and the New Testament, King Herod came in to reign and he built started the building on this temple structure in 20 BC to specifically to appease and gain the favor of the Jewish people So he did a marvelous job, and Herod is well known for his ability as an architect and construction. In fact, the historian Josephus at this time described the temple like this. He was raving about it, saying, the exterior of the building wanted nothing that could astound either mind or eye. For being covered on all sides with massive plates of gold, the sun was no sooner up than it radiated so fiery a flash. that persons straining to look at it were compelled to avert their eyes as for the solar rays. To approaching strangers, it appeared from the distance like a snow clad mountain. This thing had to be incredible. All that was overlaid with gold was the purest white. So when Jesus says, destroy this temple in three days I'll raise it up, you can understand why the Jewish leaders would say, why? This you realize how long it took and in fact it was still in construction. It still had many years before it would be completed. They were amazed by this. And to their understanding, they seem to think that he's taunting them. You want a sign? Tear your own temple down. And I have the power to raise it back up again. And you know, this wasn't the point that Jesus was making, but you know, certainly Jesus had the power to do that. If they did tear down their temple, he literally could raise it up in his own power. And not even three days. What's ironic about this is in actuality their temple would be torn apart Not too many years after this, in 70 A. D. because of the Jewish people 's rejection of God, there literally the Romans would come in and not one stone would be unturned. But you know what would replace that temple? Who replaced that temple? Christ would be the superior, everlasting temple. So in one sense, it's ironic, this very thing was going to happen. Jesus would replace, because of their own sin, they literally would tear down their temple because they wouldn't Acquiesce to the truths of who Jesus was, and Jesus would become that superior temple. But more specifically, what is Jesus doing here? Verse uh twenty. Let's look at the Jews' response and then again be reminded of what Jews what Jesus is actually talking about. Verse 20, then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building. And wilt thou raise it up in three days? Incredible. This man's crazy. But they missed the point. And his followers missed the point too. He spake of the temple of his body. No one can perceive yet what Jesus is truly pointing to and describing. The ultimate messianic sign that he would give. He had a sign to give, folks. And it wasn't anything to do with destroying this temple directly, but it was that he, his own body. The permanent temple, he would die and be resurrected. They would destroy, they would um offer him up on a cross And he would resurrect and rise again three days, and he would be resurrected. And as we see here, Jesus' ministry, even at the beginning of his ministry, is always in focus. He knows what his mission is. He knows where he's headed. Can we say that today, by the way, in our ministry here at Villas Chapel? Are we focused? Are we focused on Jesus and evangelism and pointing people to the one true temple where they can worship God freely for all eternity? His disciples would one day understand this, although they didn't understand this at this point, verse 22. When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered back that he had said unto them, That he had said this unto them, and they believed the scripture, the word which Jesus had said. The disciples had a lot of growing to do too, didn't they? They didn't believe everything about Jesus. They didn't understand everything about Jesus at this point. But certainly as they looked back on the resurrection and remembered Jesus saying these things, it strengthened their faith. Folks, we continue to need to desire to learn more about Christ and have our faith strengthened. No matter what area of our spiritual life that we're a part of, whether we're young in the faith or older, we all can will continue to grow until Jesus returns. And we need to study God's word and know more about Him, and we can grow in our faith too, just like the disciples did. Well, one more thing here. As we finish up, Jesus also has the knowledge to determine who true worshipers are. Look at verse 23. This is after this event is done. Now, when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover and the feast day, many believed in his name. When they saw the miracles, and this word for miracle again is signs. That's what the word that John uses, which he did. Many claimed to believe Jesus, but verse 24, Jesus did not commit or entrust himself unto them, because he knew all men. Jesus, in his knowledge as God, knows people's hearts. And he knows whether they're truly worshipers, whether they're truly following him. Or if there is just a shallow commitment or statement of commitment to follow him for a time, even one of his own followers, disciples, would eventually betray him, right? And Jesus knew all of this. He knows the reality of their hearts. And so his confidence isn't in men, what this verse is saying And verse 25, and needed not that any should testify of, or needed no one to bear witness about man, for he knew what was in man Jesus is still a young man. He started his ministry. And yet he already knows everything that he needs to know about man's heart, man's wickedness, man's fickleness. Man's instability. Jesus knows all of that, and yet he was still dedicated to the mission of offering himself up for our sin. And so that we could have a closer relationship with God and worship Him in a more intimate way than they even ever could back then. So folks, Jesus knows us well. We need to continue to seek and strive to know him well and to know him better. And so, if that's the case, if we want to know Jesus better, we need to know what's important to him, right? What's one of the things that we see in this message that's important to him? Pure. Focused worship, unhindered, undistracted, is a big deal to Jesus. So it ought to be a big deal to us too. Let's pray that God will help us to do even better at that, corporately and privately, in our worship toward Him. Father, thank you for this reminder of how important worship is. And that it was so important to Jesus that he made this public display of strength and power. so that people could worship you unhindered. Let that be important to us. Lord, help us to be focused in our mission, and that is the Great Commission to testify of Jesus Christ. Let us be faithful in this and bring people to our church that need to hear the gospel. And let us be faithful in our testimony of Him. All this we ask in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.