In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are looking at Revelation chapter 7, verses 1 through 8. Always helpful to follow along, making sure your pastor doesn't slip up, keeping him accountable. We talked about uh Jehovah's Witnesses in Sunday school, and so it's appropriate that we bring them up again. If you have ever entertained a Jehovah's Witness at your door and engage them in conversation You likely have heard about the 144,000 who will make it to heaven In modern times, the Jehovah's Witnesses have identified themselves with the number one hundred and forty four thousand The Jehovah's Witnesses faith is fairly young, beginning in the late nineteenth century under the leadership of a man named Charles Russell. It found footing in America in the early 20th century under the leadership of a man who went by the name Judge Rutherford. The primary distinction between Jehovah's Witnesses and Christianity is that Jehovah's Witnesses deny the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, and deny the idea of eternal damnation. They believe that 144,000 people exactly will spend eternity in God's heavenly kingdom while the rest of us will continue on this earth Said doctrine is based on the passage we have before us from Revelation chapter 7. Let me dispel any possibility that we will come to the same conclusion. We discussed last week that the calamity described at the end of chapter six after the breaking of the sixth seal was part of the response God had to the question posed to him by the revealed martyrs after the breaking of the fifth seal. They asked, how long? How long would it be before there was vengeance taken upon those who were responsible for their death? A little longer, the Lord said. That answer was followed up by a description of a catastrophic end to the world as we know it. And The rhetorical question remains, who can stand? The words that begin chapter seven indicate that there is an interlude between the breaking of the sixth seal and the breaking of the seventh That interlude sets up a dramatic pause, causing the reader to anticipate the breaking of the seventh seal even more. The chapter begins with after this, which is a short phrase, but important to distinguish what he saw after the sixth seal and what he is currently seeing. The next vision begins with the appearance of four angels standing on the four corners of the earth. Let me remind you that the earth was not believed to be flat This is a reference to the four corners of the earth, granting two analogies. The earth, as you know, has four directions, north, east, south, and west, associating it with a compass. or four corners. The earth is also referred to as an altar upon which God is worshipped and served, and the altar in the temple had four corners. The angel standing at the four corners, do the bidding of God, God Almighty, who of course is depicted as reigning over his creation. We are given no description of the angels other than that their posture and their responsibility. They are standing and they are holding back before winds of the earth which is to say the winds that come from the four markers of the compass. They are there to prevent the wind from blowing upon the land, the sea, or any tree. And blowing upon them for destruction. The Bible consistently uses trees to describe men, as in Psalm 1 Where a righteous man is described as one who is like a tree planted by the waters, who yields fruit in good season. Thus, the reference here of a tree is likely to say that the wind will not blow upon land, sea, or men. The world described here is much different than the one seen at the breaking of the sixth seal. With the sky being rolled up, stars falling from the sky, mountains laid low and islands being moved. There is nothing from the breaking of the sixth seal but upheaval and chaos. Here Chapter 7, the winds are held back. Calm is brought to the world. Calm is enabled by the sovereign rule of God. And you will remember Jesus holding up his hand and calming the seas, and at doing so his disciples knew that he had the power of God. While the devil brings confusion and chaos, God brings peace and calm. After calm is brought to the earth, John sees another angel. This is one, this one is also not identified, but his actions are Christ-like. He comes from the east, just as Jesus said he would do at his return to the earth He promised he would come on a cloud of glory splitting the eastern sky. As the angel comes, John notices that he has a seal of the living God. The seal is not like the one on the scroll. Our English translations are sometimes too simple to reveal the differences. A seal in this context signifies power, guaranteed protection, and a mark of God's ownership The seal that the angel bears is one that marks what is owned by the true and living God. This is as opposed to those who mark themselves for the sake of their pagan gods. We see such markings continuing today as people tattoo themselves with all sorts of cultural icons. The purpose of this marking by the angel is hinted to is hinted to in the instruction by the angel. who is coming up from the east and says to the other angels, Do not harm the land or sea or trees until we put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of God. Because it is harm that the seal is to protect God's people from, that recalls Ezekiel 9, our Old Testament reading. where God commissions executioners to destroy everyone in the city. But first, he commands another angel to go through the city and put a mark on the foreheads of the men who have sighed and groaned over the sins that were being committed in their midst. Thus the godly were marked for protection so that their fellow citizens might be destroyed. And we stop here to examine our Old Testament reading, allowing its context to inform us. The prophet Ezekiel, you will recall, was a prophet to Israel during the exile to Babylon. Israel had committed acts of idolatry over and over again, so much so that God finally allowed the Babylonians to overrun the great city And take into captivity the king of Israel and his court while also destroying the city and the holy temple. With the many people taken from Israel and made slaves to the Babylonians, there were few left behind, and even fewer. left behind or in captivity that were living faithfully to the Lord. Ezekiel's audience was primarily his fellow exiles living in Babylon. And his primary rebuke was to those in exile who had conformed their lives to be similar to the lives of their captors. Which meant that they took on the sins of their captors, which meant they continued in their idolatrous ways. Such behavior is a temptation for every generation of God's people. Christians, whether conscientiously or not. can easily take on the morals and behaviors of their unbelieving neighbors to the point of living no differently than their neighbors. In similar ways of the days when Israel was in captivity under the Babylonians, so Christians today are captive to the secular world. You know the drill, you know the story. Where once public schools opened each day with a prayer to God in the name of Jesus Today, every religion is mentioned in the classroom except Christianity. Whereas Christian morality such as Heterosexual marriage, abstinence, not bearing false witness, not stealing, not coveting, were upheld as standards to live by So now sexual immorality is taught as a norm. And lying, stealing, and coveting are acceptable. Well Because life isn't fair, and somehow because life isn't fair, it makes such behavior acceptable. But morally lying down and adopting such standards is not acceptable to God. It was not acceptable in the days of Ezekiel, nor is it acceptable today under the banner of Christ Jesus. Again, in Ezekiel chapter 9, the prophet tells of a vision he was given of the city of Jerusalem. It is a vision of judgment against those who insisted on their idolatrous ways. God had convicted them of their wrongdoing. God had given them warning after warning again and again. God had called them to repentance again and again, and still the people insisted on rebelling against him and behaving like the unbelieving people around them. There is a time when God's patience ends. He is, as he said he is, long-suffering. He takes no pleasure in judging sinners. But there is a time and there is a place where justice must be practiced. For if it is not, it is not justice. But before that justice is handed out, God does something for those who have remained faithful. He marks them so that they do not suffer As stated in verse 4 of Ezekiel 9, a man clothed with linen is instructed to mark the forehead of each person who laments about the sins of the people of the city. Such people, by their emotional expressions, reveal that they care. They care about the sins committed by their fellow citizens. And they mourn the fact that God is not honored as he should be. You know, I say to you, there was a time a few years ago. Where I was so sick and tired of hearing about the sins of our culture on the television, on the radio, that I thought just leave them to themselves. If they want to abort their children, let them abort their children. Commit acts of sodomy, let him commit acts of sodomy, whatever. Just let them let them go to it. But here God is marking those who lament the sins of the people around them. He is telling us to care about the people around you. That they are sinning against God, dishonoring Him, should be lamented not because just because they're hurting God, but because they're hurting themselves. And we should care. The marking of the forehead, both in Ezekiel 9 and in Revelation 7, is also a reminder of the marking of the high priest. The high priest whose forehead was marked with gold letters, proclaiming that he is holy to the Lord. From these two Old Testament accounts, we may say that the seal in revelation given to the servants of God marked their protection and marked their status as holy to the Lord. But you might be thinking, it says that only 144,000 received the mark. Well, no. No. The number 144,000 is a symbolic number representing all of God's people. You will recall that we interpreted the 24 elders around the throne of God to be representative of the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 tribes of, or excuse me, the 12 apostles of Jesus. And combining the two, representing all of God's people, Old and New Testament. So 12 plus 12 equals 24, and 12 times 12 is 144. Add to that the fact that John in his revelation doesn't use a number larger than the word thousands. Meaning he doesn't use millions or billions to represent a large number. He only uses thousands. Then we are given this number, 144,000. To be symbolic, to represent the multitude of God's people. And if you look at verse 9, which we'll get to next week, it's further confirmed for God for John looks again and sees a great multitude that no one could number. 144,000 representing that number that no one could count. So God marks his people. And if you are a part of God's people, God has marked you. And He has marked you for two reasons. The same two reasons. He marks you to protect you from the wrath to come, and he marks you to declare that you are holy to the Lord. God has a thing for marking and protecting. He marks Cain so that no other man would be free to have vengeance on him. He marked Abraham and his descendants with a sign of circumcision so as to symbolize his covenant with his people by way of the male organ. From which the seed would come and come forth the Messiah. God had the homes of his people marked by blood, painted over their doorposts, so as to protect them from the angel of death. And with the new covenant, Jesus practiced and Paul taught us that baptism is the new circumcision So that those who have been baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost have been sealed, marked for eternal salvation. Our tradition allows us to acknowledge that marking in baptism when the priest takes that consecrated water and gives the sign of the cross. On the forehead of those who have been baptized. And we who remember that at certain times and places in our services. Give the sign of the cross to be reminded that we have been marked by God. But how can your life be affected now with the knowledge that God has marked you? What difference should that make? I know of parents who created their own catechism where they would provide identity for their children. In order to prepare them to face the world that will tempt them to deny their faith in Jesus and conform them to their morality, the morality of their peers. Such catechism could sound something like this. Let's say that there's a little Eric Jorgensen running around. He would be asked, what is your Christian name? Answer, my Christian name is Eric William Jorgensen. Question, and who gave you that name? Answer. My parents at my baptism. Question, what does Jorgensen mean? Answer. Jorgensen means son of George, named after St. George. Question, and who was St. George? Answer. St. George was a slayer of dragons. Question. And who is the great dragon in the Bible? Answer: Satan. Satan is the great dragon in the Bible. Question, and being a son of George, who are you to slay? Answer: I am to be a slayer of Satan and his works Question. And what are Satan's works? Answer. Satan's works are disobeying God, teaching falsehood, and tempting men toward evil. Question, and how do you slay such works? Answer: I slay such works by obeying God, believing truth, and loving my fellow man. The hope with such catechism is to provide such a strong identity within a child. That it would be strange, a strange thing for him or her to behave in a different manner than the identity given him or her. Thus, in the same way, we can take on the identity Jesus gives to us by his marking of us, and with that identity live as becomes that identity. And as our culture has recently proved, if we don't receive our identity from the marking Jesus has placed upon us, we will be told from where our identity comes. And some of you know there is a part of our culture that is obsessed with identity. They want to insist on an identity that puts their sexual desires first. Their preferred gender next, followed by their preferred pronouns, with a spastic expectation that everyone follow their identity demands. But such persons are self-identified, and therefore they can ignore what others see about their identity and live in their own reality. But a Christian's identity is given to them. It is God who marks us. It is God who calls us to own that marking It is God who labels us holy to the Lord. And that identity is to be known to us, so connected to us, that it'd be a strange thing to not live according to it. And so this morning I ask you to join me. Turn in our Prayer book prayer books. Turn in your prayer books to page five hundred eighty-three. We do this every year, but we're doing it a little off schedule this year. We're only going to be doing the first four questions, 583, a catechism. Question. What is your name? Answer? Question Who gave you this name? Answer? Question What did your sponsors then do for you? Answer. It is not really earth and counts the devil and all the words, God and the safety world, and all the simple thoughts of the flesh. And we should believe all our same all Jesus Christ. Question, do you not think that you are bound to believe and to do as they have promised for you? Answer. Yes indeed, my God, and I am getting after the power that can be all into the state of salvation. And all of God's people said, Amen