In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Forty years is a long time in the life of a human being. The number 40 is used several times in Holy Scripture. In the Hebrew Bible, 40 is often used for time periods. 40 days or 40 years. With the purpose evidently to separate two distinct epics or two time periods Rain fell for 40 days and forty nights. Noah waited forty days after the tops of the mountains were seen, after the flood, before releasing a raven. Spies were sent by Moses to explore the land of Canaan and were gone forty days. According to Stephen from Acts chapter 7, Moses' life was divided into three forty It's three 40-year segments, separated by his growing to adulthood, fleeing from Egypt, and then to lead the people out of Egypt. The Hebrew people lived in the lands outside of the promised land for 40 years. Several early Hebrew leaders and kings are said to have ruled for 40 years, again representing a generation. Examples include Eli, Saul, David, and Solomon. Goliath, if you remember, challenged the Israelites twice a day for 40 days before David defeated him. The prophet Elijah had to walk 40 days and 40 nights before arriving at Mount Porab. The New Testament similarly uses 40 to designate important time periods. We remember that before his temptation, Jesus fasted for 40 days and 40 nights. 40 days was the period from the resurrection of Jesus to the ascension of Jesus, which we will recognize this week. In modern Christian practice, we know that Lent consists of 40 days preceding Easter. Such references may not be connected one to the other, but it is an interesting survey nonetheless. And it is not really certain why the number 40 appears so many times in the Bible, other than mention briefly, in that it separates periods of times or epochs Giving each their own significance. And as far as years go, it refers to a generation passing Today it is accepted that a generation is twenty-five years, counting the average time elapsed when an adult has a child. In different cultures, however, the number could be a bit longer as an older male marries a younger female. That time could be around 40 years. Regardless, the Bible wants us to think of 40 years as representing a generation. And so as we mark 40 years today, we can say that a generation has passed at St. Stephen's and a new one is beginning. That sounds good, positive, and healthy. And we can also use the example of Israel wandering in the desert for forty years, and after forty years, they were able to enter the promised land. And that metaphor sounds good. At least the end part, because it says that we were going wandering the desert for the last forty years. I don't think we've been doing that, have we? No, we haven't. We have and are still having fruitful years. So the metaphor doesn't work all the way. But if we were to take the positive part, the entering into the promised land We could say that after our first forty years, there are even more blessings ahead. And that sounds really, really good. Until you examine the book of Joshua. And realized that entering the Promised Land was not easy, but instead it took great sacrifice, personal and public loss, and a great deal of faith that was not found amongst the previous generation. Remember when the first spies went into the promised land, only two believed that it could be taken Forty years later, Israel didn't have a more organized army than before, and they were facing the same odds. The next generation knew that what they faced would be difficult. But they had a faith that their fathers did not have. And they were not perfect. It was a mustard seed of faith, but it was a faith. And what they faced teaches us a very important lesson. Following God, living the Christian life, doing as God commands, leads to conflict In life, there is inevitable and unavoidable conflict. And the conflict can be both inside and outside the body of believers. Having passed through these many years, I believe we know a conflict outside better than we are aware of it being inside, though I might be wrong about that because too many Christians get hurt from conflicts outside because, well, they're not ready for it. And being ready for conflict gives better odds of survival. And I don't mean being ready physically as having bigger weapons, but being ready by listening to God. Israel first encountered inside the Promised Land, they went against the city of Jericho. And such is a great example on how to be ready to win a battle. Israel had to listen to God and be quiet, silent even before they could shout. And they had to do so orderly as they walked around the city. And we can know why, because although Israel of that epoch were a very different culture than our own, we still know the human condition. And we know them because we know their parents. Their parents couldn't wait for Moses to come down, so they fastened that golden calf and called it Jehovah. Then when God spoke to them audibly, they were so frightened they asked to never hear God's voice again. Talk about an impetuous people. And so we can imagine the next generation being given the game plan to defeat Jericho and what type of murmuring they were tempted to do. I thinly imagine how Joshua would have given that speech. Okay, guys, here is what God said. We are going to march around the entire city one time a day for six days. And then on the seventh day we're going to walk around seven times. And we're going to do it all not saying a word, not making a noise. Then after that last time around which will be our 13th, I will give the signal and you all are to make as much noise as possible. There is no way that speech was going to fly or the plan to work unless there was that crucial component they couldn't say a word. Because we all know how it works. One guy murmurs, another guy mumbles, another guy then whispers, and soon everyone is complaining. That was not going to happen. And with obedience, by doing exactly what God commanded, those walls came down. And there is no question, beloved, that walls are being built right now to keep Christians out. And with that internet fad still going, subtle humor there, such walls are being built faster and faster. The Christian faith being kept out of the public schools. Wall. The Christian faith being kept off certain social media. Wall. Christian values being maligned in the public. Wall. Political parties wanting to reach into Christian offering plates. Wall. Politicians wanting to make certain speech illegal. Wall. All of this means there is still a lot of marching to do. I mean that metaphorically. And faith to be applied in order for us to see those walls come down. And there must be no complaining or arguing, but only obedience. And for the Christians, such obedience is to keep ourselves pure from idols, idols of our day. Just as God arranged his laws to Israel so that they be kept separate from the nations around them regarding their morality. So too are we to be kept pure, which is to be in the world but not of the world, just as we heard from 1 Peter two weeks ago. Strangers to this world we are and will always be And so there are enemies without, and those who live the Christian life will be in conflict with those enemies. And there is a conflict, are conflicts within. And there are two main types of conflicts within. The first type are false teachers, and the New Testament writers had to deal with those types as every generation of Christians has to do. False teachers of today are not much different than they have been in the past. They tempt God's people to doubt the authority of the Bible, to deny the deity of Christ, and to accept the morality of the world. The simple way to combat such is with truth. The truth prevails when Christian laity insists it be heard from the pulpits and clergy do the work of study and proclamation. The other main type of conflict within is seen in the next battle in the book of Joshua, going into that promised land. Even before describing the lost battle to the tribe of I, the author of Joshua tells us that an Israelite named Achan kept some of the spoil or loot from the victory over Jericho for himself. This was a sin. And because there was sin amidst the people of Israel, God did not fight for them. What this teaches us, without the need to kill someone, because Achan needed to die, but what it helps us anticipate is that there will be sin among us. And when we do sin, whether it be sin against God or sin against one another or both, the sin creates conflict. And it's how we deal with the conflict that matters. And by matters, I mean how we get beyond the sin and into better relationships. But you say, I don't want that. I don't like that. It shouldn't be that way. I have heard many, many times Christians say to others, in the church. Well, Christians don't act that way. Well, the person you are referring to is a Christian, and he did act that way. And so yes, Christians do act that way. Such acknowledgement is not accepting the behavior or overlooking the behavior, but is an acknowledgement that the person we are referring to is a Christian. He's been baptized in the triune name of God. He confesses Jesus as his Savior. Because his behavior in a moment does not match up with his Christian profession doesn't exclude him from being a Christian. At the moment it makes him a disobedient Christian that needs to repent. But the point is that sin occurs within the church, and sin causes conflict, whether we want it or not. I have been thinking and contemplating about this a lot these past few months as I have surveyed my time as rector at St. Stephen's And counting the number of people that I have served who moved on from us because of conflict. Not because of unbelief, but that has happened. Not because of life changes such as moving away, which has of course happened. But I was thinking mostly on those who moved on because of conflict, and they saddened me the most. Not that I don't miss any of the others, but they saddened me the most because they avoided conflict rather than engaging in it and wrestling with it until the outcome is good. This got me to think upon Jacob, who wrestled with the angel, who many believed was the pre-incarnate Christ. The incident is referred to as Jacob wrestling God. Which it was. And that was part of the meaning of his name change, Israel or Yitzrael, which means in the Hebrew, wrestling or fighting with God. And Jacob won, you remember, although he didn't because he was given a limp. But he won because the outcome was good. And it was good because Jacob in his wrestling with God got to know God. For coming out of that fight, he no longer referred to Yahweh as the God of his fathers, which is what he called God. He would use language like the God of Abraham and to the God of Jacob, but he would never say my God. It was not until after he wrestled with God that he finally saw Yahweh as his God. And this relates to Christians because we are children of Abraham. For our faith in Jesus is the same faith that Abraham had. Jesus even said, Abraham saw my day and was glad. And as St. Paul notes, the righteousness of Abraham was from the faith he had in God, just as is our righteousness by our faith in Jesus Christ. Remember why we say, glory be to the Father, to the Son, and the Holy Ghost, after we read the Psalter. For the Psalm Book of Israel is our Psalm Book. Only we state it with the revelation of the God, the three and one. But what that also means is that as we identify with Israel, as we are a continuation of Israel, We also identify with wrestling with God. We identify with the struggle we have living the Christian faith to the standards that Jesus sets for us. Because every time we don't Every time we choose sin, every time we suffer and murmur, we are wrestling with God. And every time we struggle to love one another and forgive one another, we are wrestling with God. And it is good to wrestle with God because the outcome is good. And so I lament a little this 40th celebration. over those who didn't want to wrestle, who didn't want to have an outcome that was good. And another detail about Jacob wrestling with God is that it took all night I have never participated in organized wrestling. I am only familiar with wrestling my brother, and as a boy I cheated with kicking and scratching to survive But because I have talked to and watched wrestlers, I am aware of what it takes to be a good wrestler, especially the physical and mental stamina it takes to engage another person's body And try to control their movements while they try to control yours. It's exhausting. So, what does it tell us that Jacob and God wrestled all night? Well, some conflicts are really, really hard to get through. Some take a great deal of stamina mentally and emotionally. There is a lot of pushing and shoving going on without quite knowing who is in the right. Jacob could have quit and no one would have thought less of him. But he wanted the greater blessing. He wanted the good, and so he stayed in the fight. And consider this. Again, the details are important. It was God who tapped out. Tapped out as a phrase in mixed martial arts where let's say a guy's being choked and he can tap the opponent and it's over. But God tapped out for the text says that God said, let me go, for the day breaks, essentially saying, I've had enough. It's over. But Jacob won't let him go. And God loves that. God loves that Jacob won't let him go until there is a greater blessing, a good outcome. Beloved, consider how many great blessings we have missed because we avoided conflicts. And the story of Jacob wrestling is an even greater lesson in working through conflict, because right before Jacob wrestled with God, he was on a collision course to meet his brother Esau, the one he had stolen the birthright. Jacob was certain Esau was coming for revenge, and so he kept sending valuables and servants and even his own family ahead to smooth something over with Esau. And so when Jacob is about to face Esau, again face conflict, he wrestled with God, which was an embracing of conflict, followed by finally meeting Esau, conflict embraced again, and the outcome was one of peace. It must be noted that Jacob doesn't meet up with Esau unless the previous conflict he had with God was faced and won. One conflict faced and a good outcome makes the next conflict faced much easier. Again, without facing conflict, there is no greater blessing, no good outcome and no peace. There is a beautiful section in Genesis chapter 20, or 33, after Jacob meets with Esau. He goes his way to Shechem, which is in the promised land, and just outside the city he builds an altar and he calls it El Elohe Israel, which is translated the God of Israel. The building of the altar is Jacob's celebration that the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, is now the God of Israel, which is the God of the one who wrestles with God. Forty years is a long time for a human being. It is a blip in the history of man. And it is but a nanosecond of time compared to God. But it is a long time for us. Forty years from now, my oldest son will be 73 years old. I will be dead and buried, and remembered only by my family. But from that time until this time There will be many walls to bring down and many conflicts to face. May it be done, all of it, to the glory of God and the salvation of his people until he returns. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we thank you for these standards and these challenges in your word. To press on after 40 years, to press on and bring down walls, and to recognize the enemies without and within, and the conflicts that we have to face and wrestle with Recognizing that we are indeed wrestling with you. And with that confession, may we never give up because we want the good from you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.