In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Please be seated. Before I get to my sermon proper, I want to say struck as we were singing that moving uh response Orial song of what we believe. Last week I was coming from Bel Air to get to church on time. And as we drove through neighborhoods, I saw people getting ready for kayak trips and other family outings on a Sunday morning, and I remarked to my wife how I wonder what people think Sunday is. And it struck me as we were singing that song, what a privilege it is to believe, to have faith. To believe there's something more in this life. There's something more we have to look forward to. The gift of faith is a wonderful, wonderful thing that brings us here this morning. We are in Exodus 7. I begin by sharing with you my childhood when I was a wee lad. I was running in the house as I should not have been doing, likely chasting the dog, when I came around the corner in the kitchen and caught the corner of a pullout cutting board with my head. The result was a bloody mess requiring stitches. My very first stitches. When I was a bit older, the family was playing baseball in the backyard. My mother was up to bat. She was not a very good athlete. I was the catcher. So when she swung at the ball, she swung all the way around and caught me in the back of my head with the baseball bat. The result was a bloody mess and several more stitches. My father, who took me to the hospital, loved to tell the nurses when they asked what happened that his mother hit him in the head with a baseball bat. When I was a bit older, riding my bicycle in the neighborhood, when I came upon neighborhood kids, one my age, who was picking on some girls. I decided to step in, not because I'm courageous, not because I like the girls, but I did not like that kid So I stopped and bullied him a little bit. He stopped and ran away, but came back, picked up the rock, threw it at me and hit me in the head. The result was a bloody mess, several more stitches. The age of thirteen, my friend Jay and I were playing on an embankment full of ivy. Because we could dive for football passes better and not get hurt. Well, I only only I did get hurt. I fell with a broken bottle beer bottle embedded in the ivy and a jagged edge went into my knee I sent Jay for a band-aid because we were closest to his house. Only when I stood up, the blood gushed and washed away the band-aid. I found out later that I a had actually cut a tendon and the result was a bloody mess, surgery, and several stitches. Now each of those incidents had a shock level for me, as I would either look at the bloody hand from feeling the back of my head from the new wound there or watch as blood poured from my knee I put these incidents together for you to explain how the shock value of each of those moments never diminished. I didn't say to myself, oh, I've been through this before, like we say about so many other experiences No, for me each event was as shocking as the other, and I believe that is because of the blood All of us have heard of people becoming sick to their stomach at the sight of blood. And I speculate That shock and sickness at the sight of blood are caused by the innate knowledge that blood is life. The blood within us carries our lives. And it is dramatic to see your own life oozing out of you because of trauma. And it is the direct relationship that blood has to life that piques our curiosity to ask why God would choose blood as the second miracle and the first plague. We usually refer to them as ten plagues, but in truth they were eleven miracles and ten plagues, as the first one, the rod turning into a snake and back to a rod again, was a miracle, not a plague. And in case you were wondering, if we're going to use each Lord's Day to talk about each plague, the answer is no. Um full disclosure, I had actually planned on preaching the snake and the blood on the same sermon last week, but It intrigued me so much that the rod of truth was swallowing up rods of duplication, of false duplication, that I had to make that one sermon. Today we look at the plague of blood. Next Sunday we will examine all the plagues or the next eight together, and then the final Sunday or the Two Sundays from now we will look at the last plague, the death of the firstborn. Now before we look at the text of Exodus 7, I want to underline to you just what the Egyptians thought about the Nile. how the Nile River was so important to them. Egypt became a great salvation, or sorry, civilization because of the Nile River. The rising and falling of the Nile's waters enabled the people to use the river for irrigation. And this enabled them to stay put in the desert, which was very unusual. And not only stay put in the desert, but to build. To build what we now call wonders of the world. It also enabled them to go papyrus, where we get the name paper, which became leaves where they could record their history and pass that history down and pass their culture down to the next generation. The river, the Nile River, became so important to the Egyptians that they assigned several gods to it, and they developed an understanding of the afterlife. Because of the man of the river repeated its cycle every year, rising, flooding, and then falling again Physically, spiritually, and culturally, we can say that the Nile River was the lifeblood of the Egyptians. And in saying such, we are getting to the reason why God would turn this Nile to blood, why the first plague was blood. Let's look at the text starting at verse 17. We have there God telling Moses and Aaron what he is going to do. And let there be no mistake what God wants the Egyptians to know. Not what, but who is the true giver of life. And not just the giver of life, but the taker of life. For blood inside a creature means life, but blood outside means death. He is a god of power and of vengeance. No matter what a person prefers, he is both. Well verse eighteen warns of what's going to happen to the fish. And it would be of course a natural result for fish to die since the water turned to blood. And the stench of both blood and dead fish truly would have been miserable to endure. And this would have been a great blow to the average Egyptian who depended upon fish as a staple food. And it would have made daily living and sweeping an aroma hell, for such a bad smell could not have been avoided without retreating a great distance from the Nile And this would mean that the average household would have to move their homes while the river was blood. Verse 19. God gives instructions on how they are to go about turning all of the water into blood. And considering the size of the Nile, we expect that there would be branches and canals derived from it, including lakes, pools, and ponds. Consider that there is no other stream of water but the Nile in that whole country. Everything comes from the Nile. And there are no natural springs, fountains, or brooks. Water may at times in all parts of that Nile Valley be obtained by digging wells. But historians say that the soil was would not have provided good drinking water, at least drinking water that would have tasted anything that you would want to consume. And also note that the vessels of wood and the vessels of stone were used to bring that Nile water from the banks into the houses. For houses did have tanks and cisterns also made out of wood and stone. Verse twenty. This is the verification verse That tells us that Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded, and it tells us the result of doing what God commanded them to do. It is odd in reading some commentators about this section of scripture that some speculate that it didn't really turn to actual blood. It just looked like blood. Have an appearance of blood. And I say to that sarcastically that it apparently is perfectly legitimate that God could create the universe by means of his spoken word and also include creating humanity with all the intricate detail of the human body, keeping it alive, keep it functioning by including a system in the body that creates blood, and that same blood flows throughout the body to keep all tissues alive. I guess God could do that, but turning the Nile to actual blood seems a little bit too difficult, according to some Bible commentators. Which I say such is rather silly. Verse 21. This is a verification verse. That the plague took away basic life sustenance. It took away both eating and drinking, and thus the blood was death to them, not life. I believe this is God shedding his blood for them. Shedding his blood for them to see that the Nile God they worship And the gods they worship in relation to the Nile are no gods at all. And there was a chance to believe in the one true God. And we don't get a lot of chances. Verse 22. Here's a reference to these magicians, Pharaoh's magicians, repeating the miracle. We need to be careful here, for we don't want to conclude that the magicians actually imitated the plague of blood, for the scope of the plague could not have been duplicated. This again was a cheap imitation. But they did something that was similar. They found some water that had not turned to blood, and they did something to make it look like blood. And that gave Pharaoh enough evidence to once again dismiss Moses and Aaron. And we are to conclude also that Pharaoh was implicit. In the hardening of his own heart, as he dug in even more in his resistance to the demands of Moses and Aaron. And such is the heart of men. Men who are dead in their trespasses and sins. They don't look for God. They look for arguments to disprove God. They don't look for evidence of a creator. They look for evidence to deny a creator Verse 23. This is a continuation of verse 22. It describes the will of Herod. And I think it describes him like a young boy with a ball. He takes his authority and he goes home. He doesn't want to play anymore. Verse 24 seems to describe how they might have gotten a little water from digging wells. And this might have been how they survived these seven days of the plague. These Egyptians had never had to dig before, so this was new to them. And apparently the water was drinkable, but again, likely not very agreeable, since we noted the soil in the region did not suit for making good wells. And so we go on to the next plague. It didn't work. Moses and Aaron tried. It's a nasty plague. But it didn't work. It didn't change Pharaoh. It didn't change the Egyptian people. And Israel is still in bondage. But the blood plague still has shock value. It has a shock value to those who have eyes to see and ears to hear. It has shock value to those who believe. Consider God's focus and preference for blood. Recall Genesis 4, where we read of God accepting the offering of Abel, but rejecting the one, the offering of Cain. And the book of Hebrews in the New Testament discloses that God preferred the offering of Abel because it was a more excellent sacrifice. It was a blood sacrifice, as Abel offered the first sheep of his flock, as opposed to Cain offering his grain. And the preciousness of blood, particularly human blood, is revealed by God in that same story when Cain kills Abel, and God says to Cain, I hear Abel's blood crying from the ground. The importance of blood being shed for forgiveness And blood crying out for justice is next found in the instructions God will give for that Mass F. Exodus from Egypt. And the instructions there we will get to later are very specific as to what to kill and when to kill and where to place the blood on the doorposts of each entrance. And the lamb slaughtered was to be consumed inside that same house with the blood door with the blood on the doorpost? That has to symbolize the reality that blood was for protection from judgment, as well as marking God's people, and the consuming of the sacrifice was that they identified fully with the blood sacrifice. Of course, it was also a precursor to the new covenant, where consuming the body and blood of Jesus is found in the taking of the bread and the wine. And of course, the use of blood and worship of God, as prescribed in the book of Exodus, and especially then in Leviticus, has many usages. The blood covering the sins of the priests first, and then covering the sins of the people, to even sanctifying the altars on which the offerings laid. And of course, all of the sacrifices and the rituals related to the sacrifice commanded by God to be fulfilled all were precursors to the sacrifice of Jesus upon the cross. As his blood was spilled for the atonement of the human race. St. Paul was assigned by God to properly explain to the church what that sacrifice meant, that blood sacrifice. In Romans 3, 24 and 25, St. Paul wrote. being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation, an atoning sacrifice. Through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Jesus an atoning sacrifice. Jesus freely giving his own life to appease the wrath of God. Jesus, the only sacrifice, the only blood spilled that can redeem all the blood that was spilled before him and all the blood that was spilled after for the sake of justice and atonement. St. Paul says it again in the same letter, Romans 5, 8, and 9. But God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath through him. The blood of Jesus makes us righteous before God because God considers a debt paid. And the blood of Jesus saves us from future wrath because it is sufficient not only to forgive our sins of the past, but to forgive them in the present And the future as well, so that we are never not justified. Have you ever considered what happened to the blood of Jesus Have you ever thought what happened to that blood spill? Have you ever pondered where his blood spilled on earth ended up? As it was being, as he was being whipped and his back torn apart, what happened to that blood? Where did the blood go that came down upon his head as those thorns were pressed into his skull? Where did the blood go that surely splattered when the nails went into his flesh? Where did the blood go that spilled from his pierced side? Where did the blood go that was wiped and washed from his body by those who prepared him for burial? Where did it go? Did you know that scientists describe the Earth's biosphere as maintaining itself by carbon recycling? If scientists are right in describing the Earth's biosphere as a sealed container, that's what they say it is. A sealed container into which nothing new is ever added except the energy of the sun. then it is essential that living things today be able to reuse the existing matter again and again Now process what that means in terms of the blood of Jesus. Meditate on where the blood that colored the dirt on Calvary and tainted the wood that bore the weight of Jesus as he hung on the cross. Consider where that went. Consider where it is. It would mean that the blood of Jesus is still on the earth In several forms, even today, being used and reused again And for us, used again and again to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I say that such pondering of the blood of Jesus still being used and reused on this earth is quite shocking and marvelous at the same time. The challenge today, after contemplating the sacrifice of Jesus and the blood spilled by Jesus for us. is to be moved emotionally and and spiritually, moved by it, so that we are not the same person that we were when we came into this building this morning. We leave a different person because we're moved by it. Just as a little boy is shocked To feel the back of his head be warmed by blood from a fresh wound, and shocked as he brings his hand to his face. And sees his blood life coming out of him on his hand. So too are we to be shocked To contemplate the life Jesus let pour out of him. And why? For the sole purpose that you and I be righteous. Such a shock silences voices who tell us that we take our faith too seriously. Go to church way too often. We care too much about that. Such a shock silences doubts of unbelief and weak faith that are whispered in our ears by the devil. Such shock awakens our spirits to what truly matters in our lives. And the rest we need not get upset about. Beloved, the blood plague was to awaken the spirit of the Egyptians who were dead in their sins, and it did not. But the shock of the blood of Jesus awakens those who believe. It awakens those who have faith. Those who confess. And it will make every sacrifice we make for Jesus seem insignificant. Beloved, I simply ask, see the blood of Jesus and be shocked, shocked to love him more and more. Amen and Amen. Let us pray