In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. This continues our series. That I have titled The Ramblings of a Rector. And the title of this sermon is A Call to Arms. And as you can tell, by the songs that were chosen that the uh the piano player, the organist lives with the preacher. On the 7th of July 2005, four suicide bombers struck London's transport network, killing 52 people and injuring over 770 others. Three of the blasts happened on London Underground around 8. 50 a. m. in the vicinity of Aldergate, Edgeware, and Russell Square stations. The four device expl the fourth device exploded at 9. 47 a. m. on a bus that had been diverted via Travis Scott Square, close to where the British Transport Police headquarters was at the time. The building became a base for the walking wounded. One of the bombers was named Muhammad Sadiq Khan. age 30. He lived in Easton Leeds, which is north of London. He lived with his wife and young child, where he worked as a learning mentor at a primary school. Khan detonated his bomb on the number 216 train, killing seven people, including himself. Mr. Kahn left a video to give reasons for his evil actions. In the video he said the following. Quote, I and thousands like me are forsaking everything for what we believe. Our drive and motivation doesn't come from tangible commodities that this world has to offer. Our religion is this Islam Obedience to the one true God, and following the footsteps of the final prophet messenger. Your democratically elected governments continually perpetuate atrocities against my people all over the world. And your support of them makes you directly responsible, just as I am directly responsible for protecting and avenging my Muslim brothers and sisters. Until we feel security, you will be our targets, and until you stop the bombing, gassing, imprisonment, and torture of my people, we will not stop this fight We are at war and I am a soldier. Now you too will taste the reality of this situation And he continued, I myself, I myself make dua, which is prayer, to Allah, to raise me against those whom I love, like the prophets, the messengers, the martyrs, and today's heroes. like our beloved Sheikh Osama bin Laden and all other brothers and sisters that are fighting in this cause I chose to share Mr. Khan's personal information because of what evil must have controlled him. I remind you that Mr. Kahn had a wife, a small child, while also working as a mentor at a primary school. We should have no doubt that Mr. Khan sincerely believed that what he did honored his God. But let us make no mistake, his actions were evil. His actions were of the devil. And we Christians need to be reminded from time to time that evil is real, and the devil is real. And we as believers in Jesus Christ are to be wary of him and to be about the business of warring against him. That the devil can influence a man to abandon his wife and son, to murder people he did not know, for a cause that would not change after his actions. shows us how cunning and deceptive the devil can be. And I hesitate to describe the devil in such a manner because I don't want to give him any credit or descriptive that would make him proud. But the facts are the facts. We often hear that the devil is a fallen angel who used to be the angel of light But few know where that understanding comes from. Theologians and Bible scholars believe it started with interpreting a passage from the prophet Isaiah, which reads the following. How you are fallen, O heaven, O daystar, Son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low. You said in your heart, I will ascend to heaven above the stars of God. I will set my throne on high. I will sit on the mount of assembly in the far reaches of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High. The description is found in Isaiah 14, 12 through 14. In its historical context, it is describing the king of Babylon. But the description is so very dramatic and grand enough. To be describing someone or something greater than an earthly king. The passage from Isaiah that I just read was then interpreted with a passage from the prophet Ezekiel. Who was given the following words from God? You were the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every kind of precious stone adorned you, a ruby, topaz, and diamond, barrel, onyx and jasper, sapphire, turquoise, and emeralds. Your mountings and settings were crafted in gold, prepared on the day of your creation. You were anointed as a guardian cherub For I had ordained you. You were on the holy mountain of God. You walked among the fiery stones. From the day you were created, you were blameless in your ways until wickedness was found in you. By the vastness of your trade, you were filled with violence, and you sinned. So I drove you in disgrace from the mountain of God, and I banished you O guardian cherub, from among the fiery stones. Your heart grew proud of your beauty. You corrupted your wisdom because of your splendor. So I cast you to the earth. I made you a spectacle before kings. Now, again, the historic context was that Ezekiel was to rebuke the king of Tyre But because the words are so grand in scale and of importance, even going back to the Garden of Eden, they seem to be speaking of an earth-moving and heaven-moving event. And an earth and heaven moving creature. And then we have the following from the book of Revelation, chapter 12. Then war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back. But the dragon was not strong enough, and no longer was any place found in heaven for him and his angels. And the great dragon was hurled down, that ancient serpent called the devil and Satan. The deceiver of the whole world. He was hurled to the earth and his angels with him. And I heard a loud voice saying, Now have come the salvation and the power of the kingdom of our God. and the authority of his Christ. For the accuser of his brothers has been thrown down. He who accuses them day and night before our God. They have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives so as to shy away from death. Therefore, rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. But woe Woe to the earth and sea, with great fury the devil has come down to you, knowing he has only a short time. If this passage from Revelation is describing the same events as Ezekiel and as Isaiah described, we can indeed conclude. That the devil did have a place in glory, but chose to rebel against God, wanting to be the highest above God, and was judged for it. And it is in Jude's letter that describes the angels that followed Satan. Jude verse six reads. And the angels who did not keep their proper domain, but left their own abode, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness for the judgment of the great day. After understanding the devil's past, we are next to heed the warnings about him given to us. First, notice what is said in the passage that was read from the book of Revelation. But woe to the earth and the sea, with great fury the devil has come down to you, knowing he has only a short time. A woe to the earth is a woe to us who live in the earth. The devil being on the earth isn't playing around. He has purpose, and that purpose is to destroy the souls of every human being that has and will exist. Saint Peter gave this warning. Your adversary, the devil, walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. The idea of the devil being a roaring lion is a way to say that he is on the prowl. He is purposefully hunting each and every one of us, and that includes our children and the most vulnerable He desires to sink his teeth into your soul and let the juices run down his throat. And while the devil is loud and proud as a lion, he is also cunning and deceptive. In Paul's second letter to the Christians at Corinth, he wrote, Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light. It is quite possible that Paul describes the devil in such a manner because of Isaiah calling him the day star, which is light. But we more importantly note that the devil masquerades as an angel of light, for he is no longer the day star, but has been kicked out of heaven. And his days are numbered. But those numbered days are still continuing. And so we must be diligently resisting him. And one way to do so is to identify in practical ways where and how the devil masquerades. And I'll start with a more obvious way, Satan masquerades as an angel of light. He does so in the occult, with seemingly innocuous things such as tarot cards, psychics, horoscopes, and games such as dungeons and dragons Beloved God's law speaks against such conjurings and playing in the spiritual world Because an evil spiritual world does exist. It really does exist. And the demonic will come into you if you let them If you have followed the murders that occurred in Idaho, the University of Idaho, my alma mater, and witnessed the suspect. Being sentenced this week, you should have no doubt that what you viewed in that man was a man possessed by evil. His lack of honesty and remorse are signs of someone who has left the demonic in his soul Reminding us that we are all susceptible to allow evil to live within us because we are fallen in a similar way that the demonic is fallen. We are only protected by the filling of the Holy Spirit Another way Satan masquerades himself is in false teachings and false teachers In fact, that is the very context that Paul is speaking when he warns of such masquerading, and here's the whole passage. But I will keep on doing what I am doing in order to undercut those who want an opportunity to be regarded as our equals in the things of which they boast. For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, masquerading as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light It is not surprising, then, that if his servants masquerade as servants of righteousness, their end will correspond to their actions. These false teachers were teaching such things as Jesus wasn't really a man, and he certainly wasn't God. While also undermining the teachings of Paul by arguing that Paul was not a true apostle, and therefore did not have the authority he said he had. The end goal of every false teacher is earthly fame and earthly wealth. It was that way in the first century, and it is the same today. And sadly, there are other ways false teachers masquerade. They pretend to care for young people and become involved in the personal lives of young people when in truth they are predators. Sexually deviant predators. The damage that such sexually deviant predators do to young people is deplorable as too many young people have been spiritually damaged So that the church becomes a frightening place and God is only understood as a being who would not protect them. People who use young people to satisfy their sexual deviancy are sick and disgusting. That they are also real, and the devil uses them for evil. Another way the devil is currently masquerading himself as an angel of light is self-righteousness. We witness a great deal of this on social media and from politicians. The devil has convinced so many people that they can be labeled righteous if they fight hate with being hateful. They think they can be righteous by fighting for the rights of the sexually immoral. They think they can be righteous by standing against tyranny where there is no tyranny. Like Don Quixote fighting windmills and thinking they are dragons, so the earthly righteous protect us from kings where there are no kings. What I've attempted to do so far in this sermon is to convince you that the devil is real and evil is real. But of course, we cannot leave you there without an answer. We then must go back to St. Peter and hear more about the devil as a roaring lion. The whole section reads this: Be sober-minded and alert. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, standing firm in your faith And in the knowledge that your brothers throughout the world are undergoing the same times of sufferance. This entire sermon to source has been about making us sober and alert. An inebriated man does not have full awareness of his surroundings, nor full control of his motor skills. Therefore, he is not a man, the man he could be. A sober man is the opposite and therefore able to be used of God in battle. An alert man anticipates the enemy and anticipates a fight. This is why after Peter describes the devil as a roaring lion, he next instructs every Christian to resist him. Every Christian is to actively resist the devil. We are not to expect others to resist him for us, but each of us is to be active in the resistance. And what are ways to resist the devil? Peter has already said one way, which is to stand firm in your faith. It has been stated. From this pulpit before, and I don't mind saying it again, and I and I hope and pray you will repeat it to the next generation until Jesus returns. The devil only has two plans for your life. He either wants you to deny your faith in Jesus Christ or he wants you dead. If you deny your faith in Jesus, he has your soul with him for eternity. If he doesn't have that, he would rather you be out of the way, which is for you to be dead, so that God cannot use you to share his gospel and worship his holy name. Therefore, the best way to resist the devil is to rub the truth in his face and to stand firm in your faith. Remember what Paul wrote to the Ephesians. Put on the full armor of God, that you can make your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this world's darkness, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore take up the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes you will be able to stand your ground, having done everything to stand, stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist. with the breastplate of righteousness arrayed, and with your feet fitted with the readiness of the gospel of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flames and arrows of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. I want to allow you to enter the Jorgensen world for a moment. When my boys turned 30, I gave each of them a statue. Of St. George. And St. George is stabbing a dragon. Of course, Jorgen's son is Danish It means son of George. It refers to Saint George. And if you know the tradition of Saint George, it is said in Lore that There was a damsel in distress who was captured by a dragon, and Saint George braved himself up to go and fetch the girl and kill the dragon. And so I remind my boys, as the devil is represented by dragons, that it's our responsibility as inheritors of St. George to kill dragons. To kill the devil, to be at war with him and to defeat him. Beloved, the spiritual world is real. The devil exists. And his purpose is to destroy the souls of as many humans as possible. The fight for your soul and the souls of those you love is real. But do not shrink. Stay in the fight, slay the dragon, and save the girl. Amen.