In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Wonderful to hear that trumpet played, amen. This is an Isaac day. This is a day for Isaac. It is an Isaac day because Isaac means laughter. For Christians, Resurrection Day is a day of laughter When we named our thirdborn Isaac, we did not know how appropriate a name it would be for him. He has told us that he has learned that his name communicates one of three things to people When people find out his name is Isaac, they are first surprised that he is not African American and he is not a bartender on the love boat. That's a reference. We're a different generation. Next they assume he is either Jewish or homeschooled Or apparently there is no other category for a white person named Isaac than to be Jewish or homeschooled. But we are glad we named our third son Isaac because of his laugh His laugh is hearty and it is contagious. When he laughs, you need to laugh with him because his laugh overtakes his body and the volume overtakes the rooms. And so he is living up to his name. But laughter is not always contagious, for it can be quite awkward when we do not know whether to laugh during an uncomfortable social moment. or how to interpret certain types of laughter. In the classic American film Goodfellas There is a scene that depicts how socially awkward laughing can be. You didn't know you'd come to Easter Sunday service and hear good fellas. But here we are. The characters are at a bar. They have women hanging on them. They are buzzed with alcohol And Tommy DeVito, the loose cannon played by Joe Pesci, makes a joke. And Henry Hill, played by Ray Leota, says to Tommy, you're a pistol. You're really funny. You're really funny. And Tommy stops laughing and says, what do you mean, I'm funny? And Harry says, it's funny. You know, it's a good story. It's funny. You're a funny guy. And he laughs. Tommy, what do you mean? You mean the way I talk? What? Henry says, it's just, you know, you're just funny. It's funny. You know, the way that you tell the story and everything. Tommy, it's quiet now in the bar. Funny how? What's funny about Anthony, another character, tries to break the tension. Tommy, you you got it all wrong. Tommy says, oh, oh, Anthony? But he's a big boy. He knows what he said. What did you say? Funny out. Henry, well just what? Just, you know, you're funny. You mean let me understand this because yeah, you know, maybe it's me. It's a little messed up. I'm a little messed up, maybe But it I'm funny how? I mean funny like I'm a clown? I amuse you I make you laugh I'm here to amuse you what do you mean funny funny how how am I funny And Henry, well just you know how you tell a story. What? And Tommy, no, no, I don't know. You said it. How do I know? You said I'm funny How the am I funny? What is so funny about me? Tell me what's funny. Henry, after a long pause. Get out of here, Tommy. And the tension finally breaks, and everyone laughs, even Tommy What was funny in the beginning all of a sudden wasn't funny. And when everyone laughed again, it was for a much different reason than before. Now let us go back to that name, Isaac. When God chose the name for Abraham and Sarah's first offspring, he also changed the name of Abraham and Sarah. who were previously, as you know, named Abram and Sarai. By changing their names, God was putting himself into his chosen covenant family. He was putting his name, Yah. He was putting his name Yah in their names. And so it was Sarya and Abra-Yah. And Abraham's name came to mean father of many nations, and Sarah's name came to mean princess, which was fitting for the son she was to give birth to. In Genesis 17, God informs Abraham that his prayers had been heard and they would be answered as God would give he and Sarah a son. And when Abraham heard the news, he laughed. He fell on his face and he laughed. But Abraham did not laugh to express disbelief. He did not laugh to mock. He laughed instead out of joy and out of trust. He laughed with amazement that God would make an irony out of his life by bringing forth a covenant son to be born to a man who was 99 and his wife 90 years of age. Abraham's laugh was out of wonder and awe that God would choose at the time of the life he was in to give him a son. that would be used to bring forth a nation, a nation so large that it could not be numbered. And God knew the heart of Abraham. He knew that Abraham's laugh was a laugh of faith. And so he responded to Abraham laughing by confirming to Abraham that Sarah would indeed bear him a son. And next God instructs Abraham to call their son Laughter. Isaac, as a symbol that God had brought wonder and joy to Abraham and to Sarah. There is, however, another side of that story. The name given to the firstborn, Sarah, did not hear the news. She was not there with Abraham when he first heard that they would bring forth a son. And so Sarah heard later. In fact, the account of God's promise being fulfilled came to Sarah by one of the three men who came to speak to Abraham about Sodom and Gomorrah. Sarah overheard. And when she overheard them talking, confirming the promise of the Son coming to be born to Abraham and Sarah, Sarah laughed. We read in Genesis 18. Now Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent, which was behind him, behind Abraham. Abraham and Sarah were already very old. Sarah was past the age of childbearing. So Sarah laughed to herself, as she thought, After I am worn out, and my lord is old, will I now have this pleasure? Then the Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Will I really have a child now that I am old? And then the Lord said, Is anything too hard for the Lord? I will return to you at the appointed time next year, and Sarah will have a son. Sarah was afraid, so she lied and said, I did not laugh. But the messenger said, Yes, you did laugh. That's an awkward moment. That's an awkward scene described. To me, the visitor might have well said, Am I a clown? Do I amuse you? The narrative ends abruptly because awkward moments end with uncomfortable silence. The moment was awkward and clumsy because Sarah's was a not a laughter of wonder, not a laughter of joy, but a laughter of faithless scoffing. It is most obvious how different her laughter was from that of Abraham because of the response of the Lord as he asked the rhetorical question through one of the three men. The question we heard, is there anything too hard for the Lord? And then when Sarah was confronted by the visitor about her laughter, she gives it away. That she was laughing in the form of scoffing when she denied that she had laughed. She denied it because she knew where her heart was in her laughter. Today, Christians make a dramatic claim. Claim that it's much more miraculous than a woman of 90 years giving birth to a firstborn son. And the claim Christians make, particularly on this day, garners the laughter of wonder and joy or the laughter of faithless scoffing. Laughter as faithless scoffing likely began when Mary tried to explain to others how she became pregnant without ever knowing a man. We are not privy to those conversations, but the one we are privy to are the Pharisees laughing at Jesus. Laughing when he said, for the temple to be torn down and that he would rebuild it in three days. Their mocking laughter was from the absurdity that Jesus spoke That he have some way have the power to tear down such a great temple. But that absurdity was a metaphor. For what was directly in front of them. It was Jesus who was the temple that would be destroyed and raised in three days, and that would not be funny to them And we know that Jesus was laughed at when people shamed him and spit on him, blindfolded him, hit him, telling him to prophesy regarding who hit him. And then they hung him on a tree and laughingly told him to come down. Even the chief priest laughed at him with a scoff, saying that he saved others and he can't even save himself. And of course, the sign placed above his head, reading King of the Jews, that was both a mocking laugh at Jesus and the entire Jewish people. Who laughed until they didn't like being laughed at. When St. Paul explains to the Christians at Koroth the uniqueness of the gospel, He prepares them for the disdain that they will receive from Jews and Gentiles alike, saying that Jesus as the Savior, being crucified dead and buried, and being raised from the dead would be a stumbling block to the Jews and foolishness to the Greeks. The word foolishness, the word foolishness means that people would find the gospel story something to laugh at. It would be something seen as folly. Something to laugh at because of it being preposterous. On such a line of thinking, I would guess, would have passed away with the first century, and that I suspected that arguments against the gospel, against the resurrection of Jesus Would have become more sophisticated and thoughtful, more than merely labeling it preposterous, laughing at it in scorn, and then moving along. But I ran across an article titled Argument Against the Resurrection of Jesus. And it was written in 2011. The main premise in the argument for Jesus not being raised from the dead, if he did indeed physically die, is that it is physically impossible to be raised from the dead after three days. In summary, Jesus is not alive because it's impossible In other words, it is preposterous. To say he is alive is foolishness and does something to laugh at, just as it was in the first century. From my studies in philosophy, I conclude that the modern primary source of doubt regarding the resurrection of Jesus And of any miracles occurring at any time, and in particular regarding miracles described in the Bible, the primary source of doubt is David Hume Hume became a dominant source in the field of philosophy because of his denial of the ability to prove causality. It's bore some of you, but let me get through this. Hume argued that one event that seemingly seemingly caused another event That the cause itself cannot be proven because cause cannot be experienced. Cause cannot be experienced. What you experience is the result of an action, but not the cause itself. And so because you did not experience the cause itself with your senses, You cannot for certain say that one thing caused another thing to happen. And this challenge to the theory of causality made Hume a hero with atheists They wanted to reject the claims of Holy Scripture, and Hume gave them an argument. A claim. A claim to reject all miracles. Now listen to Hume himself. He said, quote, Upon the whole, we may conclude that the Christian religion not only was at first attended with miracles, but But even at this day cannot be believed by any reasonable person without one. Mere reason is insufficient to convince us of its ferocity And whoever is moved by faith to assent to it is conscious of his continued miracle in his own person. which subverts all the principles of his understanding and gives him determination to believe what is most contrary to custom and experience Catch that? Allow me to summarize. Christianity cannot be believed because it is based on miracles. Miracles cannot be believed because they cannot be proven by reason, nor can they be understood by custom or experience. So if miracles are not true, neither is Christianity. In summary of the summary, the resurrection of Jesus did not occur because it is impossible. It is preposterous. It is foolishness, and thus it is something to laugh at. David Hume's argument has withstood the test of time, as it is still accepted as the standard regarding the reason why philosophers reject Christianity. And yet it may surprise some when they hear that Christians, for the most part, do not have a problem with Hume's logic. It is true that causes cannot be experienced, but they are rationally presumed. Miracles such as the resurrection of Jesus from the dead, having been in the grave three days, is indeed impossible. But it is the meaning of the word impossible and the meaning of the word miracle that Christians understand differently than those who do not believe. When the word impossible is used, it must always refer to humanity and never refer to God. For as the messenger to Sarah stated, nothing is too hard for God. And next is the definition of miracle. From the Greek language, the word miracle refers to a supernatural work of wonder. A supernatural work of wonder. What is supernatural is that which goes beyond nature. Thus it goes beyond our senses. What is a wonder is that which extends beyond our experiences Thus we must say that a miracle, by definition, is an event that for mankind is impossible. And we can re reverse the logic to say that it would not be a miracle unless it was impossible for man. It is a miracle because it is impossible. And such is the Christian answer to the objections of the Greeks, to Hume, and any unbeliever, past or present, that denies the resurrection of Jesus. It is indeed impossible that a man can die and lie in the grave for three days and rise alive and live forever. That's impossible. And because it is impossible, and because it did happen, we believe We believe Jesus to be the Son of God. Because what he did is impossible. And Hume has become a hero of skepticism, as skeptics love to doubt everything, disbelieving anything they themselves have not experienced. And we should feel sorry for such people, for they have no wonder in their lives. They do not know what laughter out of wonder and joy feels like. But that doesn't mean hope is lost for the skeptic. After all, it was not lost for Sarah. Laughter and wonder and joy was heard on Sarah's lips when she gave birth to Isaac, and she said the following. God has made me to laugh. Everyone that hears shall laugh with me, for I have borne Abraham a son in his old age. God thus turned Sarah's laughter of mocking and scorn to laughter of wonder and joy, and he can do the same for anyone who calls upon him. And what better day to call upon him than the day we celebrate Jesus being risen, risen indeed. And so, why do you laugh today? What is at the heart of your laughter? The Lord says to each of us, why did you laugh? And we might say to that question, I laughed because Jesus was dead and now he is alive, alive forevermore. I laugh because my heart is filled with both wonder and joy. Wonder because my senses and my heart have been opened to a reality that overcomes sin and death And joy. Joy because my sin is forgiven and my soul is set free. I laugh and it is wonderful. Let us pray.