Of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in Ezra chapter 7, the uh portion that was read to you this morning in our lessons. Before we address that message, I want you to enter a world with me that is unknown to most of you. It is the world of sermon preparation. I didn't say it was an exciting world. Sermon preparation can go one of many ways, of course. One of the easiest ways for a sermon to be prepared is to tell the story of a biblical hero. And then uphold that hero's virtue as an example to all of us. It is treating the Bible stories like Aesop fables And it is trying to find some moral to the story. Another easy approach to sermon preparation is examining a particular promise made in Scripture and explain how it can be applied to individual and corporate lives today Here are examples of each of those. Let us say that we are examining St. Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost as recorded in Acts chapter 2. As we do, we note that he used a miracle of which many people witnessed. That miracle was many uneducated people speaking in unknown tongues And Peter screenboarded off of that miracle to tell of Jesus. He next used prophecies from the Old Testament. and explains how they are being fulfilled before the eyes of the audience. He pointed to Jesus, of whom the crowd knew of, saw themselves. And announced him to be the fulfillment of David's promised Messiah. He then revealed that certain promises God made about the Messiah We're actually prophecies regarding Jesus being raised from the dead Now this model of preaching, the preacher, could then apply to the Christians today as to how you and I can present the gospel to a lost and dying world. The problems, however, are numerous. First, you and I are not Peter. That is a big problem in and of itself. Second, the prophecy being fulfilled before the eyes of over 3,000 people Has not happened to any of us. Third, a person or a crowd we would speak to is not going to know Jesus having experienced him in bodily form personally Fourth, and finally, most of us, if not all of us, will not be in a position to speak to a crowd of people who are inquiring about a miracle that just happened. And when I say that, I don't mean to say that such a scenario cannot happen, but only to say that it rarely happens. And you can say, as a counter, that it doesn't happen because I don't have faith enough. If I just had more faith, and I would say in retort that I believe in such occurrences with faith at least the size of a mustard seed And still, such has not happened to me. Now, to be fair, there are principles that we can learn from St. Peter's sermon in regards to how you and I can share our faith, but that would not be an apple to apple comparison The other example is from the likes of passages such as 2 Chronicles 7 verse 14. And you've heard this many times. It reads If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, pray and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will heal their land. With such verses, preachers have been guilty of applying a historical situation With the nation of Israel, a nation God chose to occupy a particular land of promise, a land from which the Messiah of the world would come And use that scenario as applicable to countries like the United States of America. Now, as I have said before, I am a proud American. I am a patriot. I would fight for the freedoms we have been blessed to enjoy. But the promise of 2 Chronicles 7 is not directed at the United States of America. The only reasonable contemporary application of that verse would be to the church. And the land to be healed would have to be the body of Christ on this side of heaven. Again, these are examples of easy preaching. Take a story or verse of promise, apply it to the situation of contemporary, everyday life, and the preacher has finished his work for the week. And considering the narrative from Ezra, read for us a letter from King Artaterxes on behalf of Ezra, the new high priest of Israel. I found myself in preparation this week leaning toward the easy way. Which is to talk to you about the letter of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords that he has the letter he has written for you And I am confessing this easy way to you because I took it. I took it because it actually does apply to us today. And it is my job to convince you of that. So here goes. Now last week I said that Ezra needed three things in order to accomplish the goal of beautifying the temple and beautifying the people of God. First he needed the lineage proof that he was of the line of the high priest that was satisfied. We looked at the third requirement last week, which was that Ezra needed to have studied the Word of God and prepared to live it and prepared to teach it. That was also done. The second requirement is what we look at today, which was that Ezra needed official permission from the king of Persia. To be able to travel and proceed with the tasks necessary to beautify the temple and God's people Today, we read that letter of permission. What we could focus on is verse 27 of this chapter. Which is a commentary in the form of praise by Ezra. In verse 27, he describes how God had moved the heart of the king to write this letter and allow all that was necessary for Ezra to fulfill his call. But we have already spent a good deal of time confirming that God sifts the hearts of kings through his hands, and thus he directs the futures of the nations. And so I see it as unnecessary for us to focus on such here. Instead, we will look at the general content of the letter and prove And prove to our hearts and to our minds and to our souls that God has given such a letter to all who believe in Jesus as Savior. Look at verse 12. From verse 12 of chapter 7, we read that the king of Persia acknowledged Ezra's God as the God of heaven. which is the God of all gods. The same is what God has written upon the heart of believers, Who confess no other God but the God of creation, who is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. From verse 13, there is a commission for Ezra to go, which reminds us, reminds us that Christians have a commission. Called the Great Commission, which is to go into all the world and to preach the gospel. That's part of our letter. From verse 14, we read that the king provided guards for Ezra to protect him on his journey. So too, do Christians have the Holy Spirit who abides within the souls of God's people As do Christians have God's angels who aid Christians in terms of service and protection, according to Scripture. From verses 15 and 16. We are reminded that our God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. And as such, no money is an object for him. Not difficult. He can provide it If we need it to further his kingdom, it will be provided. Somehow and some way it will be provided From verse 17, we are reminded what is our priority, and that is the priority of worship. And not to worship how we desire, but how God Himself desires to be worshipped. I've heard a preacher say recently that there is one congregant in a worship service. One congregant, and that is God. From verses 18 through 19, we are reminded of the freedom that each believer has in Christ Jesus. We are told here that for Ezra and Israel, after beautifying the temple, they were free to use silver and gold that was left over in any manner they desired. Such is the freedom given to believers in Jesus, who are free to live not according to the law, but by faith. And in that faith there is great freedom. And in that faith is great freedom in living alive before God as long as God is given what is God's. From verse 20, we hear of a unique authority given to Ezra. He is able to take from the treasury of every local ruler what he needs to finish the work for the temple. This is right in accordance with his high priestly office. This is similar to what the New Testament teaches in regards to providing in the house of God for those who teach well. From verses twenty-one and twenty-two, we read of a broad instruction given by the king. saying that all in the region are to provide what is necessary for Ezra and to do so with the understanding that Ezra is among them as a teacher of the law of God. And reading that, I could not help but remember of Jesus sending out the 70 disciples. You remember that story? And telling them not to take extra supplies, but to expect each town to provide for them. Why Because they were bringing the good news. And as recipients of the good news, they should provide for those who were bringing the news. The towns that did not provide would be blessed, I'm excuse, that did provide would be blessed, and the towns that did not provide, they would be cursed. From verse 23, we hear an acknowledgement again that the God of Ezra is the God of heaven. And because that is so, whatever he requires by way of Ezra is to be done. What is acknowledged by the king is what Jesus said to the 70 that he sent out. A curse is possible if the people refuse the good news. So why refuse and bring such a curse upon yourself? Such is a rhetorical question. No man in his right mind would do such a thing. From verses 24 through 26, it is prescribed the extent of the authority to Ezra, given to Ezra by the king. And the parameters placed upon the local rulers who were to fully cooperate with Ezra regarding all the things that he requests. And there is strict judgment as a part of the extension of Ezra's authority given to him by the king. As believers in Jesus, we should draw parallels in this giving of authority. To the authority Jesus gave his church. When he spoke to the apostles in the gospel according to St. John, he said, Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound. And whatever you loose shall be loosened. And remember when he sent out those same 70 we've been referring to. And they returned to him. They were rejoicing because they had cast out demons in the name of Jesus. And it worked. Jesus, in hearing this, described seeing Satan and his power falling from the sky. Christians are told, as Paul told Timothy, that we are not given a spirit of timidity. But one of power and authority. We the believers in Jesus Christ have authority over the principalities and powers of this and every age. Amen and Amen. A letter given by an earthly king that allows for a chosen servant of God to go forward And to build the kingdom of God. Is that not evidence that God goes before his people? to prepare a way for them to be successful successful in fulfilling his will. What I believe the Holy Spirit wants us to be convinced of is that God has written a letter for his church. to go forward into the world so as to have dominion over principalities and rulers of this world in order to preach and teach the gospel of Jesus Christ so that men and women can be free. Then it is one thing to say that we have such a letter of authority, a letter of freedom to preach and to teach the gospel. And quite another. Quite another thing to live and thus act out that same authority and freedom. But what would it take to convince us that God has given us a letter to go forward? The following is a story told by a college student named Bella House. Bella fondly remembers a night at the movies when her father told her about how God went before him. She starts, we were standing in line waiting to watch The Incredibles, one of my favorite movies. I'm eight, he says, and my brother and sister are with me, hands in their pockets, looking suspicious. Stop squirming, I say. I'm the oldest, and I know what's at stake. My dad leans in to talk to us. We're almost in. You're doing great. But we stop This is dangerous territory. We haven't made it into the dark interior of the theater. Instead, we've turned off and are standing in line. I smell of the popcorn wafing toward us Get the big one, mom says. Her favorite thing about going to the movies is the popcorn. Everything else is just extra. We're going to be compromised, I glance around. Once, twice, no one is looking this way. Let's get some water cups too, mom says. I groan, but soon we're walking away When the whole family was settled into the theater before any commercials or premieres, my dad starts with his story. He says, it was as if we were part of a James Bond film, except that we were missionaries. Smuggling Bibles into the mainland of China with the very real possibility of getting discovered. We did it a number of times. We would go at four or five in the morning. It was still dark. All of us cold and able to see our breath, shaking with nervous, exciting energy. We showed up at an apartment, three or four at a time. Gathered in the main room, the people we had come to see would start to tell us our directions for the day. Every time we went in, it would be different. A new place to leave from, on a different train. And there were slides to teach us. The slides were exact. Pictures of every train station, every train, every street turn that we would have to take. We would have to memorize everything. There was never any written instructions. The customs station was right after you walked off the train wherever you were going. And if you made it through that, then all you'd have to do was follow the street signs that the slides had indicated earlier Making it to a hotel entrance that you'd already seen on a slide. You would go down from the first floor to the basement. There would be bathrooms next to a series of lockers. Our job would be to take the Bibles that we had smuggled there, place them in a bag, and put them in the lockers. And after, we would need to give the claim ticket to our Chinese contact, a man who had traveled with us and was part of the secret underground church. so that he would take them on from there. My father paused for a moment, looked around, and continued. Every time we did this, when we got there, they would say, okay, now we want you to pray about how you want to bring the Bibles in. It's completely up to you. You can put them in your bag. You can hide them. You can do anything you want. So we would pray. Once I rolled them up and put them around my legs and around my stomach and chest and arms. And I put just taped them to myself and then threw on my huge coat. It was an uncomfortable train ride. But when I got to the customs house, I walked right through. I went into the bathroom, and the only difficulty was how loud the tape was as I pulled it off of myself and the Bibles. I stuffed them in an old suitcase and then went and then it went through baggage claim. I received the claim ticket. and put the suitcase where it needed to go and handed my claim ticket on to m over to my Chinese contact, who would then pass it on to the right people. Another time I prayed, and I really felt that I should just put the Bibles into a big suitcase. So I got one, a roller bag, and filled it completely full of Bibles. There was nothing else in there. No clothes, no anything, just Bibles. And I also had my other smaller bag with with my clothes and about ten Bibles. After my train ride, I got to customs and I had uh the x-ray had them x-ray my bags And they x-rayed the first. And this Chinese lady who could have started for the Chinese basketball team as was a head taller than me, was starting to yell at me in Chinese. My 6'2 Grand German father smirked, thinking back at the scene. He said, Bible, Bible, Bible were the only words of her yelling that I could understand. She grabbed my bag and then led me over to a table. She opened my bag, took out the ten Bibles, and she's still yelling in Chinese, You Bible, you Bible! Now I should tell you, I wasn't nervous. We were told that they couldn't do much to us as Westerners because of international relations. The worst they could do to us was to detain us in a room, question us, and yell at us some more. This made us untouchable in a way. And we were told by our friends that lived there to take advantage of it. I think you and I would say that they had a letter from the King of Kings. He continues. They as natives could be thrown in prison, and at one point one of the men, a part of the underground church, was thrown into prison, and that created a lot of distress for his family and the church. In the meantime, no one looks at the other little the other rollerbag that I have. So I'm standing there with my suitcase and the rollerbag, and the rollerbag is just filled, 50 Bibles at least, probably more than that. And she's just yelling at me. And then another guy comes over and he's yelling at me too. And I still can't understand any of it. And finally she says, you go. I say, go. Yeah, go. They stamp my passport, I grab it, my suitcase, and the roller bag, and I just walk in. And I got this huge bag of Bibles through customs. So I don't know if God just made the bag invisible to them, or if maybe they were Christians, but working for the government. So they thought if they made a big scene about the first bag, no one would question that they missed the other one I'm not sure. I don't know what happened. I really can't tell you. I think we do. He had a letter from the King of Kings. What can I tell you though is where the Bibles do go. Our Chinese contact, a part of the Underground Church, gives out the Bibles to all the churches across the mainland China. The Bibles are then cut apart and rebound as individual books. So instead of one person getting a whole Bible, the whole church is given a Bible The 66 portions would be traded back and forth. Oh, you have Luke? Well, I have axe. Let's trade. And they would And so Bibles that we smuggled in wouldn't be wasted. They would be poured over and memorized and passed on so that everyone in the community could read God's word. He paused for a moment, letting that sink into our shining faces. We loved his stories, and we loved hearing about how he helped hundreds of people hear about Jesus. Music started playing over the speaker and the lights began to dim. It's starting, whispered my brother, as the previews began to play. My dad leans over to me. Hey Bella Past those gummy bears. I pull them out of my stuffed pocket and hand them to him. Nice work smuggling them in, he says, before opening the bag. Does God go before his people today? Has he written letters for us to overcome obstacles of the enemy today? He most certainly has, and Bella's father knows. He has written letters for all who believe in his son. And the letters are for each of us to go forward, to increase the kingdom of God. And the only question is, what are you going to do with your letter? Let us pray. Of God and Father, this short narrative of Ezra receiving a letter most certainly reminds us of what you have written for us, and that it is written in the blood of Christ, your Son, our Lord. And so give us all the more confidence to know that as we go forward, that as we go forward in your name, that we do so with your blessing, we do so with you going before us. Father, may we have every confidence that you desire to use us to build your kingdom. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.