In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. I do confess to you that this is a bit surreal for me right now. And um got a little bit choked up singing that first hymn together. Turn with me if you would to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. We're picking up at verse 35. And we're starting off with the question, what is heaven going to be like? Whenever any of us pose such a question, we shouldn't expect a succinct answer Curiosity regarding the itinerary and topography of heaven, including our own physical characteristics as in what will we look like? Causes wonder for Christians of of all ages, of all stages of life. The young seem to enjoy allowing their imaginations to run fanciful as they dream of a world. similar to what they know, but much more grand in beauty and in scope. Fun is envisioned in abundance and the imagination can take us where we want to go. When we get slightly older, say in our teen years, we become a little bit more cynical about heaven. The anticipated itinerary in heaven resembles the average emotional state of a teenager, which is up and down. Their activities are either really exciting or really boring. Heaven then is thought of as something that is likely boring. making it a bit of a downer as they imagine that there will not be really anything fun to do The fear is that heaven will be like a church worship service with mellow music, lengthy teaching, with a lot of sitting and standing. Some churches have tried to overcompensate this attitude, making church exciting with contemporary music and pastors who present something that looks like a TED talk rather than a sermon. Modern Christian music has been compared to those knockoff colognes you get at a discount store. It's not good, but it smells Anticipating heaven to be boring reveals we need a greater understanding of our sin And a greater understanding of the mercies of God, and how privileged we are to know Him, to call upon Him. As we mature into adulthood, our inquisitive thoughts of heaven evolve into looking at the subject more from a relational view. We think of the joy of standing before Almighty God, where we can marvel at His majesty and learn from His depth. We can see ourselves hugging, yes, literally hugging Jesus, seeing him face to face, and at least being able to say, thank you. The older we get means the more feeble we get, and that leads to us looking at passages like 1 Corinthians 15 in order to see what our new bodies will be like. The older we get, we become like children, as our imaginations ask such questions as, what will I look like? Will others recognize me, and will I recognize others? Approximately what age will I be? And a more important question to some is, will I have to go number two? Now, that curiosity I realize is not feminine, but I guarantee you the masculine side does wonder, is that necessary? Well let's see if St. Paul has any answers for us. Thus far in the 15th chapter, the apostle has established well the doctrine of the resurrection of the dead. Where he steers the discussion now is toward helping the curiosity of the Corinthians while at the same time keeping a sense of mystery. We get an idea that we will recognize others and be recognized ourselves, yet it appears that the age of our bodies will not be an issue because the material for which our bodies are made Is has no ability to show where. And plus, age is a reference of time And time will be no more, as it is a part of the created order that will have passed away. The fact that we will inherit new bodies is fascinating in terms of living eternally, and yet it should be noted that the idea would be contrary to Greek culture with which the Corinthians lived. Corinth was a hub of Greek culture, and in Greek philosophy the soul of a person was thought to be eternal, while the body is temporal. At death, the soul is believed to be escaping its prison, which is the human body, and better able to be a truer form, a truer form of itself. In verses thirty-five through forty-four, the apostle gets in the face of Greek thinking. By stating what is doubted is easily understood. Christianity, true biblical Christianity that believes what the Bible teaches. gets in the face of every culture of every age. In the past, missionaries have been maligned for appearing to promote the Western culture. Just as stridently as they're promoting the gospel of Jesus. And while that may be true in some cases, it is also true That if the gospel is brought to a culture that allows, say, men to take many wives and to steal other people's property without penalty To lie under oath and to be rewarded for laziness? The message of the gospel is going to contradict such behaviors. and call them out as sin, sin to be turned away from. The more people that believe the gospel, the more the culture of those same people is going to change. The Western culture changed for the better because the gospel of Jesus was embraced by so many people. And we still see the residuals of that Christian influence today, although distorted. Do not think for a second that the Greek culture would have been concerned for their elderly in a time of pestilence and famine. It is the gospel of Jesus that teaches humanity to care for the most vulnerable among us. Today the devil has turned the care of the least among us into a self-righteousness where governors and other politician leader, political leaders are trying to out care other governors and leaders to show how much more they love their citizens as compared to other governors and other political leaders. And personally, I would praise such love if it also applied to the unborn. Beloved, we can pray that God would relieve us of this panicdemic, and He will likely But until we as a nation condemn abortion, we are in no position to ask God to do anything for our nation. That is a road of confrontation that we must go down, for it is an egregious sin that is haunting us. And the points made in this section of Scripture take the existence of new bodies as a natural occurrence. And they do so as if the listeners should know better. Paul is saying, don't you know that what you sow you will reap? And don't you know that God will do as he pleases? And don't you know that there will be a certain type of flesh that is incorruptible? Don't you know all of that? Well now you do. Except we we really don't, because we do see through the glass dimly, we de we are on this side of the sun. The flesh we now have is the flesh we know, and it is difficult to divorce our thoughts from anything else. By referring to the flesh of men as compared to the animals and reminding the Corinthians of the glory of the new heavenly bodies. The apostle is stating that the resurrection of the body will be of a genuinely human type, as it is not the body of some different order of being. Remember that when God created the universe, including humanity, he looked upon it all and called it good. A main difference, however, is that with sin brought weakness and limitations on the human body. And those limitations with our new bodies will be no more. The new body will be immortal, glorious, powerful, spiritual, which seems to mean that it will be animated and empowered by the Holy Spirit. It will be a supernatural body. In verse 44, the apostle puts two words together that the Greeks would be unfamiliar with and probably repulsed by. This idea of a spiritual body had not been conceived by them. As you recall, to them the body was corrupt. It was temporal. There was was and is nothing to be saved or made new about our bodies. But God brings these two words together. And we can conclude that this was always his plan, a plan for us to have spiritual bodies that would last forever. At creation, God made man being united to his body In fact, chronologically, Adam was a man of flesh before he was a man of spirit. You remember God created him out of the dust. And then after he was created out of the dust, it was then that God breathed into him and made him a living being. At that time, Adam was not considered a person merely housed in a body, but a person who was both body and spirit united forever. When sin entered the world and Adam was no longer allowed to have access to that tree of life, the flesh became susceptible to the elements and to aging. Disease, bodily injuries, and the aging process are all a result of man living in a fallen world. Because of sin, as the Bible says, it is appointed for each person to die once and then judgment. Christians, of course, have a hope beyond that first judgment, and it is the hope that our souls will continue. We rejoice as we should in the midst of our sorrows that loved ones who have fallen asleep in Christ Jesus are with him the very moment they take their last breath. We should not, however, make the mistake of understanding that the salvation of our loved ones and even ourselves has been completed on the day our bodies stop breathing. At that moment, the salvation of God's people is not fully consummated. It will not be completed until the sea gives up the dead and all flesh is resurrected. And the people of God are given new bodies. We must understand that the separation of the soul and the body is an unnatural tearing away. From the flesh, and is not the ideal that God had for humanity. The loss of a loved one by death is painful to all who are left behind And one of the causes of that pain is the inherent uncomfortable feeling we get by gazing upon a lifeless body. Whether the body be very old or very young, one cannot help but realize how difficult it is for the body to not be associated with the soul. To clarify what I am saying, let me emphatically state that all who die in Christ Jesus are with him at the moment of their death, and they continue with him. They too, however, are waiting for that final day when their salvation will be complete and they will be body and soul together forever. To get a glimpse of what our new bodies will be like, we can look to Jesus, as verse 49 states. It says that He is the heavenly man. How the resurrected body of Jesus appeared is a bit of a mystery, for you recall that he first looked like a gardener to the women who showed up at his tomb. The men walking on the road to Emmaus did not recognize him until they rested and sat down and partook of a meal and then saw that it was Jesus. Later, he appeared to his disciples as we read inside a room that was securely locked, implying that he was able to go through walls in some way. And then he revealed himself to all the disciples. He shows them his hands and his wounds. In one moment, when Thomas doubts, he tells Thomas to touch his wounds. We're not told if Thomas ever did. Another moment he tells his disciples not to touch him because he has not yet ascended. What did these instances tell us? A whole lot, and still not enough, to make a composite sketch. In comparison, the ascended and heavenly Jesus is described in the book of Revelation as glorious and humble. He has feet like brass, eyes like fire. He then appears as a lamb that was slain. In the end, he is a rider on a white horse with his garments dipped in blood. None of these pictures is succinct enough to help us understand details of our promised new bodies at the final resurrection. The very least we can say is that they are going to be very much better than the ones we now have. Well, the remaining verses of the chapter are descriptions of victory not yet realized. But they are not too early of a celebration either For the future of sin and death being forever extinguished is the showcase promise of our Savior. And we are to note that the mocking of death with the rhetorical questions as to where is its sting. Is only first to be understood after sin has been fully overcome and forever banished. The sting of death is still real to us. But it is not as real as it could be if we did not have the promises of Jesus that we will be with him until we are resurrected and given new bodies. I summarized the final verses because I want to get to what many of us need, which is a description of heaven, where we are going. Excuse me. The best possible description I have read, besides the streets of gold, Jesus gave to us. The best description I have read is from The Last Battle, which is the final book of the Chronicles of Narnia series by C. S. Lewis. Before I use his description, we need to hear a qualifier. When C. S. Lewis was asked if he thought heaven would be close to how he describes it in his writings He said this, no, I don't wish I knew what heaven was like, because if we knew that, we should know it was no better. The good thing, good things even of this world are far too good ever to be reached by imagination. Even the common orange, you know, no one could have imagined it before he tasted it. How much less heaven! And so we recognize such a sentiment as a very important point Lewis believed that the sky and stars above are used in Scripture to cause us to picture heaven as above and beyond us. It is why mountains are used so freely in Lewis's Chronicles. He wants us to look up. The following is a paraphrase of an article written by Professor Peter Shackle of Hope College. He says, in the last battle, forces of King Tyrion, with the two children, Eustace and Jill, among them. Are going against impossible odds, nearing the battle's end as the Calamarines begin seizing Narnians and throwing them into a stable Thinking they were giving them as sacrifices to their fearsome God Tash. The door, however, becomes a symbol of death and a portal to another world. When the Narnians go through it, they find themselves not in a smelly, dark stable, but in a huge land of light and joy. It is a place of youth, as Jill puts it. The professor and Aunt Polly aren't much older than we are here. Of health, Edmund's knee ceases to be sore, and the professor suddenly feels unstiffened. Of abundance, they have crowns on their heads and are in glittering clothes. And of freedom, it feels like, quote, the country where everything is allowed. And it is a place of beauty and of bounty. They see groves of trees thick with leaves, and under every leaf there peeps out the rich colours of fruits. Quote, such as no one has seen in our world. Fruits compared in our world, where we are now, are the freshest of grapefruits you've ever eaten are actually dull, and the juiciest orange is actually dry. There is in Oslin's country heaven, but only on the outskirts They need to travel further up and further in to reach the deep heaven. That description is often repeated further up and further in. As they go, traveling higher into the mountains, things began to look familiar. They see all the old places they loved in Narnia. And the old professor from the first book explains it all in Platonic terms. He said, Listen, Peter, when Aslan, the Christ-like figure. Said you could never go back to Narnia. He meant the Narnia you were thinking of. But that was not the real Narnia. That had a beginning and an end. It was only a shadow or a copy of the real Narnia, which was always and has always been here and always will be here just as our own world. England and all is only a shadow or copy of something in Oslan's real world. After trying his best to say what it was like, the narrator confesses he can't describe it, saying You can't grasp fully what it is like unless you get to that country and experience it for yourself Most of all, it is a place where those who love and long for love, Aslan, the Christ, find fulfillment. Soon entering Narnia, Tyrion sees a brightness and turns around. Quote, there stood his heart's desire, huge and real, the golden lion, Aslan himself. In the words of Jewel, the unicorn, quote, I have come home at last. This is my real country. I belong here. This is the land I have been looking for all my life, though I never knew it till now. Those who have a deep desire for Narnia and for Osman discover that they now have found both. Lewis again holds the prospect out before the reader enticingly. Quote, I can't describe it any better than that. If ever you get there, you will know what I mean. Dear Lord Jesus, help us all get there. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, by these descriptions, may our hearts not grow weary. But may we be enticed. May we increase our hope. May we more and more let go of a fear of death and trust in you for all of our days. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. As stated, we are not going to be taking the offering as we usually do. We are going to take a short time to prepare the table and then the ushers will be dismissing you. Again, be mindful that you will come up to the right on the right side as they dismiss you.