In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. I stated in the homily I gave for Bishop Cox's funeral That the early church fathers praised the saints in their eulogies because the lives of the saints, and in particular the way that they died. Made them examples for all Christians to follow. Well, today is the feast of Stephen And in honor of our namesake, we will make him an example for us. And that example specifically is his willingness to speak the truth when it was needed. Thus it is his courage that we will uphold today. What happened to Stephen needs to be understood in the context of what Jesus promised would happen to those who followed him. Recall what he said to his disciples, similar to our gospel reading. Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore, be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to councils and scourge you in their synagogues. You will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not worry about how or what you should speak, for it will be given to you in that hour what you should speak. For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you. Now, brother, will deliver up brother to death And father his child, and children will rise up against parents and cause them to be put to death And you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved. Stephen experienced the truth of the warning Jesus had for him and for all of us firsthand. There are a number of similarities I want us to notice between the reasons for the arrest and trial and execution of Jesus and of Stephen. First, both were full of faith and the power of the Holy Spirit, allowing them to do great miracles as a witness to the people that God was indeed with them. Second, because of the attention the men received by the populace, others became jealous, and especially the religious leaders. We must recognize that jealousy is a terrible and cowardice sin that tempts men to do unconscionable things. Third, because of the wisdom of Jesus and the wisdom of Stephen, no one was able to refute them in public, and so false charges were made against them. Again, that is what jealousy will tempt a man to do. Notice the similarities between Jesus and Stephen are specific, such as the same charges brought against them. Jesus was charged with having said that he would destroy the temple and replace the law. And in 614, chapter 6, verse 14 of Acts. Stephen is charged with repeating what Jesus was accused of saying. Where the similarities end is the response of Stephen to the question posed by the high priest. Jesus, remember, was a lamb to the slaughter. Jesus said nothing in his defense Stephen, however, spoke in answer to the question, are these things so? He spoke because Jesus had commissioned him to speak. He has commissioned all of us to speak when he said that we were not to fear when put on trial, but that we are to have faith that the Holy Spirit would give us the words we needed in times of persecution. And so Stephen spoke, and he spoke quite courageously. Because Stephen's answer, we which is actually a sermon, is 53 verses long. We cannot break it down verse by verse, and it would not be helpful to use several Sundays to examine its details because its effect is to be experienced in one hearing So it will be my job to underscore the highlights of this sermon, and I'm going to do so with some sound effects. By sound effects, I mean like those that were implemented in the old Batman and Robin television show. You remember when Batman and Robin would get into fights and and with the bad guys and when they threw a punch the word pow or or bam or boom would come on the screen indicating that the good guy good guys were giving it to the bad guys. Well, Stephen pulls no punches in his answer to the high priest. What he gives is a sermon with a lot of pow, bam, and boom. Stephen opens with a couple of well-struck jabs. Bam, bam, bam. His focus is on Abraham leaving his homeland for a land unknown but promised. Which is an implied lesson that the men of the Sanhedrin needed to do the same regarding their understanding to the Christian faith. They were unlike their father Abraham. They had no courage, they had no faith. The description of Abraham's father dying is like old things passing away and all things becoming new in the new covenant. The Sanhedrin needed to die to their old understanding. There is a warning in verse 7, whereas he is quoting from Exodus and referring to a promise by God toward Egypt. The same words will be applied to the Jews who already have started putting Christians into bondage. Whereas God judged Egypt for putting his people in bondage. He will soon judge Israel for rejecting Jesus and putting his followers in bondage. The next pow is the result of a left hook by Stephen. When he doesn't merely provide a history lesson when he describes Joseph being sold into slavery, but instead gives another example of how similar the unfaithful Jewish fathers were to the present Sanhedrin. In other words, the treatment Joseph received from his brothers is the same as how the Sanhedrin treated Jesus. The mentioning of being Joseph's brothers being jealous and selling Joseph into slavery is the same as the Pharisee being jealous of Jesus and handing him over to Pontius Pilate. And it is why Stephen is on trial. He was accusing them of petty jealousy, but they will need to get hit in the head by a sledgehammer to get the point. The telling of the story of Moses was a bam, bam, like a right and a left combination. There are many similarities to the person of Moses and the person of Jesus. The birth of Moses and the birth of Jesus resulted in infant genocide. Both were rejected as leaders by their own people. Both were chosen by God to deliver the people of God. And both performed miracles as signs that God had called them. But of course, Jesus did much more than Moses, for Moses delivered the Israelites out of earthly bondage, whereas Jesus succeeded in delivering mankind out of eternal bondage. This section of the Sermon of Stevens is also a defense against the charge that Stevens spoke against Moses. That was part of their accusation. He shows that he understood Moses better than they did. The prophecy quoted in verse 37 was obviously referring to Jesus, at least it was obvious to anyone who had ears to hear. The next POW is a sneaky uppercut in verses 39 through 43, where the Israelites are described as having rejected the deliverance God had provided for them And God in return gave them what they wanted. That was happening as Stephen was speaking. The same thing was happening. They were rejecting their opportunity to believe what Stephen is telling them. And Stephen let them know it. The Sanhedrin was willing to accept what was false in the place of what was true. making them no better than their fathers who worship the golden calf instead of the one true God. Well just as a boxer Sizes up his opponent before he delivers the knockout punch, so Stephen begins circling and winding up. He mentions the prophecy from Amos, which was not for the purpose of speaking against the offerings of sacrifices as a whole, but to show that God was ultimately pointing to the sacrifice of his son. Because that sacrifice, because of that sacrifice, the people of God could be perfect in heart. The mention of the prophecy of Isaiah is not against the temple, as much as it conveys that Solomon conveyed, what Solomon conveyed when he built the temple. The temple was always pointing to Jesus. The tabernacle was pointing to Jesus. Abraham and Moses were pointing to Jesus. And then boo, he says, You stiff necked and uncircumcised heart of heart and ears It was a right cross to the head, and Stephen landed it hard. As stiff-necked people, they were stubborn. They were proud. They were too stubborn and proud to see what was clearly before them. Jesus was the Messiah. They had prayed would come, and they chose to deny it. They chose not to hear the truth. And then boom, again, a left cross. The so-called spiritual leaders of Israel were just like their unfaithful fathers before them. What Stephen implied earlier is now plainly stated. And then another boom, an overhand right to the temple of their heads, as he calls them lawbreakers. Stephen could have called them many things and received no response, but they were not going to be called lawbreakers. They took great pride in the manner that they kept the law of Moses. It was their thing. In their minds, they were anything but lawbreakers Stephen knew this was in their minds. He knew what the knockout punch would be, and so he did not hesitate to deliver it. He was not afraid to make people mad. He was not afraid to call attention to their hypocrisy. And he was not afraid to suffer the consequences for it. Here is true courage, beloved. He said what was true. He said what needed to be said And he said it with full awareness of what they were going to do to him. True courage displayed. Where does courage need to be displayed in our day? Considering how far our culture has slid from where it once was. And doing so with the belief by those who are leading that they are more virtuous than those who led before. Meanwhile, we see looting of department stores in the middle of the day Being reported and no one stopping it. And some won't even call it stealing, but rather redistribution. We hear of public schools teaching children, children, that a boy can be a girl if he wishes, and a girl can be a boy if she wishes. With some parents considering paying for sex change operations before the child hits puberty. Such is child abuse of the most serious kind. When adults do wacky things to their bodies, it may be right for us to ignore them, let them harm themselves. But when such is taught and practiced on children, Christians need to object. And then there is our culture confusion on marriage. Our culture is so backward, Christians should now embrace the concept of separation of church and state So as to get the government out of the business of what they say can be a marriage. But what of a time in the future? When they not only say who can be married, but require the church to sanction it, facing fines and even jail time if we refuse. I trust you are with me when I say bring it on. It is time the church shakes up this backsliding on a toboggan sled to hell culture. I say bring it on because it will require people standing against the culture to cause people to question how far it has fled down the hill. Beloved, the same spirit of courage as Stephen is alive and well in each of us. Consider St. Paul's words to Timothy. For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and love and of a sound mind. We are given courage from the Holy Spirit. It is courage that is going to be needed to make a difference in our culture for the gospel of Jesus Christ. I continue reading from Acts chapter 7, picking up at verse 54, reading about how these people responded to Stephen and his right and left hooks. When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart and gnashed at him with their teeth. But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God. And Jesus, standing at the right hand of God, and said, Look. I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. And they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord. And they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul. And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. Should we weep for Stephen? Should we cry bow and demand justice? It does not appear that we need to do anything for him. Heaven opened up for him. He saw Jesus waiting for him. He was like his Savior Jesus at the end of his days on earth when he asked that his executioners be forgiven. No. Stephen needs nothing from us. But we need something from him. We need to follow him in courage. Beloved, we have had a front row seat to watch the devil corrupt our culture and the church Consists of too many Christians that have bowed to the spirit of this age over and over again as the church strives to look more and more like the world. And the devil will work and work and work until the gospel of Jesus Christ is heard no more. Which means Christians have to work and work and work and work. Am I an alarmist? Am I mimicking Chicken Little? Am I crying wolf when there is no wolf? If I preached this sermon in 1981, it would have sounded like I was crying wolf. Maybe even so in 1991. Maybe, maybe in 2001. But here we are in 2021 with spiritual carnage all around us. I remind you of the letters to the seven churches in the book of Revelation, where Jesus repeats to his churches to hold on. If that is the least we can do, then that is what we must do. Hold on. We must hold on And we need courage to hold on to what the Word of God says about salvation, about heaven and hell, about who Jesus is and what We must believe about him and what the Bible teaches on morality, on what is right and wrong. And to hold on is not just doing this for ourselves, it's for our children. And our children's children and our children's children's children. I pledge to hold on with you, and as we hold on, I want the persecutors to bring it on. And I want to pray like Stephen, Lord, do not charge them with this sin. And I want to see Jesus. And the only way to see Jesus is to speak the truth and hold on. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, we thank you for this patron saint, Stephen. And for the courage you gave him, and for the words that you gave him, and for what they mean to us today as we face our own persecutions. Heavenly Father, grant us the courage that you granted him, and may we stand the test of time and hold on. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.