Me are to the In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn to your Bibles to First Peter chapter two, beginning at verse thirteen, If you have had Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons come to your door You might appreciate these comments. This is from comedian Bruce Clark. I learned something the other day. I learned that Jehovah's Witnesses do not celebrate Halloween. I guess they don't like strangers going up to their door and annoying them. What does a cannibal call a Jehovah's Witness? asked Jay Leno. Free delivery. Go to the Mormons. How many Mormon missionaries does it take to eat a possum? Three. One to eat it and the other two to watch for cars. The return Mormon missionary had just started dating a beautiful young woman and decided to approach the subject of marriage with her. Do you think your father would object to marrying to me marrying you? The young woman replied, if he's anything like me, he would I confess that making jokes about Mormon missionaries and Jehovah's Witnesses can be seen as cold-hearted. After all, they are most certainly a deceived people. Both groups distort the Christian gospel While following false teachers who are voice boxes of the devil, who claim to have special insights to the person of Jesus of Nazareth while denying the necessary truth that Jesus was, is, and forever will be God. Mentioning the missionary practices of Mormons and door-to-door witnessing of Jehovah's Witnesses is for the purpose of contrasting such behaviors with how Christians share their faith. If you have ever heard a Christian preacher or teacher uphold Mormon missionaries or Jehovah's Witnesses and their door-to-door work as something Christians should emulate or at least appreciate Well, you've been misguided by a preacher or teacher who should know better. The underlying message for us from 1 Peter From 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 13, and following is that we, all of us, are missionaries. We are missionaries, but not door to door. We are missionaries, but not to those who don't want to hear what we have to say. We are missionaries, but not overseas. We are missionaries, but we don't have to change our address. As we look at the text of 1 Peter, starting at chapter 2, verse 13, we must recall the main message previous, that is chapter 2, verse 1 through 12. There we were told that we are not of this world. And because we are not of this world, we are to live our lives, not getting caught up in the same sins that the world practices. We are to live differently because Jesus has made us different as we are in him and the Holy Spirit is in us. The identity of being different and thus living differently is continued in the context of how we are to treat those who have governing authority over us. And such instruction is most consistent with the teachings of Jesus and the apostles. Jesus said to the disciples. Give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's. St. Paul instructed Timothy to pray for the king and all government rulers To the Romans, St. Paul teaches that all governing authorities have been placed in their positions by God Himself. And that God uses them to punish evil and to do justice Peter here is echoing such a teaching by telling Christians to submit to governing authority over men. This is to be done because God has placed them in their positions for the purpose of punishing evil, just as Paul taught. And then Peter adds another incentive. Christians are to submit to their governing authorities because in doing so they are fulfilling the will of God. And he says they are silencing the accusations of the ignorant and thus foolish men. But wait a second. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. For Peter and Paul, they Had to have a different context in order to give such instructions. It must have been easier for them to submit to their rulers He could not have, Paul or Peter could not have anticipated government leaders like Stalin and Hitler and Mao or a socialist in liberal sheep clothing were a conservative misogynist like we have today, right? Hmm. Hey, who was the emperor of Rome when Peter wrote this letter? Who was the Emperor of Rome when Paul wrote his letters? Let me Google that for you. Oh, here it is. It was Nero. Nero. Huh. Nero was the Emperor of Rome when Peter wrote this letter telling Christians to submit to their governing authorities. Well, let's see. Google uh tell us about Miro. Oh, here is some information. He uh he killed his own mother. He was the first great persecutor of Christians. He blamed Christians for the great fire in the city of Rome. He tortured Christians for sport. He was referred to by historians of his age to be, quote, a savage-minded man. much bloodied, raving nonsense, with a full host numerous as sand, to bring destruction upon you. And, quote, a terrible and shameless prince, who all mortals and nobles and noble men despise. End quote. That is the man whom first century Christians were to submit to All of a sudden a socialist in liberal sheep clothing or a conservative misogynist doesn't sound so bad. Beloved, this is God's word. And it is his word that is to be applied to our present political climate. And yes, we are free in Christ Jesus to protest and to say how we feel about our leaders, as verse sixteen confesses. But Peter has a better idea. That is not where our freedom is to be focused, where it is not to be expressed. We are to honor all people, he says. We are to love the Brotherhood. We are to fear God and honor the King. No matter who he is. And why? Why Not because we want him to be king, not because we agree with all of his decision-making and policies followed. No. It is because God's word instructs us to. And God's word instructs us to because our witness of the gospel is to be more important. More important to us and to the kingdom of God than our political beliefs and our political causes And if that is not true, then you must tell me what St. Peter means when he says, honor the king. And the king he is applying it to. It's likely that six six six, that first beast, Satan, Nero Now the next instruction is no less difficult than the last we read from the NIV The New King James says servants, the NIB has it right in verse 18. In order to get the full force of that verse, we should read slaves. He's giving instruction to slaves. Peter instructs them to submit to their masters with all fear, even masters that are harsh. And Peter even goes as far as to instruct that the enduring be done when it is unjust. And just in case you were going to try to get out of what St. Peter's instructions are to suffer under harsh and unjust punishment by claiming that your situation or or other situations are different He uses Jesus as the standard. Jesus, who committed no sin, who spoke no word of ill will or falsehood. Jesus who was perfect and yet was hated and did not hate in return. Jesus who suffered with the ability to call 10,000 angels down in his defense with submachine guns. But instead uttered no threat. Jesus, who took on our sins as his own, although he was guiltless and worthy of all praise rather than disdain. Jesus who healed us by his flesh, being torn open by the whips with jagged edges and bone and glass. Jesus who rescued us from the pit of hell, that pit we were aimlessly wandering toward. Jesus, the overseer of our souls until we reach our heavenly home. Jesus is our example of how we are to suffer under harsh and unjust treatment. It's quite a standard. If you did not or do not attend Bible study on Tuesday mornings or evenings, you did not hear my explanation of how slavery worked in the first century. I summarize that here. Most slaves were in debt and thus working to earn their freedom Other slaves were sold by their parents to pay off debt. Still other slaves were captured in war and were given a chance to live as a slave rather than die. Some people even sold themselves into slavery to save themselves and their family from starving to death. Manstealing, as was practiced by North American tradesmen in the 17th to the 19th century, was not the same type of slavery that was practiced here in the ancient Near East. But slave owners in the ancient Near East were by law able to beat their slaves and mistreat their slaves and be harsh to them. The subject of Christians as slaves and Christians owning slaves was very real to the first century church, and it is specifically addressed in St. Paul's letter to Philemon. And Paul addresses the issue in his letters when he directs how Christian households are to be governed. And the instruction for slaves centers around obedience. And the purpose for obedience is the same as it is for every Christian to submit to their governing authorities. It's the same principle. It is for the purpose of being a witness for the gospel. It is the teaching of God's Word that whatever situation we find ourselves in regarding Those in authority over us, our first and foremost priority is to be an effective witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. It does not matter if you are governed by Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump or Nero. Our application of this teaching by Peter is to be most concerned about maintaining a good testimony for the truth of the gospel. And it doesn't matter who is your taskmaster, how unjust he is, or how unkind he is to you. Your first and foremost priority is your witness to that authority regarding who you ultimately submit to, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now yes, I can come up with objections to this teaching like you can I don't know what it is like to be under an oppressive regime. So it is easy for me to teach what Peter is teaching. Yes, it is true that I do not know what it is like to live under actual oppression as opposed to perceived oppression. But Peter did, and he wrote this. I am only repeating with Peter the Apostle, the rock that Jesus chose as a leader, what he taught the Christian church. Now another objection would be that it is easy for me to teach this type of submission to masters because I've never been a slave and I've never been abused as a slave, and all that is true. But the example Peter gives is not me, and it's not himself. It is Jesus. Jesus as a man who submitted to suffering is the example of how slaves are to submit to their masters. We may not like it at all to think that someone would be asked to endure being treated harshly. We may not like it, but that is what the scriptures teach. We may not like it, but honest men can't deny it. Well, earlier I used the phrase taskmaster instead of slave owner. So that we could transition what Peter is teaching to slaves to how the same teaching is to be applied to our modern lives. We don't have slave owners, we have bosses. And we don't have if we don't have bosses, we have customers who believe themselves to be our boss when they hire us. And so all of us have have a boss or have had a boss that is like a taskmaster. We are responsible to him or her, and at times said bosses or taskmasters can be overbearing, unjust, and most unkind. The question is, how do we take what is taught here by Saint Peter and apply it to our work situation? I hope you have the answer yourself, having listened to all that I have said thus far. The application has to be at least the following. The principle of being concerned first and foremost about our testimony, about the Lord Jesus Christ, is to overcome any mistreatment we receive from a taskmaster. It is coming to the conclusion that complaining about my job or complaining about my salary or complaining about a co-worker is going if that's going to smear my testimony in the Lord Jesus Christ, then I am not going to be a good thing. What I believe in regards to Jesus of Nazareth is the first thing I want to communicate to a lost and dying world. And the last thing I am going to want to do is compromise that communication with getting caught up within earthly concerns that God promised He would take care of. Seek ye first. And all these things shall be added to you. We then must summarize what we have learned from St. Peter. We are to submit to governing authorities, even nasty ones, for the purpose of being a trustworthy testifier of the truth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And next, we are to submit to those who are taskmasters, and again, it is for the purpose of maintaining a good testimony to all who know us regarding what we say and what we believe. And this means, then, that this is where, and this is where I want you to follow me to the end point here. This means that each of us. Each of us is commissioned to be a missionary in our little corners of the world that God has placed us. Your neighborhood is a mission field for you. Your workplace is a mission field for you. Your community politic is a missionary field for you. The people you talk with and relate with every day are the people you are to testify to regarding the truth of the good news of Jesus Christ. God has entrusted the men and women you work with to you for you to share the love and truth of Jesus as the Lord and Savior And who else but you? I certainly can't be in their lives as you can I don't have the opportunities like you do. Now you can say, well, preacher It's easy for you to see your job as a mission field. Your field is already converted. And that is a fair point. But I have made a conscious effort to be out amongst the unbelieving so that I can broaden my mission field. I have coached several sports with one of the purposes being to broaden my mission field. I have taught in the public arena with the purpose in mind of enlarging my mission field. One little story when I coached at Liberty High School, I attended a football camp preseason and the coaches were staying up late drinking beer and telling stories and I was trying to sleep But because they were my mission field, I got up, grabbed a beer, and talked to them. And soon enough questions were coming at me right and left regarding religion and Christianity But that was a time ordained by God. That was my mission field and my mission moment. Beloved, think about how life-changing it will be if you wake up on a workday. And instead of thinking about all that you have to do at work and all that you don't want to do at work and all that you have to put up with at work. That along with such thoughts, you are also reminded that you were going to a mission field that God has set for you to work in. If you now see your job as simply a means to pay bills and live day by day, you can now see it as a place where God wants you to be a witness for Him. That is life changing for the good. Again. Consider the end goal of what St. Peter is teaching these Christians, what he is teaching us. The end goal of submitting to governing authorities is not just to have peace with the government. But it is to have peace so that the gospel can be seen and shared. The end goal of submitting to masters is not so that the master will not get angry. But so that the Master may see that our faith in Christ is expressed in all aspects of our lives, even when we are treated unjustly. That we care more about the gospel than justice for us. Beloved, you are missionaries And the field, the field is ready to be harvested. Let's get to work. Let us pray.