In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I needed that hymn today. What a wonderful, wonderful hymn. We are looking in Romans chapter six, primarily 15 through 23, we will be referring to what would have been our gospel reading also in Mark chapter 8, verses 1 through 9. Romans 6, starting in verse 15, even prior. Where the Bible gives promises such as being in Christ means that all things have passed away and all things have become new, it is speaking about sins. That we were once guilty of that will no longer be counted against us. We have a tabula rasa conscience. Our slate is clean. However, We all know that we don't forget what we were once guilty of doing, and sometimes the desire to commit those same sins remains. And the disconnect some people might have, that is different, say from the first century Christians in Rome, is that we may have grown up in the church and thus grown up to know Jesus as our Savior always in our lives. As was different for those Paul wrote to in Rome, who were all new converts to the Christian faith But even Christians who grow up in the faith or have been Christians for many years know what it means to get caught up into sin and needing to be forgiven. And if you don't think that is true for you, I will say that you're simply deceived. What Paul argues in chapter six of this letter to the Romans Is that Christians need to put their sinful ways behind them, and to convince them of this, he uses logic and an emotional argument. With the logic argument, he uses what seems to be a rhetorical question. Should Christians go on sinning that grace may abound? The question comes out of the true reality that God's grace can overcome any sin, which is fantastic news. But the temptation would be to either say, well, if grace is always more, then I can continue sinning so that God can continue giving more grace, thus be given more praise. Or I can think that to keep on sinning isn't dangerous anymore because grace is always there to grant me forgiveness. Both ways of thinking are in error. And that is why Paul answers his own question with certainly not. Which is to say that we certainly should not go on sinning. His emotional argument, which also includes logic, is to use the analogy of being slaves. Now, slavery in the ancient Near East was very common, although not the same slavery as what occurred in the United States. Let's be clear on that. Americans, they only think of slavery in one manner. I have lectured before in Sunday school and in Wednesday Bible study that slavery in the Bible was so common because it was out of necessity. If you were a slave, you were either sold into it by your family, or you sold yourself to pay off a debt. Or, or you were born into it because your family had been enslaved because of debt, or because of war. Warring nations either enslaved those whom they conquered or killed them so that they would not come back and play war again. To say, as a famous atheist has done publicly, that the Bible is in favor of slavery is purposefully ignorant. The Bible isn't in favor of it, but only acknowledges its existence. So Paul appeals to the analogy of being slaves by describing the Roman Christians as being enslaved to sin. Because of their prior unbelief, they could only sin. They had no choice in the matter In Christ Jesus, they had been set free from the guilt of those sins and thus were now free in terms of their standing before God. But Paul recognizes that people get pulled back into the sins they were once enslaved by. The flesh can be and is weak. And because there can be temptations all around us, it is easy to fall back into the sins that were once forgiven. For the Romans, sexual immorality of all types existed, and the phallic symbols were ever present as they were used for witchcraft and the public religion. Children and women were no more than objects to be used. But Paul wasn't just worried about outward sins, for he knew the teachings of Jesus Sins such as jealousy, lying, envy, hatred The love of money, vainglory, hypocrisy, and the like are all sins that persons can easily return to. Thus, the emotional appeal Paul makes is to ask: what fruit did you have then in the things which you are now ashamed? And that question is asked in a careful manner. For he did not ask, what enjoyments did you have, or what immediate outcomes did you have, because Those enjoyments and outcomes would be in the moment. He asks instead, what fruit did they have? Meaning, what eventual outcome did you have? which is an outcome after the initial one. And those outcomes are always those that fruit is always bad. Because we are guilty, and that guilt doesn't go away without the blood of Jesus Christ. Remainder of the appeal is to know what has been done for you as you now profess Christ Jesus and thus call Upon his name to have your sins forgiven and be placed in the past. Paul then summarizes his appeal by reminding them that the wages of sin is death. It's always death. And if the opposite reward is for those who cling to the cross of Christ, then that opposite is eternal life. The purpose of this teaching by Paul, and he's been trying to make this point in different ways in this letter thus far. Is that Christians at Rome and all Christians of every era are to live their lives according to what they say they believe Christians are to live their lives according to what they say they believe. That point got me thinking about Mr. Talkative and the Pilgrim's Progress. By talkative, Bunyan, the author, is not merely describing a character who likes to talk. Even if you recall the story for those who do not, allow me to set the scene. Christian, the main character of the story, catches up with a man named Faithful. Faithful is fleeing an enemy, causing Christian to move faster so that they can travel together on their way to the celestial city. When walking together, they share about their different experiences, and in this conversation, Bunyan shows the importance of Christian fellowship. And how our journeys while walking the narrow road will not all be the same. As the two travel, they come upon a man named Pocketev, who is traveling the same direction. Faithful engages him while Christian stays back, and there's a reason. Talkative is excited to talk to faithful. As Talkative begins with the statement that too many people like to talk about trivial things, but he likes to talk about things of value. To say such a thing is a warning sign to those who have lived longer in this world, but faithful believes what he hears People who actually talk of things of value simply do so rather than tell you so. Talkative impresses more by stating that Any good thing a man can say or do comes from God alone, for nothing is by works but only by grace. Faithful soon realizes that Christian has stayed back, and so he slows to talk to him in private. He learns that Christian knows talkative And that he is a man not worth listening to. Christian summarizes his opinion of Tokadiv by saying that his religion is only On his tongue. Christian goes on, quote, when he talks of prayer, repentance, and faith And the new birth, he is not speaking of his own personal experience, but merely repeating what he has heard After learning that his life and family in no way resemble a faithful Christian life and home, Faithful understands the lesson that saying and doing are two different things entirely. Christian then challenges faithful to put Talkative to a test by speaking to him about the power of God within that changes a man to where his heart and life is truly and obviously made new. Faithful takes the challenge and re-engages talkative. The first thing talkative reveals is that he doesn't know the difference between crying out against sin and aboring sin. Talkative next reveals that he thinks of the gospel only in terms of what he says, but not by faith that is revealed by his doing. Faithful further challenges Takhadiv to examine his heart, to see if he has experienced the love and mercy of God. Talkative response by calling faithful rash, rude, peevish, fault-finding, and unfit for wholesome conversation. And he quickly makes his exit. Characters like talkative are nothing new, and even Christians who are true Christians and have true faith. An experience can fall into a talkative approach to the faith. And the Holy Spirit has to awaken us from our sinful slumber and bring us to repentance. What got to me personally was the character talkative and where I think this story applies to Paul's teaching. Is talkative not knowing the difference between crying out against sin and a boring sin I know myself well enough to recall times I was crying out against sin, while not abhorring the same sin and actually participating in it. I know this to be true about myself, and I'm focusing on my sin, so none of you take this as a personal attack. But I have done the same about sins such as gossip. I have discovered that someone had gossiped about me. Don't worry, I'm not aware of anything recently. But I have found such out and immediately I start to slander and gossip about the person who is gossiping about me. He said, what? That's not a Christian thing to do. That guy can never be trusted. He lied to his wife three weeks ago about where he was going at night. That guy what a loser. So there I am crying out about the sin of gossip, but practicing it that very moment. Who's the loser? Me. A bore is to be disgusted with hatred. We have to hate the sins we commit or are tempted to commit. We have to hate them to be rid of them. And to hate a sin that you were once a slave to is a difficult thing to do. Once again, walking the narrow road takes work. It is facing the same temptations over and over again and working to hate what you want to do. By doing as Paul teaches, which is to consider the pain and guilt brought upon you when practicing the sin you have in your past, and ask that question, what fruit has it brought you? Nothing but bad things. And that is reason enough not to do them again. What Paul does with his slavery analogy and with his reference to the fruit of such slavery is refer to earthly things in order to communicate spiritual truths. You remember when Jesus speaks to Nicodemus, he uses earthly analogies to communicate spiritual truths. Jesus used the earthly example of being born to the point of a new birth spiritually. When Nicodemus was confused, Jesus said to him. If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things? What a great question. The earthly things point to the heavenly things. Consider Mark chapter 8. It is the story of Jesus, Mark's account of Jesus feeding the multitude. And why did he feed them? That is easy to answer, for the text says that Jesus had compassion on them. They've been following him for three days, and now they have no food. They were hungry. Some of them were so far from home that they might have fainted before they could reach home. So Jesus feeds them. But that was only the immediate, that was the practical reason. The earthly things, the fish and the bread, were also analogous to Jesus being Lord of all living. And Jesus being the sufficient Savior who would supply all needs of mankind. And it pointed to Jesus himself, who is the bread of life. This fundamental truth of understanding earthly things to understand spiritual things is why I repeated White but repeatedly point to the types and shadows of the Old Testament and their fulfillment in the New You remember we studied at length how the temple offerings, which are earthly, how they revealed spiritual truths by the sacrifice of Jesus, which is heavenly. Take, for example, circumcision of the flesh. There was nothing more earthly, but it was a type of the symbol of baptism. Which is also earthly, but more clearly pointing to the new birth offered through Jesus Christ as believers have their sins washed away. Unfortunately, there are contemporary Christian teachings that say that baptism isn't necessary because it is earthly. And some even say that Gentile Christians should only be concerned with the teachings of Paul because the Gospels were written for the Jews. Such nonsense shows how easy it is to stray when you do not understand how the earthly things can teach the spiritual truths. Earthly slavery reveals slavery to sin, and the good news of Jesus Christ is that believers are freed from that sin, for they need to learn how to live in that freedom. For those who repeat unwanted sin again and again, a common threat exists with all who do so. And it is not to look at the pain and guilt from the past sins like we should, but to stay in the past, as if the guilt and sin remain a part of them, a part of their identity. When giving counsel, I hear people talk about their past as if it defines them. And I counter that it only defines you if you let it. A passage of scripture every Christian should have memorized is Philippians 3. 13, which reads, Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended But one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead. But what has Paul not apprehended? The answer we get from the previous verse, which reads, not that I have already obtained all of this, he was referring to the resurrection. Or have already been made perfect, it was being perfect that he did not apprehend. But I press on to take hold of that for which Christ took hold of me. By saying this emphatically, he is saying that he doesn't care what other people think of him, nor does he care what they think of themselves. Some accuse him of being a man not true to his word and thus not perfect. Some claim to be more devout and more holy than Paul. For Paul, none of that mattered. For he was choosing to put the past behind him and aggressively reach for and attain that which was ahead of him. And Paul made this a lifestyle choice because Kronos is linear and not stopping. And thus we must always be forgetting those things that are behind, reaching only for that which is ahead. Always Placing things behind us and going forward always is an often repeated theme in both the Old and New Testaments. Consider these words from Isaiah 43. Do not remember the former things, nor consider the things of old. From 2 Corinthians 5, 17. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Hebrews 10, 38 through 39. Now the just shall live by faith, but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him. We are not of them who draw back into perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul. Later in Pilgrim's Progress, Christian walks with a character named Hopeful, and they come upon Lot's wife. Who you remember was made a pillar of salt. And they say to one another, remember Lot's wife. But why remember her? It is because what she did is so easy to do. She looked back at Sodom and Gomorrah, and instead of abhorring that life, she remembered it fondly. St. Paul would ask, what fruit did it bring for her? Her everlasting condition is her answer. And it is ours. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God That message to leave that which is behind behind, and to press forward to what is ahead is such a hopeful message in Christ. And so we embrace it, each of us on our own journey, each of us at different levels in our own journey, but still all of us needing to leave that which is behind and press forward, grabbing at that which is ahead. For what is ahead is your forgiveness, is your mercy, is everlasting life. May it be ours. In Jesus' name. Amen.