In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Open your Bibles to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter one. Today we began a series of sermons from the book of Revelation. I preached from this fascinating text near twenty years ago And there are a number of new faces among us, so I am taking up the challenge again. There are a number of points to remember as we study this last book of the Bible. Let it be understood. The book is first a letter to first century Christians. Addressing the suffering they were enduring for the sake of the gospel. This is as opposed to 20th and 21st century teachers. Who treat it as a prophecy only, and a prophecy that applies to our modern context only. Such a reading is ego-centric, narcissistic, and ill-informed. The original audience was the primary audience, and while the Holy Spirit had in mind all Christians who would follow, we must learn what these words originally meant to the original audience. Also, knowing Old Testament texts such as the Book of Exodus, Daniel, Isaiah, and Ezekiel are crucial to interpreting the book of Revelation. Also, there is a great deal of imagery and metaphor that should keep us from interpreting certain texts literally. Because they were not written to be interpreted literally. Finally, most everything you might remember from the left behind series is wrong. And for those of you who do not know of the left behind series, I encourage you to keep it that way. Let us now turn to what we know about the writing of the book and what we don't know. We know that it was written by John the Apostle, brother to James. He is also known as the one whom Jesus loved. John referred to himself in such a manner. Frustratingly, we don't know when it was written Some believe it was later in John's life, around 90 A. D. Others believe that because the fall of Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple are not mentioned. Which occurred in 70 A. D. , it must be before that fall, making the writing at least 21 years earlier. Again, we don't know The title of the book is Apocalypse or Revelation. It is both a revelation of John And of Jesus, because it was given to John by Jesus, and John wrote it down. So let us begin. Verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants things which must take place, and he sent and signified it by his angel to his servant John. A revelation is an unveiling, and this is the case, an unveiling of divine mysteries. There is a curious reference to God here, saying that God gave Jesus a revelation, which he was to pass on to a servant of Jesus, who we learn later is John. But Jesus is God and will be shown to be God in this entire text. So God gives this revelation to Jesus, who is God. And part of the three and one. This type of what I'm calling mixed, mixing descriptive, mixing descriptive, we will find several times in this book. What is being revealed, he says, are things. And the things will take place shortly, which means they are events, and events in time. The word shortly can be translated immediately, which leaves no doubt that what he is about to describe is relevant to the Christians who first read these words. Another character is added to the scene. It is an angel who is given the duty of relaying to John the revelation. Verse 2: Who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ to all things that he saw The person who bore witness is John, as he is the subject at the end of verse 1. John uses judicial language as if he is on trial or at least giving a deposition It is his way of swearing an oath to what he is writing. A reference to the Word of God is another mixed descriptive. As it can refer to Jesus, whom John is witness, or the actual words God was then telling him. What he saw was Jesus. The whole revelation will be about Jesus the Christ, the Messiah. Verse 3. Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written in it, for the time is near. Here is a rare promise of blessing to the reader, and with such a blessing promised, you would think more Christians would focus on this book. But many are either scared off or confused or both. Note that there are conditionals for the blessing. You either have to hear or read the words, which is that you cannot just hear words about the actual words, but hear or read the actual words. Next, you have to keep those things which are written therein. To keep is to follow their guidance, it is to have faith in their truth. We may summarize by saying the reader or listener is to believe and obey. Verse four. John, to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace to you and peace from him who is And who was, and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne. Here we see that John is writing the letter, but he is not the origin of the letter. The original audience was seven churches, but such were not the only churches of that day. Seven, you will remember, is a number of completion. So the number represents all Christian churches. And not all that only existed in the first century, but all churches for all time. These churches named existed in the first century, but so did other churches, and they had similar problems. My point is that because the number of churches are seven, it symbolizes that the messages go beyond those churches, even though Even though I started off saying that the original audience is most important. It still is, but so are all the churches that existed then and will exist. When it comes to the issue that are addressed to these seven churches, we're going to find ourselves in these addresses. The greeting of grace and peace is Pauline, but the author John is giving it, and the greeting was quite common. The identity of from him is Jesus. And the early church recognized how important this introduction was because Jesus didn't have a beginning in terms of being part of the Godhead. He is identified as who is, presently existing, and who was previously existing, and who is to come, future existing. As he will be appearing on earth again at what is called his second coming, and there is no better verse for Advent than this one. The letter is said to be from the seven spirits, which can be confusing if you take the number literally. There are not seven Holy Spirits, but one. Again, the number seven symbolizes completeness. So it is saying that the letter is from the Holy Spirit in its completeness. Verse 5, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth. To him who loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. The letter, it says, is also from Jesus Christ. Christ is not his last name, but it is his title. It means anointed, which is another word for Messiah, which is our Savior. Jesus is the faithful witness in numerous ways. He was a faithful witness, for he revealed the essence of the Heavenly Father. He said, If you have seen me, you've seen the Father. He was a faithful witness to the moral law of God as revealed in the Holy Scriptures, for he kept it all. He was a faithful witness in carrying out the will of the Father even unto death. And he was a faithful witness showing that death cannot hold down a soul that is guiltless. And it says, Jesus is the ruler over the kings of the earth. Not a ruler, not was a ruler, not will be ruler Jesus Christ is the ruler, the ruler over the kings of the earth. And it is passages like this that get me closer to being a post-millennialist. I won't bore you with too many details, but there are three primary camps of scholarship regarding the end of time and how it will go down according to the Bible. The first is the premillennial camp. The word millennial means a thousand, referring to a thousand years, and it is derived from Revelation chapter 20. Where it describes a binding of the devil and the reign of Jesus on earth for a thousand years. A pre-millennialist believes that Jesus will come back to the earth, and that is when the devil will be bound, and Jesus will have a literal, which means physical, reign over all of the earth. Then there are the odd millennialists, and they believe that the thousand-year reign is not to be understood as literal but metaphorical. And that the reign of Jesus has begun ever since he overcame death. But it is a spiritual reign, and those who believe in him experience such a reign personally. When Jesus returns, the final judgment will take place. Then there are the post-millennialists. Who also, like the all-millennialists, don't believe in a literal interpretation of Jesus reigning on earth, but believe that the physical reigning is to be done by the church. The church is to Christianize the world before Jesus physically returns. Thus, you have groups of Christians who believe in building up schools of good learning. Who believe in starting good businesses with Christian owners, who help build Christian communities, who make stronger Christian churches Who disciple families and exemplify Christian faith by supporting one another. There is now, if you don't know, a movement called Christian nationalism. Christian nationalism believes America can be pulled back from the gutter of smut and greed where we have been lying for some time And re-establish itself as a God-fearing nation. And the conviction that such can be done comes from passages that tell us that Jesus is the ruler over all the kings of the earth. I am not going to tell you which of the three millennial camps I fall under But I will tell you that I get pumped up. My testosterone level spikes when I read that Jesus Christ is the ruler over all the kings of the earth. And he received said status not by wielding a sword or commanding an army or having access to a nuclear arsenal. He did it by submitting to the will of the Heavenly Father. He did it by giving up his own life to a people, to a people who thought they deserved to be chosen by God. And he gave it to an empire that thought it was the most powerful in all the world. And he gave it to the devil, who thought once he had Jesus on the cross, that he himself would rule the kings of the earth. But as C. S. Lewis in his Narnia series describes, there was a deeper magic still. The earth could not hold him, hell could not hold him, and so he went from fully identifying with sinners In hell, to the very heights of heaven, where he reigns, and where no principality or power or ruler of any age can challenge him. And so we can say, we can say, Go ahead, devil, steal your elections. Get into political offers office the perverts and the immoral and the dishonest and the thieves and the scammers. Get them all elected And doing your bidding. And have them help you think you have power. True earthly power. But you know, devil, and I know devil. And we all know, devil, that there is a firstborn from the dead that rules over all the kings of the earth, proving that your power is not true power, but a mere illusion. Now let us continue reading what a true God with authority does. Again, reading the rest of verse 5: to him who loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. What does the ruler of the kings of the earth do? He loves his people. Jesus loved us. And what does a person do for those he loves? He saves them from their demise because of their sin. And so Jesus washes us from our sins with his own blood. Remarkable. Unconditional love displayed and exemplified with no rival, he offered himself He freely bled and died, and he uses that blood to cleanse from sin all who accept him as Savior and Lord. Remarkable indeed. And what does the blood of Jesus do for those he washes? Reading verse six. And has made us kings and priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Who has he made kings and priests? Us? Yes, us. Because Jesus rules over all the kings of the earth, he can replace them. And being priest, what advantage is there to being a priest? Priests get to serve There is like me no other profession that is more privileged to serve than a priest. We get to help people at their most joyous times, a baby being born and then christened. To most painful times, deathbed of a loved one, saying goodbye at a funeral. We get to speak the good news of Jesus Christ to a dying and lost world. Here it is explained that such a privileged position is for all of us. All of us can enter the Holy of Holies and see God face to face. That is what being made a priest allows, and so we respond accordingly. We say as the verse ends, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. And as Paul reminds us. When it comes to being saved from sin and death, God does not know male or female. In glory All our kings and all our priests, regardless of gender, and God was no progressive. Such is as it always has been. Verse 7. Behold, he is coming with clouds, and every eye will see him, even they who pierced him And all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Even so. Amen. How many things, how many things are for sure in life? The old saying answers only death and taxes. And as ironic as that may be, it is not the final answer for Christians. We can add that Jesus will return. And at that return, he will solidify his victory over sin and death by raising to new life all who believed in him. That is ultimate victory. That is reigning over all the kings of the earth. That is plundering the devil's so-called domain. So if you follow Jesus and you fret about elections, no more. If you struggle with a vice as if you are on the losing side, no more. Regardless of your life situation, if you are weighed down by illness A broken relationship, financial burdens, social despondency, no more. Regardless of your life situation, Jesus has won the day. And you who follow Jesus need to get your head up and walk straight because you are on the winning side. And so our study of the book of Revelation begins. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, we need to be inspired by this book as the first century Christians were. We need to see how important it is that in the midst of our sacrifice for you, we are being made whole and prepared for eternity. And so bless this study. May it be useful for your glory and our sanctification. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.