In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. For this installment in our series in Genesis, we are covering actually chapters forty-six and forty-seven. We are doing so because the narrative continues through chapter 46 and into chapter 47, so it really didn't need to be two chapters, but one. I give the following summary with commentary because we did not read the entire verses for each chapter. So we begin. We see that from the promised land, Jacob and his family travel toward Egypt, only they stop in Beersheba. The very place his father Isaac met with God and heard God's promises to him God gives Jacob a vision also connecting him to the promises he gave to Isaac his father and Abraham his grandfather. After the vision, all of Jacob's family traveled to Egypt because the famine we are told in the land of Canaan was so severe. Their traveling moves the author to name each of the sons of Jacob and number their family members. The total number he gives is 70, but that has to be symbolic As the number listed did not match up to the numbers counted. The meaning then is the number 70. It's a perfect number, 7 times 10. It means the whole. So the whole of Jacob's family traveled to Egypt. When Jacob's family arrives in Goshen, which is northeast of Egypt Proper. Joseph sees his father again, and the reunion is dramatic and emotionally moving as Jacob, or going by his other name, Israel. Proclaim that he was then ready to die, having seen Joseph was alive What follows is an interesting exchange as Joseph prepares his brothers to meet Pharaoh and he coaches them to tell Pharaoh that they are shepherds. This appears to be done so that the Egyptians are not fearful of the Hebrews interfering with the Egyptian economy. Because the work of shepherds is actually something the Egyptians look down upon. The reason for such work looking being looked down upon is simple and it continues to this day. People who live settled lives do not like wandering clans because of what they are used to being interrupted. And their goods, such as grass and crops, could be destroyed by the herds guided by the shepherds. Joseph, the orchestrator, also wants his family to be proud of what they are doing, recognizing that to do what they do is a gift of God, and it should not matter who looks down upon it. And many a Christian man should have the same attitude. It matters not who looks down upon your profession As long as you know that you are able to provide for your family and honor God and what you are doing. Doing what God has called you to do. After Pharaoh meets five of Joseph's brothers and provides them the land of Goshen to live and to prosper, Jacob is then brought before Pharaoh for a meeting. The meeting is a reversal of authority, as the Egyptians thought that anyone who had reached the age of 120 is to be honored. Jacob had reached 130, which likely had the king of Egypt bowing before Jacob, who then blesses Pharaoh. And we should see this as a meeting of God's promise, where he said to Abraham that the seed of Abraham would be a blessing to many nations, and so Jacob is to Egypt. The narrative next takes a turn toward Joseph and his work in Egypt as it is described to us the severity of the famine. resulting in a greater dependency on the Egyptian government for breath, resulting in the Egyptian government by way of Joseph buying and controlling all the land of Egypt except the land owned by the priests of Egypt. Thus, big government came to Egypt by what appeared to be necessary circumstances. The people gave up their land and their rights because they thought that to do otherwise they would die. Chapter 47 closes with Jacob preparing to die at the age of 147 He asks Joseph, who has the authority to keep a promise, to bury him in the promised land. The oath is assured in the same manner Abraham's servant swore to Abraham. You remember by placing a hand under the thigh of the person in authority Which many scholars believe was actually placing the hand under the testicles of the person in authority And that gesture meant that the promise was being sworn by under the covenant of circumcision. And for those of you who tend to picture stories in your mind, I apologize for telling you that, but not really. Within these two chapters lies one of the more significant mysteries for me, and all of Holy Scripture. For what these two chapters describe is God purposefully and necessarily leading the nation of Israel, which at that time was Jacob's immediate family, into Egypt. With the foreknowledge that their favored status would die with the death of Joseph and would lead to their enslavement by the Egyptians for 400 years. Said enslavement would result in the calling of Moses, who would initially would cause the people of Israel more grief, for Pharaoh punished them because they wanted to leave. That would lead to a great deal of suffering by the Egyptian people by way of ten plagues, leading to the letting of Israel go, only to have Pharaoh and his army chase after them and then be drowned in the sea. And the people of Israel will suffer greatly as well, for they will be unfaithful in the wilderness, and that will result in God judging many of them, some by snake bite And the others by the earth opening up and swallowing them whole. That is followed by forty years of wandering in the same region until the entire generation dies off. And it is easy for us to ask, was it all necessary? If we are Bible believers, which we are, and we trust that what God does is good, which we do, Then we can conclude that nothing else but that it was all necessary It occurred how God wanted it to when he led Jacob and his family to settle in Egypt because of famine. It must be acknowledged that Israel as a people did not do anything against God that warranted the punishment of slavery. At least they didn't do anything that God condemned them for and called them to repent from, but enslaved the people of Israel were. Under suffering and bondage they remained. Was it fair? Was it good? We can ask such questions and be troubled by the lack of answers. From one angle, it doesn't seem fair because the people again didn't do anything specifically to warrant enslavement There was no warning by God to tell them you better shape up or you're going to go into slavery for 400 years. Nothing like that. From another angle it can be argued that it was fair and good because Israel, like all of us are in the line of Adam and Eve, and thus we are under the curse of sin and sin brings forth death. Enslavement is deserved because we are already, all of us, enslaved to sin. We do the bidding of sin and its tempter in thought, word, and deed. We do it by what we have done and what we leave undone. Thus, a physical state of being, slavery, can justly look like our spiritual state, which is also slavery. To ask such questions as to whether the suffering of Israel was fair or good or both To ask such questions, we invite the same answer St. Paul gave to the Romans when he anticipated they would wonder, was it fair for God to love Jacob and hate his brother Esau? It is similar to the response given to Job when Job asked God why about his sufferings. The simple and straight answer is, who are you to ask such questions? An answer to that question is not expected, for it is rhetorical. We accept, like we learned last week, that God orchestrates the lives of his people toward holy and righteous ends. That we may not see this side of heaven. To ask if God could have done it differently is very much like asking the like the pot Asking the potter why he was made the way he was made. We are but an inanimate object compared to the wisdom and reality of God, and thus we have no position. From which we can rightfully second guess God. An unbeliever cannot accept such an answer. For to them, the faith needed for that answer, that faith is too blind, and the lack of autonomy is frightening to them But that is why they are unbelievers. They are too blind to their present lack of autonomy As their master is the devil who allows them to believe that they are in control of their destiny when nothing of the sort is true. It takes a good deal of humility to accept that we are not in a position to second guess God. And it takes even more humility to be ridiculed by unbelievers who think us to be double foolish To not only believe in God in the first place, but to accept the things that God does that don't come with an immediate explanation But the Christian knows, which is to say, we are keenly aware, that although we cannot answer the why to all that happens in our lives, Regarding all that God allows to be done. We are following the person named Jesus. And that person has the words of eternal life. As the disciples confessed, where else can we go? That also is a rhetorical question. There is no other place to go, for it is only Jesus who has the words of eternal life. So we now turn to the second part of the mystery in Israel being enslaved in Egypt, for me anyway, and that is the amount of time it took for Israel to become free. Four hundred years is a very long time by human standards Consider what was taking place on American soil 400 years ago. 1619. 1619 In 1619, three major events that shaped American history happened in Jamestown alone. The first event occurred between July 30th and August 4th Where the Jamestown residents formed the first representative assembly in America. The second event happened later in August when the first African slaves 20 people arrived and were sold in Jamestown. The third event in Jamestown occurred in early December. when 39 settlers arrived from Britain, and as they did, they marked their arrival date, December 4th, as a date that they would celebrate years to follow, as a day of thanksgiving to God. This day was celebrated, as I said, several years after. It was before the landing of the pilgrims And the only reason pilgrims are associated with the Day of Thanksgiving is due to President Lincoln, who decided to honor the Plymouth colony rather than this one in Jamestown. We do not have the time to highlight, of course, all the major events in America and in world history that happened between 1619 up to today. Again, what is obvious is that 400 years is a very long time by human standards. Forced slavery as an is an evil no matter how it came about, but it is important to compare just for providing a greater understanding of the plight of these people of Israel That the African slaves in America, by law, were slaves from 1619 to the end of the Civil War, which is approximately 246 years Approximately 154 years less than the Israelites were slaves in Egypt. And I only note the difference, not to trivialize American slavery. But to underscore that four hundred years of slavery is a very long time. And this lengthy period of Israel's slavery in Egypt leads to the second mystery for me of this story, which is how and why the Lord waited so long to free Israel out of this bondage. Yes, I know to ask why and to ask how is to do what we just talked about, not doing. It is to try to enter the mind and will of God and we have no business entering But it teaches us something about what it means to be the people of God. I believe it teaches us what it means to be Christian. What it means to be Christian from Israel being in captivity 400 years is that the life with God, the Christian life, is a life of waiting. The people of Israel waiting to be delivered from their bondage in Egypt is a type or shadow of our needing to be delivered from the perils of this life by the return of our Lord and Savior. And the return of our Lord and Savior is nearing now 2,000-year wait. Thus the Christian life is a lifetime of waiting. But that is not all that Christians wait for. Consider how much you and I wait for the with the responsibility and thus the expectation That what we wait for is to be waited for with faith that it will come to pass. The faith we are to have is in God to provide to us the substance of things that we hope for. All of us have waited for a person to come into our lives that would be our spouse for the rest of our lives. Some wait longer than others. Some go through greater heartache than others. All of us wait. We next wait for our marriage union to bear fruit by way of children. We hope to be pregnant only to get a negative test, and then we wait again and then again and then again. For some the blessing of a child is fulfilled, for others the wait goes on And every couple, no matter how long the wait, is to wait with faith in God's will We next wait for our children to walk and then talk and then read and then learn and then develop and to mature and to go out on their own while we wait to see if they will follow the Lord Jesus all of their days In the meantime, we wait on acceptance to schools, we wait on financial help to attend those schools, we wait on grades, we wait for them to return home from break. All the while we wait and faith until they too find that someone special to be their spouse for life. We wait and we pray. But chronological life events are not all that we wait for. We wait for the test results from the doctor to come back. We wait for the end of a surgery that could mean life or death. We wait for on mortgage loan approval, we wait on job openings, we wait on hearing back from a job interview We wait on news from loved ones. We wait on prayers to be answered for people to be converted. We wait on prayers to be answered for rebellious loved ones to come to repentance. We pray and wait for broken relationships to be mended. We pray and wait for our elderly to no longer suffer, but to find peace for their souls in Christ. And finally, we wait for the coming of our Savior to return and to take us home to glory where we are told that Thieves cannot break in and steal, rust and moth cannot destroy, where there is no more sorrow because there is no more death. We wait for it. Yes, the Christian life is a life of waiting. And that is how God has ordained it. There is no sense, no sense at all in fighting against it. It is as God has ordained it to be. We wait. But you may say, doesn't all human life wait? It is not simply Christians that wait, but all of humanity waits. And yes, that is true. The difference, however, should be obvious. We are to wait having faith. Faith in Christ Jesus that all of God's promises will be fulfilled All too often we identify the people of Israel as unfaithful, and to be sure, that generation that wandered for forty years in the desert, they were unfaithful. But it takes a great deal of faith to be enslaved for 400 years and to continue passing on stories of hope That the God who chose Abraham and his descendants is still listening to our prayers and still willing to free us from our bondage. It takes an inherent, although not clearly articulated, faith that says that perhaps my years on earth are but a short time compared to God. And therefore, what I perceive to be long waited for is in fact, for God, quite short. And we learn that indeed to God a day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as a day. Our life is but like vapor, as the writer of Ecclesiastes says. We are here and we are gone. But God is everlasting to everlasting, therefore we wait. I have often wondered How our culture would react. If we started to advertise the Christian life as honestly as possible, We could start by putting on our reader board out there for people to feel welcome to come on in to worship services and hear how degenerate by nature they are And how the only way to reverse their degenerate state is to confess their guilt as sinners and to die to themselves the rest of their days in this life. Would we have to sell tickets to get into the church building each Sunday because the demand would be for reserved seating only? Or what about the two simple messages today? What if we advertise the Christian life? Only in terms of accepting the mysteries of God, even when it means your enslavement. And that the Christian life also consists of a great deal of waiting. Waiting for what you hope for, but you cannot see. What type of rush to the door would we see with that advertisement? Advertising agencies would tell us we would get no response at all. But I wonder. I wonder if there are hungry souls that are looking for something to die for, so that they have something to live for. Maybe so. Let us pray. Our Father, these great mysteries you pronounce. They're there. We know it. We don't avoid it. They are there. Your willingness to allow your people to be enslaved for 400 years. And we say thy will be done. Your quietness, you're allowing for those years to be long and for our lives to be that which we wait, and we continue to wait. Father, we confess all of this, knowing that we see through the glass dimly, knowing that we are on this side of the sun. And so we put our faith in you and trust in you that you overall your will is being done and that is good. And we say, thy will be done in Jesus' name. Amen. Now take the opportunity to worship the Lord and to give him our tithes and our offerings. And I was looking at my son who Let us be mindful of the Lord's love and cheerful here. With my spirit, we're sorry. Holy Spirit loving life. Saint I Evil I Long and I shall not be able to be. Still is Christmas. Speak to all his grace, stay in thy Holy Spirit, man. And I'll be asking for some