Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our redeemer, in the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. All of us have had those moments when, sometimes of great importance, when we were needed to be prepared for something, right? Well have you ever found yourself miserably ill prepared at that moment Found yourself totally unprepared for the moment to come. I have, and it's not a very good feeling. Maybe you've been there Well, preparedness is exactly the parable for which I'm going to talk about this evening. We're going to look at Matthew 25, beginning at verse 1. Passage known as The wise and faithful I mean wise and foolish uh virgins. And it's the preparedness that this parable is exactly about. It's taken from the great Olivet Discourse, the last of five celebrated discourses given by Jesus during his earthly ministry. And in a sobering way, it teaches us that we ought not to be caught unawares by the inopportune appearing of our Lord. It is a warning parable, one of several warnings found in this discourse. As a backdrop, Jesus had just been giving the Pharisees and the Sadducees a big rebuke in chapter 23 of Matthew. And then coming out of the temple and walking up to the Mount of Olives, his disciples pointed out the grandness of the temple buildings. To which Jesus begins telling them about the destruction of the temple, the end times, and the timing of his second coming. In chapter 24, Jesus gives the signs of his coming. And in the light of that, he warns the world to be ready for when that happens. The passage begins with a question from his disciples in verse 3. They ask, When shall these things be? Four times in this passage, in verses 32, 42, 44, and 50, the Lord tells them that his coming will be at an unknown moment. And then he concludes the parable of the wise and foolish virgins, our parable, by saying, Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour which the Son of Man comes. The disciples asked, when will it be? And Jesus said, no one will ever know. It will be sudden, though, and unexpected. You will know the general time because I've given you the signs. But the reality is, many generations, even our own, have said these are the last days, right? Each generation seems prone to think that the evils of their time have reached the utmost limits. Jesus must be coming soon. But are we really prepared? Things that may look for a moment out of control to us are yet within God's purposes and providence. So we do well to remember that the time of the end is in God's hand alone. The exact moment we will never know. But another reading of our first week of Advent in our readings is 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Of which we read, the Lord will come as a thief in the night. So what we have in this parable is a call to preparedness. And it should also be an alarm for us as we enter into the Advent season. After all, Advent is a time for us to be expectant, is it not? It's a time of anticipation. As we look back, we are reminded to look ahead and to be awake and prepared for our master's return. Let me point to four things in our passage. First, there is a wedding. Secondly, there are ten virgins or bridesmaids. We have a bridegroom, and lastly, we have a warning. Notice in verse 1 of Matthew 25, the parable starts with the word then, which takes us to a time. What time? The second coming of our Lord, which he had just talked about in chapter 24. So verse 1, then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. So there's a specific time when the Lord will come, a time when he calls for his servants to be ready. It's a time to reward his faithful servants. And to punish those unfaithful servants. Now that doesn't seem like a very kind and loving thing to our world, harsh as a matter of fact. But we must remember that while our Savior came to save the world from their sins, only those who believe in his name will enter into the feast. 1 John 5. 1, whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that who should ever believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. In John 1, beginning in verse 10, John says, he was in the world, which he made, but what? The world did not know him. He came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, those who believed in his name, to those he gave the right to become children of God. So the second coming of our Lord will be the calling of his children to come into his feast. The intent then of The opening verse one is to tell us that there is a specific time when the Lord calls for readiness, for preparedness, and alertness on the part of all his children. For that time will come unexpectedly and suddenly. So the theme of this parable is really very simple. It's not very complex at all. It teaches us that Jesus is coming and he's coming to judge sinners and to reward his children. It teaches us that he is coming at a sudden and unexpected moment, and that we should be prepared. Because afterward there will be no more second chances. People may look, they may knock, they may want, but the door will be shut. The day of opportunity will have come and gone forever. So let's look again at the text. First, again, Matthew 25, verse 1. Opens with a wedding scene. And a wedding in that culture was maybe the greatest event of the life of a town or a village. It was a great social celebration One of which everybody got involved, friends, family, extended family. It was a festive time. So that's the scene as the curtain opens on this parable. Now it's important to remember that a Jewish marriage in that culture was very much different from what we experience today. While historians differ in some of the timing of those activities, including Josephus. He states that there were three chief components. First, the engagement, which would have happened long before the scene here in verse 1. That is a time when the official contract would have been agreed on between two fathers, likely, and things like the dowry would have been discussed. The next phase of the wedding was called the betrothal. This was the official ceremony where the couple would come together before friends and family and community and make their vows and promises. Here they were officially considered married. Yet their marriage was not yet consummated. It was then that the young man had up to a year, sometimes even two, to get his house in order for his bride Perhaps he would build an addition on his father's house or go out and buy land of his own, build his own house. Maybe he would cultivate a field for crops. All this to prepare a home for his bride. So as the time would be passing, you can imagine the anticipation in the hearts of the bride and the bridegroom as they wait for their marriage to be finally consummated. We will rehearse this over the next few weeks because that's exactly the place of the marriage process that Joseph and Mary were in when the angel came to Joseph with that wonderful proclamation. Which brings us to the scene of our parable, phase three of the wedding, the w actual wedding feast. The wedding celebration itself, where the bridegroom comes to the bride's house where she is waiting with her bridesmaids. He collects his bride and her maids and they go out with torches, parading the night throughout the streets in the village, celebrating with song. He leads the whole party back to his home that he had prepared for her. And there is a celebration for days And then finally, when the festivities have ended, the friend of the bridegroom takes the hand of the bridegroom and the bride and puts them together, and everybody would leave, hopefully. So that's the wedding in all of its festivities, with a wonderful picture it is for us, the Bride of Christ, to be ready for our bridegroom and enter into his marvelous feast. It's a grand picture. Now let's look quickly at a couple other features of our story. First, the bridesmaids. We are told that there are ten of them Jesus calls them virgins. We are told that they took their lamps, actually torches, probably on a pole. And then when the call has gone out, they go out with their torches to meet the bridegroom. They would also bring a little flask with some extra oil in it so that they could keep the torch going as long as would be needed until they would meet the bridegroom. So who are these bridesmaids? From the context here, it would seem obvious that they are those who claim to belong to Christ. They profess to be Christians. They represent those who have gathered with the church to await the coming of the Lord. They have on their wedding garments. They have their torch in hand. They show all the outward marks of being committed to Christ. But as we look at the ten of them, while they seem to be indistinguishable, they are not alike. And this is an important message of the parable. Jesus says in verse 2 that the five of these bridesmaids were wise, and five others were foolish. While we see on the surface Jesus sees the hearts of these ten. And according to verses three and four, the differentiation between them was their preparedness. Here is where their wisdom or foolishness manifests itself. The wise carried along the extra oil needed. The foolish had no oil when they needed it. They made no provision for the arrival of the bridegroom. They all made a profession, but only the wise bridesmaids had the genuine oil and faith of preparedness. The oil could be likened to the garment in Matthew 22. Remember the wedding feast? The king calls a wedding for his son and sees among the guests the man without a wedding garment. He too was unprepared. He tries to crash the kingdom party, if you will, but without a prepared heart, he is cast out And so the oil is a necessary grace without which no person can see Jesus Christ for who he is, our true salvation. The oil is a transformed inward life. The foolish virgins are like those whom Paul writes of in 2 Timothy 3, where he says that they had a form of godliness, but were without power. The theme is repeated over and over again by Jesus. In another parable, he tells us that in the kingdom there will grow together wheat and tares together. And they will look so much alike that you dare not pull any of them up for lest you pull the wheat instead of the tares. But rather we are to wait until the coming of the Lord when he will make that distinction. So in verse 6, there is a cry. A cry at midnight, behold, the bridegroom is coming. Go out and meet him. Up the bridesmaids go, they trim the lamps, and verse 8 tells us that the foolish bridesmaids' lamps were going out. And so they asked the wives for some of their oil, to which they said no. Not because they were mean or unloving, lest they would have enough for their own lamps to keep burning They tell them to go out into the marketplace and buy them. Apparently you could buy oil any time of the day. It would have been there for them anytime they wanted it. The sellers of the oil represent the scriptures, the apostles and the prophets and teachers. So when the foolish virgins went to buy more oil, the bridegroom came. He, of course, being Christ. And those who were ready and prepared went into the wedding feast with him, and the door was shut behind them. This might be a good time to sing the Left Behind song that Pastor Eric gave us a couple weeks ago. Good pu good time, but I'll refrain But the fact remains, the foolish were shut out. This is a beautiful parable for those prepared. Yet it is a sobering and alarming reality for those who are ill-prepared. For those who are outwardly going through the motions but have no oil of true inward faith. Again, verse 13, Jesus gives us the warning: watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. Simple yet profound. We are to be prepared. We are to be found practicing our faith, giving our lives as a living sacrifice. So as we move through this Advent season, may we have a true sense for the loss, a true sense for the cares of others, shining our lamps in the darkness around us. Remembering what it is that we are to be known for, our love. So let us go forth this Advent season, being prepared. Loving God and loving others as ourselves. Amen