In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Although it is an integral part of our Advent season, the history of the Advent wreath as we have here, is actually obscure. One story is that it began with Johann Henrik Wickern, 1808 to 1881. He was a Protestant pastor in Germany and a pioneer in urban mission work among the poor During Advent, children at the mission school, Rahas House, founded by Wickern in Hamburg, during the Advent season would repeatedly ask daily if Christmas had arrived. In eighteen thirty-nine he built a large wooden ring made out of an old cartwheel with nineteen small red and four large white candles. A small candle was lit successively every weekday during Advent. On Sundays, a large white candle was lit. All this allowed the children to count the weeks and days remaining until Christmas. The custom gained ground among Protestant churches in Germany and evolved into the smaller wreath with four or five candles that we know today. Roman Catholics in Germany began to adopt the custom in the 1920s, and in the 1930s it spread to North America. And I always find it interesting when Roman Catholics borrow symbolisms from Protestants. The modern Advent wreath has a great deal of thought put into it as each part of it is to represent something greater than itself. The wreath is made of various evergreens, signifying continuous life. The laurel, if it has laurel, can signify victory over persecution and suffering. Pine, holly, and yew can symbolize immortality. Cedar can symbolize strength and healing. Holly also has a special Christian symbolism. The prickly leaves remind us of the crown of thorns that Jesus wore for the sake of humiliation. And there is an English legend that tells of how the cross was actually made from Holly. The circle of the wreath, which has no beginning or end. Symbolizes God as eternal, also symbolizing the immortal soul and the everlasting life found in Christ. Any pine cones, nuts, or sea pods used to decorate the reef also symbolize life and resurrection. Altogether, the wreath of evergreens depicts the immortality of the human soul and the new everlasting life promised through Jesus Christ. As we know, the four candles represent the four weeks of Advent. A tradition is that each week represents 1,000 years, to sum up the 4,000 years from Adam and Eve until the birth of the Savior. Of course that dating is speculative. Three counters are purple and one is rose or pink. We have pink The purple candles in particular symbolize the prayer, penance, and preparatory sacrifice and good works undertaken during Advent The rose or pink candle is lit on the third Sunday, also known as Gaudet Sunday, for Gaudae is Latin for the word rejoice. Now, Sunday is the Sunday of rejoicing because the faithful have arrived at the midpoint of Advent, when their preparation is half over and they are all so close to Christmas. The progressive lighting of the candles symbolizes the expectation and hope surrounding the Lord's first coming into the world in an anticipation of his second coming to judge the living and the dead. All of this, all of this is interesting and helpful to know, but what is most important, of course, is the candle in the middle. It is the most important because of who it represents, for all that the other symbols communicate mean nothing unless Jesus is the focus of it all. The candle in the middle. The candle in the middle, the white candle symbolizes sinlessness and is what all the other candles should be pointing to. The Advent candles are much like the lampstands described in the book of Revelation that surround Jesus as he appears in his glorified state. In contrast to focusing on Jesus, one of the most ridiculous trends in modern celebrations of Christmas are these mind-numbing television shows and movies that insist that it is not Christmas unless dot dot dot you fill in the blank It is not Christmas until unless Rudolph leads the sleigh, unless It is not Christmas unless Santa finds some good cheer. It is not Christmas unless there is enough Christmas spirit. It is not Christmas unless it snows. It is not Christmas unless Santa gets a wife. Unless the Grinch gets back the presents. Unless the cranks decorate their house, unless the spoiled child gets the right present, unless the turkey is properly cooked. And my all-time favorite, and yours too, it is not Christmas until Grandma gets run over by a reindeer. The list goes on and on. Bobby Lynn actually wrote down a list of Christmas movies she wanted to watch during the Advent season, and it has been a long four weeks for someone like me who says, Ba humbug. To the sappy movies played this time of year. And it's not just television and movies. The sentiment is in modern songs. Personally, I must change the station if the song Christmas Shoes is being played I'm not going to quote any of those lyrics, but simply ask why does a child's sick mother who is bedridden need a pair of shoes? But I don't consider that song to be the sappiest. I realize I could get into trouble for this one because some of you may like this song, but I take opportunity to insist that this the song Where Are You Christmas To be the silliest, sappiest Christmas song ever written or recorded. Listen to some of the lyrics. Where are you, Christmas? Why can't I find you? Why have you gone away? Where is the laughter you used to bring me? Why can't I hear music play? My world is changing. I'm rearranging. Does that mean Christmas changes too? Where are you, Christmas? Do you remember the one you used to know? I am not the same one. See what the time have done. Why you let me go I will stop there because such songs are just too painful for Scrooges like myself Of course, Christmas can't go anywhere. Christmas doesn't change. Christmas doesn't let anyone go. And Christmas doesn't need Rudolph Santa, presents, lights, carols, decorations, or fluffy emotions to be Christmas The word Christmas itself tells us what is needed. The word from Christmas or for Christmas is the late Old English is Christas Mesa. Which is the Mass of Christ. It was first found referenced by our church fathers in 1080 A. D. The term Mass is not just a Roman Catholic term. It is derived from the late Latin word misha, which means dismissal. A word used in the concluding formula of Christian worship services. The last words in the service were it misa est, translated go. It is the dismissal. It has taken on a deeper meaning for Christians as it describes the whole worship service, as some describe Christian worship as the Mass. Christmas then refers to the worship of Jesus as the Christ. And that worship is corporate, not individualistic or familial. The modern trend of putting family first and foremost at Christmas misses the meaning of the day itself. But I get the importance of family at Christmas. I get the importance of family traditions at Christmas. We had our own when our children were young and we still try to keep some of them going But family is not to be worshipped at Christmas or any other time. Family is not to be the priority on Christmas. And did I just say that in a church on the east coast of the United States? I did. The priority is to worship Jesus Christ for becoming man and remaining man for all time. Traditions and familial love mean nothing that lasts unless Jesus is at the center of our celebration. The centricity of Jesus in Christmas is what makes Christmas. When a Christmas focuses on worshiping the Christ child, then it is Christmas. The Holy Scriptures have the same focus. Quite often, we read stories in Holy Scripture that have details we gloss over. Gloss over, not realizing that within them is found a greater lesson. For example, we read in Genesis 4 that Cain was born first to Adam and Eve and then Abel. You know that. It was then Abel who was killed out of spite because God was pleased with the offering Abel brought to him and not the offering of Cain. Instead of Cain wanting to learn what he could do to be accepted by God, he instead focused his anger on Abel and murdered him. We can learn lessons about anger spite and coveting from the actions of Cain. We can also see things more profound in that story. Remember that Adam was the first man, and Jesus is called the second Adam Can we see the correlation between Adam, who was the first son, and then Jesus, who was the second son, and was killed by Adam's race because of spite? just as the second born Abel was killed at a spite. And then there is Isaac, who was the second born to Abraham. The first was named Ishmael, whom God did not choose. And you will recall in that story that God instructed Abraham to send Hagar and Ishmael away from the camp because Ishmael had mocked Isaac. The same happened to Jesus, who was a half-brother to the Jews, having been born of a virgin. He too was mocked by the Jews, his half-brothers, as he hung on the cross. And then there was Esau and Jacob. God chose again the second born, Jacob over Esau, to bring forth the Messiah, the second Adam. All along God was showing his people his redemptive plan by choosing the second born. The second born, that a second Adam would be born to them, who would do what the first Adam did not, and that is be obedient to the Heavenly Father. Going back to Eve, we see in her words an understanding that it is all about the child to be born that will overcome sin and death while crushing the serpent's head. You will remember that such was the promise within the curse placed on Eve, which is a strange place to find a promise in the midst of a curse. God would bring forth from a woman a seed. And by that promise is for a child to be born who will crush the serpent's head. The serpent, of course, represents the devil, and such was fulfilled when Jesus hung on the cross, and below him, beneath his feet was the hill that he was hung upon, which was called Golgotha, meaning the hill of the skull, which represents the serpent's head. The greatest of ironies was that Jesus died. While he died, he was also being victorious. The devil thought he had won by killing the Son of God, when in truth he had lost and lost for eternity. Eve herself recalled the promise of the seed being born to crush the head of the of Satan. After Abel was killed and Seth was born to her, she said. For God has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel. Every faithful Jewish woman was to have the same hope as Eve had Which was that she would be the chosen one to bring forth the child that would save mankind. And now we know that God chose a virgin named Mary. Along the same way of reflection, we follow the life of Joseph, who was the firstborn to Jacob and Rachel, but the eleventh son overall, which places him in obscurity and yet he was favored by his father. Such favoritism made him an enemy of his brothers, who resented him for having his coat of many colors made by his father. They envied him, and so they plotted to destroy him. Does such a story sound similar To that of Jesus, who was hated by his half-brethren because he was favored by his Father, the Heavenly Father? They hated Joseph so thoroughly, they plotted to kill him. But when that was debated, they agreed to throw him in a pit. And if that wasn't enough, then they sold him into slavery, staged a killing by putting blood on his coat, and then lied to their father about the whole ordeal. Beloved, we should never underestimate how low the human soul can descend when it comes to jealousy and bitterness. Consider that the very people who were eyewitnesses to the miracles Jesus performed as a testimony to God's favor of him. Even people who heard a voice from heaven saying, Of Jesus, this is my beloved Son, of whom I am well pleased. Even those witnesses Turned on him, shouting, crucify him, crucify him. Knowing this about the human soul and where it can go We should never be the witnesses on television saying, we never thought our neighbor was capable of such an evil, or parents that tell a teacher his child to never do something wrong. We are all capable. We are all capable. But my point is that the life of Joseph was lived out the way it did for the salvation of Israel as a nation. And that life was also lived out as a testimony to the Savior to come, who is Jesus the Lord. Consider Moses as living a life that points to Jesus. Consider Joshua living a life that points to Jesus. Consider Samuel living a life that points to Jesus. Consider David, David crushing the serpent's head while cutting off the head of Goliath, which pointed to Jesus. Consider Solomon as ruling a nation that was at peace with all nations, living a life that points to Jesus and what he will eternally accomplish. Peace In all nations. The point being made is from all of Holy Scripture, we see it surrounding the person of Jesus. So we see the traditions of the Advent Reef to the stories of Holy Scripture that the focus of Christmas should be upon Jesus our Lord. And what I want to add, one more point, it should also be about worshiping the Lord. That is what we are doing today, and that is what we should be doing on Christmas Day. Consider the description that St. John gives again in the book of Revelation. He tells the readers that his vision included seeing seven golden lampstands, which represent the seven churches to be addressed, and those seven churches represented all of the churches. And those churches were not lined up in a row, but were encircling someone, encircling the Son of Man. John describes him as having been clothed in a golden band with hair as like wool, as white as snow. He had feet like brass and eyes as fire. Out of his mouth came a double-edged sword, and his countenance was like the sun shining in its fullest strife. And John's only natural response, John's only natural response to that vision of a glorified Savior was to fall at his feet and worship him. And Jesus is today glorified, but calls us to remember that he humbled himself to be born as a man. and die a man in order that we could be made new men to live forever Yes. Christmas includes opportunities with family and friends. It can include presents and eulogues and carols and good food. It can include traditions practiced and memories, memories shared. But it must be our focus to worship Christ Jesus. We are not to worship family, friends, traditions, or whatever else is important to us on Christmas. We are to worship Christ alone. Now I want you to think about this. Many people, such as myself, many Christians, get upset. When people say, Happy holidays, instead of Merry Christmas. And that is justifiable. I understand the angst about that. The wishing of happy holidays takes Jesus out of Christmas But realize when you wish someone a Merry Christmas, you are actually hoping for them to have a happy time worshiping Christ. You are not simply saying, enjoy your Christmas. No, you are you are telling them worship Jesus. Remember, the word Christmas is the Mass of Christ. Christ is to be the center of our celebrations. He is the focus of our worship. The question that that happy song asks, Where are you, Christmas? That is an easy question to answer Christmas is found in worshiping Christ the Lord. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and Heavenly Father, for that very word Christmas we thank you for, reminding us that it is about celebrating and worshiping you for your great gift of your son. May that be in all of our hearts and all together as we worship together. In Jesus' name. Amen.