Let us pray. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of all our hearts be acceptable and pleasing in thy sight, our rock and our redeemer. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. My wife and I sometimes keep our niece at our home for extended periods of time. It gives her mother a break and thus an opportunity to practice parenting for a long time. little bit. It's also lots of fun to have small children around. One time we had her for an extended period of time and I noticed that she had recently learned some bad habits from her older sister. One of the habits that I disliked greatly was that she had started to spit. I personally believe that young ladies should not do that. But what irritated me more was that when she we had all sat down for dinner, she decided This was unacceptable behavior, and I made sure that she knew that it would not be tolerated in my home She doesn't spit at Cool Cool's house. That's what she calls me. A few months later I noticed that she did it at another relative's house. She spit on the floor. And I fussed her, and the relative and I I entered into a debate about sending mixed signals to my niece. He said that others encouraged it, finding it cute, so it would be confusing for me to fuss her over it I disagreed and believe firmly that what my young niece will learn at the very least is that while others might approve, her uncle does not. She has learned what I expect of one of my nieces, and she diligently works to be obedient, though not always perfectly. My ultimate goal with all of my nieces and nephews is that they might grow up to know Christ and what's expected of them, not only as my nieces and nephews, but as children of the Father. That's why I chastise them, and it's why he chastises us. Last week we established that fathers who love their children chastise them. We also learned that the reason for the chastisement is so that they might learn how they are to behave as Christians. Fathers, or in my case, cookools, don't discipline their children because they dislike them or enjoy inflicting pain, but rather do so for the good of the child. Chastisement teaches them how they are to live and behave as sons and daughters of their fathers. Discipline is the result of a godly love. This is why God disciplines us, not because he enjoys punishing people or because he has some sort of hatred for his children. But rather he disciplines his children so that they might learn how to behave and live as sons and ultimately attain heavenly peace. This morning, the preacher to the Hebrews is going to teach us what that looks like in our daily lives as sons of God Turn with me to Hebrews chapter twelve, and we will be starting in the fourteenth verse. In verse 14, the preacher to the Hebrews begins with an exhortation, imploring the Hebrew Christians to live in peace and to pursue holiness. He goes on to tell them to make sure that no one fails to seek grace, and that no root of bitterness might come up among them. He wants them to avoid sexual immorality and to not be ungodly like Esau. All of these things are directly related to what the preacher said in the previous verses about chastisement. This is how our Father wants us to conduct ourselves as sons of the living God. This is why God disciplines us, so that we might learn to do these things. And these are the things that our Father expects from us. Christians are to live in peace. Just like Jesus said, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. God does not wish for us to quarrel with others. He does not wish for us to fight andor bicker. He wants us to live in peace with everyone. Christians are to pursue holiness. God wants us to be what we have been declared to be. For if we live in peace with others and strive for holiness, we will see the Lord. Christians are also to seek grace and to see it that others seek it too. We are our brother's keeper. And finally, we are not to be sexually immoral and ungodly, because we are different from the rest of the world. We have been bought with the precious blood of Christ and set free from those things. But this isn't how the world lives. And in fact, the world thinks living this way is backwards and unenlightened The world teaches that we should dislike the other and treat them with scorn. It teaches them that we should pursue individuality and personal freedom, oftentimes at the expense of holiness. Whatever makes you happy, they say. Just follow your heart. Never mind that true happiness is found in the law of the Lord, or that the heart is desperately wicked and deceitful above all things. The world teaches that sexual immorality is not only okay, but that's how real men behave. Never mind that true virtue is found in honoring women instead of using them. Or the fact that sexual morality is bad both for physical and spiritual health. The world teaches that Sexuality is for our own gratification, but it's actually so that we might be fruitful and multiply, and so we can enjoy our marriage and a family. So should the preacher to the Hebrews not encourage such behaviors, since it sends conflicting messages with what the world says, like me telling my young niece not to spit? Or should we be held to a higher standard? The answer is clear. The Father chastises those whom he loves, so that they might learn how to behave the way that he expects. Character matters, and despite what the world says, God has given us the model to live by. His name is Jesus Christ. But all of this comes with a warning. Don't be like Esau The preacher to the Hebrews is reiterating his warnings from previous chapters, specifically Hebrews 6, 4-8 and 10, 26-31. He says, don't be ungodly like Esau and sell your birthright for a single meal. Now the Hebrews would have immediately known what the preacher was talking about. Esau was Isaac's oldest brother, or Isaac's oldest son. son and Jacob, later Israel the younger. Esau, due to his place in his family, was set to inherit everything from Isaac. We aren't just talking about worldly goods and inheritance. He was to inherit all the covenant promises and blessings given to his grandfather and father. But Esau was worldly and didn't care about such things. All he wanted was a meal. And so his younger brother Jacob made a deal with him. Jacob would provide him with a meal, and Esau would hand over his birthright. So Esau not caring about all that he was to inherit, gave Jacob everything for a simple meal. When it came time for the birthright to be given, Jacob entered into some trickery and inherited what was supposed to be given to Esau. Esau realizes the error, but it was too late. And all that God had promised to Abraham and Isaac went to Jacob. No tears of repentance could change what had happened. It was in the past. Likewise, for us, there is always a real and great danger looming that we might put ourselves in similar positions The preacher to the Hebrews makes it clear that we are to avoid that at all costs. How? By making sure that we all seek to obtain God's grace. Now there are people in every church who are just along for the ride, who enjoy being around God's people because perhaps they are neat and tidy, clean-cut as it were. Perhaps they like the church for its perceived political views, whatever they might be, or perhaps because they are looking for some social outlet that encourages them to be better people. These are people who experience the fringe benefits of the gospel and God's grace, but have never done business with Jesus. They have not sought out and truly obtained the grace of God. They just go through the motions and have never been changed by the undeserved grace that God gives and changes us from the inside out. These people are always in a great danger. There are people who have not taken seriously the call of God on their lives. And it would be easy for these people to give up the covenant promises that God freely gives us for something worldly and sinful when it comes along. If that describes you, it's not too late. Gonna go back to my Baptist roots here. There comes a time when the opportunity to receive grace passes. Like Esau, there won't be any chance for tears or repentance because the chance that chance has come and gone. Perhaps you missed out because you were too busy loving the world, or perhaps you never saw it as important in your life. Regardless if that's you today, the chance has not yet passed. All you must do is believe the gospel and live out your baptisms in true faith and repentance. But if that's not who you are, if you have received God's grace and continue to do so in your daily lives, then you have a responsibility to see to it that everyone receives God's grace. The command is, let us make disciples, teaching them to obey all the things that I have commanded. If we fail to do this, if we fail to be about the business of showing people the gracious love of God, then there is, as the preacher to the Hebrews says in verse 15 A real danger that a root of bitterness might rise up causing trouble and defilement I had the unfortunate opportunity to witness this the f um the first church I served. Um I was the youth pastor there And a man and his wife started attending our church and had shared with the pastor that he had a difficult time finding a church where he fit in. That's kind of a red flag, I think. So he thought he would give that church a try and see what it was like, and time went on and some off-putting things were said, some strange and peculiar theological statements were made and ignored. And after a while, these things started to take a more sinister turn, and he began to try and turn the elders of the church against one another. He made some false accusations against the pastor and some of the people the other elders, and he started to wreak havoc in the church He began to get a following, people who he could get on his side, and it got really ugly after that. Relationships were damaged and people got hurt along the way. A root of bitterness had sprung up. And this is always a danger, and we must guard against it by diligently making sure that all of those around us have obtained the grace of God by preaching the gospel. But these things aren't works that earn us favor with God. Remember that these things flow out of God's discipline of us, and that God disciplines us because He loves us already. Discipline is actually an act of grace. When we do these things, it's not because that's how you work your way to God, but rather how God's love changes our lives. All of this was revolutionary in the 1500s. These truths were rediscovered by a German monk named Martin Luther, and they made. in all the way to England through our Archbishop Thomas Cranmer and down through him to us. The reformers realized that the medieval church had it all wrong You don't practice obedience to earn God's love. Obedience flows from God's love and is the practical application of grace in our life. And it's lived out in faith in Jesus Christ. The Roman Church had been teaching that it was impossible to earn God's love without really good works. The people were beat down and oppressed by their own sinfulness, and obedience was ironic. Ironically, in short supply. I mean, why try if it's impossible, right? But the reformers discovered that's not how the Bible works. That's not what the Bible teaches. Instead, the Bible teaches that God gives us grace freely, and that it is obtained through faith in Jesus Christ alone. It is out of a grateful heart that obedience flows. So the preacher to the Hebrews is explaining that one, God loves us. Two, that because of the love of God, he disciplines us. And three, that these things Peace, holiness, sexual purity, and a grateful heart come from that loving discipline. Obedience and faithfulness are what Christians are called to do, and we must guard against any Esau-like tendencies in our own lives. The preacher continues to encourage his readers to persevere in peace and holiness in verse 22, not with a warning like before. But rather with a reminder of all the good things we have in Christ. He writes, But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the innumerable angels in feastal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn, who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the Judge of all, And to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks better word than the blood of Abel. Where are all all of these things? Where is the city of God? Where are the angels in feastal gathering? Where do we find all of this wonderful stuff? Here. Right here in this gathering of God's covenant people. This is a foretaste of what is yet to come. This is just a sampling of what we will see when Christ returns. When we come together as the church, we are surrounded by the heavenly host. We come into the very real presence of the living God and His Son Jesus Christ. We receive the benefits of His grace and are transformed with grateful hearts. We would never turn back to the world. The world only gives us anger and hatred. It gives us unholy desires and wickedness. It encourages sexual immorality and bitterness. As we go from work and interact with people on a daily basis, I am constantly reminded of the fact that the only time I ever find true peace and holiness in this crazy world is when I come here to worship with you fine people. For about two hours every week, I am surrounded by all of these things and the preacher that the preacher mentions. But also I'm surrounded with like-minded people who strive to worship God in spirit and in truth. The world doesn't agree with my values, my morals, or my worldview. In fact, they despise it But when I come here, I find what the preacher to the Hebrews is talking about. For two hours each week, we leave the world together as a body of like-minded people. And we enter into the very presence of the Holy Trinity, and we become just a little more like Jesus and less like the world around us. This is why the preacher to the Hebrews exhorts us not to forsake the coming together of the brethren. It's why he reminds us of all the wonderful things we have in Christ and his church. It is through the preaching of the Word, the right administration of the sacraments, and godly discipline that we are changed, transformed, and made into Christ's image. It is here and only here where you will be exhorted to seek peace and holiness, to be reminded, to not be sexually immoral and unholy like Esau. The whole reason God disciplines us, the whole reason he disciplines his sons, is so that they might learn how they are to behave as a redeemed people. The world says that this is in conflict, that it violates our freedom, and that it is restrictive and unhealthy. But God is the arbitrator of what is freedom and what is healthy. And his people learn that this is what he expects from them. And we give thanks because we have been called out of the old, sinful, and dead world into a new and better world with a new and better promise. So let us give thanks for the fact that God loves us enough to discipline us. Let us give thanks for His love and grace in all things and diligently seek to obtain it. Let us strive to be at peace with everyone and live lives of holiness each and every day. And let us never be like Esau, giving up our birthrights for temporary things of the world. But instead let us give thanks for all of God's goodness and loving kindness and all the blessings of this life. Let us pray. Our Father, we do thank you for your chastising hand. We are mindful of your love for us and that your desire is for us to grow in faith and obedience. Help us, Lord, to fight the good fight, to run the race, and to attain the prize. Make us, we humbly beseech thee, to be obedient and faithful in all things, and to continually remind us of your grace. Let us not be unholy like Esau, but help us rather to seek peace and live holy lives, living faithfully in your grace until the last day We pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.