In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. In our study of Exodus, we are at Exodus chapter 19. And this morning we're going to walk through it a bit like a Bible study. So I encourage you to pick up a Bible. Open it up and turn to Exodus 19 Verse one. In the third month, after the children of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on the same day they came to the wilderness of Sidon. The month mentioned here is part of our May and part of our June. The day of the month is not given. Verse 2. For they had departed from Rapidim. And come to the wilderness of Sinai and camped in the wilderness. So Israel encamped there before the mount. The location of Sinai eludes us even today. Some commentators speculate that because the word Sinai is of uncertain origin that the text of Exodus itself provides the meaning. The exact location thus is not important. But what is important to understand is that whatever place God is making a covenant with Israel by way of his commandments, which he is about to give, that place is Sinai. The Sinai is synonymous with the law. Verse 3 And Moses went up to God, and the Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall stay to the house of Jacob and tell the children of Israel. And here is a standing principle in our relationship with God. God calls. God is the one who starts the relationship. God calls and his people are to respond. Verse four You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. So what God is about to tell Moses and the people is to be based on what he has accomplished to save them from Egypt. It is also stated poetically in terms of eagle's wings. Eagles, as we know, are the most majestic birds on earth. They allow us a beautiful personal metaphor for how God saves his people and how he protects them with his metaphorical wings. Verse 5. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be a special treasure to me above all people, for all the earth is mine. Here we learn that God's covenant is conditional. Certain things must be done on the side of the people for the covenant to be realized. For God's people, what is to be done is obedience. Obedience to God's covenant law, which he will give next. After he establishes his place and after he establishes the people's place, his place is to set the parameters of the covenant And the place of the people is to accept the parameters of the covenant or die. And I say it that way because there is no bargaining The covenant God makes with his people is not a collaborative effort. It is his way or death. We are always to keep that in mind. Verse 6. And you shall be to me a kingdom, a priest, and a holy nation. These are the words which you shall speak to the children of Israel. What God wants his people to be is first to be contrasted with what they were, which isn't in a state of servitude. They were in bondage. We know now because we know Jesus that what God wants of his people is to be little Christs, or will we say, Christians. Who are called such because they have been purified, made clean by the Son of God. Verse 7 So Moses came and called for the elders of the people and laid before them all these words which the Lord commanded him. This is the leadership that we spoke about last week from Exodus 18. Moses tells his elders, and they tell the people. Verse 8. Then all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. So Moses brought back the words of the people to the Lord. The ascent of the people should be commended because they had not yet been given the stipulations for this covenant. The law had not yet been heard, yet they willed in that moment to obey. But of course they would be foolish not to trust God Who had shown time and time again that he was a God who was trustworthy. Verse nine And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I come to you in the thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you and believe you forever. So Moses told the words of the people To the Lord. Here is God in a great cloud, it says, not a pillar cloud as before, but a great cloud. And such a cloud Jesus will be riding upon on his second coming. Here is a cloud of authority and a cloud of mystery. Verses 10 and 11. Then the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow and let them wash their clothes. And let them be ready for the third day, for on the third day the Lord will come down upon the Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. The people needed to be sanctified, which is to be made holy, because they were going to meet with God. who is holy. The required washing was not because they could get all of the dirt out of their clothes. But was a lesson for the people that God is holy, and thus he should be approached, approached as he directs. Verse 12 and 13. You shall set bounds for the people all around, saying, Take heed to yourselves that you do not go up to the mountains or touch its base. Whoever touches the mountain shall surely be put to death. Not a hand shall touch him, but he shall surely be stoned or shocked with an arrow, whether man or beast, he shall not live When the trumpet sounds long, they shall come near the mountain. Fear. Fear is what God is after with his instruction here. Not fear as in scared senseless or frightened so that the people turn and run But fear in terms of awe, of wonder, and warning that God is not to be trivialized, and that experiencing Him is not common to the fallen man. People can only approach God's presence as he stipulates and in no other manner. Verse 14 and 15. So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes. And he said to the people, Be ready. For the third day, do not come near your wives. Moses instructs as God commanded. The restriction against conjugal opportunities communicates the soul-mindedness of the people that they are to have that soul-mindedness when they encounter Dha. Verse 16. Then it came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and the sound of the trumpet was very loud. so that all the people who were in the camp trembled. Indicated in this description is that God wants his people to fear. He wants to put a fear in the people to scare sin out of them. God wants his people to understand how serious it is to be before God. To be in the hands of God. Verse 17 and 18. And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was completely in smoke because the Lord descended upon it in fire. Its smoke ascended like the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly We have to wonder what were they thinking? What were they thinking in that moment What crossed their mind? What did they say, if anything? What did they want to say, but didn't? This was a moment like no other moment in the whole of the history of mankind. A moment that was no doubt awe-inspiring and also very humbling. Verse 19 and 20. And when the blast of the trumpet sounded long and became louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him by voice. Then the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai on the top of the mountain, and the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up. Thus in the great dramatic moment of God meeting his people and sounds and quakes going around the people, there came a voice. It is a voice that is distinctly God's voice. It is a voice of mercy and kindness. Kindness in that God would speak, in that God would lower himself to come down to the people. When God calls Moses up, it is to communicate to him a calling up of the people. And Moses as his as their representative. Verse 20 and 20 21 and 22. And the Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people lest they break through to gaze at the Lord, and many of them perish. Also let the priests who come near the Lord consecrate themselves, lest the Lord break out against them. So here is a give and take. There may have been some who were more curious than fearful, and thus wanted to peek at the presence of God. God has grace for them. There are some who needed to stand before God, the priests, to receive his instruction, and God wanted to be merciful to them. Verse 23-25. But Moses said to the Lord, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for you warned us, saying, Set bounds around the mountain and consecrate it. Then the Lord said to him, Away, get down and then come up, you and Aaron with you. But do not let the priests and the people break through and come up to the Lord. Lest he break out against them. So Moses went down to the people and spoke to them. So apparently Moses was a bit confused. God had said the people should come up, and then he said the people would perish if they came up upon the mountain upon which God was resting himself. God helps Moses understand that as his prophet and as Aaron his priest, when they come up, the people come up. And all of this Moses did as God commanded. And all of this was to prepare the people to receive God's mandate, his commandments for the covenant And comparing the one true God to the gods that were worshipped at this Sinai Peninsula at the time of the arrival of Israel into the Promised Land. There is one primary difference we need to identify. And I say one, because although we can identify some of the names of the many gods that were worshipped in this region We do not have sufficient evidence to know how these false gods were worshipped, how they were served. Archaeologists conclude that the religious practices of this region were recorded on papyrus, and papyrus in that region could not survive long, and thus they leave not much evidence behind. So we must surmise is that God, the God of Israel, was different than these gods because he could not be satisfied. He could not be appeased by the people. We know this at least that the worship of the false gods of the region consisted of appeasing the gods So that the gods would not punish the people. And this, those of you who know your history, know it is very similar to the Greek and the Romans as they worship their false gods. The gods of the region were temperamental, and the people thought they could satisfy those temperaments by their offerings, by their sacrifices. But the God of Israel, the God who says he is the only God, was showing Israel at the foot of Mount Sinai that he could not be appeased. And that he was altogether something different than the people had ever known. He was holy. He was great. He was mighty He was too wonderful to be looked upon by fallen human eyes. And as the one true God was showing Israel who he was, he was also showing them who they were. They were not worthy to see and to know God unless God made them worthy. They were not able to appease him, but were required instead to obey him. Unlike the many gods of the region, the God of Israel, the only God, spoke, and what he spoke was to be heeded. What he spoke wasn't out of an unpredictable temperament. It was instead eternal truth. What the one true God spoke was objective. It was grounded in reality, and what God spoke was to be done. At the age of twenty-four, a girl by the name of Kanika from India became a Christian in secret. Her conversion was a secret to her parents who were devout Hindus Hindus are polytheistic. They worship animals and plants and trees and even rivers. Idols of many sorts And the gods they worship are gods that need to be, require to be, appeased. And one morning, Kanika's family woke up at dawn. To join a long line of practicing Hindus waiting to worship Manasa Devi, the goddess of snakes. Which this goddess is thought to cure chickenpox and other diseases. When worshipping Manasa Devi, Hindus avoid apparently avoid heat. The day before the ceremony, they didn't cook their food or use hot water. They also left food in the road as an offering to this goddess. Most are aware that Christians in India face persecution in the form of violence, shunning, and yes, even death. Kanika knew she would face such persecution, even by the hands of her own family. But she chose to follow Jesus because she recognized him as one and not many And it was revealed to her that this one true God is not like many gods, because the one true God appeases himself by dying for all of mankind. God revealed himself to Israel in the manner that we read in Exodus 19, so as to separate himself from all the false gods that Israel had been exposed to and would be exposed to. Israel needed to understand God as holy and fearful. And it is that holy and fearful God that revealed himself later as the Son of Man. The Son of God. And we are to contrast the God of Sinai with the Son of God, the one who walked among men. Whereas the God of Sinai called Moses to come up and relay his words to the people, Jesus the Son of God, calls people to himself to hear his words, to hear the word of God. Jesus spoke the word to us, and he is the word of God to us. Whereas God instructed Israel to obey him in order to be a part of the covenant that he was making with Israel. Jesus went and did the obedience for us. That was in his temptation accomplished in the desert. It is what his faithfulness on the cross accomplished. He became our obedience, so that, as Paul said to the Galatians, so that we could put on Jesus. We put on righteousness. Adam and Eve had to put on animal skin to cover their nakedness. We get to put on Jesus. And thus we get to put on righteousness, and thus we are clothed for heaven And whereas God wanted the people of Israel to be holy, a holy nation, Jesus makes us a holy nation. As our propitiation, he becomes our righteousness, so that we are able to offer up our lives. as sacrifices to God, which Paul said is our reasonable service. We are to enter the Holy of Holies, which is the presence of Jesus, having our sins forgiven, having our petitions heard. Whereas the people had to respond in unison in agreement to what God had said, followers, believers in Jesus get to speak both as a people And yet also as individuals, because we have free access to the Holy of Holies. We have free access to Jesus as our high priest. Whereas the people had to be consecrated by washing their own clothes so as to resemble in some way a type of holiness. We who know Jesus have had our clothing, our sins, washed in the blood of the Lamb. And thus being given robes of white, we have been given clothes suitable for the wedding feast. Whereas the people of God were called to come forward, but not get too close, to not touch, to not see. We who know Jesus get to come and taste and see that the Lord is good. We get to look behind the curtain. We get to taste the bread and the wine. And we have the promise that we shall see God face to face. Jesus and only Jesus makes all of this possible. He makes the God of Exodus 19 approachable. But there is a problem. The devil has succeeded amongst our own to present God. As either the God of Exodus nineteen, who is fearful and unapproachable, or Or a God that is so very amiable and comfortable that he is Jesus in genes. The God that is holy, fearful, and unapproachable is a God that many perceive they can't speak to, for their sins are too many and too often repeated. I might think that he is a God who will reject me because of my unfaithfulness, my unkindness, my lack of stewardship, my lustfulness, my hypocrisy. He is a God who will reject me immediately, for he sees right through me. And so with that perspective, many walk away from God. And the Jesus in Jeans, well, he is approachable, very likable. He likes the music I like. He understands my troubles. He listens really well. He doesn't judge me and I don't feel guilty being around him. But since that Jesus doesn't seem to require anything of me, well I stay in my sinful ways. You hear the problem, I trust. Either extreme views of God by themselves may corrupt the gospel. Comparing the Jesus of the Gospels to the God of Sinai, they can seem many, many miles apart. There is a better picture for us. And that picture is from the book of Revelation Remember when John is taken up into heaven, he sees, as recorded in chapter four, a throne. And one who sits on the throne. He's not given a name. He is said to look like Jasper and Sardis. And there was a rainbow around the throne and those 24 elders around the one. The one on the throne. And from that throne came lightning and thunder. Sounds like Exodus 19. And there were creatures flying all around the one on the throne, saying, Holy, holy, holy. And the creatures and elders repeatedly fall down before the one. And then from the throne comes a scroll to be opened But amongst the many creatures around the throne, no one is worthy to open that scroll until a lamb is spotted. Spotted between the elders and the one. He is the worthy one And so the same God who is on the throne is the same lamb who is worthy to be slain. And such is a healthy view, the Christian understanding of who God is. He is the God of Sinai and Jesus of Nazareth. He is the one on the throne and the one lamb who was slain. God wants us to know him, to know him as the God of Sinai and the Lamb. Fear, awe, love, and approachable. That is the one true God To know him any differently is to not know him. To know him as Sinai and the Lamb, that is to be saved. Amen. Let us pray