In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Amen. May be seated. Anticipation. We can never know about the days ahead, but we think about them anyway. Anticipation. Anticipation. It's making me wait. It's keeping me waiting. Remember that song? All you do is date yourselves with me. Surely you can remember that upside-down Heinz ketchup bottle, right? And the long-waited expectation for that red bliss to drop on that fresh hot dog. It's just, right? But what is it about waiting that stirs the soul? The expectation or wait for something can be exhilarating, exhausting. Nerve-wracking and sometimes downright scary. For those of you who have parented children, think about your firstborn. All the thoughts and all the questions that you have What will it be like to be a parent? Will I be a good one? What will my child be like? The anticipation of bringing a child into this world and then caring for that child until adulthood is awesome in every way. Now we won't mention those whole teenage years and those lessons. By lessons I mean yours, not theirs. Well imagine being pregnant with a baby that was well conceived in a miraculous way. Imagine, if you will, being Mary and having the Holy One of Israel in your belly. I heard it said by a wise bishop not long ago that we are better with our Bibles open than with them closed. So if you have a mind to open your Bibles, please open to our gospel reading, which is Luke chapter 1, beginning in verse. 26. Very familiar story. One a passage that is actually placed in the Book of Common Prayer for the reading at Easter. The Annunciation for the Blessed Mary, which obviously is fitting and rightly so, but it is also certainly appropriate as a passage as we anticipate The celebration of the coming of our Lord. So as we move into this Advent season What is your anticipation? What is on your heart and mind as you consider the coming season? Let's be honest, for many of us Many people today, the biggest concern is how I'm going to pay for it. And possibly the biggest anticipation is waiting to see how much your Christmas bonus is going to be if you even get one anymore. and how much of your Christmas list you have to charge. Now I realize that many people here and elsewhere don't get caught up into the whole competing with Santa Claus thing, and I applaud you. Maybe you teach your child at three or four years old the real meaning, the real story. But even for you, there's a big anticipation about the coming of this coming Christmas Why is it that we are so filled with anticipation for the coming of Christmas? Well, I think Christmas is a time for hope for most of us. And for even those who differ in what their hope is in, there's a real sense of anticipation that comes over you the closer you get to Christmas Day. Maybe this year will be the season when a lost relationship is rekindled or healed. Maybe this season will be a season that my family will draw closer to the real meaning of Christmas. Have you ever hoped like that? If only this year I'll put the hustle bustle behind me and slow down my life enough So that we can feel the joy and anticipation for the coming of the King of Kings. So let's look this morning at Mary's anticipation. Imagine, first of all, her original perplexity when the angel Gabriel came to her announcing her good fortune. That she was going to be the blessed one of all women and conceived from the Holy Spirit, the Son of the Most High. Imagine the fear and uncertainty she must have had for the things to come that first Advent season. Although Gabriel does give her an immediate comfort by saying, do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. Yet she was still uncertain about her circumstances. So God gives her further encouragement Gabriel informs her that Elizabeth is also carrying a miracle child. Verse 36. Behold, even your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age. That she who was called barren is now in her sixth month. For nothing is impossible with God. Now, one of the ways that God encourages us when we are troubled Confused or hurting is to put someone in our lives who is going through a similar situation Or has been in that situation before. Has that ever happened to you? No matter your trial or difficulty, amazingly God puts you in circumstance after circumstance. Where you're either encouraging someone else with what you are going through or you are being encouraged by what they have gone through. It's in these moments that God wants to show us What a faithful and gracious God He is. God lets us know that there's a bigger story in our trial or situation than maybe we see or feel at that time. Sometimes he wants to show us something about ourselves. Sometimes he's teaching us about other people. But always he's showing himself to us. He wants us to look with hope and anticipation toward the season ahead, no matter what the issue or event might be, and no matter who might be in that greater story. In this case, it was a close relative, and Mary's response is immediate. She hurried to Elizabeth as fast as she could. We see that in verse 39. Now I, like most of you, have read or heard this passage year after year over and over again, and sometimes I ponder, why did God choose Mary? Why did God choose this young teenage girl from nowhere? I think the answer, I believe, is Found in the verses from 46 on, for Mary's response to Elizabeth's early words. Mary says, My soul exalts the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he has had regard for the humble state of his bondservant. For behold, from this time on, all generations will count me blessed, for the mighty one has done great things for me. And holy is his name. Here we see servanthood, not as one who acts as a submissive slave who has no choice. But rather as one who reflects the deep and powerful act of hope, Mary stood in hope and faith of God's gracious intentions that were about to be acted out within her. She acted out in service and obedience to the mighty one who had done great things for her. Has he done great things for you? Now servanthood runs counterclock uh counter-culture to the thinking of most of our society today, does it not? We equate servanthood with weakness. Servants are those who are unable to achieve enough success to become masters. Servants are those who don't know the language well, who aren't well educated, who come from Humble meanings, they don't come from families of prominence and success. Servants are not the ones who receive our admiration today. They are the high achievers, the wealthy, the famous. They can buy anything they want, go anywhere they want, and seemingly they can do anything they want They're on the cover of a magazine or in the spotlight somewhere. And even though we read about their personal drama and dysfunction, We still seem to be in awe of them and seem to want a life that's closer to theirs than the one that God offers us. Not so with Mary. God spoke and Mary obeyed. In a true biblical sense, obedience is hearing God Trusting God and doing what he asks. Mary teaches us that the most powerful people are those who are strong enough to become servants. Mary saw something greater in this song of hers. She gives us insight toward the end into her hope. In verse 51, she says He has scattered those who are proud in the thoughts of their heart. He has brought down rulers from their thrones, and has exalted those who are humble. He has filled the hungry with good things and sent away the rich empty-handed. Mary moves us from a quiet lullaby of praise. To a harsh reality. For those of us who think That all that we have has been blessed because of our great faithfulness, the new automobiles, the fancy homes. The full pantries, video cinemas in our family rooms. And somehow that's all a reward for our extraordinary faithfulness. We need to wake up. Mary knew better, and probably we do as well. While God does allow his people to prosper, thankfully, at times He still more often works in the humble. They are often more able to see clearly The lowly and the humble, the needy. The wealthy and the prosperous aren't off the hook. They just probably need to look or listen a little harder. You don't have to be a Mother Teresa or a Mary for that matter. God has something special for each of us to share in our own place in life. It doesn't have to be a week of service in Haiti or the Philippines cleaning up after a tragedy. It can be the smallest answer of obedience Visiting someone in a nursing home, someone who is homebound, providing food For a family in need. Helping the homeless or working with disadvantaged or abused children. The Advent season is a time to reflect on the love and gift that lay in the manger. What more humble setting could the King of Kings have come in? He didn't come to be served. He came to serve. I love the collar for this morning. We we we read two colleagues through the season. We read the first colic of the Advent season again every week and in the middle of that colic is a reminder of Christ's humility In the epistle to the Philippians, Paul talks about how Jesus emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant. Philippians 2, beginning in verse 6, who although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God as things to be grasped. He emptied himself, taking on the form of a bond servant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even death on a cross. In his incarnation, Jesus did not empty himself of any part of his essence as God. But rather he gave up or laid aside his privileges as God and took on to himself humanity. While retaining the essence of God, he became completely human. This is the concept difficult for most of us to put our arms around. But in basic terms, Jesus added to his divine essence a servant's essence. Paul does not say that Christ exchange the form of God for a the form of a servant, involving any loss of deity or any attributes of deity. Rather the incarnate Christ continued in his very nature. But added to himself the nature of a servant. Now, a servant is the lowest status on the social ladder. The exact opposite of the term Lord, a title in which Paul later in this passage tells us that we will all one day confess. Is it not amazing to think that a God who created the whole universe, who rules over all creation Would choose to add to himself the nature of a servant. As I do some introspection of myself from time to time, I find that this is an attribute that I need to improve on in my walk, to be a better servant for Christ. Now saying that Christ took on the likeness of a man also does not mean that Christ only appeared to be a man, as some heresies would have it. Rather, lightness emphasizes identity. He possessed all aspects of being human, except unlike all humanity, he was sinless. Although he never sinned and did not deserve to die, our suffering servants chose to die so that the sins of the world could be put on him. And Christ did not just die for us. He endured a suffering death, even the death on a cross. So why was Paul taking the Philippians and us down this long road of Christ's humility? Obviously, to make a great point. If Jesus Christ humbled himself so deeply, we should be willing to humble ourselves in our own small way. Surely if he became obedient to the extent of death, even the death on a cross, we should be more increasingly obedient to divine direction. And to living a life in the spirit of oneness, loneliness, and helpfulness, which is pleasing to God. These are attributes and characteristics of a servant. This is the babe that we celebrate this Advent season. This is the babe that lay in a manger. So back to Mary and her anticipation. Perhaps Mary can help us to understand that servanthood is not the condition that is left to those who cannot manage anything else. But rather it is a way that a person of faith finds the path that God has asked them to travel Mary's anticipation was no doubt mixed with anxiousness at times, worry of what her life to come would be, worry about what her son's life would become. But she followed that pathway of trust, obedience, and servanthood right to the foot of the cross. How about you? Your path may be long, it may be narrow, it may be very rocky, but it can lead to a humble setting, a stable, a manger. And eventually a cross. May he give us marriage strength and servanthood so that we might rightly bear our own. Amen.