With my heart of dealing with In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. I invite you to turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2. We will be working as was read through verses 1 excuse me. Verse 1 through 3. Are you a disciple? Are you a disciple? Jesus said to the leaders of his church, Go into all the world and make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. This commission Jesus gave to the church has a beginning point, the point of baptism. When the old is washed away, And the new person is born. Born into the kingdom of God. The commission also tells us that disciples are made. Go make disciples. Thus, being a disciple is the process of being made. But by whom? Well, disciples are made by the leadership of the church. For example, this sermon is for the purpose of making disciples. We are the disciples as we hear, say, and do that which is pleasing to God each Sunday. But if we are being made disciples Shouldn't we know what disciple means? Of course we should. The word disciple literally means a learner. A learner. A learner is one who is gaining knowledge and never stopped gaining knowledge. Being a disciple is learning and then learning some more. Thus, Sunday school is a part of the process of making disciples. Catechesis, teaching and learning the catechism, is part of the process of making disciples. Confirmation class and confirmation itself are establishing essential Christian truths in the hearts and minds of God's people, and these are part of the process of making disciples. And Bible studies of most forms, of all books of the Bible, are part of making disciples. And finally, as stated, hearing the Word of God expounded upon, preached, and receiving the sacraments on a regular basis are very important parts of being made a disciple. Because disciples are made, and because being a disciple is being a learner There is no end to human beings learning about the truths of God, including the depth of his nature. So we cannot say that being a disciple is a fixed or a finished state of being. You're constantly being made disciples of Jesus. It was shared with me recently at a Tuesday Bible study that a friend of one of our parishioners had said to her that she's got it. She's figured it out. She understands she's supposed to believe in Jesus. She's supposed to be baptized. She's done all that. She doesn't need to do any more. Of course, by saying that, she reveals she actually doesn't get it at all. She got the starting point, but failed to see the need to pursue holiness. Which is what St. Peter is trying to help these people do who read his letter. Now I mentioned last week That the word, therefore, indicates a conclusion is about to follow. And this is used in the first verse of 1 Peter 2. It is following both the instruction in chapter 1 for Christians to be holy as God is holy. And it's then followed by St. Peter praising these Christians as they are said to be loving one another as they should. To say that Christians are loving one another as they should is high praise, high praise indeed. It means that Christians are being patient with one another, being kind to one another. That they are thinking the best about one another. That they are not keeping record of wrong, but instead they are enduring one another. To live in such a manner is worthy of praise, for it pleases God the Father, brings praise to God the Son, and is evidence of the Holy Spirit being in the hearts of his people. And so we can read verse one again and translate it by reading it this way. Because you are to be holy as God is holy, and because you have been loving one another as you should be doing, you are next To be rid of all malice, all deceit, all hypocrisy, all envy, all slander. That list of sins should be interesting to us because if they were loving one another as they should. Then they would not have had malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander between them. Therefore, the call to get rid of such sins must, and hear this Must go beyond their relationship with one another. It must go into their relationships with other people, believers and unbelievers. That is a tall order, but one that is consistent with the love of Jesus. Now the New King James Version says lay aside these sins. The ESV says put away the sins of malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander. Both of those phrases that indicate getting rid of malice, deceit, envy, and slander means we are to remove them. From our minds and hearts, and to do so, we are to think of it as a physical act, like picking up Clearly evil attitudes and placing them outside of our lives so that we do not have access to them. We cannot reach over and get them. Laying aside, putting away evil is the same as repenting of evil, turning ourselves around the opposite way And repenting is akin to being a disciple. For to learn is to repent. You ask how To learn is to repent because when you learn you must acknowledge that you are missing something, that you're falling short. And to learn you must receive an understanding from someone else. The end point, being a disciple, is repeatedly putting away things. And receiving truth. Now the sins to pick up and put far from us, we need to look at more closely. The first is malice. And we can all agree that malice is a nasty sin. It is having ill will toward another human being. It is to want unfavorable events to come upon another person. It is to want the hate that is within our hearts to play out in some form of punishment or pain upon another person. And in order to have malice, a person needs to have stored up a great deal of unforgiveness. And stored up unforgiveness makes for a lot of bitterness, and bitterness poured out is malice. Love is the opposite of malice because it wants the best for other people, as opposed to wanting the worst, which is what malice wants. And people with stored up anger and unforgiveness and bitterness and malice have it all spill out when their emotions are bumped into. And such persons are literally dying inside as their sin resulting in malice eats them away inside out. Hear these proverbs. Do not say, I will repay evil. Wait for the Lord, and he will deliver you. Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses. The next sin to pick up and put far from us is translated in the New King James to be deceit And the Greek word can be properly rendered wickedness, which includes all sinful tempers and simple practices led by our tempers. And such sinful practices include guile. Well, guile is deceitfully cunning. And this is sinning in a purposeful manner. This is planning and waiting with the purpose of harming another person. It is one thing to cause harm to another in a moment of anger, and quite another to lie in wait to harm a person. Evil has taken over the heart, and the devil has been given the reign of power over the will of an individual if such a one lies in wait to hurt someone And hear this warning from the Prophet Micah. Woe to those who plan iniquity, to those who plot evil in their beds. That morning light, they carry it out because it is within their power to do so. And from Proverbs we read Will they not go astray who devise evil? But kindness and truth will be to those who devise good. The warning of those who practice deceit is that there is a strong likelihood that they will do as they plan to do, and in the end, it will not go well for them. The next sin to pick up and put away far from us is hypocrisy. Hypocrisy includes types of dissimulation. Dissimulation is when you hide your true self. And it is in this context it would be to hide how you feel about something or what you think about someone For the purpose, hiding it for the purpose of eventually doing evil to that person. Hypocrisy can include envy Which would be resenting any good that would or has come upon someone you do not like And whereas love rejoices in the blessings of others, hypocrisy seeds with envy. In fact, hypocrisy does not only seed, but actually grieves Grieves because the good that comes upon another is seen as an injustice. The sin next and the last listed to pick up and put far from us. Is all slander. Slander is reproaches and unkind speaking about others. The tongue is indeed a hard muscle to control. It seems that it has a will of its own But it does not. Even though it's hard, we do control our tongues with our hearts and our minds. It is we who choose to speak uncharitably about another person. It is we who allow our tongues to express the malice, the deceit, the hypocrisy, the envy. If we allow those things to dwell in our hearts and minds, they will come out with our tongue. Is it necessary? Is it kind? Is it true? And do you know for sure it's true? If no, then don't say it. Taming the tongue takes conscientious practice. You have to work to be quiet. To be quiet unless what you have to say is good, is charitable, is improving the conversation And I speculate that of all the sins the devil uses to divide and conquer Christians, the one of slander, with the tongue as the weapon, is the one he uses the most. But let us not forget that God wants us to put away slander from our lives as it relates to Christians and non-Christians alike. And here is the truth. If there is no malice, deceit, hypocrisy, or envy in our heart, there will be no slander on our tongues. Know that to be true. Let us next confess that the putting off of these sins is not easy. It is not easy because the enemies of God, the people who hate God, even though they say he doesn't exist, they say some nasty things about Christians, and they say some nasty things about the Christian church. And they know what hurts us most. They know that to call us hateful, hateful because we believe, for example, certain sexual behaviors to be sinful To call us hateful hurts, because we are drawn to our Savior because of love. And we are commanded to love others, even love our enemies. And so they say that we do not. They know to call us hypocrites, herds. It hurts the most because we want to be genuine and honest and forthright in our faith, and that includes our lifestyles. To say we are hypocrites is to say we do not have faith. And we are not a people of faith, yet we know we are saved by grace through faith. And so we hear these accusations and we want to fight back. We want to express malice. We want to use deceit. We want to call them hypocrites. To slander them. To sting their consciences. But God. God tells us to put down the weapons of the devil. And take up the life of Jesus as our example and respond by turning the cheek, by giving up the coat, by walking the extra mile, by being meek. If there is any time that those very instructions given by Jesus are to be applied to our lives, it is when we are hated for our Christian faith. Like any good teacher should. But what we should replace with malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander. He tells us to replace such things with pure milk. Pure milk of the Word of God. And here then is the good news as he describes it, good news within the good news is that we Christians can behave sometimes like babies. Not all the time and not in every way, of course. But in places, in place of sin, we are to behave as babies. As infants, we are to replace such sins with the Word of God as infants. And how does an infant behave that we should replicate? Well, we have a few infants among us, so we can easily observe infants are in constant need of nourishment. And they are dependent upon someone else to feed them. And this brings us back to what it means to be a disciple. For us to learn, and in order to learn, we need to be humble, for we need to receive from another what we are lacking. The word pure in the New King James can be translated unadulterated, which is the opposite of being adulterated with human mixtures or with human opinions. A very, very serious problem that plagues the Christian church is the mixing in of opinions of the people with the authority of God's Word. The Christian church is plagued with individuals who think that they can decide for themselves what the scripture teaches and therefore what they want to believe. Whereas exegesis is critically interpreting the Holy Scripture, theologians have used the term isegesis to describe how people will interpret God's word using their own presuppositions and their own agenda. agendas in order to get the Bible to say what they want it to say. And Peter, by using the word unadulterated, is combating such interpreting of God's word and is therefore saying that a true Christian, that is a person who is not just Christian by title, but by the living faith, will want to be taught the word of God rather than be exposed to the words of men. That is why Peter ends his point on the importance of learning the Word of God as a baby receives milk. From its mother. And he says in verse 3, if indeed you have tasted, that the Lord is gracious. Which is another way of saying, if indeed you are a Christian. A Christian is a learner. A disciple who was ever saying, excuse me, never saying, oh, I already know that. Never saying, I believe what I want to believe. But instead saying, Teach me. And I believe, but help my unbelief. Now allow me to be vulnerable before you. My uh very first paper Written for a seminary professor, was returned to me without a grade But with a question written on the top of the page, which read this, What is this? Question mark. I was mortified. I came to seminary with a bachelor's degree. I had three years of studying the Bible and theological subjects by correspondence. I was a youth leader. I was a Bible study leader. I was a Sunday school teacher. I was ready for seminary, or so I thought. The truth was I didn't know how to write a theological paper. I didn't know how to rightly articulate a theological argument And I didn't know the Bible. The most important lesson I learned in seminary was that I was ignorant about the Bible and ignorant about God. I learned that I didn't know very much at all. And as soon as I could admit that, that was the time I started to learn. As soon as I became a babe, I was ready to receive unadulterated milk. Naturally, my next question is, where are you? Do you think you know the Bible? Do you think you have enough knowledge of God? Are you a babe in need of pure milk, which is the unadulterated word of God? As we have confessed, it is a difficult task to put away malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander, especially in regards To how we wish to retaliate to unbelievers who criticize us for our Christian faith. But it is not so difficult. Not so difficult when we replace such things with the Word of God. As the psalmist has said. Thy word, O God, I have hid in my heart that I might not sin against you. Are you a disciple? The most fitting answer I can come up with is, gladly I am. Let us pray.