Right. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Today, we start a new preaching series. Starting in the fall last year, we started the book of Genesis. That took us the bulk of the year to complete because we stopped and focused on passages fitting with the church calendar and then pick back up again. This fall, we start a series of sermons on a New Testament book or slash letter. The book I have chosen for us to study is 1 Corinthians I want you to see a bigger picture regarding why I choose certain passages of Holy Scripture. I assure you that I continue to put before us as a congregation the priority and the authority of Holy Scripture. If you are involved in Sunday school, morning worship, and weekly Bible study, you are studying two books of the Bible while studying a great Christian work as we are doing in Sunday school with C. S. Lewis. Thus, we are putting God's word before us in all that we do as believers. I hope you see that and trust your leadership. Regarding St. Paul's first letter to the Corinthians, we can say that it is of the highest caliber of pastoral care. His concern For their overcoming confusion, overcoming sin in their midst, reminds us of the wisdom of the book of Proverbs, where it teaches, for example, That to leave a child to his own device is a form of abuse. So too does Paul understand that to leave Christians to their own device without creat corruption is a form of abuse To love, truly love, as God loves, is to address problems honestly and straightforwardly. Now, an overall view of the epistle allows us for some intriguing observations. An advertisement for this letter to the Corinthians could go as follows A story of conflict and sexuality. It's perversion versus virtue. All awaits you in this letter. If you like to venture into the supernatural with passionate love and eternal hope, this is a must-read. And so it is. What more could we ask for, even in our entertainment-driven culture, than what is offered in this epistle? I am aware, as I trust many of you are, that as we go forward in this epistle, we are going to touch on many topics that are, quote, hot button in the Christian community. This being the case, it would be prudent for us to be mindful that all the lessons granted us without emphasizing one over the other are in this epistle. Paul will speak to us about Christian unity first, and that is necessary for the rest of the issues that he's going to discuss. It's necessary for unity, for us to be intelligent and understanding all of this in a gracious manner. This, I believe, is a good follow-up to my sermon on Tetolian three weeks ago. Before we begin, we must be mindful that when the apostle wrote this letter, it was done with the understanding that it would be sent, received, and read in its entirety when it was first. Received. You don't receive letters from family members or loved ones and read one line at a time and then go sit down and think about it. You read the whole letter And so it's going to behoove us to read through this entire letter a few times throughout our study so that we remember what the overall goals are of Paul. The format I have chosen this morning is to look at sections of verses at a time. And I encourage you, even now, pick up a Bible. Pick up your Bible, pick up a pew Bible, and walk with me through these verses. We will be going over them in sections, referring back to them as needed. So look up 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and we are looking at verses 1 through 3. 1 Corinthians 1, 1 through 3. In verses one through three, we read the introduction that is in the style that is now called classically Pauline. That is to say, that the apostle has a recognizable style that he begins all of his letters. We first read that that the author has a title. He says that he is an apostle. The word apostle literally means messenger sent forth. The title was not unique until it was given to men who were closest to Christ. Originally, Jesus called twelve to be his closest disciples. One we remember was found to be a traitor. Another was added to replace him, and his name was Mattathias. And through a vision, Christ called one more. And that additional apostle is Paul. This is why he can say that he was called to be an apostle, called by Jesus himself. We read, of course, that in Acts chapter 9. The title apostle thus became an official office within the historic Christian church Only 14 persons in the history of the church can claim the office of an apostle The reason for Paul using the title is to remind the church that he is speaking to them as one in authority, the authority coming directly from Jesus. He mentions Sosthenes, and that is not a well-known character. It is believed that he was what they called an emanuensis Which today we would know as someone who simply takes dictation. Verse 2 begins a series of descriptions that do not describe what the Corinthian church should be. But what they are. The letter is directed unto the church of God that is at Corinth. Reminder that the title church comes from the word ecclesia, which means the called out ones. Christians are to be called out, separated from the world. To underline that believers in Corinth are to be called out, he then refers to them as sanctified. We remember that being sanctified means to be separated or made holy. As God is holy. This separation toward holiness is further bolstered by the title Saints. He calls them saints. Because we know the content of this letter. All of this should be remarkable that he would use such adjectives to describe these Christians. He is going to address adultery in their mix, drunkenness, prejudice, and ignorance, and still Still, he refers to them as called out, separated, and a holy people. There is, I believe, a very important lesson. From the apostle's description in light of the condition of the church. Nowhere is Paul assuming or inferring that those who are nominal Unfaithful, and even immoral in the Corinthian church are or are not heaven-bound. He is also not confirming the eternal destiny of each member of the church. He is addressing the people uniformly according to their profession. What they say about themselves. He is not judging their hearts, but accepting their creed. If they profess to be saints, they are called saints. If they profess to be believers, they are called believers. If they profess to be members of the church, they are addressed as belonging to the church. The apostle is doing what all Christians should do toward one another. We are to take one another at our profession. We must humbly accept that we cannot judge the hearts of men. Only God has that ability Practices and doctrines of people and churches may be corrupt, may be immature, may be misguided, may be uninformed. Yet they're still to be recognized as the people of God, as part of his universal church. Paul did that, and so should we. The final phrase of the passage confirms the universal involvement of the Corinthian church when he says Together with all those everywhere who call on the name of the Lord. The late Bishop Royal Grote. in his essay entitled Calling on the Name of the Lord, describes such a phrase as referring to worship. With this understanding, we say that the Corinthians are being described as worshipers with the Catholic, with the universal church. When they call on the name of the Lord, they do so in unity with all who worship God. Thus, we too, although our form, our customs, and music styles are different from others, we too Do not call upon the name of the Lord by ourselves, but we join the church historic, the church victorious, and the church present. The adjective used by the apostle placed these Christians on the same playing field of respect and humility toward one another. There are not really good Christians and not so good Christians. They are all saints. There is no greater or lesser. And to understand such is to help them receive what the apostle has to say regarding the changes that need to take place in their church. It is not just psychologically prudent to be kind and humble when confronting someone or a people in sin. It is a biblical principle to humbly describe the needs for us all to work together toward a common goal of righteousness. When we recognize that we are all equal in the sight of God. One of those equalizers for us is the need for God's grace. Paul in his greeting blesses them with grace and peace. Grace, we remember, is that unmerited favor. We don't deserve it. We didn't earn it. The apostle then moves from describing who the believing Corinthians are to what they are gifted to be. So who they are and who they are gifted to be. After he has asked for grace to be granted, he then gives thanks to God for the grace already given. The grace is given by Christ rather than in Christ. Which reveals that something beyond the gift of salvation is given to them. Look at verse 5. He says, We find that the gift is enrichment in every way. Every way. By every way he means in all speaking and knowledge. Later on we see that some in Corinthians were prophets, some were teachers, some had the gift of tongues. These were different forms of speaking God's truth. Knowledge as a gift refers to doctrines and insights into the Holy Scriptures. The meaning would then be that the church in Corinth was richly endowed with divine truth and with clear comprehension or understanding of those doctrines which Paul had taught. Immediately then we can see that there is a remarkable large chasm between knowing And living the truth. For the Corinthian church had all the means to know the truth, but did not have the character to practice the same truth. Verse 6 describes a confirmation of their faith, formally recognizing their faith. Verse 7 summarizes the apostles' point by saying that there is no spiritual gift that the Corinthian church is lacking while they wait the consummation of their faith, which is the second coming of Christ God has revealed his faithfulness to the Corinthians via all of the gifts he has bestowed upon them Now, there is no information from history that tells us how large the Corinthian church was. We know from the information of this epistle that it was large enough for there to be a disparity in incomes between the members. It is possible that the Krathian church here was around our size as a parish, maybe smaller. Which should convict us that when we look around and believe ourselves to be lacking, Paul spoke to a church our size and spoke differently. It should be convicting to us to realize that what we need as far as speaking and knowledge is already before us. What we need regarding spiritual gifts is present with the people we are sitting around. Perhaps we are guilty of asking God for the things that we already have. Another lesson from the abundance of knowledge, wisdom, and spiritual gifts owned by the Corinthian Church Is that the ability and gifts must accompany hard work and maturity In sports, in academia, in the arts, it is the saddest tale to know of persons who are gifted but lazy, talented, and yet immature. The apostle has begun by describing what the Corinthian church is, and follows by listing what they are gifted to be, and then next explains. What is hindering them? What their problem is. Their problem is that there is division in the church. The appeal by the apostle is for all of the people to agree with one another Such an appeal sounds virtuous, but I believe it is fair to ask if complete agreement with one another is possible. If by agreement he means that all of God's people are to think alike, well we might as well immediately ignore this appeal, for that is not possible. And this is where translations help us. The New King James translates agree That we should agree with one another. It says that we should speak the same as one another. That's a better translation. We are to speak or confess the same things. This is where our minds can be united. We can agree to confess the same things. Regardless of what our culture testifies to us, it is not bad for us to divide according to our ethnicity, our tastes, or personalities. It is quite natural to befriend people who have similar backgrounds than you do. When we come together as a church, however, These divisions are to be left outside the door. For when we come together, we are united by our confession. That is to say, we are united by what we say and believe about Christ. And this is why it is troubling That so many independent churches do not recite the Apostles or Nicene Creeds. The creeds allow us to confess together the same beliefs. It appears for the Christians at Corinth that there was a temptation to divide along more distinct lines. Which were lines seemingly drawn by those who taught Christ. There was Paul. A gentleman named Apollos, and Cephas, who's Peter, and I'm sure there were others. As a pastor in this day, I am well aware that my voice is competing for your attention within the Christian world. Where some historical contexts have dictated that the only educated man in the town would be the minister, and there were no churches for miles. Today I compete to be your primary teacher of the Word of God with radio, television, internet preachers. Then there are Bible studies not sponsored by our church or in detail agreement with our denomination, as well as teachers and preachers from your past. This can lead to legitimate problems. A smorgasmorg of food is before you. You decide what is healthy and what is not. You develop your own taste for certain teachings and you reject others. We cannot avoid this reality. It is the way it is. What we can avoid is that such differences would divide us. Our divisions occur when we insist That Martin Luther's view regarding the nature of the elements of Holy Communion is the only view. Or that John Calvin's view about soteriology is the true biblical view. Or that Thomas Cramner's view on liturgy is the only acceptable form for the church. Now we may be proven right about those as we stand before the Lord But none of these are acceptable points of division. To confront our sinful tendency towards division, Paul makes a simple point. Simple point for the whole sermon. Christ cannot be divided. Christ cannot be divided. To choose up sides and insist everyone must come over to my side of thinking and follow my preferred teacher is an attempt to divide Christ. But we say again, Christ cannot be divided. Because of this fact, it is necessary to understand that when we divide over such issues, we are not dividing Christ, we are dividing ourselves from Christ. I don't see how that can be an overstatement. Remember in grammar school when We all have been a part of choosing up sides. If you were captain of the day, you chose your best friends first, and then those who you thought could help you win the game, whatever the game was Those chosen last didn't feel so good about themselves. Thus there was a pecking order of who thought they were on the best side. For the body of Christ, it is different. There is no best side. For the only good side is the side that Jesus is on, but because he does not divide, he sides with no one. Either we side with Jesus or we are alone. When we divide, Christ Jesus will not play. We are what he has made us. We are what he has enabled us to be. Thus let there be no division among us, for there cannot be, for he does not divide. A. W. Pink. A. W. Pink is a hero to many Calvinists and Reformed thinkers. especially because of his book titled The Sovereignty of God. Pink was an English Bible teacher who lived from 1886 to 1952 As a young man, he desired to become a Christian minister, but did not want to attend a liberal theological college, and he viewed all colleges in the United Kingdom as liberal. After a short time at Moody Bible Institute, he took his first church as pastor in the state of Colorado. He lasted less than two years. He next was co-pastor to a church in California lasting less than four years. This became a habit. He went from church to church, both in the United States and in the UK. Eventually he decided that it wasn't him that had the problem, it was the church that had the problem. He spent the last two decades of his life alone with his wife. He was so recluse that in the town he lived, the people knew him little other than a certain day and time he would walk through the town. Because of his voluminous writings, his fans describe him as a great Bible teacher, but his contemporaries found him offensive and aloof. While it may be said that he was a great Bible teacher, he almost ignored a fundamental teaching of Holy Scripture, which is love your neighbor as yourself. Even though God has said to all confessing Christians, do not forsake the gathering together of the saints, Pink describes such instruction as not applying to him. In his writing during his last two decades, he criticized all evangelists for not doing it right when he didn't even say hello to his neighbor. He died, as I said, in 1952, alone with his wife. His wife, afterward, spent a couple of decades enjoying fellowship with other Christians. But he had to die before she could. We are to understand, as Paul did, and as the Christians at Corinthian needed to understand That Jesus cannot be divided. If you do, if you try, you will be left alone. Let us pray. Our God, we thank you for this admonition to the Corinthians. Mindful how easy it could be for us to divide as well. And how easy it is for the devil when he divides to then tempt just as he did Adam and Eve. Father, wherever we can find unity among ourselves, may it be done. May our humility before you win the day We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen