In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. This year marks the 361st anniversary of the 1662 Book of Common Prayer. An edition of said book that was to endure for centuries with little or no modification, and from which of today's Anglican prayer books From Edinburgh to Toronto, from New York to Singapore, from Nairobi to Wellington to the Reformed Episcopal Church descended. 1662 version was descended from the work of Thomas Cramner in the 16th century. Itself a reformed Anglicanized version of the middle midieval Latin used Sorum, which is the Roman Catholic ritual. The sixteen sixty two Book of Common Prayer, which is the closest to the R. E. Book of Common Prayer, includes, for Ash Wednesday, A combination, literally meaning threatening of vengeance, descended from the 1549 Book of Common Prayer on the first day of Lent. This service literally breeds fire. Those of modern taste don't care for it I am keenly aware that the megachurches today that won't curse anything, but insist that God has called them to affirm only Preachers of such perspective don't fear God, but there will be a day when they will be forced to do so. The combination service proceeds to list various sinners the Bible calls accursed. Not just idolaters or cursors of parents, but those who moved their neighbor's landmark as well. Most of us would agree with someone who listed these sins. We would agree that they are bad Those who purposefully divert the blind, adulterers, fornicators, murderers of innocent for profit, those who trust humans rather than God and the rest. But we are to be careful today when we use the word cursed for those who commit these sins as if being cursed for eternity. Only those persons who commit such sins and then cling to such sins without repentance, those are the ones that remain cursed. The purpose of this service, as with much medieval and reformed proclamation of sin, is to call sinners to repentance. No doubt the Mosaic version in Deuteronomy has much the same purpose. Sin is a reality and it has real consequences. That is the point of services right tonight. Part of the purpose of Lent, at least in the Western view, since the Middle Ages, is to repent of our sins. The list of sins taken from the book of Deuteronomy starts off cursing those who make carved images and worship them, because such is a clear breaking of the first two commandments of the Ten Commandments. To curse a father and mother is the breaking of the fifth commandment. To remove a neighbor's landmark is to steal from him, which is taking part of his property and making it your own. To make the blind go out of their way is to not love one's neighbor. To withhold justice from the fatherless and widow is to not only not love one's neighbor, but also not care for the most vulnerable among us. To injure a neighbor secretly is to both lie to God and to hate thy neighbor. To lie with a neighbor's wife is to break the seventh commandment and the tenth commandment. To be paid to harm a neighbor is to love money more than God, and it is also to break the sixth commandment as well as failing at love. To put trust in a man is to break the first commandment and failing to love God. The final curse covers the many perverted and heartless ways One man can harm another, thus breaking all of the commandments. If the list of sins seems a bit much to us, Perhaps that is good. Perhaps we need a reminder of our own wretchedness to use another Book of Common Prayer word. Once we stand face to face with our own depravity, then we can all the more rejoice in God's grace. This is the end goal of healthy medieval and reformed piety. Not for us to spend our lives in sackcloths and ashes. rubbing excrement on our faces like King Priam upon the death of Hector. No, rather it is for us to acknowledge our own brokenness And to turn to the Redeemer for the grace he gives, and to be transformed into his likeness. I find it necessary to draw our attention to just how depraved human beings can be, and then show you how twisted we can become because of that depravity Considering that evil now is good and good is now evil. The evil of Jeffrey Dahmer was recently documented on a popular streaming application Dahmer killed and dismembered at least 17 men and boys between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involve necrophilia, sex with the dead, cannibalism, eating of human flesh. And the permanent preservation of body parts, typically all or part of skeletons. It is said to be one of the highest-view documentaries of all time. People's fascination with Dahmer may be caused by the unbelievability of it all. I only mentioned Dahmer because of the popularity of the documentary. For as you know, there are many, too many examples of men committing evil, vile and inhuman acts against their fellow man, proving just how vile and demon-like human beings can be. What has risen its evil head recently is this trend of adults influencing children to be confused about their gender and sexuality. And then while contributing to that confusion, consenting for a child, a child to go through surgery, resulting in the mutilation of a child's genitals. And thus forever altering the child's body that looks neither male nor female nor functioning as either male or female for the rest of their days. Again, these are children, children who may think themselves as a dog one day while crawling around on all fours. These are children that might fancy themselves one day a girl and another day a horse. These are children who don't know what true sexual desire is and who are needing to be molded to understand what it means to be male or female And they are cursed to have adults in their lives that claim to love the child so much that they want to affirm their child's confusion and immaturity. and affirm it to the point of consenting to genital mutilation. Beloved, such is not love. But is instead demonic deception, revealing the perversions within the adults who express their perversions on their own children. I shared with you via email the email that I was sent as I responded to objections regarding this very subject. I have since received other emails that call me evil. Evil for making a statement of protection for children. Who are subject to their parents' perversions and demonic understanding of the good. I remind you of the words of Jesus again. Then Jesus said to his disciples, It is impossible that no offenses should come, but woe to him through whom they do come. It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. The word phrase little ones is another word for children. To offend is to entrap, to trip up, or entice to sin. Can the warning be more clear? Jesus does not want us to come near tempting children towards sin. And encouraging children to follow unabated toward lusts of the flesh, that's sin. If we fail at defending children From such evil we fail our God and we show no faith in him and we deserve to be accursed. Truly we are living in days when evil is called good and good is called evil. Thus, we take this day as an opportunity to be sober regarding our sinful natures and the human proclivity to rebel against God. For those who think this sort of call against sinners is Old Testament only or too medieval or reformed, take note of the list of sinners who will not partake of the kingdom of God according to St. Paul Take a look at Tertullian's work on modesty. Observe Leo the Great's call to sinners. Read the Eastern Greek Mark the Monk, fear of his own salvation despite his life of asceticism. Services such as this are a healthy balance to our joy, not something to abandon because of certain excesses at particular times, places, and traditions. These services are needed. We need to be reminded that there is evil and that there is good. And the only way to stay away from evil is to cling to the good. And the good for us is to repent of our sins against God and believe the blood of Jesus forgives us and saves us for eternity. Amen and amen.