In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn in your pew Bibles To First Timothy chapter one. I will be walking verse by verse. To First Timothy chapter one. Just this past week, I witnessed a woman on social media pretending to be a pastor. Preach a sermon in which she claimed that if Jesus were with us today, which he is, but again she thought she was a pastor, so such what you get But her claim was that if Jesus were with us today, that he would be a counselor at abortion clinics. where he would hold the hand of those getting abortions in order to make them feel loved and make them feel good about their decision to abort the fetus or what we would call a baby. I don't give you her name and I won't give you any other information about her because she doesn't deserve anyone's attention, but I use her as an example to ask once again How did we get here? The sermon so-called, where she said such awful things, was in a supposed Christian church. And it's hard to realize that people listened to her and allowed what she said to influence their lives. Again, how did we get here? We started last week a series of sermons from what are called the pastoral epistles. And so we begin with 1 Timothy 1, verse 1. Paul begins by referring to Jesus Christ as our hope, which is unique to the New Testament. The Greco-Roman world was truly a world without hope, very much in the same way that our culture over the last generation has become increasingly, noticeably, profoundly a culture without hope. Proof of such is how much emotion we put into our political candidates Almost as if we are electing a new Savior every four years. Then perhaps the most profound evidence of our culture losing hope is the plunging birth rate in Europe and North America. Such is a result of not seeing anything in the future that excites or is important. So there is apparently no hope to pass on to future generations. But for Christians, for Christians, Christ has opened a sure and certain way to heaven. Indeed, he has gone to prepare a place for us. Our lives can be lived in the confidence of that beckoning future. And that is what the New Testament means by hope Not a wish, but a firm and confident certainty about the future. That is hope. This kind of hope was then and has always been one of the one of Christianity's outstanding. And absolutely unique features. For there is no hope in the lives of Islam. There is only hope with a lowercase H You hope it will go well for you when you die, but you don't really know whether it will or not. And to presume to know is arrogance in Islam In Christianity, such confidence is faith. Verse two For Paul to refer to Timothy as his son in the faith strongly suggests, though it doesn't absolutely prove, That Timothy became a Christian under Paul's influence, likely on Paul's first missionary journey But the statement also confirms Timothy's authority as one close to Paul and having his confidence And having Paul's confidence is important because though the letter is addressed to Timothy in a variety of respects, it is undoubtedly a personal letter. There is much in it that seems to have been addressed to the church in Ephesus, where Timothy was then ministering, and it was also sent to Christians everywhere, as I mentioned last week. The greeting at the end of the verse is most certainly Pauline, as it shows he greets fellow Christians in all of his letters. Verse 3. What seems to be suggested here is that at some point Paul and Timothy had met face to face. after Paul had left his younger associate in Ephesus to deal with the false teaching there. Timothy had left Ephesus to consult with his mentor and his oversight. Perhaps in hopes of rejoining him in his itinerant ministry, because apparently there wasn't much texting going on back then. But Timothy had been told to return to Ephesus and to complete his work there. He wasn't an officer of that church in Ephesus But something like an apostolic delegate, we might even call him a bishop, for he was doing the work of what a bishop is called to do. The fact that he is writing this letter after the two men had talked face to face is no doubt at great length about the situation in Ephesus. It's an indication again that this letter to Timothy was intended to be read by the whole church. But who were these false teachers? And what was their point of view? The following is a quote from Bible commentator William Mounts regarding the false teachers. Quote, it appears to have been a form of aberrant Judaism with Hellenistic Gnostic tendencies. That over-emphasized the law and underemphasized Christ and faith, taught dualism, in which the spiritual was emphasized at the expense of the physical Asceticism, denying the physical resurrection, a viewpoint that often went with dualism, was unduly interested in minutiae of the Old Testament Produced sinful lifestyles and irrelevant quibbling about words, and was destroying the reputation of the church at Ephesus. Verse 4. Myths and endless genealogies describes at least some of the different teaching mentioned in the previous verse. Apparently these teachers, as I have a number of false as a number of false teachers have throughout the ages Studied the Old Testament genealogies and their host of names, and fashioned from them stories that were then used to teach a certain way of life. A way of life quite different from that which was taught by our Lord Jesus. Verse 5. I will be coming back to this verse as it will be the foundation of what I want to emphasize today. The text says the word command. without pointing to any particular command, so we can interpret it to be a short way to reference the commandments of the Old Testament and specifically the Ten Commandments. What I will say now is that it is a very odd for Christians to discount the importance of the Old Testament and the commandments of God. Paul makes it clear in his letter to the Galatians that the law or commandments of God lead us to Jesus. We can't fulfill all of them, and even the ones we think we can fulfill, we don't do so in our hearts, which is the fundamental place they are to be obeyed. And that reality is what leads us to Christ Verse six. The description here of people having turned aside from the commandments of God and turning to idle talk is correctly referenced in your pew Bible as being explained in chapter 6, verses 4 and 5, where the idle talk is described as being obsessed with disputes and arguments over words that are said to be useless, meaning they solve nothing and certainly do not bring glory to God or righteousness to men. Verse 7. That there was trouble in Ephesus is quite clear, which again was where Timothy was serving at the time of this letter. How much teaching there resembled that which was troubling the Colossian Church sometimes before this is difficult to say, though clearly there are similarities. The false teaching was Jewish in origin, but mixed in elements of Hellenistic or Greek thought as well. The teachers encouraged lax moral living and a variety of religious speculative superstitions that had nothing to do with biblical truth or the historical record of the good news of Jesus Christ. And what is more, provides no encouragement for the holy life that the apostles had taught his converts. Like most Christian heresy The false elements came from the culture. Either Jewish or Roman, it doesn't matter. Came from the culture. Jazz up the apostolic message in a way that would prove attractive to people at that time and in that place. And it is that last statement about this section of Scripture that false heresies and false elements came from the culture, is what needs to be addressed by the Christian church. A few years ago, I read Ross Duthat's book titled Bad Religion: How We Became a Nation of Heretics. Duthath has a unique take on Christianity, being a confessing Christian while also a columnist at the New York Times, believe it or not. His book is a very depressing narrative, thoughtfully and convincingly told. He recounts the decline of the mainline Protestant denominations in the second half of the 20th century. Having accommodated the faith to the culture, they were soon left only with the culture and no faith And then the similar accommodationist project pursued in the Roman Catholic Church after Vatican II with similar dismal results. He then goes on to describe the resurgence of evangelicalism and conservatism in the Roman Catholic Church in the late 20th century. And that would seem to be a happy outcome, but then he goes on to describe how once again that momentum was squandered. when cultural accommodations continued to weaken the influence of the evangelical part of the church. In an effort to make Christianity attractive to the world, the church or churches became too much like the world to remain of any interest to the world. And that is hard, really hard to admit. The world, in other words, came to think that it already had, albeit in a different form, what the Christians were offering. Whether it was health and wealth, which is a baptized materialism the world already had, or a highly subjective message in which God within, the God within, or our experience Of what we call God became more important than God Almighty, who made the heavens and the earth, and who reveals Himself and His will in His Holy Word. The world was left thinking that it could do what the church was doing and do it even better So allow me to give you examples of where the Christian Church is much like the world, to attract the world, when in fact it turns the world away. Emotionalism. Much of Christianity has adopted the language of the psychological world. So that we sound more concerned about how we can heal a person emotionally rather than spiritually We talk about our feelings as if they are to determine who we are and what we stand for. We discuss the importance of identity and how important it is for our children to have their own identity. We put faith in personal acceptance so that we don't feel bad about our body type. We talk of accepting ourselves and to be accepting of others. But the Bible doesn't use that language. And the gospel doesn't preach such self-esteem. In fact, it can be argued quite forcibly that it preaches the opposite of some of the things I have described. The opposite is in Holy Scripture so that we don't base our faith on how we are feeling at any particular moment. Because we all know our feelings change. They change as the wind blows, changing in both direction and strength. And this is where the false teachers snatch up the deceived. They prey on our emotions. They know what to say and how to say it, so that you are deceived while you testify that what you heard was the best sermon you've ever heard. But in that sermon, in that sermon you were never called to greater holiness, never called to greater faith, never called to deeper love, but only made To feel good about yourself. Truth is, because the idol of emotionalism, false teachers have us worshiping ourselves without us knowing it. Another place where Christians are too much like the world is our love to be entertained. And I am not referring to how we love to watch television. I'm referring to Christians who love to be entertained during or in their so-called worship services. Take an objective look at a church band and compare it to a secular band. The instruments are the same, the outlets are the same, the music is the same, only the lyrics might be different. But as some critics have noted, there are songs that churches sing today where the name Jesus can be replaced by my girlfriend or my boyfriend, and no other change would be needed. Personally, I like to shop at stores that accept knockoff brands and overproduce products that they buy from mainstream stores. At these knockoff brand stores you find cologne that tries to smell like more popul the more popular and well-known cologne colognes. And that is what modern Christian music can be compared to. It tries to be the same as secular music, and it is not. And the most dangerous place where Christians are too much like the world is our shifting morality. As I stated last week, if a statement is true, it is always true, regardless of time, place, culture, or person. If sexual immorality is a sin, then it is always a sin, and for all time a sin, and for all places a sin, and for all cultures a sin, and for all persons a sin. What I didn't make clear last week is that there is a difference between saying something like, I think sexual immorality is a sin, and simply saying, sexual immorality is a sin. By taking the I think out of it. The former statement is simply a testimony. It is a person telling what they think or believe, and that's simply personal. But when a moral statement is made that leaves out what a person thinks or believes, it is necessary then to recognize that it has a truth value placed upon it. And so if the Bible states that sexual immorality is the breaking of God's commandments, such has a truth value that is either truth or false. Thus it is then true for everyone in all places at all times, or it is false for all people at all places at all times. The truth value of sexual immorality being a sin that is not determined by whether a couple they plan to be married, thus their adultery can be overlooked. And I didn't make that one up for I have heard Christians say such things. And the truth value of such a statement is not adjustable because the person you love, maybe it's your nephew or niece. They're attracted to the same sex and because you love them, you're going ahead and affirm their sin. Such thinking leads me to a necessary point that goes back to my opening example of a false teacher claiming that Jesus would encourage a woman to get an abortion. The word love. The word love has been compromised, hijacked, and been used in a blasphemous manner. Love and the manner Jesus used it and practiced it was to rescue people from their slavery to sin and to rescue them from the fires of hell, which is where they were headed before he called them to follow him. The love of God does not make people feel good or feel comfortable about their sin or their sinfulness. Instead, the love of God pulls a person out of their sin so that any guilt attempted afterward is a false accusation. All that I've said is to take us back to verse 5, which was the positive understanding of God's commandments. Instead of being disputed or argued about, they are to be loved and with sincerity. So what I leave you with that I want you to remember is that the Christian faith is to be one of the Christian faith is to be one that is sincere and without compromise. Sincerity comes from within. It is a confirmation that we truly believe what we say we believe. And the greatest sincerity detectors are the young. They know when someone is telling the truth or does not believe in what they say they are believing. And they are the most important people to be sincere with, because they will not believe what we are teaching them to believe unless they know that we believe it ourselves. To be sincere is to be honest with ourselves and with God. It is to say to God on a repeated basis, I believe, but help my unbelief. And for our Christian faith to be without compromise, we must willfully choose to not allow circumstances or the spirit of the age to change our convictions. Stealing another person's goods does not all of a sudden become acceptable. Damaging another person's property does not become normative because of political differences. Hating another human being is not understandable, no matter their ethnicity or political affiliation. As Christians, we both stand for what we believe, and we are willing to die for what we believe A Christian being willing to die for what he believes is the best witness to the truth of the gospel that the church has ever had. So receive this charge. Regarding our faith in Jesus Christ, be sincere and without compromise. Amen.