Begin tonight with a personal story. When I was fifteen years of age, I was eligible, just like in the state of Maryland, I was in the state of Washington, I was eligible to get my driver's permit. When at the desk of the DMB, the processor noted that I had documentation from my high school that my name was Eric Williams. It was Eric Williams because my uncle and aunt who raised my three siblings and I Had us use their last name so as to make it easier when it came to dealing with the school district. But they never adopted us The processor then asked if I wanted to go by Eric Williams or by my birth record name, Eric Jorgensen. I am not sure if the processor was asking me if I wanted to go to the whole rigmarole of changing my name legally. I didn't even know that that was possible. Or She simply put down whatever name I chose. I recall looking at my father to help for some guidance, and he simply shrugged his shoulders. It was a memorable moment because I felt I was choosing my identity for the rest of my life. It would be an identity that I had not known before, but would forever be known by. My second thought was that I wanted to honor my birth father. I wanted to carry on a name that I believe, from my limited vantage point, was taken all too quickly from this earth. And so I made a confident decision that I would go by Eric Jorgensen. And today I'm very glad that I did, but not for the reason I originally made that decision. You see, I came to learn in my adult years that my parents were devout Roman Catholics. In fact, my father converted to Roman Catholicism so that he could marry my mother whose family was staunch Irish Catholic, and so that he could raise his children in a home under the Roman Catholic tradition. Thus, when I was baptized as an infant, I was baptized with the name Eric William Jorgenston. Yes, there is great irony in that my middle name was William, and I did go for a time by Eric William Williams. A further irony was that I was named after a grandfather on my mother's side who was Roman Catholic. It's an English name, but So today I'm glad that I chose at the age of 15 to go by Eric William Jorgensen, because that was the name given to me at my baptism. And thus it is a name that identifies me with the Christian Church. Today I am strengthened when I remember my baptism. I am confident that at my baptism, God marked me as His and He used that baptism to regenerate my soul. I use the word regenerate or regenerate. Because it is a word used several times in the Book of Common Prayer service. for baptism, and it is a word that has caused great consternation among and between Christians. The word regenerate has a biblical link to the phrase born again. Which you will recall was uttered when Jesus had that intimate conversation with Nicodemus, and Jesus explained, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. The criticism that is placed on the church against using the word regenerate or regeneration within the baptismal service is that it appears It appears to convey more than it should convey regarding the sacrament of baptism. It appears to convey that something takes place that we cannot be sure of. It appears to Protestant ears that regeneration wording presumes a great deal too much upon God. It appears to Protestant ears that the word makes the same mistake that the Roman Church makes when it assumes that every ritual it practices automatically supplies the grace needed. The Latin phrase we learn it in confirmation class, ex operato. Which is translated by the works performed. The Roman Church position is that because Jesus gave the church authority on earth, Whatever the church practices regarding its rituals, the very same is done in heaven as it is done on earth. In practical terms, if the church baptizes someone, then that same someone is saved, is born again by the work performed by the church. It was not until the Reformation that voices that objected were publicly heard. And what was heard by the Protestants was that faith had to be enacted. It had to be present for a person to be saved. We are saved by grace through faith, of course. And the Protestants continued arguing that no person can presume upon God. A person, whether an infant or an adult, cannot be pronounced born again and saved unless God does the work. Spiritual work. And that can only be known by the fruits of the life of the person that was baptized. Now the Roman Church tries to counter that argument with the words of Jesus, who told the church before he ascended, whatever you bind on her shall be bound, and whatever you loose on her shall be loosed. Thus, the church is supposedly given the authority and responsibility to claim salvation for those who have received Christian baptism. In summary, the debate goes on. In Bishop J. C. Ryle's wonderful book. Addressing subjects that are controversial in the church, the book is titled Knots Untied. He addresses the subject of regeneration in the baptismal service, in the prayer book, in the following manner. First, first, he argues that the word regeneration communicates a change in the nature of a person who has converted to the Christian faith And such a change of nature is consistent with the verbiage in the Bible that describes conversion, calling people born again. putting on the new, becoming a new creation, and even partaking partaking in the divine nature Second, Bishop Ryle concurs with the critics that there is only one evidence of knowing whether or not or not a person is regenerate, and that is by the fruits of their life. godliness that comes out of their everyday life. Every tree is known by its own fruit. This is in line with the words of St. John that we have been studying. Whoever is born of God does not live in sin. Everyone who does what is righteous is born of God. Third, Bishop Rile accepts that baptism and regeneration do not necessarily go together. The Book of Acts reveals that a person can be full of the Holy Spirit and not yet be baptized in water. It also tells us stories of persons who were baptized in water, but had not yet been made new or born of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit does indeed move as He pleases, and when He pleases. Fourth, Bishop Rile rejects the doctrine of ex opera operato for the same reasons already mentioned. When the church performs such a sacrament, it does so out of obedience and as the instrument of God For such ritual is God's hand upon the church and upon the individuals in the church. But as the church is obedient, the church is also dependent upon God to renew the spirit of the person being baptized. And so it's not the church performing the act, it's God performing, using the church. Now you would think, by stating these four points regarding the verbiage of regeneration in the baptismal service, that the book of the Book of Common Prayer, that Bishop Ryle would reject the use of the word. But he doesn't. He does not. He does not for the overriding truth of the love of God. The word regenerate is to be used by Christians in baptism, whether the baptism be an infant or an adult, because of the overriding commandment By God for Christians to love one another. Yep, there I go again, talking about loving one another by God. Now perhaps if we use the word charity it would sound better. We are to use the word regenerate or regeneration in relation to a person, a child being baptized out of Charity. In other words, we are to accept a person who has been baptized as being part of the Christian faith and thus the Christian church as an expression of charity. We accept them as a brother or sister in Christ, as an act of charity, and we continue to do so until that brother or sister, that little biggie baby, proves otherwise. If this is difficult to understand, first consider the alternative. The alternative would be to be uncharitable. Which would be to doubt that someone is actually born of God. To doubt that someone is born of God is to not think the best, but instead the worst. It is also not to hope the best for an individual. And to not think the best of someone and to not hope the best for someone is not obeying the love of Jesus. Now let us let us put a case study before us to see different sides of this issue Let us say that a child is born into the home of two parents who love God and worship him through Jesus the Savior. They both have been baptized themselves, and they want their now new daughter to be a part of the covenant that they have with God. And so they have the child baptized, but they they have doubts as to whether the child is truly born again. And so they wait to see if the child will follow their example in life and faith. They try to be consistent in not presuming upon God. And so they are cautious about referring to the child as a Christian. They wait to see fruit in the child's life. Child, like all children, exhibits some good and some bad personal habits And as the child grows, she does not have a confidence as to whether she is a Christian or not, because although she has been baptized, no one confirms to her whether she is in the family of God or not. With a lack of identity with Jesus or in Jesus, the child wanders in and out of obedience to God. And with every disobedience, the parents become more and more concerned that the child is not exhibiting fruits of righteousness. And the lack of fruit causes the parents to see their daughter as an unbeliever. And thus an unregenerate person who needs to be saved. Meanwhile, the daughter identifies less and less with her parents and their faith, and more and more with people who don't know Jesus. Now let us back up and try the same beginning point. Only this time, let us have parents practicing charity toward the child. The child is baptized as an infant, and the parents enact charity by calling their daughter a child of God. The parents teach the daughter how to pray the Lord's Prayer, how to sing to God in sincerity, how to trust God in difficult circumstances. Because they believe in the charity of Christ Jesus that their daughter has been born again. With such charity given to the daughter, she grows up, knowing who she is and who God wants her to be. She has every confidence in her identity with God and in Jesus. Even when she does wrong, she knows how to find forgiveness and freedom from her guilt. And her parents. Get this. Her parents view her disobedience as opportunities for the daughter to be sanctified. Thus, the daughter identifies less and less with the world, and more and more with the kingdom of God Perhaps our case study is oversimplified. Perhaps But within it are truths that are consistent with the biblical testimony. It is consistent with the power of charity. It is consistent with the promises God gives families who raise up children in His nurture and in His admonition, in His covenant. It is consistent with the biblical teaching of what baptism means for each and every Christian. Is every person that is baptized automatically regenerate, born again? We say, in the spirit of love, spirit of charity, we say yes That is not presuming upon God. It is lovingly obeying Him. And it is enough. Let us pray.