It will break me, like now me and only all my glory. Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It's good to have in-laws here. Appreciate the McNulty family. And since they're here, I thought I'd begin with a story that I had heard. This story is about a young boy who went to his parents to ask them about the beginning of the human race. He asked his mother, he said, Mom, where did the human race come from? And she told him that God created Adam and Eve and that they had children and they eventually populated the earth. But the boy was still curious, so he went and asked his father He said that humans evolved from primitive creatures to monkeys and eventually humans. Confused, the boy returned to his mother and asked, how come she said that humans came from God and dad said they came from monkeys And the mother without hesitation said, Because I was describing the history of my side of the family. The McNultys are great in-laws and we hope they feel the same about us. And we all take the role of raising children, grandchildren quite seriously because raising children can be difficult Comedian Jerry Seinfeld said that having a two-year-old is like having a blender with no top on it Comedian Jim Gaffigan said that if you want to know what it's like to have a fourth child, imagine yourself drowning and someone hands you a baby. Regarding parenting techniques, comedian Stephen Wright said that his grandfather would have him stand in the closet for five minutes without moving and told him it was elevator practice And comedian Michael McIntyre said that young couples that look forward to being parents that think it's going to be so wonderful He describes a young couple saying goodnight to each other before children. They say, sleep well, darling, and the husband and the wife says, Oh, I will. And McIntyre is so disgusted by their confidence that he says he can't remember the last time he said to his wife, Sleep well, darling. For with two toddlers, what they say to each other before they go to bed is, good luck. So what did you come here to see today? Some of you came this morning not knowing there was a baptism, so you say you simply came to see Jesus. And he is with us in word and in sacrament. But if you knew there was a baptism today and you came anticipating the baptism, I ask again, what did you come to see? From unbelieving eyes, what you see is a baby getting wet and a bunch of adults making a big deal about it. Before the eyes of Christians, however, what we see is something a great deal more than a baby getting wet. The Apostle Peter gives us a type and an anti-type picture of what occurs when a person is baptized. The type is Noah's family, being saved through the waters of the flood. The anti-type is the reality that the rest of humanity, all but Noah's family, is destroyed by the flood. So as where some were saved by the water, and so many were condemned in the water, water that was sanctioned by God. So now so many are saved by the water God sanctions that baptism within his covenant with Christ as its head. In Holy Scripture, the images are constant, for water is used both to save and to condemn. Consider the waters of the Red Sea. St. Paul uses the image of the Israelites escaping bondage in Egypt by passing through the Red Sea on dry ground, and he says it was their baptism. And we remember in that story that the same water was used to drown the Egyptian army. For after the Israelites had crossed over, the walls of water came crashing down on the enemies of God's people. And so it is with water baptism. Baptism can be to many a means of grace, wherein God washes the heart clean of original sin As the Holy Spirit becomes an integral part of a person's life, as he or she is now marked by God and a member of Christ's Church, or Or the water is used as a testimony against him, which is to say that he was given the birthright of a child of God, but sold the birthright for the ways of the world. And so what was just done for Jacob's son will either be water poured upon him that saves him, or condemns him. I know that doesn't sound like good news, but you need to hear me out. This is a celebratory time, to be sure. But it is only celebratory if we take the vows we have heard very seriously. For reasons only God knows, the salvation each of us has is not dependent on anything we can do. But we work out our salvation in a manner that perceives that it is up to us And it's the same for our children's salvation, for they are fully dependent on what we do and yet fully responsible themselves. These two realities are consistent with the tensions we experience while living the Christian life. God is responsible for our salvation, and yet St. Paul tells the Philippians, work out your own salvation. In fear and trembling. So James, the brother of our Lord, says: without your works, your faith is meaningless And yet God says through the prophet Isaiah, your works are as filthy rags. So which is it? Well it's both. It is both. Anglicans define a sacrament as an outward sign of an inward work of grace. Hence we believe that when we are doing something outwardly like pouring water on a child God is doing something inwardly, spiritually, in the heart and soul of the person being baptized. And when God does something like give new spiritual life to a person, whether a child or an adult The spiritual world consists of angelic celebration and demonic gnashing of teeth. From now until Jacobson is in his own grave, a spiritual battle will be going on for his soul. In an addendum to the screw tape letters, C. S. Lewis added a toast given by the demon screw tape. to a group of graduating demons who finished their training on how to tempt humans to sin and and disbelief The toast is given at a banquet, and the main course the devils are feasting upon are human souls. Such is a poignant description of how devils look upon our children, their souls, to tear into and to devour. If we would more readily see the souls of our children in such a light, I venture to say that our motivation to raise them in the Christian faith with a great deal of intention Would always be before us. Examine yourselves, dear parents, on how well you make sure your children are in the right type of car seat How well you monitor their allergies, how well you keep them away from other children who are sick, how well you put nets around their trampoline and railings on their beds Compare all of that care you take for your children's physical well-being and compare it to what you do for their spiritual well-being. It is a terrible irony. God must view when he witnesses how much care we put into preserving the physical lives of our children When maybe if they're blessed, they would reach the age of 90 years and then become dust. Yet their soul will live on forever. What part of us needs more care? That which is here and gone, or that which is forever? It is too obvious a question to answer, and yet how poorly we care for the spirituality of our children, for it shows that we don't answer the question correctly. From the beginning point of God calling Israel out of Egypt to be his own special people, he instructed them to be careful and instructed their children. How children are instructed is the foundation of a strong family and a strong church. Remember from Deuteronomy chapter 6, where God tells the Israelites that they are to keep his law. And then he makes it clear. He expects them by keeping his law, that it be passed down from generation to generation. He said, that you may fear the Lord your God, to keep all his statutes and commandments, which I command you and your son. and your grandson. And then after the people are instructed to love God with all their heart, soul, and strength, God says in his law, quote, and these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. Parents, do an inventory for me. How much of the conversation in your household pertains to God and how much the things of the world Do a ratio. One to one? Oh, that would be wonderful. What about one to ten? Ten being things of the world and one being the things of God. Your honest ratio will convict you on how much more you need to speak to your children about the things of God The word translated diligently as in diligently teach your children includes meditation, repetition, and memorization. Meditation includes how we are to understand what God means by a particular commandment. Repetition refers to the mechanism of how we are to hear the word over and over so that we do not forget it. Memorization describes us not only knowing it in our heads, but in our hearts. And the postures described, such as sitting, walking, and lying, they communicate that the training in God's word is to be received in all parts of life. A child raised as a Christian is not only to know the Ten Commandments, but know how to apply each to his everyday life circumstance. God commands to have no other gods before him. That's easily applied. We're not to be worshiping something like the Muslim God But an even closer study shows that we must not worship sports, sports teams, recreation God's commandment not to steal. That's easily understood. I'm not to take that which doesn't belong to me. But with a more educated look, we can see that to borrow something from someone and not to care for it, causing it to lose its value, well that too is stealing. God forbidding adultery is clearly obeyed by not sleeping with another person besides your spouse But a more trained mind and heart knows it applies to not walking into a red light district or scrolling through inappropriate websites. Beloved, what I am describing is intentional parenting. It is being sure that you do your part in training your children as God has instructed. The book of Proverbs is a training letter from a father to his son. So when it says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, A child is to understand that to be in awe of God first will make all other knowledge meaningful, eternally meaningful. And the instruction is based on the principle found in Deuteronomy chapter 6, as it is diligently teaching your children. When parents are told in Proverbs that whoever does not use a rod to discipline his child is actually hating his child. And whoever disciplines his child is showing true love. The teaching is based on Deuteronomy chapter 6. It is recognizing that a child left to himself or herself will be deprived of learning self-discipline. A child that has not been trained to be able to practice self-discipline, which includes self-control, is a child abused because he or she is being deprived. Bobby Lynn and I did not enjoy spanking our children, but we did it because we believed God's word over the wisdom and emotions of the world. We did it because we wanted our children to be able to say no to their impulses and desires when they were not appropriate. We did it because we wanted our children, and this is so very, very important, we wanted our children to be able to endure When God was chastening them. For when God chastens our children, and they are not used to enduring the chastening. The devil tempts them to be bitter toward God, and such bitterness leads to unbelief, and the devil enjoys feasting on the souls of the people brought up in Christian homes. They are the tastiest of souls for them. When in Proverbs we are warned against passing by the house of a harlot, it is hearkening back to Deuteronomy chapter 6 When Proverbs tells us to be sure to have trustworthy friends and wise counselors and God-fearing spouses, it is hearkening back to Deuteronomy 6. But let us go to the New Testament if I have not yet convinced you about intentional parenting. When Jesus saw his disciples resisting parents who were bringing their children to Jesus to be blessed, and Jesus said, suffer The little children and forbid them not to come to me, for such is the kingdom of heaven. He was referring back to Deuteronomy chapter 6. When St. Paul instructs the children in Colossians to obey their parents in all things, with the expectation there that parents were obeying Deuteronomy chapter 6, diligently teaching their children. When he tells fathers in the Ephesian church to not provoke children to anger by being too hard or overbearing, but instead for the fathers to bring up their children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord, he is repeating Deuteronomy chapter 6. Intentional parenting is also called covenantal parenting. Covenantal parenting recognizes that God relates to us in a covenant manner. A covenant manner means that our relationship with God is based on agreed promises and behaviors. We are the ones who promise certain behaviors, such as believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, and God is the one who keeps his promises when we do. And so we commit to obeying his commandments and believing in his son, and he promises to never leave us or forsake us, but to ensure our salvation. As I have underlined and highlighted for us, a prominent command he places upon his people is for us to teach his promised commandments to our children. In a resolute manner, they are to be taught, to help them apply God's word in all contexts of life And when we add that principle to the words quoted by St. Peter at Pentecost, that the covenant God makes with his people is for you, he said. and for your children and for those who are afar off, which is generations to come. It can be seen from this that God does not just want us to teach his word to our children. but for our children to teach it to their children and so on and so forth until he comes again. And while we have focused on the positive we are to teach our children, We must also be warned about the negatives, for the devil would love to teach our children. When Jesus said to his disciples that he was sending them into the midst of snakes and vipers, He was using the metaphor to describe false teachers. Remember in the garden, the devil took the form of a serpent and he twisted God's words. He does exactly the same today. And he changes the phrase just slightly, but it's basically the same. He questions, did God really say? And so parents, if you surround yourself with teach your child, with teachers who say Moses didn't really part the Red Sea, or Jesus could not have possibly walked on water Or you don't really believe in the resurrection, do you? All such phrases and questions are seeds of doubt. So that the demons can get the ultimate prize, which is to feed on the souls of our children. And if I'm scaring you, I'm trying to. So what did you see today? Like when Elisha the prophet was surrounded by an enemy who had brought an army to capture him and likely kill him, and his servant quaked with fear. Elisha prayed that his servant would have eyes to see the spiritual world that Elisha could see. And they could then see the army of angels that were protecting them. Well, in a similar manner, I am preaching so that each of us could see a spiritual world that should frighten us enough to be intentional about the souls of our children. And when we are intentional, God will meet our children. God will preserve their souls. Beloved, act as if it is all up to you. And pray and believe it is all up to God. Let us pray. Our Father, for such truths, we bring them before your people, and for all of us Parents, grandparents, great-grandparents to embrace these truths. Help us all to be intentional for the sake of one another's children, let alone our own That we might be a covenant people who raise covenant children to your glory until you come again. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.