In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. I have heard that title before, but I've never sung it before, that song. And I still haven't sung it. I don't know how that goes. But we'll keep trying. We are in Revelation chapter 3, picking up at verse 7, the letter to the Christians in Philadelphia. If you need to be encouraged this morning, you are in the right place. You may have noticed that these seven churches addressed are collective examples of individual personalities and seasons of life Personality-wise, we know people like Sardis who have a reputation of being alive in the faith, but are actually dead. Like Thyatira, some people serve their fellow man well, but are lazy theologically. Others are strident theologically, but do not serve their fellow man. Seasons of life are reflected in churches like Smyrna, who were going through a time of poverty. and Philadelphia, who were being persecuted by the Jews. In such seasons, it is not a time for rebuke. It is not a time to have all of our shortcomings listed. It is a time to be encouraged. Philadelphia needs to be encouraged, and the Lord provides such like no one else can. Each word, phrase, and reference is specifically chosen for encouraging the Christian Church at Philadelphia. In addition, we should note that such encouragement is for the church as a whole. Just as an entire church can be confronted and rebuked for sin It can also be encouraged for its obedience. Certainly, some may have been involved in the life of the church more than others, but that does not make them more important. If we are going to embrace the metaphor of the church being like a body, we must acknowledge that the little toe contributes to the body running fast just as the hamstring or the quadricep. I acknowledge this for your hearing, that you might know how important each of you is in making up the local body of believers. Even if the only thing you provide is your presence on Sundays, you matter. You are what is needed to make the body whole And it is to each of the parts of the body, the church, that the Lord writes these words of encouragement. Jesus begins his encouragement to the church by referring to himself as holy and true. He is comparing himself to the false idols that were worshipped in this pagan city of Philadelphia. Jesus is pure. He is sinless and is therefore unlike the idols of that day. Being unlike false gods, he does not ask people to sin. Jesus is true. He does not teach lies or represent lies. The Christians in Philadelphia could count on him. He then uses a description of himself that has not yet been given in this revelation. But is another way to encourage as he reaches back to what he has revealed about himself through the prophet Isaiah. In Isaiah chapter 22, God accuses a royal steward of falsehood, of betraying his trust. He then promises to replace the false steward with a faithful one. This is what he said. He said, I will clothe him with a tunic and tie your sash securely about him. I will entrust him with your authority. And he will become a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of David. Then I will set the key of the house of David on his shoulder. When he opens, no one will shut. When he shuts, no one will open. Jesus takes that passage and applies it to himself. He is announcing that the officers of apostate Israel are false stewards. They have to be removed from authority and replaced by the one who is holy and true. The key of David refers to God's covenant with David and the kingdom to be established through David's line. Jesus is of that line and the one given the key. The Jews believe they own the rights to David's line, but the Heavenly Father owns it and he gives it to the Son. All who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, whether Jew or Gentile, are allowed through the door and into the kingdom of heaven by the authority of the Son, the owner of the key. The Savior holds the door open for the Christians at Philadelphia because he knows their deeds. When he told the church at Sardis that he knew their deeds, it was bad news, for they were dead in their faith. They were incomplete. In the case of Philadelphia, the fact that the Lord knows their deeds is a positive. It is worth noting that the deeds of the Lord that the Lord knows are not front-page news. They did not run the largest soup kitchen in Philadelphia. They did not have well-attended crusades. Their deeds were simply keeping God's word and not denying his name. It appears that in light of the persecution, Christians were under the spirit of the day that dominated the city, and it was enough that the people remained obedient and courageous. Sometimes, many times, the Christian life needs to be no more than doing what you are told and staying true to what you believe. The Apostle Paul said as much to the church at Rome when he instructed them to live quiet lives. And when it was within their power, they were to be at peace with all men. Once again, we hear our Lord commending those who are of a simple faith. He does not require an understanding of super lapsarianism. Works of supererrogation, transubstantiation, venial versus mortal sin, or whatever egg-headed words theologians can conjure up. He doesn't require a church to hold crusades, bring in Christian musicians for the purpose of outreach, or hold thoughtful seminars. Not to say there's anything wrong with such things. The point made is that what God requires is a simple faith in difficult times. A simple faith is the most effective faith. Because of their simple faith, the Lord says he opens the door to the kingdom of God for them and will not allow it to be shut. And here is a statement for eternal security. As a believer on the Lord Jesus Christ, he has started a work in you and he will complete it. He has paid for your sins by the blood of Christ, and that blood is too valuable not to retain what is purchased. He has marked you as his own. He has promised he will never leave you or forsake you. No one can reverse what he has done, not even our so-called self-wills. For we are his, and the door remains open. As part of the security promised to believers, the Lord Jesus makes a commitment To humble those who are guilty of persecuting the Christians at Philadelphia. He refers to them as those who are of the synagogue of Satan. Who claim to be Jews, though they are not, but are liars. Hard words. You will remember that in the sermon regarding the church at Smyrna, he identified the synagogue of Satan as those of the Jewish faith. Who not only rejected Jesus as Savior, but also did everything within their power to rid that city of the Christian faith. From these words, we conclude that the primary persecutors of Christians during the time of the writing of the book of Revelation were Jewish. And once again, I remind you, as I did when discussing Smyrna, that the words here are in no way anti-Semitic. The words of our Lord do not give Christians in any way the authority to retaliate against the Jewish race. The reason why our Lord calls them the synagogue of Satan and says that these people are not real Jews but liars. It's because a real Jew would believe Jesus to be the Savior. Those who say he is not the Savior, whether they be Jewish or Gentile, are of Satan. For Jesus clearly applied this truth to all when he said that you are either for me or against me. Those who are against them are of Satan, because there are only two sides. Continuing this line of thinking, we can conclude that there is no such thing as an Orthodox Jew or an Orthodox Judaism. That is to say that the term Orthodox refers to that which should be believed within the faith The Jewish religion of then and of today does not believe in Christ Jesus as Savior, and therefore they are not Orthodox. Likewise, we should not describe people of Jewish descent as only believing in the Old Testament, but not the New Testament. After all, the Old Testament spoke of Jesus. The law, the Psalms, the prophets clearly described his birth, his life, his atoning sacrifice, and placed at the right hand of the Father. To believe in the Old Testament is to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Furthermore, when a Jew believes On the Lord Jesus Christ, becoming a Christian, he is not, quote, a Jewish Christian. He is a Christian. Any further distinction confuses the covenants. There is one covenant more fully revealed in the New Testament, but the same covenant that God made with Abraham. Abraham believed and was made righteous. He saw Jesus day and was glad. At the time of this letter to Philadelphia, the Jews clearly had the upper hand in that city. Nevertheless, Jesus promises a time when they will be forced to come and bow down to the feet of the city. Of Christians. Those who falsely claimed to be Jews were initially in the position of the persecutor. But they will be forced to acknowledge the covenantal status of the Christian church on the day of God's choosing. It will be that way for all the enemies of God's people. A Christian's place in authority and honor is described by the Apostle Paul in his letter to the church at Ephesus. Where he speaks in the first person plural, saying this: God raises us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. In order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. So we know that after his ascension, Jesus was given the seat at the right hand of the Father. Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord as He sits on that throne Putting these two descriptions together from Ephesians and what we know of Jesus' place, the Christians are seated with Christ, who is seated at the right hand of the Father. The same homage then given to the Savior by those who are enemies of God in this life will be given to Christians who sit with Him. Hence, if you cannot rejoice in your position in this life, you will rejoice in the one promised, the position promised in heaven. You may not be winning in this life, says the Lord, to the persecuted Christians in Philadelphia, but you will in the life hereafter. And I realized that that statement is quite contrary to the preachers who claim heaven on earth to their followers and then ask for that seed offering. But the Christians that received this message in the first century, they knew persecution and they knew poverty and they clung to the hope of heaven. And thus that is what I choose to preach. Another promised honor to the Christians of Philadelphia, because they had been patient as the Lord instructed, is for them to be cared for by the Lord when the great trial comes. From my perspective, the great trial that is going to come upon the whole world is one that came upon the whole world, the whole known world, when Rome began to burn under Nero. When Nero looked for someone to blame for a fire that was likely started by him And continued because of him, he found the Christians to be easy targets. Christians soon became enemies of the state of Rome as well as enemies of the so-called Jews. Be reminded again that the original audience of these letters were first century Christians going through persecutions. Certain Christians who hold to a dispensational view of the Book of Revelation believe that this passage alludes to a rapture of the church before Armarged. The great final battle. An obvious problem with such an interpretation is that if this promise to the Church of Philadelphia were referring to Armageddon, then the battle would have already taken place. If it is referred to a battle that does not involve Philadelphia, then it is at odds for it to be mentioned to them, for they would be long dead before such a battle occurs. If we don't care about such an oddity and believe this refers to a promised rapture, there is another problem, and that is with the word keep. To keep is to preserve, to safeguard, to defend. It is the same as found in the Epistle of Jude, where the Lord is said to keep Christians from falling. Defending the rapture, excuse me, excuse me, defending and a rapture are not the same. This promise to keep is like the others before it, in that it confirms to the heart of weary Christians that God governs their days. He is their shield. He is their defender. Since God is for them, there is no foe who can legitimately, legitimately threaten them. The remaining promises bring together the garments of a high priest and the architecture of the temple. According to 1 Kings, the two pillars of the temple are given names. The first name of a pillar is He Shall Establish, and the second pillar is in him is strength. The pillars corresponded to the shoulder pieces of the high priest that he had written on them the names of the sons of Israel. The headdress of the priest had inscribed the name of God just like the beams that overarch the pillars. Great confidence swells the heart of all believers as our Savior identifies us with the high priest and with the pillars in the temple. We are worthy to enter the Holy of Holies as would the high priest. At the same time, we are given a grand sense of security because we are like the pillars in the temple. Like the first pillar, God has established us. Like the second, God is our strength. For every Christian that remains faithful to the end, there is an assurance that he or she has a place in the very presence of God. No one can remove you. No one can take your crown of glory. Only you can willingly throw it to his feet. Because of all this, because of all this, we can say to the devil and his angels, bring it on. You can try your best. You can stake your claim upon red light districts, communist nations, Washington, D. C. abortion clinics. You can even claim my body with disease, but you cannot harm my soul, for the Lord Jesus Christ owns me. He has marked me. He has placed his name upon me. He has placed a name upon me so holy, so righteous and pure that it cannot be uttered with evil lips. He has written upon me his new name, and I am his. Such words can be uttered and uttered defiantly by you to the devil. Such words can be uttered to any voice in your head, to any blasphemer in your ear, or any persecutor that believes he has the upper hand. Dear friends, there are times to be encouraged in the faith, and today is one of those times. As it is true every Sunday, I do not know what each of you is going through. Each of you has personal trials that are very different from one another. And yet in those differences we all need the same encouragement. In the midst of your struggle, know that the glorified Savior has a door open for you He will bring your enemies to your feet. He will give you a crown. He will mark you and establish you in his presence so that no one can remove you. And he will mark you, mark you with his most holy name. For you who have ears of faith Hear what he is saying to the churches. Let us pray. Our gracious God, for this most holy of encouragements, certainly in times of trial for each that are here within my voice. We do pray that these words might go deep, that we might be confident before the devil, before any trial, before any situation. To know the door is open, to know we've been marked, to entrust that our soul is owned by you. May this be an encouragement to all who believe. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.