In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter 3. You'd be much served to uh to follow along. To understand the symbolism that's being used here, Revelation 3, beginning at verse 14. Last week we were encouraged by the Lord when we studied his letter to the church at Philadelphia. But every Sunday we can be encouraged because of the Easter story Jesus is no longer dead. He is risen. He tasted the bitter so that we could taste the sweet. Encouragement is good for the soul and often needed. From the other side, rebuke is needed also. Rebuke does not draw crowds or sell tickets, but it is as much needed as encouragement. The Church at Laodicea was lukewarm in its faith, and encouraging words would have allowed the church to remain in its present state. There is a saying that goes something like, God loves us just the way we are, and too much to let us stay that way. The saying applies to the church at Laodicea. The city itself was a prosperous one, and likely the most prosperous of the seven cities addressed by these seven letters by the risen Lord. The city had great wealth and financial independence. It had a textile industry which produced a very fine quality of black, glossy wool. It had a renowned scientific community with a prestigious medical school and an ISAV that is produced, known as that was produced, known as Phrygian powder. Which was well known even in the days of Aristotle, some 300 years prior. It appears from the content of this letter. that the prosperity of the city contributed to the church being lukewarm. Before he addressed the problems within the church, Jesus describes himself as the Amen. The faithful and true witness and the beginning of creation. These three titles have a Trinitarian reference as well as providing a resume. For his right to bear testimony against the church. The Amen is used by us after we pray and after we sing. It literally means so be it. The force of the phrase is much stronger than simply so be it. It is actually an oath. To say amen means to call a curse down upon oneself, meaning that if what is being said or promised is not true or goes unfulfilled, the person in question is to be damned. As the Amen, Jesus is making an oath that what he says and promises, he will do. As a faithful and true witness, he can be dependent upon to speak the truth. He is an infallible witness. As the beginning of creation, he is the ruler of all. St. Paul said the same in Colossians, speaking of Jesus, he says he is the image of the invisible God. The firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, both in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones, dominions, rulers, authorities, all things have been created by him. And for him. Having properly introduced himself in regard to the authority he has to judge the church, Jesus begins describing their standing before him. He describes them as lukewarm, and does so in relation to preferring either being hot or cold. In my younger days, I understood Jesus to be telling the church that he would prefer them to be hot for him, on fire for him, meaning that they were on-fire Christians, as we like to say. or cold for him, meaning that they were antagonistic to the gospel. Such a conclusion reveals how conditioned I was by my culture in the manner I understood what hot implied or what cold implied. I did not try to answer why the Lord would prefer a church being antagonistic, other than it might be an easier way to know what to do with such a people. Like me, you will likely be interested to know that the city of Laodicea was situated between two other important cities Hieropolis and Colossae. Colossae was in a valley surrounded by mountains, supplying it a fresh and cold water supply. Hieropolis was situated on the other side and higher up, and it was famous for a natural hot spring. People would come from around the region to bathe in its mineral-laden pools. From Hieropolis, the hot spring would flow down to Laodicea, where it cooled on the way. Thus, the point was that the waters at Laodicea were neither hot and healing, nor cool and refreshing. Like the waters that flowed through the city, so was the condition of the church. Compared to the cities that surrounded her, the church at Laodicea neither cured illness nor soothed dry lips. The church was good for nothing. The church was ineffectual For Jesus to say that he would prefer them to be hot or cold means that he would like them to be effectual in one manner or another. Instead, the church had no influence upon the society around her. From this rebuke, we can conclude, dear church, the Christian calling is not to blend in with pagan society, but to convert it And reform it, making it God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. In my opinion, of the seven churches addressed in Revelation The one most American churches identify with is the church at Laodicea. My opinion is fostered by the divorce rate in churches, abortion rates in churches Premarital sex rates amongst Christians, these today mirror the culture we are called to transform. It's quite popular, as you know, for Christians to gather on Sundays at what are being called mega churches. The leaders of these churches have one primary goal: get as many people in through the door as possible and make sure they give you some money. Reportedly, there are local churches that attract close to 2,000 people on a given Sunday, and there are churches across the United States, one that attracts 40,000 on a given Sunday. Thus, these institutions are successful at drawing a crowd, but how successful are they at changing the culture in which they worship? Where is the impact these megachurches have on the morality and faith of Carroll County? Where is the impact of these mega-mega churches upon the inner cities, suburban areas, or simply the homes of the families who attend those same churches? If a church does not provide a place of healing or a place of refreshing, it is lukewarm If a church does not strengthen families or turn the hearts of men from immorality or feed and clothe the sick and disease or convert lost souls, it does not have to do all of these, but at least one It is lukewarm. It is fair to ask that if a church is not transforming society, if it is not Christianizing the culture, or at least challenging the prominent sins of the culture, What good is it? If the salt has become tasteless, our Lord said, how will it be made salty again? It is good for nothing except to be thrown out and trampled underfoot by men. This is why Jesus says he will spew, spit, vomit the church. out of his mouth. There is no taste worth savoring. There is no effect worth digesting. As you know, the pandemic has put a lot more churches online to stream their services. Upon examining a few, I have discovered a pattern. Many of these churches are performing concerts with emotionally oriented music, followed by a short prayer and a sermon that is more like a counseling session. Beloved, the people of God don't need to be manipulated, they need to be fed. But the danger at Laodicea is more than being lukewarm. Laodicea has a perception of herself that is false. If you if you have ever dealt with a person who has a false perception of himself, you know how difficult it is to change his mind. A man who thinks he is funny will continue to tell jokes and laugh the loudest at himself than anyone else in the room. A man who is a poor athlete will continue to tell others how good he was in his day, not knowing that he is simply blowing smoke. A man who believes he is special because he has wealth will tell anyone who will listen about his newest car, his latest cruise, while the poor sap listening is trying to figure out how nicely to get out of the conversation The church at Laodicea thought she was rich and in need of nothing. Jesus breaks the news that the church is actually wretched, miserable, poor, blind, and naked. Earlier we described the economic wealth of the city. It is interesting that the categories of wealth shared by the city and the poverty that Jesus describes are the same. The city makes fine black wool, but the Christians there are naked. The city makes world-renowned eye salve, but the Christians there are blind. It is typical for our Lord to turn our perceptions of ourselves upside down. Where the Pharisees thought they were righteous, they were actually sinful. Where they thought they were humble, they were actually prideful. Jesus does the same to the church, proving that Christians are susceptible to the same sins as non-Christians. The blessing for us, the blessing for us is the opportunity we have been given to change, to repent. What Jesus offers the church in place of their poverty can only come from him. It is an offer of mercy. He offers them gold refined by fire, light garments to clothe them, and I salve to anoint their eyes so that they can actually see. The symbolism should be obvious. True faith and genuine works in response to God's mercy are described in Scripture as jewelry. The trial of faith, St. Peter says, is more precious than gold. Works done in faith are described by St. Paul to be gold, silver, and precious stones. Jesus can make what we do on this earth worth something beyond immediate gratification. The symbolism of white garments describes purity and covering as opposed to filth of sin and nakedness, which is shame. The ability to see is a description of true sight that identifies godliness and righteousness. Again, these are only available in Christ and no other. For a church that has been harshly criticized, these are actually hopeful words. It is hard. I know it is hard because I have been personally rebuked. It is hard to understand rebuke and discipline as an act of love. We falsely understand that saying nothing and requiring no repercussions is loving or merciful. Many times, including this time between the Lord and the church at Laodicea. Love and mercy are expressed in rebuke and discipline. This does not make sense to our flesh. It certainly is not how we would choose it to be for ourselves. And yet here is the Lord Jesus saying to the church that those whom he loves he rebukes and he disciplines. If our flesh tells us that we are not being loved, well our flesh is wrong. What the Lord requires of his people when they are confronted with sin is of course repentance. Repentance is not merely something done at conversion, never to be practiced again. If you came to the faith later in life and repented of your sins, that was just the beginning. The Christian life is a life of repentance. We repent corporately in worship and privately in prayer. And such prayers are not only daily, but frequently throughout the day. We are to be a people who repent. We confess our sins to the Lord and to one another, for we have to. The remarkable image we are given when the Lord tells us to repent. Is that he is at the door. Here I am, he says with emphasis. I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him and he with me. Evangelists in the 20th century used this image to call the unredeemed sinners to the faith in Christ, saying that Jesus was at the door of their heart and he's waiting for you to open to him. I'm not against such a use, but it is most important to understand that Jesus stands at the door of a Christian, the life of a Christian, and the life of the church. He is knocking on the door of Christians. Because he is knocking at the door, we realize that he is outside. And that is truly sad. The Lord is standing outside of his own church. He is the head of the church. It is his body. It is his bride. It is his namesake. And yet he stands outside. How did he get outside? The people who claimed to be for him and claimed to follow him shut him out. This is a grave circumstance indeed. But when we take pride in our wisdom and when we put trust in our flesh, we tend to go against the very thing we said we are fighting for. The remarkable aspect of this image is that Jesus would bother knocking. He has every right, I'm sure you will agree, to break the door down. He has every right to turn over the tables as he did in the temple. It is his house. Yet he stands at the door and knocks. As he knocks, he politely waits. He waits for the church for the Christian to answer. Moreover, we notice the intimacy he offers. He offers us his presence, and not just a presence that floats around like a ghost and watches us. He offers us a presence of eating with us. He will eat with us and us with him. As you know, eating a meal with another person, especially someone outside of the family, according to Jewish custom Was the greatest act of intimacy. Here is the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of God's creation, saying to us that He wants to eat with us. He wants to eat with his creation. He wants to eat with those who believe they are rich when they are not. He wants to eat with those who have pushed him out of his own house. He wants to eat with us who are in need of constant repentance from sin. In addition, not only does he want to eat with us He wants to give us the right to sit with him on his throne in heaven. Remarkable. Dear Church, What have we done to deserve his presence at our table, let alone a place at his side as he rules the nations? We have done nothing, and yet the offer is here for us to take. Words cannot express the graciousness of our God. Our hymns are all of a sudden inadequate. Our tunes are not worthy of his ears. Our prayers are utter nothing but babble when contrasted with what he is worthy to receive. And yet he still stands at the door and knocks. You will notice, dear church That the description he gives of himself standing at the door does not include a clause or a phrase that describes him ever leaving. He knocks and he waits. This reminds us that he takes no pleasure in men perishing. He has no pleasure in sinners not responding, and so he stands and waits for us to answer. Dear Church, if we have been ineffectual in the world, we are supposed to reform Let us repent and open the door. If we have perceived ourselves wrongly, believing that we were rich when in actuality we were poor before God, let us repent and open the door. If we have become like the world we are supposed to leave behind, let us repent and open the door. Upon reading this passage, he has knocked, and now he waits. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, give us the courage to open the door, to properly examine ourselves. And to allow you to come in, allow you to make reform. Allow you to make us more in your image. Father, eat with us this day. As we come around this table, may we recognize it is you that offers us the bread, it is you that offers us the wine, it is you that joins with us. We thank you for it. In Jesus' name. Amen.