It is a terrible feeling to come up to the pulpit and not see your sermon sitting there. Sorry to disturb like that. I've had to retrieve my iPad. Uh you would be well served to turn to Genesis chapter one So we are going to be covering Genesis chapter one. I begin by making an observation That there is great comfort, a feeling of inner warmth, that comes with the realization that our lives are connected, that there is purpose in our comings and in our goings, our living, our dying. Seeing interconnections and relationships that give our lives meaning and seeing that the meaning of our individual lives is part of a greater meaning, that's marvelous to understand and to behold. I will describe what I mean by way of example. I love my wife. I cannot imagine life in this world to be more complete with anyone else. And as I trace the events that led to our union, I marvel at what apparently needed to take place in order for us to meet, to fall in love, to be married. And the results of our marriage are children who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and who will live eternally with God And the Lord is now blessing them with love and help meets and children, and those children by the grace of God will believe and live eternally. Bobby Lynn and I are not the centerpiece of the story, of course not. To think otherwise would be arrogant and half-witted. But we are apart. Our lives fit within God's plan for His eternal kingdom. To know, to understand such a truth about our life brings great comfort Now nothing in the story of my life or your life happens by chance. Everything matters. Everything has a reason and a meaning. We might not see it in the immediate. We might not even see it in this life. But it is true. I believe it with all that is within me. And I wish for us to take that belief, that way of thinking, that everything has a reason and a meaning into the context of our next study. I will be preaching over the next several months, the Lord knows how long, from the book of Genesis. It was not too many years ago that we did a Bible study on Genesis. The preaching series we will, in this preaching series we will not be a verse-by-verse study, but instead a recognition of how the stories in Genesis describe how God will save his people. I do so anticipating that you have preconceived ideas about this book of beginnings. Many of the stories are so familiar you might think that you will not hear anything new. However Most sermons preached through Genesis have a moralistic tone about them. For example, Cain was jealous regarding Abel, and that is why he killed him. Thus we should learn from his actions and not be jealous. Those types of lessons are fine, of course, but moralizing everything has limited appeal and does not take much imagination. What I will be adding or attempting to add, you will have to judge for yourselves regarding my success, is a connection between the stories we are told in Genesis to the redemption of mankind through the person of Jesus Christ. Simply stated, I will attempt to reveal the gospel in its various forms within the stories told in Genesis. In doing so, I hope to show an interconnection in relationships, convincing you further that everything has a reason, everything has meaning, everything matters. As we walk through the book of Genesis, my overall goal is for our faith to be increased. We start our study in the beginning, not at, but in the beginning, for that is the first sentence in the text And it is the very meaning of the word Genesis. Genesis means beginnings. In the beginning, God created. We note that such a statement is a definitive statement, and it is one that can only be said about God. No one else creates but God The Hebrew word for creator is bara and is only used in reference to God. We can carelessly use the language of creation when we describe something like a piece of art or architecture. We might say that a certain building is the creation of a certain architect, or a painting is the creation of a certain painter. But in reality, they are simply reconfigures of what has already been created The adjective creator and the verb create can only be attributed to God. God, it says, created the heavens and the earth. The heavens are plural. The heavens are layers. What those layers will be used for will be discovered later. There appears, to the perspective of some, that there is a gap between verses 1 and 2. And verse 1, God created. In verse 2, the earth was without form and void. Is it possible that something happened to make it without form and empty? Of course, it is possible, but we can only speculate. The purpose of the text is not that we might speculate, but accept the fact that the earth was Form was without form and void. It is interesting that words like without form and void and darkness are used by the prophets. particularly Isaiah to describe God's judgment, making it possible that the earth at that time was under God's judgment. Although the earth is described in terms used for judgment, it is not left alone. It is not uncared for. God's Spirit broods over it. The Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. This is the state of the earth before God's second stage of work begins. Now, before we examine that work, we must pause and notice that the description of the earth is very much like the description of every man who was born to inhabit the earth, who is under the curse of Adam. The soul of a man is without form because he is under the broken covenant of Adam and therefore born a sinner. Our souls by themselves are utterly lifeless. The soul cannot respond to goodness, but is only prone to evil, and that continually, the scripture says. There is no one good, no not one. All we like sheep have gone astray. Each has turned to his own way. Men are dead in their trespasses and sins. The condition of mankind led the writer of the Ecclesiastes to pronounce that life is vanity, vanity of vanities, says the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Empty. The life of mankind is absurd. It is futile. It is even nonsense. It is without form. It is void, void of meaning. And darkness. Darkness covers the life and heart of a man. His heart is blackened by sin, and the blackness overwhelms his environment. The heart of man is so very black that he cannot do good for his fellow man without being motivated by his own interest. Everything man does is smudged by the black that is on his hands. And yet, although man, like the earth at the time of creation, was without form and void, and blackness covered the deep. So it covers the deep of the heart of man. But God's Spirit hovers. God's Spirit hovers over the heart of man The creature is helpless, but God is very near. Theologians call the hovering of the Spirit of God prevenient grace. Such grace is that which comes before. It is grace that is present while the sin of man is present. It is present before a man is forgiven. It reveals that God must be first to break man out of his sin. God must go before. God must initiate. Man cannot change his own formless, empty, darkened state. For man to be born anew, to be born again, as Jesus described it, he must be born from above. To change the earth's form, to fill its void, and to pierce the darkness. Genesis tells us that God speaks Then God said, Let there be light, and there was light. There is power in God's word spoken. When God speaks, it is true. It cannot be other. God speaks a word and it pierces the darkness. This is why in John's Gospel Jesus is described as the Word. To give the world form, to fill its void, and to pierce the darkness, God spoke words To give form to the dead souls of men, to fill the emptiness of the hearts of men, and to pierce the darkness brought on by sin, God spoke the word. He spoke Jesus, and there was light. In both the creation of the world and the redemption of man, the new transformation is the work of the word. Speaking of Jesus, we are told in him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness. As the creative work of God began, so it continues. God speaks and forms. He speaks and fills void He speaks and divides. As his work of transformation is described, we notice that it is progressive. Not culturally progressive, mind you. But that it was done not all at once, but in six successive days was creation perfected In nature, we we first have the first the blade and then the ear and and and then the full stock of corn to progress. So it is with grace. The birth of a new man is the beginning point. And there is much to grow into, and we should not forget that such growth takes time. A man is not fully mature, showing the glory of his Creator until he has grown, until he has endured. We cannot rightly judge another or even ourselves while we take shape, while we progress. St. Paul said as much when he told the Corinthians just that, that he did not even judge himself Each step, each phase is moving us closer and closer to the image of our Creator. Let us wait in patience. Knowing that he who has begun a good work in you will be faithful, faithful to complete it. The final thing we will notice about God's work of transformation is that it occurs in two great parts The first work of the first three days, which we read in our Old Testament reading, is certainly connected, but differs from the work of the last three days. In each half the order is the same. We are to notice that. The difference is that in the first three days the work is setting boundaries and dividing. In the last three, the work is furnishing and adorning. The setting of boundaries is like restraining. It is God placing parameters upon his creation. The character of each of his creations is then marked with a name. With the giving of each name in creation, we are privy to the thoughts of God. On the first day, light shines out and is divided from darkness. Thus, darkness at once is bound or is given parameters. Then light and darkness are each given a name. God called the light day and the darkness night. On the second day, God made the firmament and divided the waters. The firmament is separated from the earth, as it is, as it were, and is a boundary is set. It is divided within itself, leaving waters below and waters above. And God called the firmament above heaven. On the third day the land appears and is divided from the seas, but are given their boundaries as they are divided. God did this. He gave the dry land a name, earth, and the waters he called the seas. After each of these days he pronounces that what he has done is good. All is good, but not all is finished. After God has set boundaries and divided, he begins to furnish and adorn. The fourth day, he works to furnish what he created the first day. With the objects of illumination. In the firmament of the heavens, he made two great lights, one to rule by day and the other to rule by night. These objects are not merely practical, but beautiful in their own right. Their illuminating effects cause effects cause the rest of creation to sing, to call out. Since the first time mankind has experienced these heavenly effects, they have brought men and women to tears, inspired sonnets, and melodious compositions, because of their beauty. On the fifth day, God fills the firmament he divided on the second day with living creatures. He created creatures that fly above the earth, and great sea creatures that live within the waters. Each according to its kind God created. He did not make one like the other, but created them with numerous shapes, sizes, and colors. Their forms and colors became standard bearers for what is beautiful, bright, and cheery. On the sixth day, God furnished and adorned what he created the third day: the land, the earth. He made every living creature according to its kind. He made creatures that creep, that crawl, that walk on four feet and two. He made some with fur and some without. He made some with toes, some with hoofs, and some with slit hoofs He made some pink, some gray, some yellow, some orange, some spotted, some striped, and some with no markings whatsoever. And he made the most beautiful creature, wonderful creature of all. A creature made in his own image. God made man on the sixth day. In the image of God he created him, male and female, he created them. And when he was finished, God looked upon all that he had created and said, it was very good. The division of the six days of creation into two parts, each consisting of three days, is to be understood in light of our spiritual regeneration. Those who follow Christ, who who press on to the perfect man, as Paul calls it, will readily know the importance of three days. Just as creation must be bound to set boundaries and then divided so that every man be there be for there to be much about ourselves that needs to be bound. Parameters must be placed upon us so that we will not be led astray. We are warned by the apostle to flee from the sins of our youth We are to no longer live for ourselves, but to die the self, to live to God. The body and the spirit are at odds. The body needs to submit to the spirit Our minds and our tongues are to be placed in parameters as well. We are to be renewed in our minds and bridle our tongues, being quick to listen, slow to speak. As new creations, we are submitting to have what was once natural to us restraint. At the same time, we are taught to call things as God calls them. And after this, when we have submitted and called things as God does, it is the third day. It is resurrection day. The work to fill and to adorn is ready to begin. Jesus told the parable, and we read it in our New Testament reading. of the man who had multiple evil spirits cast out of him. When the evil spirits left, they roamed for a time, failing to find a body to inhabit. They decided to go back to that man again, although they found his body clean, swept clean He had not been filled by the Spirit of God. And so they entered him, more numerous than before. Jesus uses the parable to teach us of the importance of being filled with the Spirit of God. Getting rid of evil, placing parameters in one's life is only the beginning. We must be filled with the Spirit, the Spirit of God. We must replace evil vice with good. We must be adorned with good works. Just as there is variety in the shapes and sizes and colors of God's other creative works, and within those works is natural beauty So does God adorn man with the beauty of righteous works. A man who has been adorned by God is a beautiful man. He is aesthetically pleasing to look upon, being righteous in all of his ways. God looks upon him and says, it is very good. I have tried to speak somewhat poetically to what I will now state plainly. The creation account in Genesis chapter 1 is a parallel, a parallel to the new creation account of a man's soul. God's pattern of work seen in creation is the same pattern as what he does in redemption. It all fits. The same God who creates makes us new creations. We are darkened by sin, and yet his spirit broods over us. We are formless and void, and he speaks the living word Jesus Christ to give light and life to our souls. He places boundaries to restrain us And once resurrected with Christ, he adorns us with righteousness. And as he does with all he creates, he gives us, the scripture says, a new name. From now on, when we think upon God as creator, I trust we will include our salvation. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we thank you, Holy Spirit, for opening our eyes to see a story of creation Of this earth that we live and enjoy, see also the new life you give to each one who calls upon you. May we praise you all the more to realize you have made us new creations. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.