In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be be seated. You do well to turn to First Peter chapter two starting at verse four. First Peter two starting at verse four. It is I believe unfortunate that modern cynics and critics of Christians Equate political conservatism with Christians and with Christianity. This may be a leftover Cause and effect from the days of the nineteen eighties when some of the more popular and outspoken Christian evangelicals aligned themselves with political conservatives and took on the title moral majority. The presumption behind the name moral majority was that the majority of American citizens were Christian, and because they were Christian They accepted the morality of the Bible as the standard by which the United States should be governed. The problem with the presumption was that it was incorrect. The majority of American citizens were not Christian, and therefore they did not accept the Bible, the Bible's morality, as the standard in which they wished to be governed. Yes, it is true that the majority of American citizens in the 1980s claimed to be Christian and some and had some type of Christianity in their family background. But we know from Holy Scripture that that does not make you a Christian. But the equating of political conservatism with Christians in the United States has remained. And thus has made for some very unjust criticism laid at the feet of Christians today as if the hypocrisy of Christians and the Christian Church Can easily be spotted in political issues that are at the forefront of our modern media and present politics. An example is the issue of abortion. Critics challenge Christians that if you are going to insist on caring for the life of the unborn, then we should start caring for the lives of those already born. The argument is based on a presupposition that Christians are not caring for the already born, even while that presupposition has no argumentative merit to stand on. In our little corner of the world, we offer education at an affordable price for children already born. And we offer an education that teaches children about the world and about the God who created them and died to save them. And we offer scholarships to children who come from families that can't afford sending their children to our academy. And we do so because we care about the least among us. That is just a small example of how Christians are caring for children already born. The next example is the critique that Christians don't care for refugees. Evidently When a Republican president signs an executive order to halt the acceptance of refugees from certain countries that are currently harboring Islamic terrorists That such an act is actually the Christian church or individual Christians signing the order. Therefore, Christians hate refugees and especially hate Muslims. That conclusion then leads to the accusation of hypocrisy, for we are not living up to the standards, they say, of the Bible. As it instructs God's people to accept foreigners into our homes and to love all people as Jesus did. The Bible really doesn't say that exactly. And if you and I are similar, we don't know what correct approach should be used regarding immigration and refugees. Just as the Right Reverend Foley, presiding bishop of the Anglican Church in North America, recently wrote in regards to these issues, he said they are too complex And we don't have all the information that is being used to make decisions for us to know what the Christian thing is to do. Thus, we simply need to pray for our leaders. And for the average citizen to pretend that they have all the information needed is just plain arrogance. That last part is my commentary, not the bishop's. What we can know for sure is that any refugee That we have the capability of personally helping is to be treated as our Good Samaritan moment For he is our neighbor, no matter his religious faith. And at the same time, we are to pray for our government leaders who make complex decisions For their biblical responsibility is to protect the citizens they serve, no matter their party. It is this preacher's evaluation that those who criticize the Christian Church and criticize Christians are suffering from a narcissistic sentimentalism. A narcissist is someone who is intensely and unhealthily thinking about themselves. And adds sentimentalism to the diagnosis And we see and hear people believe themselves to be more caring, more loving, and thus more sensitive to the needs of others than anyone else, especially more than Christians. It would be a failure, I perceive, for us to try to outsentimental them. You cannot outdo a narcissist. For he perceives himself as a narcissist to be the standard of caring, and you can't outdo his perception. Instead, we are to do as Peter is doing in this epistle and in this section that we are examining. With St. Peter's description of the uniqueness of Christians, here in this section, we are then to act as we are described. And how we are described is separate from the world. We are in the world, but not of the world, which is to say, we are not products of this world. But instead we are citizens of the kingdom of God, and that's how St. Peter wants us to live. You'll note in this section that St. Peter has a few metaphors that he's mixing together, and the one overriding metaphor is the temple of God. Which we recall in the Old Testament, the temple was the place where God dwelt to meet with his people. But the temple Peter describes is spiritual. It is similar to the house that Jesus said he will build in three days. You remember that exchange between the Pharisees. He was looking at Herod's temple and made the challenge to to break it down and he will build it in three days. Of course, he was not talking about the physical temple, but himself And his resurrection was the rebuilding. And the people he saves. You and me are the stones that he uses to build that spiritual temple that Jesus will reign in forever. And such a building we are to understand as a privilege to be a part of. Such a building is unique. And only inhabited by Jesus and those he has redeemed by his blood. The metaphor of being a part of the temple breaks down if we are mere cold stones. St. Peter then corrects it by calling Christians living stones. But what is a living stone? Well, it is firm and it is in place, but it is also living in that it grows and that it is relational. And next, St. Peter refers to Christians again as elect, as he did in chapter one, elect. Another way to understand the uniqueness of being Christian is that you were chosen by God to believe. Again, not by human decision, as St. John told us. In the context of being a part of the elect, is an emphasis on being different than the rest of the world around us. Being elect is like being Israel of the Old Testament. They were the elect of God. And this moves Peter to use another metaphor that should be surprising to us. He calls Christians a holy priesthood. That should surprise us because the priesthood, as described in the law of Moses, is quite a unique and special calling that was limited to only the tribe of Levi, but also limited in regards to who could be a priest to enter inside the temple and even enter inside the Holy of Holies but once a year. Considering the priesthood's regulations and restrictions and requirements in regards to dress, in regards to how they were to move about in worship. It was a very small number who could be a holy priest. But that highlights for us what Jesus accomplished for all who believe in him. His atonement, his resurrection, his ascension makes us, each of us, a holy priesthood. And we have to be, in order to enter that spiritual temple that Jesus is building, we have to be a part of the Holy Priesthood. But there is more to being a holy priesthood. The priests in the house of Levi were given a restriction. And that they were not to be given any land. No property were they to own. Even if they didn't enter the temple, they still could not have property. And consider why. If you own property, you spend a great deal of time and energy and your attention on caring for and protecting the land you own. And what was the responsibility of the Levites? It was to serve the Lord Thus they didn't have property, so that their attention would be on serving the Lord, not serving any land. And when we take the metaphor of Christians being a holy priesthood and apply it to our Christian lives in this world, We can recognize that just as the Levite priests were not to have their time and energy taken away from serving the Lord, So too are Christians not to have their time and energy taken away by the things this world would have us be doing, that would take us away from our primary duty, which is to serve the Lord. I realize I must qualify what I just said because it can sound sound like I'm dissuading you and other Christians who hear me To not get involved with political or moral issues or movements. And that is not at all what I am saying. What I'm saying is that our involvement in anything that is of the world is to be for the sake of the gospel, which is the purpose of the kingdom of God. Christians are to approach issues that involve us in this world in a different manner than everyone else. And so we care about political issues from the vantage point of being holy priests. We get involved in moral issues as holy priests. So I trust that you can see that our calling to be involved in the world is a higher calling rather than a lesser calling. Consider for a moment what you expect of me. And try to apply that to your place in the world. In a time of crisis, you expect me to be available And that when I arrive to have living words, God's words, to heal and to point to what matters and to lift up, that is what the world needs of all of us. In times of confusion, you expect me to have an eternal perspective and a calm that provides trust. That is what the world needs from Christians. In times of depression or times of elation, you expect me to pray and to know what to pray. That is what the world needs Christians to be And you can't choose this role of holy priest. That is what you have been made if you believe in Jesus. You have been made holy priest in this world. The call is what all of us are. We only need to decide how well we are going to do what we have been ordained, if I can use that word, to do. To be holy priests in the world by providing living words to heal, truth that calms, and prayers that give peace. To do so is to offer up ourselves As spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Isn't that what Peter says? Such offerings, St. Paul says, are our reasonable duty, considering all that Jesus has offered up for us. Well, St. Peter continues his metaphor of the temple and moves into describing Jesus as the chief cornerstone. And we should all note the irony here of Peter referring to Jesus as the cornerstone, for Peter was that rock that Jesus said he would build his church upon. But Peter here acknowledges there is no rock that is like Jesus. Jesus is the rock that has been carefully cut and carefully placed so that the kingdom of God could only be built with him. as the chief or necessary cornerstone. Jesus is that cornerstone the prophet Isaiah described. And all who believe in him to be that cornerstone will receive the hopeful promises he has made. And yet there is a problem. Peter recognizes it through the prophets. Not everyone believes. Many will reject Jesus because they are offended by him. And they will stumble, being offered by him, stumble because of him. And it says here by Peter, because of their disobedience. And this is where the line is drawn with every generation that chooses not to believe. It is the line that is made when people insist that they are going to do what they want to do. They're going to live their lives if they want to live their lives. They aren't going to be like in judges doing what is right in their own eyes. You know, the Barna group, the Barna group did a study last year that examined American public attitudes towards Christians. And the overall finding was that more people than ever, on average, find Christians, believers in Jesus, to be extremists, simply because they believe. The Barner Group speculates that American society on average is growing increasingly uneasy with any person or persons who take their religious faith seriously. Concluding that anyone who says he or she believes in something is automatically susceptible to become radical. And as a radical, he or she is then capable of acts of terror on behalf of his or her beliefs. And while it may be true as to why more Americans don't trust professing Christians I counter that there is no difference in reasoning as to why secularists dislike Christians and dislike the Christian church. No difference than it has been since the first century. It was then because Jesus claimed that there was absolute truth and that he was the absolute truth. The predominant mind of the Jewish Pharisees in Jesus' day was that no person had a grasp on absolute truth. Many rabbis had good points, but they didn't get at the truth. And Jesus said not only did he get at the truth, but that he was the truth. And people followed him and they hated him for it. And I say it is the same today Jesus, as we say and preach of him today, is the truth and speaks the truth. I see this play out in my logic class every year as I introduce the law of non-contradiction. The law of non-contradiction states that a statement cannot be true and false at the same time. And that rule is readily accepted by the students until I use the example, the statement, God exists. The statement God exists is not the same as saying I think God exists. That's what we call a self-report, and nobody's threatened by what you think. But the plain statement God exists, that puts people in a corner. Because that statement is either true for everyone or false for everyone. And then you put in Pascal's wager, which essentially says that if I'm a believer in God and God and all my life and God does not exist, then when I die I will be like everyone else and become worm food. But if God does exist and I say he doesn't, then when I die, I have someone to answer to. And the wager simply says, which one do you want to bet on? That he exists or that he doesn't In verse 9 of chapter 2, Saint Peter brings the uniqueness of Christians to a crescendo by calling us a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's own people, a people no longer living in darkness, but living in light, a people who have received mercy. From this description, we are to notice that our identity is not as individual people, not as individuals, but as a people as a whole. And from this description, we are not to think of ourselves as superior than unbelievers, for we are only where we are by God's mercy. Read verse 11 and 12 with me. 11 and 12. Beloved, I beg you as sojourners and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. having your conduct honorable among the Gentiles, that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your own by your good works, which they observe, glorify God in the day of visitation. What does St. Peter want us to do with the uniqueness of our identity? He wants us to be in the world, but not of the world. He wants us to pull back and behave differently than the unbelievers around us. He wants us to live our lives in accordance with the uniqueness that God has given us. God wants us to be aware that the unjust criticism spewed toward Christians is to be expected. After all, Jesus the perfect man, falsely accused. So we who are not perfect are even more likely to be falsely accused. Our concern is that we would get worn down by accusations. That they get repeated so often and we can't avoid them that we would cave because we get tired of it. Well so we say that maybe that simple sexual lifestyle isn't as bad as I once thought it was Maybe humans can decide that they can determine what is life and and what is not, etc. , etc. Worn down But no, no, St. Peter tells us, we are a holy priesthood. Thus we do as God the Father would have us do. And he wants us to be Jesus in the world. Be Jesus to a lost and dead world. We are peculiar to the world, and God is charging us to live like it. Let us pray. Now, Father, we take the words from Saint Peter. Apply them to our current condition, to a struggling culture in America. And we hear the challenge. We hear the challenge of what it means to be a holy priesthood. None of us can ignore that. None of us can avoid it. It's what you call us. And so with that challenge, we take it up. We take that charge. And we look for ways that we can be that to the world that is dead, that needs resurrection. And so strengthen us as you have, convict us as you will, that we might live this uniqueness out. This we pray in Jesus' name and all of God's people said, Amen