In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The sermon this morning is derived from our reading from Jeremiah twenty-three And then from a reading of the Gospel of John chapter 6, so you can bounce back and forth with me. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. , is credited with this quote, some people are so heavenly-minded they are of no earthly good. The same sentiment is found in a song by Johnny Cash called The Rambler, where he sings, You're shining your light, and shine it you should. But you're so heavenly minded you're no earthly good. The criticism that some Christians are so heavenly minded that they are not, or no earthly good It's a catchy turn of a phrase, but is it warranted? Is it a true criticism? Amy Grant had a similar thought in a song early in her career called Mountaintop. Here are some of the lyrics. I love to sing and I love to pray. Worship the Lord most every day. I go to the temple and I just want to stay, to hide from the hustle of the world and its ways. And I'd love to live on a mountaintop, fellowshipping with the Lord. I'd love to stand on a mountaintop, because I love to feel my spirit soar. But I've got to come down from that mountaintop to the people in the valley below, or they'll never know that they can go to the mountain of the Lord. Again, it is fair to ask, is this really a problem? Are people spending too much time with the Lord Jesus in worship? and devotion that they have become neglectful of their fellow man. No person was ever so heavenly minded than Jesus of Nazareth, and yet he was also very helpful to his fellow man. So let us look more closely at how helpful Jesus was in the feeding of the 5,000. Again, John chapter 6, we pick up at verse 5. So Jesus sees the multitude and he turns to Philip and he asks Philip a question. And we know why he asked Philip, because Philip was from that region. We learn this from chapter one, that he was from Bethsaida. He would have known the food vendors in the area, and perhaps even knew somewhat of their inventory. Verse 6 tells us that something was about to happen. Philip anticipated something was about to happen. He raises the stakes on the situation and points out that it would take 200 days of wages in order to feed all of the men who were there and their families. Philip seems to be challenging Jesus to reveal himself by pointing out the odds against him of successfully feeding over five thousand people. In verse 9, we hear of two of the disciples. Only John among the four gospel writers mentions Philip and Andrew by name in this pre-miracle moment. The others refer generally to the disciples. And only John mentions that the boys' loaves were barley loaves, the inexpensive bread of the lower classes. The fish were no doubt small. We can think of pickled small fish. And these were added to a lunch to make that coarse bread a little bit more interesting. Verse 10 reveals what all the gospel state, and that 5,000 was the number of adult men present. That means that adding women and children, there may have been several times that number actually present to be fed. In verse 11, we are to notice that the word for gave thanks is the verb form of the word Eucharist. Many readers of John's Gospel would not fail to make the connection to the sacrament of Holy Communion Though, truth be told, John does not take advantage of every possible way relating the miracle itself to the Lord's Supper For example, he doesn't mention that Jesus broke the bread, which the Gospel of Mark describes. Jesus took the bread and broke it. John's emphasis falls rather on the supply of food, stating that everyone ate as much as he wanted, and there was still much left over. The instruction to gather up the food left over led to the tradition of clergy consuming the communion bread entirely after it has been distributed. As verse 13 states, there was indeed much more left over than they had in the beginning. All four gospel writers mentioned the number 12 in regards to the baskets, which must be a significant number, for there was enough food for all of God's people, pointing to the 12 tribes of Israel. There is enough left over, but there was no waste by the express command of the Lord. The gathering up of the food is a sign of its preciousness, just as it is with Holy Communion. The men mentioned in verse 14 is generic, so we can interpret it to mean those who received the bread concluded that Jesus was not just a prophet, but the prophet. And that prophet is the one described in our reading from the prophet Jeremiah. He is the righteous branch and the king. That will reign and prosper, executing judgment and justice in the earth, and his name is the Lord our righteousness. The context of the passage from our reading from Jeremiah finds the citizens of Israel threatened by the big bad Babylonians. The Babylonian captivity is the period in Jewish history during which a large number of Judeans from the ancient kingdom of Judah were made captives in the Babylonian Empire. The captivity followed after a defeat known as the Jewish Babylonian War and the destruction of Solomon's temple in Jerusalem. These events are described in the Old Testament, and we should know We should know the historicity of these stories because they are proved both archaeologically and other non-biblical evidence. Where Jeremiah chapter 23 fits in is after a warning given to the sons of Josiah, and specifically Jehoiakim, king of Judah. Jeremiah's words were fulfilled after the Battle of Carchimish in 605 BC, when the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II besieged Jerusalem, which resulted in tribute being paid by the Judean king Jehoiakim. However, in the fourth year of Nebuchadnezzar II's reign, Jehoiakim refused to pay further tribute. which led to another siege of the city in Nebuchadnezzar II's seventh year. That cultivated in the death of Jehoiakim and the exile to Babylonia of his successor, Jaconia. along with his court and many others. Jaconia's successor, Zedekiah, and others were exiled in Nebuchadnezzar II's eighteenth year A later deportation occurred in Nebuchadnezzar II's 23rd year. The dates, numbers of deportations, the number of deportees given in biblical accounts is not exactly known. Thus in the midst of the threat of deportation, Jeremiah describes a time When God's people who are scattered abroad will be brought back into the land, being led by a man whom God will raise to lead them According to the book of Ezra and Nehemiah, a number of decades later, 538 BC, almost that 70-year prophecy plan. The Jews in Babylon were allowed to return to the land of Israel due to King Cyrus's decree. Initially, around 50,000 Jews made the trip to the land of Israel. following that decree by Cyrus, as described by Ezra, whereas most remained in Babylon. Later an unknown number of exiles returned from Babylon with Ezra himself. That's the important part. The return of the deportees to Judah during the next 110 years is known as the return to Zion, an event by which Jews ever since have been inspired. Thus it is fair to ask whether such a return, led by Ezra, is or was a fulfillment of Jeremiah's prophecy in chapter 23. After all, the people returned from the north country, and Babylon was north of Israel, just as the prophecy describes. They returned from all surrounding countries, again as the prophecy describes. Ezra was a righteous man who insisted that the law of God be followed even to the extent you remember the story even to the extent of forcing interfaith marriages to be broken, for such was breaking of the law of God. Could he be considered the man called the Lord our righteousness? Could he be the fulfillment of Jeremiah 23? Some can easily think so. But we can answer no, because Israel was not of the house of Judah, which the Lord our righteousness must be. Now, if the Lord our righteousness is Jesus, we still have another problem. Jesus did indeed fulfill the title of being righteous. He also was of the house of Judah, so that requirement can be checked off. And while Jesus has brought into God's kingdom people from all points of the earth He has not brought all to Judah, nor are all of his people safe, as the prophecy describes. You ask, preacher, what is your point? The point is that even though we can identify Jesus as the person being described by Jeremiah We must also recognize that what is described about Jesus has not been wholly fulfilled. Whether you are an all-millennialist A premillennialist? A post-millennialist? Those are words referring to how you interpret end-time prophecies. You are able to recognize that there is a good deal more that needs to be done to fulfill the prophecies about Jesus. And where these prophecies will ultimately be fulfilled is in heaven. This is underlined based on the point I made last week, which is that Christianity is a faith about the future. And the ultimate future is heaven. Saying again that without heaven, as our hope, there is no Christian faith. Now, the heaven that I speak of is not what is now. What we know about heaven in the present is that it is where Jesus resides, and the souls of those who have died having faith in him also reside. It is not the heaven of First Corinthians fifteen and Revelation twenty-one. Those heavens are when all of the faithful are gathered, all with eternal bodies, all within the eternal kingdom of Jesus, forever and ever. Turning back to the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000, there is a more important point to make. Which is that the miracle itself was important at revealing who Jesus was, as it was not important to just feed a large group of people one meal. That Jesus could break bread and it would multiply was an unexplainable miracle that had to seem like a sleight of hand being pulled off. There is no manner of Hollywood magic that could do justice to what Jesus did here. And any Jewish person who knew their scriptures would remember that the promised Messiah was to lead the people as a type of Moses. And so just as Moses seemingly provided the people with bread from heaven, so does Jesus provide the people with bread. Again, another box to check off to assure who Jesus was. But the people The people who received that bread did not understand that Jesus was pointing to something much bigger than a meal for the day. He was pointing them to heaven from where the first manna fell. And we can know that the people did not understand what Jesus was doing by feeding them, for after this miracle, Jesus feels the tension among the people. They're going to try to make him an earthly king. They want him as their king because he can feed them their daily bread. He can provide for them so that they don't have to depend on the Romans or their crops or their fishing nets. They think Jesus is the perfect king because he is intelligent enough to reason past the Romans, and he gives people free stuff. Sounds familiar? But Jesus avoids this political rally by escaping and finding a place to be alone. When John continues the story, and we didn't read this part, you can read on. When John continues the story about bread, he describes a multitude of people seeing Jesus and going after him. And when the crowd finds him, Jesus confronts them regarding their motivation. John writes this. Jesus answered them and said, Most assuredly I say to you, you seek me, not because you saw the signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not labor for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to everlasting life, which the Son of Man will give you, because God the Father has set his seal on him. That Jesus practiced this type of confrontation is not heard of in churches today. Many don't know what to do with this type of confrontation. Think about what's going on here. Such is difficult for modern Western Christians to consider. Jesus Points to their motivation to follow him and identifies it as selfish and says it without apology, without hesitation. Jesus knows the hearts of men. And when he reveals what he knows, it can be difficult to take. In the time which we live, and the type of people our culture is producing, this type of confrontation would not be received. Jesus, at the moment such was spoken, would be canceled. We don't allow for people to reveal who we really are. We prefer who we want people to think we are. But let us notice the instruction Jesus provides He tells his followers who are following him, following him just to get another free meal, that they are not even to work for food In this life, because it perishes. But instead, they are to work for food that gives eternal life. And Jesus is the source of such food. And this is where we connect our reading from Jeremiah to the people eating miracle food. Both are telling us to get our eyes off of the earthly and look to what is heavenly. Look to the hope of your salvation, which is heaven, as opposed to what can be collected on earth. But what about those warnings against being so heavenly-minded, you're no earthly good? Ignore them. Don't listen to them. Amy Grant was was never and is not a source of ripe biblical knowledge. Here is the truth. Those who think upon heaven first are more free from concerns of this life, and those who are more free can be more effective and constructive for the kingdom of heaven. Consider that those who focused on earthly things would have believed Ezra was the Messiah prophesied about in Jeremiah 23. Those who focused on Jesus being an earthly king stopped believing in him and following him when he refused them. One of the reasons Jesus was crucified was how he had disappointed those who followed him based on their political aspirations to overthrow Rome and make Israelites governors of their own land. And people continue to look to Jesus politically to this very day and expect him to establish his kingdom by some political means. Consider how many ways Jesus teaches his followers not to focus on things of this world. The woman at the well was told not to be concerned with the water from the well, but instead be concerned about the eternal water that Jesus represented. In his first public teaching, Jesus told those who would listen not to worry about their daily bread or the clothes that they will wear, but instead pursue the kingdom of God, which is heaven. But what about wars and earthquakes and fires and floods? Jesus said those are just birth pangs. Concern yourself with the kingdom of heaven. What about the type of work we should do on the Sabbath? His answer: focus on heaven. What about paying taxes? Give to Caesar what is Caesar's and focus on heaven. What about if we have more than one spouse? What's heaven going to be like then? Don't worry about your spouse's focus on heaven. What about my parents' estate that I need to take care of? Focus on heaven. What about my fishing business? What about my tax business? Focus on heaven. What about my own life? Focus on heaven. There are some things that are unclear in Scripture, such as what type of mode of baptism is best, or how will the second coming unfold. But there are also many things that are painstakingly clear. And of those things, one is to focus on heaven. The colic for today, the Sunday before Advent, was a favorite of Bishop Cox. And I was remembering that fondly this week as I prepared this sermon. Stir up, we pray. Who here needs to be stirred up? We can become so very caught up with worldly thoughts that we are no heavenly good. The prayer asks that we be stirred up to do the works of God so that so that we are plentiously rewarded. That is heaven, folks. Heaven is our plenteous reward. So let us be heavenly-minded so that we can do some earthly good. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for the words of your Son. And we thank you for the work of your son and all that he pointed us toward. May that be where our attention is, to your kingdom in heaven, that we might be some earthly good. We pray this in Jesus' name, Amen