In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Again, Isaiah, the Spirit of the Lord of God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to preach good tidings to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all who mourn, to console those who mourn in Zion, to give them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning. The garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. There are some who believe the words in Isaiah to be describing Isaiah himself. Well, if they do, that is saying a great deal about Isaiah. But Isaiah knew he was speaking of someone besides himself. After all, he was a prophet, a very mouthpiece for God. I trust you noticed that the description of the ministry of the Messiah is virtually repeated by Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount as recorded in the Gospel according to St. Matthew, starting at chapter 5. So that's where we're going this morning, Matthew chapter 5. And I encourage you to turn in your Bibles with me And follow along. It will be to your benefit. Matthew chapter 5, beginning at verse 1. Why study the prophet's words when we can study how Jesus fulfilled the prophet's words? The section we will look at is also known as the Be Attitudes. which is a word derived from the Latin meaning blessed or happy. If we use happy, we should not think about smiling or emotions or a mental state, but instead a person's entire life. It is a more objective description than a subjective one. Some would use the phrase gladness of heart. Verse 12 captures it by the phrase, rejoice and be glad. Because this sermon was preached to the Lord's disciples, the Beatitudes are in a way a description of the Christian character or the attitudes and commitments a Christian makes in his or her life as he or she lives out the favor of God that he has placed upon his or her life. We also can't help but notice that the opposite way of thinking and living would be the life of a worldly man Thus there are also warnings in these beatitudes, in that to live in the opposite manner is not to be living out the favor that God has made upon your life. And consider the structure of each be attitude. The first half provides us with what a disciple is, the second half provides what a disciple obtains. And I would like to make a challenge before we examine each one of these. The challenge is to acknowledge that every person claiming to be Christian should be living out every one of these beatitudes in some measure. It is the immature mind that works on some of them but not all of them and it is the stubborn character to say that you are the way you are and you're not changing And thus everyone has to put up with you. No, you are to work on each of these if you confess Jesus as your Lord. In Matthew chapter five, verse one, Jesus sets the stage quite literally. As he chooses a spot to preach that can hold a crowd and provide a theater type setting so that the most possible people can hear his voice. If you visit Israel, where it is believed this sermon took place, you will see a very beautiful setting that has been commercialized to an extent, but done tastefully As the natural beauty of the area is respected. In verse 2, the phrasing is a Hebraic expression That is the opposite of chance. And what I mean by that is that everything he is about to say is purposeful. It's not just speaking off the top of his head. So verse three. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The word poor refers to poverty of spirit, not of material wealth. Though the Lord elsewhere teaches us that the rich have a greater difficulty being poor in spirit, the trapping seems to be that we can become self-sustaining. Simply put, you don't pray because you can pay. This allows us to see a connection between material poverty and the poverty of spirit. The poor, whether spiritually poor or monetarily poor or both, are precisely those people who have no other recourse but their hope and trust in God. They rely upon the Lord because they know they cannot rely upon themselves. Their resources are inadequate or depleted. Disciples of Jesus are to know themselves to be morally and spiritually destitute. That has to be understood before you can seriously follow Jesus. That's where the Christian life begins. It is no accident that this beatitude comes first. Remember, Jesus says that the kingdom of heaven is theirs. Is theirs. Present tense. It is not only that it will be theirs at some point in the future. It is already is, even though when we look around and the world is the same as before when we started following Jesus. In the following Beatitudes, there's going to be more emphasis that will fall on fulfillment in the future. But that future is already present in principle As the Bible so often reminds us, theologians like to call it the already, not yet position of every Christian this side of heaven. Verse four. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. The idea of mourning here is primarily that of suffering, but not suffering for the sake of suffering, but for reasons of faith. Again, we can clearly see that the first two beatitudes are drawn, influenced by Isaiah chapter 61, where both the poor and those who mourn are mentioned. They mourn, note this, they mourn not selfishly, as if their only interests were greater peace, happiness, and prosperity for themselves. But they mourn for the apparent slowness of God's justice. God's justice is what delivers a person from his own sins. And to bring righteousness to the world. Thus, their mourning, or better, our mourning, is on account of loyalty to God. And a desire to see his glory revealed to the world. The writer of Psalm 119 says it this way. My eyes shed streams of tears because men do not keep your law. That's the same heart. There is the idea that such people will have their comfort in due time. And please note that comfort and the kingdom of heaven are describing the same thing. Verse five. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. The meek Are those who are content to wait upon the Lord for the accomplishment of His will, even while experiencing disappointment and suffering, personal disappointment and suffering? Jesus describes it elsewhere as dying to self or taking up your own cross to follow him. It is a willingness to not insist upon your own rights, your own needs, or your own wants. The same word is used to describe the Lord's own character later in Matthew 11. It is not weakness as the world often thinks of weakness, for it requires a the greatest spiritual strength to be meek in a world like ours With hearts like ours. And now again, I qualify that this is not a meekness that is necessarily practiced in all situations. It is in the context of the gospel being preached and the gospel being stood for. Jesus doesn't call us to be meek on the basketball court or while hunting. But there can't always be more meekness about us in everyday life. This beatitude is almost a direct quotation from Psalm 37. There in the Old Testament, the meek will inherit the land, and by that he means the promised land. And so we see Jesus here repeating the same principle but universalizing the promise. They will receive the entire earth. God will give the meek what they did not and would not grasp for themselves in this life. And note that inheriting the earth is connected to the kingdom of heaven, is connected to being comforted. Verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. There is an unfortunate debate. Whether the righteousness here should be taken to refer to a social righteousness, what we would call social justice, or personal righteousness or personal holiness. In the context of the beatitudes that follow, perhaps especially from chapter 5, verse 20, it is likely that Jesus here means a desire for personal holiness. The they will be filled, indicates that God's grace is necessary for this righteousness to be experienced. For righteous living in itself. In other words, it's not a human achievement. Our righteousness comes from Jesus Himself And it's also something we should purposefully desire. And again, to be filled is to inherit the earth, is to be comforted, is to have the kingdom of heaven. Thus, the first four beatitudes can be said to express a disciple's utter dependency on the Lord while also promising the greatest of futures a human being can hope for. Verse seven. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. There is a principle here for the Christian to show mercy to his fellow human beings, and that principle is taught in the Lord's Prayer. Or we are to forgive as we have been forgiven. And we are told that to whom much is given, much is required. When you take inventory of how much you have been forgiven, it is much harder to withhold mercy. And receiving mercy from God is connected to inheriting the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, to being comforted, to inheriting the earth, to being filled. Verse eight. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. This beatitude is drawn from the well-known Psalm 24, where those who have kept themselves from idols are said to be pure of heart. Purity here refers to that quality of undivided loyalty to God expressing itself in moral uprightness. This purity, Jesus teaches, goes down to the bottom of a believer's life and controls a believer's attitudes and thoughts as well as a believer's actions. It is in the heart, deep inside, in the secret place of a person's life, that most people do not expect to find, do not even think is necessary to find purity. But Jesus requires it there, first of all, because out of the heart, he says, flows the choices we make in life. Believers already see God, in a sense, in this world by faith, seeing him who is invisible, as the writer of Hebrews puts it But they will see him literally and in a fully realized sense in the world to come. It is as Jesus said to Thomas, Because you have seen me, you believe. Blessed are those who have not and yet still believe. The promise to see God It's the same as obtaining mercy, which is the same as being filled, which is the same as inheriting the earth, which is the same as being comforted, which is the same as having the kingdom of heaven. Verse nine. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God The absence of self-ambition, which is found in the earlier Be Attitudes, now comes to expression in a life devoted to blessing others. The merciful, the peacemakers, bringing peace to others as God has brought peace to them The Father, the Heavenly Father, is a peacemaker, and his children bear his resemblance. There is no greater inner joy to be had than having peace with God. And having that peace with God and a love for others makes it natural to want to bring peace to others. The reward is being called sons of God. And sons of God have the kingdom of heaven. They are comforted. They inherit the earth. They are filled. They obtain mercy. And they will see God. Verse 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Initially, it might seem absurd that a righteous person would be persecuted. It would seem more justified to persecute a self-righteous person. For self-righteousness and arrogance is quite ugly. But the fallen world we live in does things backward. The self-righteous get applauded while the truly righteous are hated They are hated because they remind sinners of the very fact that they are sinners. And prideful sinners don't like to be reminded of their sin, and so they persecute the righteous to quiet their own conscience. But Jesus warned us that if we follow him, we would be hated by the world, for after all they hated him, the man without sin. The promise of having the kingdom of heaven gives a book end to these beatitudes. I mentioned this on Christmas Eve. Knowing the end helps us understand the story. And the end of the Christian life is heaven. And that is summarized in verses 11 and 12. He says Blessed are you when they revile and persecute you and say all kinds of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prop the prophets who are who were before you. We should remember That Matthew's original readers were Jewish Christians who, no doubt, were suffering severe persecution from their fellow countrymen for their loyalty to Jesus as the Christ. We will read more about this in the book of Acts. Jesus expands this last beatitude about persecution because it has such special revalence to the situation his disciples will soon find themselves. If they are being persecuted by the unbelieving Israel, well, there's nothing new about that. The faithful have suffered at the hands of the unfaithful in the church many times before. Persecuted Christians will always find themselves in good company. And I can't help but think what it was like to hear Jesus preach this sermon. Not in terms of being able to see him or hear his voice, but to realize just how mind-changing it was For he said things that no one else had ever said, and in the context, no one else has ever been it. How these words and warnings must have returned to the disciples' consciences again and again. When they were experiencing the persecution Jesus warned about. They had to return to these words of Jesus For what they experienced in this life was not heavenly or comforting or merciful or any of that which Jesus promised. Remember, all the twelve except Judas suffered severe persecution, and only John survived his torture. To endure, they had to remember these words of Jesus, having their eyes on heaven, where all the promises of Jesus would be realized. I am not much for New Year's resolutions. The Gregorian calendar we follow doesn't universally determine when a New Year begins. But I am taking the challenge this year to have the Be Attitudes in front of me on my mind and hopefully eventually in my heart every day this year. If I am Christian, which I say that I am, and my baptism confirms, I am to be poor in spirit. Which means I am to recognize, acknowledge, and pray regarding the reality of my utter dependence upon God for anything that is good and holy. I am to mourn, which is to desire that God's justice be done, which includes having his righteousness revealed. I am to be meek, which is to care first for God's will to be done, regardless of what happens to me personally. I am to hunger and thirst for righteousness, which is to cast out things in my life, within me and without me, that do not reflect the holiness of God. I am to be merciful, which is to match what has been forgiven of me to the people in my life. Which means I am to be quick to forgive and forgive 70 times seven. I am to be pure in heart, which is to be loyal to the Savior, who deserves nothing less than my undivided commitment to build his kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. I am to be a peacemaker, which has me focused on helping people to be first at peace with God and then at peace with one another. And finally, I am to accept the fact that if I succeed at any or all of these, there will be those people who hate me. The logic is simple. If they hated the perfect man, they will more easily hate someone like me who is imperfect. And so here is the list, and I put it before me this year. Be poor in spirit, be mournful, be meek. Be hungry and thirsty for righteousness. Be merciful. Be pure in heart. Be a peacemaker. Accept persecution. Such is what it means to be Christian and nothing less. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, from these words of the prophet Isaiah, to Jesus teaching us what it all means and exemplifying it in his life. We take the charge. We take it as you speaking to us, the standards that you place before us. May we settle for nothing less. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.