In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue in the book of Hebrews, our epistle lesson from Hebrews 19, chapter 9, beginning at verse 16. Peter Hitchens, a columnist and part-time theologian, recently wrote an article in First Things. But examine the modern influence of the martyrdom of Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley These were reformers of the Church of England during the time of Queen Mary, aka Bloody Mary. The martyrdom of these Two faithful Christian men is mostly remembered by the line that Latimer is heard to have said to Ridley on their way to be burned. Quote, play the man, Master Ridley, and by God's good grace we shall this day light such a candle in England as may never be put out. That the candle was never put out was quite true for a long, long time, but sadly it is not true today. The Church of England has worked very hard to put out the candle of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the result is a mere flickering of sparks like a dick lighter running out of fluid. When describing the suffering of these two martyrs, Hitchens speculates as to why the form of punishment, capital punishment, was so brutal. He considers that the burning of men who were found to be enemies of the state, that it was done because beheadings were too clean and too quick. Burning someone alive provided an extra warning against anyone who would consider following the martyrs to a similar end. Hitchens speculates that the crown knew the need for such cruel executions because they knew the toughness of their citizens. Their lives were sustained by hard labor and hard rations. Their hands were tough and their hearts were tougher. They plowed their own fields, butchered their own meat, and suffered the death of many loved ones caused by disease, malnutrition, and childbearing. Beheadings wouldn't scare them and therefore would not dissuade them from rebelling against the crown. Burning, perhaps, had a better chance of instilling a second thought. Now I accept Hitchens observation and I accept his next point Which is that those of us who live in first world cultures today are not as tough as our ancestors. We have soft hands. Few of us slit the throat of the meat we eat. We don't see blood spilt. And whenever we do, we panic and cringe and hide our eyes. We are sheltered from sacrifices it takes to enjoy the few foods we enjoy. and to wear the clothes we wear and to live with the freedoms we have been given. I am soft. I know I am And so when we read of how Jesus procured our salvation by way of blood sacrifice, I fear that I don't get it well enough. I fear that I am too squeamish to appreciate the seriousness of such a sacrifice I read too quickly the description the preacher gives in chapter 9, because any image I might have, I don't like. Images of bloodletting, of blood sprinkling, of necessary death, well, I want to avoid those But I speculate that if we avoid such realities, we lessen the seriousness of it all. And that is where my concern as pastor lies. We are not serious enough about our faith. Which is to say we are not serious enough about the sins we commit, the blood it takes for our sins to be forgiven. And the lives we owe to the Savior who shed his blood. The preacher's point is the seriousness of the blood of Jesus spilled. He has been proving in this sermon the superiority of Jesus above all that came before him, making the clear point that all that was done before him was an anticipation of his perfect sacrifice. The Hebrew Christians were being tempted to go back to their Jewish ways, which consisted of trusting in temple sacrifices. The preacher responds by showing them that the many sacrifices were insufficient in and of themselves They needed the blood of Jesus for them to be fulfilled, for them to have a perfect effect. And we must appreciate what it means to say that the blood of Jesus was needed needed a very common way In which we do not take sins, our own sins, serious enough, and thus not appreciate the blood of Jesus enough Is that we at times can consider it all unnecessary. We can reason that if we were God If we were given the role of satisfying justice because of the sin of humanity, well, we would simply call for a do-over. Let's try again. We would simply pretend like the past is in the past and it doesn't not need to be brought up again In doing so, we would be communicating that God has made a bigger issue about sin, well, bigger than he should have. After all, teachers allow students to retake tests all the time. Parents allow children to have another attempt at cleaning their room before they truly get into trouble Bosses have patience for their employees who make mistakes. Why can't God be like teachers and parents and bosses and give a do-over to humanity? Such reasoning is done by people who see through the glass dimly. It is done by people who are under the sun. We don't comprehend the need for God's justice to be satisfied because our minds are clouded by our own definition of justice. We don't see the devastation that sin causes in the spiritual realm. Therefore, we have no way of appreciating how or why sin cannot be overlooked. It cannot be ignored. Besides, does anyone actually believe that if humanity was given a do-over, that we would do better than Adam and Eve? Please, please do not believe that for a second. We wouldn't do better, and we couldn't do better. Adam and Eve are us, and we are them. Another way we do not take sin serious enough is how we enter into it with the expectation that God will forgive us later. I recall a philosophy class where a student of mine was presenting a paper on how cannibalism can be justified. And I challenged her that the scenario I had given her said that she needed to work through the subject with the background that cannibalism was against her religious faith. She easily responded that she would eat her fellow travelers so that she could remain alive and simply ask God for forgiveness when she was rescued. And what I reviled at was not her answer, but rather how quickly and glibly she gave the answer. And my reviling could not be toward her alone, but had to include myself. For I too have responded in a similar manner within my conscience To sin willfully, to enter into it willfully, and then expect to ask God for forgiveness afterwards Another way we do not take sins serious enough is how we compare ourselves to others. Gossip is not as bad as murder, right? The slander of a person is not as bad as adultery, correct? Withholding forgiveness is not as serious as stealing, right? Judging others is not as serious as worshiping false gods, correct? The next time you read a listing of sins given by Saint Paul, whether it be to the Romans, Galatians, Corinthians, Ephesians, Colossians, to Timothy, I encourage you to slow down. Slow down and realize that gossip is listed as serious a sin as murder. The sin of slander is listed alongside the sin of adultery. Withholding forgiveness assures forgiveness being withheld. Haughty judgment and idolatry have the same, the same eternal results. The number of sins listed in total covers a great deal of human interaction that does not allow any one of us to escape the guilt and the deserved punishment. There are the top ten, of course, but to them we are to include anger, slander. Greed, malice, sexual perversions of every kind, envy, rivalry, treachery, faithlessness Foul language, spite, being boastful, insolent, heartless, ruthless, jealous, causing dissension. Bitter, ungrateful, reckless, and conceited For him who is without sin, let him cast that first stop. Also consider how each of these sins is related to one of the top ten. Jealousy is a cousin to coveting, as is envy and rivalry. Jealousy asks why other people's children do better in school. It's not fair. Or have more friends or are better looking or more athletic. It's not fair. It's not fair. Jealousy says nobody is watching out for them or people are thought of first before them. Such is the same as being ungrateful for what God has given. And both tell God and other people that God is not fair. Being angry, bitter, and causing dissension are cousins to committing murder Jesus taught us that murder begins in the heart, as it is the person's emotions where anger and bitterness and desire to see other people suffer. That's where it takes seed and that's where it grows Beloved, if we condemn the big sins while overlooking their cousins, we are no better than the unbelieving world that worships sexual perversions in one moment and then pretends to condemn them in the next. We are no better than hypocrites who want to save the lives of children in classrooms while marching for the right to kill children in the wombs of their mothers. We are to be the people set aside from a lost and hypocritical world and included in being set aside is to see what are normally viewed as lesser sins Or not sins at all, we are to view such sins as just as serious and that they are just as damning as the more salacious sins. And finally, for for now, I say that we don't take sin serious enough When we are able to use the same tongue and lips we use to worship God while so quickly speaking evil of a person who is a brother or sister in Christ. That's a problem. As St. John pointed out, we cannot say we love God while hating our brother in Christ. Let service to Christ while not practicing love to one another does not fool God. He knows better. He knows what's in the heart of every individual. And he knows that much better than we do. There are certain behaviors That Christians are to identify with regarding personal holiness, about their personal choices for righteous living. They are in a sense Christianity 101, for they are the first things we are to learn to live as Christians. An example of Christianity 101 is to trust God for our daily bread, which is to say to have faith that God will provide for you all that you need and more. So there is no need to fret, no need to stir, no need to be anxious, because God has promised all that you need. That is Christianity 101. Another fundamental part of living the Christian life is forgiving one another. And a forgiving heart does not keep record of wrong. It does not envy. It does not get jealous. It does not boast. It does not take self-serving or self-righteous posture. If any of or all of such behavior is part of a person's life, he or she has not forgiven and therefore is not forgiven. My point in delving more deeply into the specific sins that we don't take serious enough is the principle that the more we understand the seriousness of our sin, hear this, the greater our love and appreciation for that blood spilled for our sins. And this point allows me that our love will be greater the more we appreciate the blood spill. This point allows me to segue into addressing the homily of Bishop Currie, who addressed the grand crowd who attended and viewed the most recent British royal wedding. I didn't. I do not disparage any of you who liked the sermon. It received high praise by many. I listened to it this past Monday. Good oratory skills were displayed. Love was preached. But it is part of my calling to listen with discernment. Jesus was mentioned, yes. Sacrificial love was mentioned, yes. And then the social gospel snuck in. And the ideal of love as a conquering champion over poverty and social injustice, that was lifted up. Love itself was hailed as the Savior. It is a problem when love is hailed as a victory or a victor. With no acknowledgement of sin, death, and shed blood You see, if Jesus would have come into this world to promote and exemplify social justice, he would have demonstrated and taught as much. If Jesus came into this world so that no child would ever go to bed hungry, then he would have said more than 5,000 and he would have done it on a daily basis. Perhaps it is hard to imagine that a child went to bed hungry even while Jesus walked this earth, but it is perfectly reasonable to imagine that one did. And there were sick people who did not get well and who died while Jesus lived. There were slaves mistreated. women abused in the home while Jesus preached the Sermon on the Mount, walked on water, and ate bread with his apostles. You must see that Jesus didn't come down from heaven being in the likeness of men. God didn't send his only begotten son to stop hunger or to stop diseases or to stop oppression wherever it may be found. Jesus came down from heaven to pay justice for what is at the root of the cause of hunger, disease, and abuse. Jesus came down to shed blood for the sins of many. God hates sin. Sin brings forth death. Sin destroys souls. God's love can only be rightly understood in the context of Jesus sacrificing for sin. The love that Bishop Curry preaches doesn't die for sin. It dies for the right of the homosexual to stay in his sin. Or the adulterer to stay in her sin, or the abortionist to stay in his sin, or even for the idol worshipper to stay and worship a false God. That's not love. That is not the love of the God of Holy Scripture. God's love is to pull us out of sin that so easily entangles us God's love rescues us from sin by the blood of Jesus so that we can go to a place where there will be no hunger, no injustice, no abuse, no sin. You know the place. It is heaven, and heaven is not here That does not mean that we look the other way when we can do something about an injustice or about a hungry child We can care for such who are before us with the belief that this is not our home. And it is the love of Jesus dying on the cross that will get us to where we belong. It is because Jesus shed his blood for the sins of humanity that we are able to acknowledge that it is reasonable, a reasonable requirement to leave our former lives in order to follow Him. The requirement is that we give up our lives to follow him. And dare we not think that to give up our lives is to do equally what he did for us? No. Giving up our lives, our self, can be in no way equal to what he gave for us. In truth, what we give up is what we need to give up because it weighs us down. What we need, what we do not need, and what weighs us down are our weaknesses. Our prejudices, our selfishness, our personal pride, our judgments of others, while we have grace for ourselves, our greed, our self-righteousness, our foolishness, etc. , etc. Our shed blood is no good. It pays for nothing. It is tainted by sin, our own sin. The only shed blood that matters is the blood of Jesus. It is his atonement that we trust in for our sins to be forgiven and for heaven to be our hope. The seriousness of the blood of Jesus cannot be overhyped or overpreached. What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is all my hope and peace. Nothing but the blood of Jesus. This is all my righteousness, nothing but the blood of Jesus. Let us pray. A Father, today we try to grasp what the preacher to the Hebrews is saying and how Your atoning work goes to everything we believe in, anything we can hope for. May we never be ashamed of the blood of Jesus. May it be that which saves us to our eternal home. Thank you, Father, for sending your son. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.