In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You'll do well turning to Colossians chapter one with me. In the Gospel according to St. Matthew, chapter twelve, which is three chapters after our reading this morning. Jesus is accused of healing people by using the power of the devil. Jesus explains that such would be impossible because the healing he does is a reverse of what the devil has done. He goes on to explain that in order to overcome a strong man in his own house, you must first bind the strong man and then plunder his house. The example explains how Jesus was able to reverse the destruction of the devil. Jesus, by way of his resistance from the temptation of the devil in the wilderness, has bound the devil. Making him restrained and powerless, and thus giving Jesus free reign to cast out sickness as well as the demonic. We then understand the New Testament saying that to bind someone is to restrain them and make them weak and powerless. The truth is, all of us, all Christians, are restrained, weak, and powerless without the presence of the Holy Spirit within us. Left to ourselves, we would have no ability to shed the sins that can so easily bind us. But the truth is also that there are sins that bind Christians, and that makes us similar in a way to those who do not claim to know Jesus as Savior. What makes us different than the unbelieving is that God can break those bands that bind us Therefore, we need to know what sins are there that have restrained us and weakened us. We know that some people's sins go before them. meaning that they are obvious to everyone who knows such a person. An older man's potbelly, for example, can give away his love for rich food and drink. A woman's tongue, for example, can give away her love of gossip. And the sin of gluttony and gossip can bind someone, meaning that such sins cannot be controlled or overcome. But there are sins that come after as well, meaning that other people don't know what sins presently bind a person. Lust is a more common sin that can be hidden, and along with it are sins of pride and anger, and the sin we addressed two weeks ago, withholding forgiveness. Such sins can be as binding as those of gluttony and gossip. They can restrain us and weaken us until we feel powerless against them. There is another sin that is not often enough referred to as sin, but it was something that needed to be corrected with the Christians at Colossae. Such sin was the lacking of knowledge, wisdom, and a right understanding about Jesus. You might wonder how such is a sin. Well, first we define sin as falling short of perfection The Greek word harmortia, translated sin in English, originally meant missing the mark, and it was used to describe an arrow missing the mark or missing its target If the Christian's target is the will of God, and it is, and if the will of God is for us to have a proper and correct understanding of Jesus, and it is. Now to not have a correct understanding about Jesus is sin, falling short of the mark. Thankfully, it is easily repented of, and those who have done it can easily be restored, but it requires learning. And learning requires humility. If we remain prideful so that we do not learn, then the ignorance is a band that binds us, making us restrained and powerless. Look with me, if you would, at Colossians chapter 1. We're going to be going through each verse, starting at verse 2. To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colossae, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. An important fact about Colosse at this time of the letter was that there was a sizable Jewish population in the city. Some of those, perhaps good, a good number of those who heard this letter read for the first time were Jewish Christians. That fact is a significant thing to know or understand when it comes to the false teachings that were being given there. Verse 3. We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. Thanksgiving that begins the letter is more elaborate than in Paul's other letters, but notice the theme of the whole paragraph. The first sentence begins with thanks, and the last sentence, beginning at verse 11, includes giving thanks found in verse 12, making a very good section to cover during Thanksgiving Day. Verse 4. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints, this is a gracious compliment. And an example for Christians of every age, for we are commanded as Christians to love one another. Verse 5 Because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in the world of the truth of the gospel. So we glean from this that Epiphras, the missionary, who first evangelized Colossae, had recently brought Paul a report about the church. In that report there was much that was good, but some that was concerning. The Colossians, who knew Epiphas well, would have understood that Paul knew of their situation because Epiphers was their source. Paul understanding the human condition begins with praise and gratitude. He'll have some more controversial things to say as he proceeds, but he wins the ears of the people with his gracious introduction. The manner that Paul addresses these Christians causes us to guess that Paul had not been to Colossae, or at least had not been there since there was a Christian church in the city, as we find out. In chapter 2. It is also helpful to know how Paul uses the word hope. He uses it as a synonym for salvation. That is, here hope is salvation when it is fully realized in heaven, which Christians hope for. And understand also that hope is made the foundation of their faith and their love. These three things remain. We must understand that the gospel, in summary, is a message about the future. The power of the gospel in present day depends entirely on the promise of things to come and a believer's confidence that those promises will be fulfilled. Realize this. Without a true heaven, there is no gospel and there is no Christian life. Verse 6, which has come to you as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you the day you heard and knew the grace of God and truth. So Paul here is underlining the power of the gospel, a power displayed in its triumphant advance throughout the world, which is called the fruit. Just remember how remarkable this was that a message that no one had heard before and was so alien to the thought world of the Greco-Roman world that it was taking over that world. Tertullian, a second to third century Christian theologian, famously wrote to some pagans and said this We are but yesterday, and yet we already fill your cities, islands, camps, your palace, senate, and forum. We have left you only your temples. Verses 7 and 8. As you also learn from Epiphas, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. Paul seems to be saying that what they learned from Epiphras is what they would have heard from Paul himself. And that there was nothing lacking in the message Epiphus brought them, as the false teachers have apparently insinuated. It was also important to express the love of the people toward Paul. Verse 9. For this reason, we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. At the beginning of his letter, Paul usually moves from giving thanks to making petitions. Here he prays that the Colossians might continue on the course they began when they first became followers of Christ. This confirms that something has derailed them for a time. As will become clear as the argument proceeds, His point is that they don't need to take a new direction, but rather to continue to follow the one they have been on from the beginning. There have always been Christians, so-called, who think they need a new direction, even when they were never good at following the old one. Today there are more groups that have tried to redirect Christianity than there are groups who followed the original course. This verse also reminds us of how important regular prayer is. It is the battleground for the souls of humanity. Verse 10. That you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing him, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. A prayer to walk worthily is a prayer that implies that such can be done. Also, within this prayer is the need for the knowledge of God's will. And God's will is not what is in the future. But what is in the present? In the present, they need all wisdom and spiritual understanding, and that includes an increase in their knowledge of God. The prayer continues in verse 11, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, for all patience and long-suffering with joy. Here is a short list of what is described to the Galatians as fruits of the Spirit, evidence of the Holy Spirit governing their lives. Verse 12. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. This phrase, who has qualified us, that's unique to Paul and unique to this letter. Obviously a person would need nothing more than for God to qualify him. And it tells us it is never our work, it is God's work in and through Christ Jesus. Verse thirteen He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of God, of the Son of His love. The prayer moves from what is needed to what Jesus has done to meet those needs. To deliver is to save. It is to rescue us from what we were, what was binding us, and where we were going. The word conveyed is also translated transferred. Meaning that we have been placed in a completely different world, a real world, an everlasting world. We have been placed into the kingdom of God, and our citizenship in that kingdom is assured and eternal. And of course, the son of his love is Jesus. And we sense when St. Paul is passionate, he gets rather poetic. Verse 14. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. This verse provides a clarity as to who is responsible for our deliverance. Deliverance from the devil's binding to the freedom of the kingdom of God. It is by the work of Jesus, the spilling of blood, that procures our sin being forgiven, which is also having bands of our sins broken. As one commentator stated, quote, taking the letter as a whole, it appears that Paul used this his customary introductory section of Thanksgiving and petition. To assure these Christians that they had been properly established in the truth of the gospel, and that their place within the Christian community was well known and an honored one It was also his way of subtly reminding them that the gospel had already done its great work in them. They themselves were evidence of its power. It is that same hope and love that releases every Christian from the bands we place on ourselves when we practice sin. And I use the word practice purposefully, for it is not a sin committed and then turned away from that binds us But instead are those sins that we repeatedly fall back into, whether such sins are outward or inward, as described earlier. Now I turn your attention to our gospel reading from Matthew chapter 9, and you may not see a connection immediately from Paul's words to the Colossians to The descriptive of Matthew chapter 9. Matthew chapter 9 tells of two miracles in one narrative. St. Mark and St. Luke tell us that the name of this ruler who approached Jesus, his name was Jairus. Identifying him as a ruler refers to his position in his local synagogue. He is a Jewish leader who worshiped Jesus. Luke tells us more in that the girl was the only child of Jairus and that she was 12 years old. In Matthew's narrative, Jesus does not hesitate to go and heal the young girl. While traveling, Jesus is pressed on every side by people wanting to be with him, to hear him, and to be touched by him. As he is pressed on every side, a woman who has suffered from female bleeding for 12 years, notice the girl was 12 years old. Suffering from bleeding for twelve years touches him. The temptation for such a woman to be frustrated was likely very great, and she was enduring the stigma. Of suffering from being declared unclean for all those twelve years. No doubt she was in great fear and humbled by her life circumstance. When she approached Jesus, but Jesus was her only hope. And there's that word again, hope. So she touches Jesus and is healed Luke tells us that Jesus felt healing power go out of him, which is again unique to this story, and yet it was also likely that he felt faith touched him. When Jesus arrives at the house of Jairus, music is being played to mourn the loss of the child. Jesus tells them that such is not necessary. for the girl is only sleeping, and his words receive laughter and scorn. Matthew tells us that Jesus merely took her hand and she was made alive again. Now instead of combing over the details of these miracles, I want us to take a look at these two miracles from a different angle. First, let us look at the woman who bled and was considered unclean. Why would Jesus heal in this manner? What is the purpose of such a healing? Was it out of mere kindness? Well, that likely has something to do with it, but it seems fair to assess that not every woman who lived in the day of Jesus who had something similar going on was healed. So, does that mean that Jesus was unkind to them? Was it the faith of the woman only? Meaning that it had nothing to do with the will of Jesus Well, that would be inconsistent with all the other healings by Jesus that are recorded. And the young girl, why raise her from the dead? Was it because Jairus asked and Jesus liked him? You might say that the purpose of healing is obvious. Death is painful. Everyone wants to remain alive as long as possible. I suppose that is so, especially this time in history where people seem more afraid of death than ever. But consider that this young girl will have to face death again at another time in her life. And thus she will have to face death twice. In summary, she was raised from the dead only to die again later. The same point could be made with the raising of Lazarus, especially since Lazarus was older and therefore had less of a life ahead of him to live. So I'm going to answer my own curiosity questions as to these two miracles The answer, I believe, is that both of these miracles point to what St. Paul was describing to the Christians at Colossae. Both of the miracles are metaphors for what Jesus truly wants to do to those who believe in him. He wants to break the bands of sin that restrain us by giving us new life and making us clean. While false teachers were telling the Christians that Jesus wasn't truly a man and then telling them that he wasn't truly God. Paul was calling them back to the basics of the faith, which is to believe that Jesus was and is both man and God, and that his suffering and death were sufficient to give them new life and to make them clean. And while television preachers say that the gospel is about making you rich in this life and never getting physically ill The basics of the faith remain, which is to believe that Jesus is fully God and fully man, and that his blood spilled is sufficient to give you new life in the Spirit and make you clean morally, thus breaking the bands of sin that bind us. Beloved With faith in Jesus, all bands of sin can be broken, and all things in our spiritual lives can be made new. Listen to our call act this week again and apply it to your life wherever sin tempts you, whether sin within or sin without. We pray this prayer. O Lord, we beseech thee. Absolve thy people from their offenses That through thy bountiful goodness we may be delivered from the bands of those sins which by our frailty we have committed. Grant this, O Heavenly Father, for the sake of Jesus Christ, our blessed Lord and Savior. Amen. And we say, Amen. Let it be so, let it be done. Allah do God take this time and prepare our hearts to receive the bread and wine that Allah Allah will.