In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 3. We walk through these verses for clarification. First Peter chapter 3, picking up verse 13. Verse 13 is a rhetorical question. St. Peter has given instruction on how Christians are to do good, especially to one another. Doing good is to purposefully do the right thing to one another, and it also involves avoiding doing the wrong thing. The question then in verse 13 anticipates that doing good will result in you achieving the favor of other people As opposed to creating enemies. You do good, you get friends, right? But but Jesus did good and still made enemies, requiring Peter to acknowledge the possibility That even if you do good, you may encounter people who want you to suffer. The life of Jesus proves That some people don't want other people to live righteous lives. A righteous life of one man May cause another man to feel guilty about his own life, and that guilt cannot be addressed, it can't be removed. Resulting in the desire to destroy the life of the one who makes him feel guilty We see this today in the behavior of those who no longer say live and let live, but instead insist that not only Do I get to live in whatever manner I desire? But you must never speak against how I live. In fact, we will make it a crime for you to speak against how I live. Such a spirit is the same one that tried to silence Jesus by placing him on a cross. Verse 14 addresses the possibility of suffering under someone's judgment, even for doing good or for righteousness. If such happens to any person who follows Jesus, he or she is to know that he or she is blessed. How a person is blessed while suffering is not told to us, but we are to assume That we are blessed because we identify with Jesus. And anytime you can identify with Jesus, we are blessed by association The next instruction is to not be afraid in the face of threats by persons who wish to harm us for doing good. And again, we are not told how we are not to be afraid, but only we are told to sanctify the Lord in our hearts. To sanctify is to make holy and also to set aside. Thus God is to be given a special place in our hearts. That would enable us to persevere under suffering with the belief that what we are doing for him allows us to identify with Jesus in just a small way. And anytime you can identify with Jesus, that is a good thing. Also included in sanctifying the Lord in our hearts, we are to be ready to give a reason for the hope that lies within us. The early Christians needed such instruction because of how often they were mistreated and even to the point of being murdered. It wasn't sufficient that they would die for their faith, for Peter believed that they needed to be able to tell the persecutors why they were willing to die for their faith. A qualifier in this text surprised me this week as I have not paid close attention to it before. It's the phrase, to everyone who asks you. I had assumed that if a Christian is to suffer for his or her faith, said person should go to the gallows shouting the gospel. Here the qualifier is that someone should ask before you answer. That seems to match up with Jesus' instruction to not cast our pearls before swine. The swine are those who are not seeking truth but only care to silence it. Thus it is not for us Christians to take advantage of every silence and proclaim the gospel at every opportunity. But when persecuted, only to answer those who ask. People must ask, they must seek in order to hear and find the truth. And we Christians are to speak when we are asked. Now I ha I have been excited about a book I read recently uh called Mama Bear Apologetics. I mentioned it a few weeks ago. It is a book written for mothers So as to give them tools to fight against the many isms our children will encounter that would cause our children to doubt aspects of the Christian faith. Such doubts can lead to unbelief. And these isms are no longer limited to colleges taking advantage of young people being away from home, but now it's occurring within public and private school systems. Even elementary students are presented with moral relativism and and all alike. Books like Mama Bear Apologetics recognize that mothers are on the front lines when it comes to helping their children answer objections to the Christian faith. But I don't want to communicate that for you to give a reason for the hope that lies within you, you have to become a trained defender of Christianity. For many, the reason for the hope that lies within you is simply answering why you are a Christian. And that answer likely has a story to it. And each of us can tell our own story. Yours may be That when you read about God's love for the first time in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, you realized that you had never loved anyone in such a manner, nor had anyone loved you in such a manner. And if such a love was real, well, you wanted it. And so you confessed your sins and followed Jesus. Your story may be that you grew up in the church and you witnessed how people apply their faith in Jesus through their various trials. You compared that to how other people went through their life and suffered through their trials, and you were convinced that the Christian faith works Your story may be that you walked away from the Lord and went the way of the flesh. Like the prodigal son, the world ate you up and spit you out. And when you came to your right mind, you went back to the Father's house, confessed your sins, and received, and were received into God's house as an inheritor of his kingdom. Whatever your story is, you are to be ready to tell it. And to those who ask We are to be ready to tell our story in a manner, he says, that is meek and with fear. Meek because we are not to pretend it was our own wisdom, our own work that led us to the faith. In fear, because we owe God our lives, and we ought to fear that our lazy answers to the hope within us would not be dishonoring to him who owns our life. All such behavior on our part, from doing good to others, from refraining to do bad To not being afraid of threats, to sanctifying the Lord in our hearts, to giving a defense of the hope that lies within us allows a good conscience. And there is no greater gift in this life than an honest and good conscience. A good conscience makes for a healthy soul, and a healthy soul is never afraid to die. With a good conscience, we are best able to endure unjust attacks from those who have guilty consciences and yet do not know what to do with their guilt. Good behavior by others reminds them of their guilt, and so again they seek to be rid of the good by defaming those who are good. Even turning the rumors around to accuse a gooddoer of being an evildoer. In the end, when all has been revealed, God will shame such persons. Until then we are to be doing good whenever we get the opportunity If we suffer for doing good, according to verse 18, we are following the path of Christ Jesus, who also suffered for doing good. He did it that you and I can be brought to God and be his people and he to be our God. That is always the end goal. We next read in verse 19, where Peter mentions preaching to spirits in prison who were formerly disobedient, evidently all the way back to the days of Noah. And in those days, God was long-suffering regarding his judgment until the ark was finished, which we are told lasted at least two generations. The Ark carried Noah, his wife, his three sons, and their wives through the flood to save them from God's judgment. This leads Peter to mention baptism, for it was Peter, you remember, who answered the question in Acts chapter 2, what must we do to be saved? He said, repent and be baptized. Each of us is to come through our own flood waters in order to be saved. The baptism provides us confidence that we can have a good conscience before God because of what He does in our hearts at baptism. And all of it is accomplished by Jesus being resurrected, ascending to the right hand of the Father, and always interceding for us. That is what verses 19 through 22 says, because what it means is more elusive, particularly when it comes to identifying Who are these spirits in prison and not knowing what Jesus preached to them? Two things we can know. First, we know it was Jesus who does the preaching because he was described previously as being the one who was put to death in the flesh, but then was made alive. That's clearly Jesus. Second, the most natural interpretation of this passage, that is also the interpretation of early church fathers and most prominent reformers, is the following. Jesus, taking on the sin of humanity, had his spirit separated from his body at his death, which will happen to all of us at our death. This enabled his spirit to descend into hell and be seen by those who rejected God, going back as far as the days of Noah. If you remember, Genesis says, when the hearts of men were bent toward evil and that continually. And he there proclaimed to them the truth about God's plan of salvation. The purpose of this proclamation is not clear to us, but the revelation of God's plan had yet to be revealed until Jesus overcame death. For some ears, it sounds like Jesus went down and simply bragged. I say that such ears are too sensitive. Telling the truth is not bragging. And besides, the raising of the body and spirit was preaching enough about the victory of Christ without even using words. Well it gets lost in our desire to know exactly who Jesus preached to and what he said, what he preached. is the main goal of it all, which I said previously from verse 18, was to bring us to God, so that we might be his people and he might be our God. From last week, we can answer to what end are we to love one another as brothers? The answer is to be brought to God. To what end do we suffer unjustly? The answer is to be brought to God. To what end do we do good and have a good conscience? The answer is to be brought to God. To what end did Jesus suffer, die, descend, proclaim to those prisoners, rise from the dead and sit at the right hand of the Father? To what end all of it was for to be us to be brought to God. And this point forces us to examine ourselves, asking to what end do we do what we do? To what end do we do what we do when it comes to our employment? To what end do we do what we do when it comes to raising our children, to having children, and then raising them? To what end do we do what we do when we control our money, when we buy goods and services, when we plan for retirement? To what end do we do what we do when we get up in the morning and pursue what we pursue? No matter what it is, all of it should have the ultimate purpose, which is to be brought to God. If it is not to be brought to God, then it is not worth doing. Let us look more closely regarding why you do what you do when it comes to your employment. If you are in a ministry of some sort, like teaching or preaching or counseling or leading in some manner, you think that your end goal is obvious. But it is easy for people in ministry to work for a paycheck rather than to have the end goal of bringing people to God. No one is above the temptation to serve for manna instead of for the glory of God. But let us look at you who work for a company or in some government institution. You are one of the many cogs that keep the company or the department going. What is the main goal for you? You may first say it is to provide for your family, but why do you do that? You say this so your family can live, which means the kids can be cared for and they can go to school. But why should they go to school? You say to be educated so they can learn a trade and make money for themselves, but why should they make money for themselves? You say so that they can have their own family. But why should they have their own family? You say that so they can provide for them, so that their kids can go to school and and you begin to see it. Life can become a hamster wheel, spinning but going nowhere. So let us ask another way. To what end should you do your employment You say to provide for my children the basic necessities of life. And why do you do that? Because you answer, it is my duty as a God-fearing man, and I want to provide for them so that they can do good. So that they will be brought to God. Now that is a good end goal. That's a goal that has meat upon it. I recently heard of a man who had the end goal of having a lot of children, because he said he wanted to be obedient to God by being fruitful and multiplying, just as the Bible says. But he stopped there. He thought that all he needed to do was to have a lot of children without looking toward the chief end goal of bringing them to God. It is wise to understand that God never calls Christian couples to have children in order to populate hell. The end goal for all parents is to be that their children be brought to God. That is why we bring them to the baptismal water. That is why we pray with them on our knees. That is why we oversee their education. That is why we counsel them on who they should marry. It is all to help them be brought to God. Such takes a great deal of patience, time, resources, tears, a lot of tears, long suffering, and forgiveness But all of it is nothing compared to the reward of eternity with God. Before I close, I must address to what end goal To what end is our goal of how we use our money? As you may be aware, I was recently away attending a wedding of my nephew Christian, a son of my brother Chris. And while we were waiting for the reception to start, my brother and I, along with my sister Dana, began to talk about retirement. We talked about different types of retirement accounts and Social Security and an appropriate age for retirement. And while it was interesting, I came away with a very strange Feeling likely caused by realizing how old we all were talking about this, but also asking myself: what is the chief end of retirement? The more popular goals for retirement don't seem to match up with being brought to God. I have known persons that enter into their work the workforce in their twenties, already planning for retirement. Money is saved, pensions are paid into, Social Security is hoped for, all for the sake of those retirement years. And what are those years used for? For leisure, for leisure's sake, for freedom to do as you please? For having no responsibilities? That sounds good only to those who care not if they are brought to God. For the Christian What is always before us is that we are to do good and in the end to be brought to God. If my money If my saving of money, if my retirement does not have me doing good and being brought to God, it is in vain. All of it is in vain. I close by repeating what I have already asked. To what end are we to love one another as brothers? The answer is to be brought to God. To what end do we suffer unjustly? To be brought to God. To what end do we do good and have a good conscience? To be brought to God. To what end do we s did Jesus suffer, die, descend, proclaim, rise, and sit at the right hand of the Father? To what end? All of it was for us to be brought to God. So it was, so it always will be to be brought to God. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father, we identify today the purpose of it all. And all of us sit with the weight of examining our lives and evaluating what we do and why we do it in light of being brought to you Father, where we are amiss, where we have not put that as our priority. Convict us, forgive us. And Father, help us to focus on the one thing that's most important to be brought to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.