In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It is a blessing when a holy day falls on a Sunday. It is harder to get people to come out and celebrate Holy Days when they don't fall on Sundays. I wish that were different. And I may be to blame for perhaps I don't emphasize it enough for you to want to come out. All Saints Day is a day we recognize those champions of the faith who led exemplary lives in honor of Jesus, our Savior. There are so very many of them that the church made one day a day of honoring them all, hence All Saints' Day. Imagine with me if any one of the saints we recognize today were to turn return to us in the 21st century and attend a Christian worship service, what would their reaction be? Let us get beyond all of the 21st century wonders that they would experience being distracted by all of our electronic devices, and instead focus on the substance of our worship. Which is our prayers, our songs, and our words preached. What would their reaction be? I suspect that their reaction would be disappointment, and disappointment for two reasons: the lack of substance and the lack of reverence. Personally, I've done a few searches on the internet to see what other local churches are doing in their worship in light of the pandemic, and I have been appalled. The worship in music is akin to a local band playing in a pub. The ordained clergy dressed like they are eating at McDonald's. The sermons are counseling sessions for the depressed. In general, there is no evidence that the people leading such church services There's no evidence that they believe they are in the presence of Almighty God. The following is an account that reflects the confusion of Western Christian worship in our time Chet Samuel became the worship and arts pastor of Farmers Branch Outreach Center, a large independent church in Bergeron, a Dallas suburb. Now as a side note, I am only familiar with bishop, presbyter, and deacon. I don't know where scripture mentions a worship and arts pastor. Anyways. Chet initially felt at home in his new setting, and the church seemed to be receptive of his ministry. His problem started when he began to open the weekly worship practice with a brief devotion based upon the devotional Our Daily Bread. Some of the worship team felt it was a waste of time. And the others felt it was being legalistic for him to read a devotional. Chet's real problem surfaced when he began to insert a hymn into the forty-five-minute worship set, and yes, I used the word set The final straw came when he directed the congregation away from the PowerPoint screen and instructed them to turn in their hymnals. Many did not know what he meant by turning in their hymnals, and so they began to pass their hymnals up to the front, creating chaos in the church. Soon Chet was dismissed from his position. Senior pastor Sam Smucker explained Hymns are generally regarded as not cool, and this And in this extremely competitive Dallas church market, we can't afford to be identified as anything but cutting-edge cool. Well that story is satire, but it's not exaggerated. The Christian Church in America and in Europe is so desperate to be cool it does not look at anything like a saint. would imagine. We as a culture are even the Christian culture have ADD. We are afraid to be bored. And perhaps we think that God is bored with our worship. After all, he is supposed to be the primary audience of our worship, isn't he? As we will see in our second look at the burnt offerings from the perspective of typology, God does like variety in worship. He likes to change things up a bit He gives options, but not the type of options modern worshipers think of. When God gives room for variety, he does it because each option points To another aspect of his character and points to the sacrifice of Jesus, who is the one that enables us to worship God in the first place. We discovered much about the burnt offerings last week. I remind you that the burnt offerings were not for sin, but were for the simple purpose of worshiping God, of honoring Him. I remind you also that each part of the offering was to be understood as symbolic of each part of our human existence. The head represents our mind, the fat represents our vigor, and so on. And we spent time understanding that the offering was holy or entirely burnt. There was nothing left of it. It was fully given to the Lord. That is what Jesus did. He gave all of himself, and that is what we are to do as well. So we continue our discovery of the burnt offering by looking at the varieties that were allowed under the law. There were three grades of burnt offerings that could be offered. A worshipper could offer from the herd, from the flock, or from the fowl. The term grave refers to the monetary value of the offering as a person was to offer what he or she could afford. Each of these grades communicates something different. From the herd is the bullock, and the scripture says of the bullock that it is strong to labor, and great increase or wealth is by the strength of the ox. Such verses describe service or untiring labor. Regarding the flock, we have the lamb, which represents a different picture. We know the lamb to be passive and submissive, as it can suffer without murmuring. Regarding the fowls, we have the turtle dove, which is altogether different from the bullock or the lamb. Bishop Jukes describes the dove as having a mourning innocence. That is a innocence of depression or empathy. For the scripture says we mourn like doves and that we are to be harmless as doves. And we can add peace as the dove is used to present the olive branch. And we could add the Holy Spirit, as the scripture says that the Holy Spirit descended on Jesus as a dove. Looking at what each type offers, we find that the bullock refers to Jesus' ability to work as an ox and bear our burdens. He carried mankind on his shoulders from the time he swept blood in the garden through the stripping away of his flesh as he was whipped, through the carrying of the wood beam on the cross upon up to the hill to his death To the time his father turned away, through it all he tirelessly labored. From the Lamb we learn the submissive character of Jesus To do what needed to be done for the salvation of mankind. We also learn of his uncomplaining character, as he uttered not a word during his physical suffering. From the doves we learn of his sorrow. He mourned. He had empathy. He mourned for mankind as he witnessed us suffer the pains of death. Remember at the death of Lazarus, he wept. He also mourned the holy city of Jerusalem, saying, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Jerusalem was filled with the people of God that God chose, but they were too stubborn to accept the Savior that God had sent them. He also mourned for the people who stood at the feet of his cross, who mocked and scorned him. He mourned that they did not know what they were doing. And it is with these images and examples found in the one man Jesus that allow us to now turn and examine ourselves. We are to be what he was and what he is. We are to be laborers. He said that the fields are ready for harvest, but the laborers are few. Who will go to the harvest? The answer is you and I. We are to go out to the harvest, and the harvest is our workplace where men and women can know Jesus can set them free from the bondage of sin, guilt, and shame. The harvest is your school where fellow students need to know that they do not need to be alone because Jesus will be with them and never forsake them. The harvest is your neighborhood where families can experience peace between one another because the peace that Jesus brings to individual hearts. We are also to be lambs. We are to be gentle, turning the other cheek and giving more of what we have to those in need. We are to return a curse with a kind word. We are to endure suffering at the hand of others. We are to not murmur under God's chastening hand, but instead we are to stand fast so that in us others might see Jesus. And we are to be doves. Jesus tells us to be wise as serpents and gentle as doves. As doves symbolize mourning, empathy, we recall that we are to weep with those who weep and mourn with those who mourn. As the doves symbolize peace, we recall that we are to be peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall inherit the kingdom of God. Besides the variety of sacrifices under the burnt offerings, there are distinctions to be made about how each is to be handled. We notice that while the bullock and the lamb are divided, that is cut apart, and all the parts accounted for and burnt. There is a restriction regarding the bird, which was not to be divided. It can be determined that such a division would be impractical because of the small size of the bird But that would not communicate what God intends. It is the devil who would like us to think that when worshiping God we should consider what is practical. What is practical is to have a worship service limited by time. I remember an older gentleman Who told me he would no longer attend services here because a service should go no longer than one hour and we consistently go over one hour. What is also practical is to promote what is the most popular amongst the people, in and outside of the church. What is practical is to keep parishioners happy. Being popular and keeping people happy fills the pews. It keeps the coffers ringing. But God is anything but practical when it comes to what he expects his people to do in worship. We said that all parts of the offering representing represent something of Jesus, i. e. , his thoughts and his feelings, his energy, and so on. When a sacrifice is not divided, We acknowledge that there is something to the sacrifice that remains hidden or unknown. This is the part of worship that is purposefully mysterious. It is true that mysteries can scare and make some nervous. Not knowing what is happening or will happen can be unnerving. But we must acknowledge, whether we wish to or not, that there will always be mystery in our worship. To worship without an awareness of mystery is to become bored with familiarity. For example, let us examine the sacraments. In baptism, we say that the water symbolizes a cleansing of sin and that we are buried with Christ and we have circumcised hearts. It is understandable that we would ask, well, how? How does the water bury us with Christ? How does the water circumcise our hearts? And the honest answer is we don't know We can only go by our sense experience, and we don't experience a burial or a circumcision of the heart, and yet we can believe it. We believe it because the Bible tells us that is what is happening, and we believe what the Bible says because we believe in the person of Jesus Christ, that He is the Son of God. Regarding Holy Communion, we know the warning from St. Paul that if a person eats or drinks in an unworthy manner, he or she eats or drinks damnation unto themselves. This communicates that there is power in the drinking of the bread and the wine. Again, it is understandable to ask how. How is there power to judge or to bless in something as simple as bread and wine? The honest answer is we don't know. What we know is what the Bible says. The Bible says that by faith comes, but faith comes by hearing the Word of God. And again we ask how. And again we say we don't know. But that is how God has designed it. Beloved, there are things in our worship that are to remain a mystery. They are to remain undivided. Of course, there is not enough time for us to mention all of the things we don't fully know about God and what he does when we are at worship. But that is because of the very nature of God Himself. They have tried to explain to philosophy students that uh this point about God, that if there is a God Then by definition, you would not be able to understand or comprehend him fully. For if you could comprehend him fully, he would not, by definition, be God. Mystery in our knowledge and worship is not forced. It is a reality. We don't need to conjure up mystery. It's there by God's nature. It is always there for us, this side of eternity. Our worship should reflect that mystery, the same mystery that the saints embraced. Another distinction about how the offerings were handled is that the bullock and the lamb, the inwards and the legs, were to be washed in water. We noted last week that the legs represent our daily walk and the inwards represent our affections. The water represents the Holy Spirit acting through the Word of God. Remember these words of Jesus. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth The scripture says Christ loved the church and gave himself for it that he might sanctify and cleanse it by the washing of water by the word. Jesus being a man submitted to the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit by God's word. So too are we to submit to God's word and be washed by its cleansing power. We should be reminded from this how important it is for us to be a people of God's Word. Reading, meditating, and studying the Holy Scriptures cleanses us. Another distinction with these types of burnt offerings is that a person offering is to lay his hands on the bullock when offered. To lay hands on an offering is to fully identify with it. Jesus as the incarnation reveals, fully identify with mankind. He knew our sorrows and our joys. He knew our temptations, yet without sin. We too are to fully identify ourselves with sacrifice You remember Jesus told us to pick up our cross. He called us to deny ourselves. He called us to think of others before ourselves. All of these are ways to identify fully with the sacrifice. And the final distinction we will make note of is that with the first type of offering, the bullock The offerer, the one who brings the bullet for worship, is responsible for killing the sacrifice and preparing it for burning. With the other offerings, the killing and preparation was done by the priest. But with the bullock, it is the offerer who does the work. And from this we are to remember that Jesus played the role of priest, the offering itself, and the offerer. When describing his Upcoming sacrifice for our sin, Jesus said it this way. No man takes my life from me, but I lay it down myself. What Jesus did was a willful choice. He was not forced. He willingly gave of himself. And his example is the greatest challenge of all. In some ways, it is easiest to do something we don't really want to do because we have the excuse of saying that someone else told us to do it. It is quite another to take full responsibility for the decisions we make. And by way of the burnt offering, we see Jesus as our example, choosing to sacrifice, choosing to die for others. We can talk a lot about what it means to be predestined and what it means to be chosen of God. The Bible uses such language for important lessons. But personal responsibility for our choices is part of the faith. We make choices And we can choose. No, I need to say we must choose whether we are going to sacrifice ourselves. We are to offer ourselves to God. No one else can offer us. Our parents can't even offer us. They can offer us at our baptism as infants, but ultimately we have to own that baptism and then end by offering ourselves The saints we acknowledge today did so. They offered themselves. They picked up their own cross and they followed Jesus And you and I can do no less. Let us pray. We thank you for the example of the saints. And we thank you for the image of the burnt offering and all the details that point us to a Savior and then point us to the Christian life. May we take it up to challenge to follow that example and to be like Jesus a burnt offering, well offered. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.