In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You would do well to turn to Leviticus chapter one, that is the base passage of Scripture that we will be looking at. Three weeks ago I introduced us to the biblical interpretation methodology of typology. Typology is used to see how an image in the Old Testament points to the reality of the New Testament. One of the more obvious examples is the person of Joseph. As Joseph was despised by his brothers. So Jesus was despised by his fellow Jews. Joseph was thrown down into the pit, similar to Jesus descending into hell. Joseph was raised out of the pit to sit at the right hand of Pharaoh, and Jesus was raised from the grave to sit at the right hand of the Heavenly Father. Therefore, the life points of Joseph point to the Christ to come. I warn those of you who have trouble staying awake during sermons that typological studies take time Be sure to have some caffeine before you come to church. The late comedian George Burns Once gave the following advice to preachers when he said, the secret of a good servant is to have a good beginning and a good ending, and to have those two as close together as possible My attempt will be able uh will be to make the middle part as interesting as possible. Have you ever wondered why God commands the Israelites to offer different kinds of offerings? That is what we are attempting to answer. When studying the offerings described in Leviticus as typology, we are operating on the assumption that each offering presents an image of the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. But not only His offering on the cross, but his very life that he offered unto God. Each offering in details gives a greater insight into what Jesus has accomplished for us. What makes this study so fascinating is that Jesus plays every role in the offerings that God commanded. Bishop Andrew Jukes, whom I am indebted for these sermons, identifies Jesus in three parts of the offering. Jesus is the offering itself. He is also the priest who intercedes when giving the offering And he is the offerer who presents the offering that God requires. As offerer He is the sinful man under the law, fulfilling the requirements of the law. As priest, he is the mediator, God's messenger between himself and his people. As the offering, he is the innocent victim, a sweet and unblemished savor to God, as he bears the sins of man. In general, Jesus is the sum of the offerings. He is the burnt offering, he is the meat offering, he is the peace offering. He is the sin offering. He is the trespass offering. He is all of them by himself, one oblation once offered, as our liturgy says. You will also see that he is further identified in the distinctive differences of each of the offerings. Jukes describes the variety of the offerings to be different aspects. of Jesus' work and different aspects of his person. The distinctive differences reflect the depth, the the width of the sacrifice of Jesus that was once offered and effectual for all time. The truth is the work of Jesus is so encompassing and has so many different aspects to it, and in contrast, we are finite, we are limited by our maturity. that we have a hard time seeing all there is to see in Jesus as the offerings. And even so, regardless of our limitations, we must press on to perfection. We must increase our understanding to what Jesus has done for us. And so we first examine, as I said, Leviticus 1, the burnt offering mentioned in Leviticus. Essentially, there were two classes of offerings. There was the sweet, savor offerings, and those other offerings that were required as payment for sin. The sweet saber offerings are the burnt offerings, the meat offerings, and the peace offering All of these were offered on the brazen altar which stood in the court of the tabernacle, not inside the tent, but outside. The Savor offerings were not sin offerings, meaning that they were not made unto God because of sin or to pay the price of sin. It is therefore important to separate in our minds offerings given for sin and ones given to God for his pleasure. Most people think of offerings in the tabernacle and then in the temple as all of them offerings for sin. With the burnt offering, the meat offering, the peace offering, the offerer comes not as a sinner. But comes as a worshiper with the goal of simply worshiping God. In the sin offerings, he comes as a sinner, needing to pay a penalty for the price of his sin. And the differences are stark because the burnt offering was a sweet savor offering. We need to examine it in light of the atonement of Jesus. But not in the terms of paying for sin, but being pleasing to the Heavenly Father So the first point to be made about the burnt offering is that God finds earthly food, earthly food, satisfying and pleasing. The altar of God is described by the prophet Malachi as a table of the Lord. And according to Leviticus 21, the food that is placed upon there is food of God. In the burnt offering, fire falls from heaven and consumes the sacrifice. The understanding is that God consumed the offering. It is God that consumes it. It is God that is satisfied by the offering. Of course, we are speaking in anthropomorphic language. God does not hunger or thirst like a man. He does not need to be replenished. But his consuming is relatable to us because we are told later that we are to consume him. Remember these words of Jesus, unless you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you cannot be my disciple. Pleasing God is not normally connected to understanding the sacrifice offerings in the temple or excuse me in the tabernacle or the temple. Appeasing God, yes. That's how we understand the sacrifices, but pleasing him? No. But the burnt sacrifice pleased him, as did Jesus please him. Did not the Father say at the baptism of Jesus, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased? He was obedient, and his obedience was a sweet smell unto the Heavenly Father. His devotion to the Father and his love for humanity was most pleasing to God. Along with being a sweet savor unto God, the burnt offering was given to secure the acceptance of the offerer to God. To understand this, we must remember again that Jesus played three roles. He was the offering, he was the priest, he was the offerer. As offerer, he played our role. He stood for man as man stood under the law. The difference is that Jesus was acceptable because of his sinlessness. He fully obeyed and thus fully fulfilled the law. Since the time of Adam's transgression, the question of whether man in and by himself could bring anything to God that was acceptable, the answer was repeatedly no. For there was no one obedient, not one, until Jesus. Now we said that the burnt offering was not a sin offering, and yet if you look at verse 4 in chapter 1 of Leviticus, there is the word atonement. But that word atonement means making satisfaction. That's the definition. The satisfaction can be made in terms of sin or in terms of meeting the requirements that God has established. In this case, it is meeting the requirements of what God commanded, of what God was pleased by. Jesus was obedient unto death. He met the requirements. The third point of the burnt offering was that it was life offered. Life. Part of the instruction was that blood from the bullock was to be sprinkled on the altar. We can say that life itself was sprinkled because the Lord says in Leviticus 17, for life of a creature is in the blood. Now this is not superstitiously in the blood. It is symbolically in the blood. Physiologically, we know that blood runs throughout our entire bodies. It encompasses all that we are. Blood is essential to the life of creatures. Blood sprinkled on the altar was symbolic of life offered in worship. I give you my life. Jesus personally embodied the offering of life. He worshipped God in the way he lived. He testified of himself that he did nothing other than what the Father desired of him to do in his thoughts, in his manners, in his eating, in his sleeping. And whatever else that you would think of that makes a person's day, Jesus lived a life of worship. In comparison You and I struggle to live our lives for God even at certain times and certain ways. We are tempted to compartmentalize our lives by putting on a face, an attitude, a persona when we are at work that is different than when we are at home. And that one is different than when we are attending church. Jesus didn't need to put on a different personality because he was serving the Heavenly Father in everything he did. He was the same person. His life lived for the Heavenly Father, made it so that he did everything the same, whether private or public. Considering a life offered in worship and Jesus standing in our stead as the offerer, we are challenged to realize What a privilege it is to worship God in spirit and in truth. As a parishioner in my early days of walking with the Lord, I can personally testify that my worship was selfish. It was selfish until I began to appreciate what a privilege it is to call upon the name of the Lord. That change happened when I stopped thinking about what I like and didn't like about attending church on Sundays. Finding things to complain about is the easiest thing to do. When a person comes to the realization that in their own standing, their own character, They have no right to call upon God's name and expect anything but judgment and damnation. And yet God chooses to hear us and enjoys hearing from us when we come in the name of Jesus. When realizing this, our attitude toward worship changes. The Heavenly Father loves his Son. And because we love his son, he chooses to hear us and receive us as his own. That is nothing, nothing but remarkable. Understanding this as remarkable prevents us from thinking about the ballgame we would rather be attending on Sunday, or the sleep we wish we could catch up on, or whichever one of a million excuses we can come up with. To miss attending worship. We get to call on God and we get to be heard by Him because of Jesus as the offerer. Because he was well pleasing to the Heavenly Father. If there is a thought in your mind, no matter if it comes out upon your lips or not, if there is a thought in your That formally worshiping God is a have-to rather than a get-to. Such thoughts need to be rebuked And you need to choose to see worship as a privilege of calling the Creator of the universe Father. The fourth feature peculiar to the burnt offering is that it was wholly burnt or entirely burnt. This is original for it differed from the meat offering and the peace offering, which were which were offered and burnt only in part And the importance of this being wholly burnt, entirely burnt, is a great importance Because man's duty to God is not just to give up one aspect of our faculties or one aspect of our resources or one aspect of our time, we are to surrender all. This is why it needed to be burnt entirely. When Jesus summed up the commandments by saying, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. With all your mind, that is leaving nothing uncovered. We are summed up in our entirety by heart, soul, and mind. Although it was not part of our reading, you should know that all the burnt offering was to be accounted for. The head, the fat, the legs, and the in-words are specifically mentioned. And think of the typology here. The legs are symbolic of our walk or our physical exertion. The inwards represent our feelings and our affections from the heart. When we say we feel something for in our gut, we are talking about our inwards. The meaning of the fat may not be so obvious, but in the Psalms we learn that it represents our general health, our vitality. It is our energy. All of these are given to the Lord, and all of it was to be burned. All of it. We have already mentioned that Jesus also gave himself entirely to the Heavenly Father. He held nothing back. That is why he could tell us to love God the way he taught us. He truly expected it of us to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. He expects us to surrender our whole self to the Father. That is what it means to pick up your own cross and follow him. He expects us to pick up a dying instrument every day, every day, not just Sundays, not just Bible study days, every day, and follow him. It is why he said to his disciples that unless you hate your mother and brother and sister and father, you cannot be his disciple. And too many weak scholars try to say that Jesus didn't really mean hate as we understand it? No We are to honor our parents to be sure, but we are to love him first and foremost, and if any love comes between us and him, that love is to be hated until we love him the most Try. Try to think of one thing, just one thing that you can have or that you can do that does not need to be given over to the Lord Jesus Christ. Just one thing. One thing that you can keep just for yourself. Maybe it is what you like to do when you have free time. That's your time, right? Do what you want. The Lord doesn't care, but the Lord says to you, redeem the time, for the days are evil. Maybe it is your private thoughts that you keep only to yourself. After all, they're just thoughts. They don't have to mean anything. No one is hurt by them. Yet the Lord says that we are to be transformed by the renewing of our minds, that we are to keep every thought in captivity. How about your bank account? After all, it's your money. Maybe it's a little extra money you made from an odd job, or perhaps it was given to you as a gift, and therefore you can do whatever you want to do with it. Surely the God of all creation doesn't bother with being Lord over extra money. And yet, when the Lord says he owns the cattle on a thousand hills, He is describing that he owns all things, even things of those who don't worship him. But what about my football? I love watching my favorite football teams. Surely the Lord does not want to take away what I enjoy, but here is the inside scoop. The Lord wants us to surrender everything to Him, and He wants what we don't want to give up. He wants that even more And let me remind you, in case you start to think that God is sounding a bit uptight or that he is being presented as a killjoy, or even an egomaniac, for wanting all the attention. God, good people, wants us to give all of ourselves for our own benefit. It is for our benefit that we love Him with our whole being. If we don't give him all, we will end up worshiping that which will destroy us. Today, we remember the Reformation. Part of the purpose of the Reformation is that the Roman Catholic Church had compartmentalized the Christian faith for its followers. It was a thing you did on Sunday, and confession of sin only came when you committed odious sins. It was not a life that you live where you give all that you were. Listen to what Martin Luther said in his 95 Theses. Quote, when our Lord and Master Jesus Christ said repent, he willed the entire life of believers to be one of repentance. Repentance to Jesus, faith in Jesus, love for Jesus, commitment to Jesus was not for certain days or in certain circumstances, but was for all days and all moments. Jesus gave his all. He was the burnt offering. So too are we to give our all. There is no other standard. Let us pray. Our God, we come before you seeing Jesus in the burnt offering and seeing it as an example for all of us to follow, confessing that When we hold something back, we hold everything back. Help us to have the courage to say, what if, what if I was to give all that I am? What would God do with me? We entrust that you would make us holy as your Son is holy. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.