In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Before we get started, I do want to share with you a quick thought. You know, when we hear babies crying or making noise in the church, I always am grateful better than A snoring old man, as I've said before. But I always think, boy, that parents gotta take care of that kid. Um and then when I hear it and I know it's my grandson, makes me smile. We'll start off with a fable from Asa Two Travelers and the Bear. Two boys were taking a shortcut on a narrow path through a dark, tangled woods. They walked silently through the deep shadows, and they pretended not to hear the rustling in the thickets, for neither wanted to admit that he was frightened. Then the air rumbled with a low, menacing growl. Don't look, I'm sure it's nothing, said the first boy quickly. Well, it's a very large nothing, shouted the second boy. There, lumbering toward them, was a monstrous, hairy bear. Two friends began to run. Before they had taken three steps, however, the first boy stumbled and sprawled upon the ground. Help me, he cried out, trying to get up. But his friend ran on. He clambered up a towering pine and sat astride a bough, clutching the tree trunk and quaking. The horrible bear loomed over the first boy, mouth wide, teeth glinting, the bear lunged. Now, luckily for this boy, he had learned his lessons well. And he remembered that bears usually do not bother anything that is not moving. So he threw himself face down in the dirt. When he felt the bear's hot breath on his ankle, the boy stayed very, very still. When a heavy paw lightly touched his back, he closed his eyes and he willed himself not to move. The bear sniffed and snuffled, pawed and prodded and pushed at the boy until finally the beast's muzzle was next to the boy's face. The creature whiffed and snorted, and he nuzzled at the boy's ear. Although the boy was in agony of fright, still he lay unmoving. After a time, the bear became bored with this limp, lump boy. With a final swipe of his huge paw, he turned away and shuffled back into the woods. At that the first boy the first boy's friend came running back. That was amazing, said the second boy. The bear put his nose right on your ear. Why, it looked as though he even whispered a secret to you. What did he say? The first boy glared at his companion. The bear told me I need to find a more dependable friend. Now the moral of that story is what true friendship isn't But is also what underlines many of Aesop's fables and what underlines much of the book of Proverbs. That underlying moral or lesson is cause and effect. It is the truth that for every action there is a reaction. For every decision, there is a consequence. The two boys in Aesop's story chose to take a shortcut in the woods, and that put them in danger of what lived in the woods, cause and effect. The boys chose to continue on in their own path, even when they heard rustling in the thickets, and that was effect of greater fear. When the bear revealed itself, the boys chose to run. And the effect, the result, one boy falling and putting his life in danger, and the other boy only saving himself. When the first boy was about to be eaten by the bear, his quick wisdom to remain still ended up, the effect, saving him. The second boy's choice to abandon his friend ended up costing him his friendship with the first boy and likely his reputation, cause and effect. Cause and effect, action and reaction, decisions and consequences. This is how God has made the world. Hear this proverb. He who is devoid of wisdom despises his neighbor, but a man of understanding holds his peace. Now, hear the same verse in terms of cause and effect. A person who does not act wisely will hate his fellow man. Who can be down the road an asset to him, his neighbor? A man of wisdom will be self-controlled, and it will be to his benefit for the rest of his life. Hear this proverb. As righteousness leads to life, so he who pursues evil pursues it to his own death. And now hear it in terms of action and reaction. A person who lives righteously will inherit life everlasting. A person who lives pursuing evil will end up assuring his eternal death. Hear this proverb. The righteous should choose his friends carefully, for the way of the wicked leads them astray. Now hear it in terms of decisions and consequences. A God-fearing person is to choose his friends carefully because if he or she does not, they will encounter friends who will lead them into sin. Note that none of these examples from Proverbs have the subject matter in common, but what they have is the principle in common of cause and effect. I chose the topic of cause and effect to end our study of Proverbs because it is a topic that our present culture does not understand. And the reality of that lack of understanding needs to be recognized and corrected within the church. The failure to recognize the principle of cause and effect. The principle that God has embedded cause and effect into creation. It has wreaked havoc on our American culture. And I want to address this morning two examples of this havoc. I only address two because they are the most obvious and have caused the greatest of harms. The first example of our failure to recognize and then stay away from the cause and effect is sexual immorality. The recent Supreme Court ruling that allowed our nation to sanction same-sex marriage was a difficult blow to this nation's moral standing before God. There is no means by which we can expect God to bless us as a nation while we ceremonially bless the act of sodomy. But the recent Supreme Court's blessing of sodomy was an effect, not a cause. An effect, not a cause. It may indeed become a cause of other immoral sanctions by our political leaders in years to come, but for now we need to understand it as an effect. As an effect, we can logically acknowledge that there was a cause or causes to this effect. So a rational question is: what were the causes that led our leaders to believe it is perfectly acceptable to sanction Sodom? Well, the first cause that I want to point to is the idol, the idol of individual or personal happiness. That sounds strange, doesn't it? An idol of personal happiness. And my use of happiness is not in the classical sense or in the biblical sense, for in the classical sense. Happiness means being whole. Happiness is living a life that is fulfilling as persons achieve what they are capable of achieving. In comparison, the modern definition of happiness is pleasure of the flesh. It is carnal sanctification. And because the modern culture defines happiness as pleasure of the flesh, well our cultural leaders don't want any person To not be able to pursue the pleasures of the flesh, because to do so, to not deny them that that pursuit, well that goes against natural law. That tells us to deny a person of happiness is fundamentally evil. And so we have become a society that is obsessed with the pleasures of the flesh. And so the effect is the sanctioning of sodomy. But we can't look outside our windows, and we cannot say that is their problem out there. The modern church has allowed the idol of happiness, in the way I'm defining it, to be worshipped within its walls. Too often, parents who say that they are God-fearing look the other way when their children, young adults, are committing fornication. Christian parents are looking the other way, ignoring blatant sin in their homes when they know their children are having sexual intercourse with their girlfriend or boyfriend. And if they won't stand for it in regards to the girlfriend or boyfriend, they accept it, accept such sinful behavior when their child becomes engaged, as if that makes fornication more holy. The truth is fornication is adultery. And adultery is breaking the seventh commandment. It is literally that straightforward. It is time for parents to stop looking the other way and to address the sin directly It is necessary for parents and in particular fathers to assure your children's virginity. Frank and direct accountability about sexual behavior of our children is the responsibility of every parent and especially the fathers. For God has specifically directed, given commandment, that fathers are to assure their daughter's virginity I have had frank and direct conversations with my sons about sexual behavior, not because of my personality, as some might think. But because I truly have thought about having to answer God for not holding my children accountable for such sins. And I fear him more than I fear being uncomfortable in a conversation with my children. All parents need to fear God in such a manner. And what I'm trying to point out to you Is that how Christians view and act regarding sexual immorality as Christians is going to have an effect upon our culture? If we look the other way when it comes to sexual immorality among us, then we will be sowing a seed for our culture. To go even farther in their sexual immorality, just as they have Another cause of the effect of our leaders sanctioning sodomy is how marriage is treated in our culture. I am sorry to admit this. that a man that I truly regard as one of the greatest presidents that this nation's in this nation's history, a man I can say probably that I voted for Was also a fool in regards to the covenant of marriage. Ronald Reagan was the first governor to sign a bill allowing for no fault divorce. The first governor. Such allowances were the cause of many marriages failing without any effort And the more marriage has been treated as a used car transaction, the more its value has been undermined, leading it to be redefined as it is today. And once again, we need not look out the window and place blame on the secular world. Christians above all people should uphold the holiness of the marriage vows and the marriage bed. The effect of not doing so is Adam marrying Steve or Adam marrying Steve and then Stacy and then Mary and then Mark and any number of combinations that really aren't marriages at all The second example of our culture failing to understand the damage that is done by cause and effect. Is the vile act of abortion. Allow me to get out of the way any notion that a woman who has had an abortion is automatically condemned. Our culture has so confused women in regards to their bodies and what an unborn child is that many women choose abortion without considering the basic morality of such an act. The act of abortion can be forgiven by the blood of Jesus, just as any other heinous sin can be forgiven. There is hope, there is peace, there is forgiveness for those who have had abortions or who have supported abortion in the past. Thanks be to God. With that said, let us turn to the subject in light of cause and effect. The shooting in South Carolina That killed God-fearing people at a Bible study. And the killing of reporters live on television just a week ago. are examples of our culture that is not gun happy, but a culture that has lost a sense of value of human life According to a recent study done by Harvard University, mass shootings in America have tripled since 2011. Tripled. And it is not just the statistics that we should be concerned about. It should be the heinousness that are part of these mass shootings. The killers are cold. They're heartless and seemingly soulless And while every culture produces soulless people, let there be no mistake that our culture has mass-produced such people. And the initial cause, hear this now, the initial cause has to be abortion. Beloved, a society cannot allow for children, babies. Hear it again, babies. To be removed from the safest, safest place on this earth, a mother's womb, and casually have their heads cut off, and then remain a sane society A society cannot casually dismember and sell the body parts of babies who were just a few minutes ago prior quietly growing in their mother's womb And think that we can ever care about human life. Let us not for a moment fail to see that there is a connection between how we treat life in a mother's womb. And how we treat life in general as a society. And if a person was to counter my point Of connecting abortion to mass killings, and say that I have no science to back up my point of cause and effect. Allow me to respond by pointing out that we are not in a world that is only governed by what is observable. We are in a world that is governed by the unseen. The sin, the plague of abortion has brought a spirit of death to us as a nation, to our cities, to our suburbs. And the devil is happy about that. I made the point some Sundays ago that the devil has two goals for each of us in this world. He first wants each and every one of us to deny Jesus and thus be punished with him for eternity in hell, or he wants to kill us. And I will state it more personally. He wants you to deny Jesus or he wants you dead. And thus the killing of babies is just right by him. Now if you are not convinced at what I am saying, consider God's modus operandi. St. Paul explained it to the Romans when he describes that when men started to lust after other men, and women started to lust after other women and were persistent about it Paul says God gave them over to such a lust. Gave them over The phrase gave them over refers to letting them be governed by their desires. When God gives a people over to something, anything but him, it is never a good thing. And God did the same with Israel. Time and time again, Israel wanted to be like other nations And so God gave them over to be like other nations. And it always, always turned out to be hell on earth. And such is how we are being judged as a nation, as a society today. You want your freedom to choose? You want the right to kill the most innocent among you? You want death? Here it is. God has given us over. God has given us over to death. It is hard to hear, I know. But death is all around us. Now all that has been said, I realize, is quite heavy. I feel it also. But all that has been said is to be a wake-up call to us. And after we wake up, we need to do things. We need to be calling our congressmen and senators and voice our disapproval of immoral laws. We need to stand shoulder to shoulder, doing whatever we can to protect the unborn. We need to work at being more upstanding before God and men about our own personal morality. And we need to hold on to the good news. The good news was and forever will be that regardless of how the spirit of lust and death dwell among us, Jesus is on the throne of heaven. Jesus has overcome the sin of lust and the effect of death. Don't ever forget that. And because this is true about Jesus, all of this bad news does not and cannot overwhelm us. All is not lost. It never will be. But we need to have the blood of Jesus applied to our homes. And our church, and our community. And however far we can spread the good news that sin can be overcome and death has been overcome. Beloved, we live in tough and confusing times. But these times God has chosen us to live in. Us. You and I. So let us be up to the task. Of being counted as followers of Jesus, believers in God's holy word, defenders of the weak, and lovers of sinners. Amen and Amen.