In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You may be seated. We are looking at Saint Matthew's Gospel, chapter twenty-one. Verses 1 through 14. We'll also be turning to Ephesians chapter 5 as well. But Matthew 21 is a good start. The parable that was read as our gospel lesson is the last in a series of three that are aimed at what we will call the religious establishment, which consisted of the Pharisees. the Sadducees and the Scribes. All three parables illustrate the unbelief of the religious leaders and predict divine judgment as a result of that unbelief. If you remember the series of parables began with the Lord saying that while the religious leaders in their pride were refusing to enter the kingdom of God by believing in Jesus The outcasts of society, the tax collectors and the prostitutes, were doing the opposite by repenting and thus entering the kingdom of God. This parable of the wedding banquet, as we will see, reflects that same reality. Starting at verse 2. As we read elsewhere in Matthew 8, verse 11, and Matthew 25, verse 10, the banquet or wedding banquet represents the blessings of salvation, the blessings of eternal life. In the case of this parable, it is a banquet of a king prepared for his son. Sons figure prominently in all three of these three parable series. Verse 3. Verse 3 presupposes a previous invitation that had been accepted Of course, we would expect the citizens would be honored to be invited to the king's son's wedding banquet But their hypocrisy of the religious leaders is now revealed. They said they would come with no intention of attending. Their reason to not live up to their word reveals their malicious hearts. In verse 4, we have a second appeal. Which is gracious as it gives opportunity to see the effort that the king has put forth for his guests to enjoy the celebration. To know what the king has done for them and to still refuse the invitation reveals the hardness of their hearts. In verse 5, we see that the invited guests have refused at least now twice. Remember that the first parable of the three, called the parable of the two sons, featured a son who refused to do what his father demanded of him and then regrets his refusal and goes into the field while the second son said he would go into the field and did not. Do as he promised. The challenge to us is which son will you be? The second parable was about vine dressers who were to give to the owner of the land proceeds from their vineyards, but thought that the landlord didn't deserve what they had grown, So they beat the servants sent to them and eventually killed the owner's son. Obviously, all three parables describe the religious leaders and their bad character This third one we are looking at shows that God wanted to include them in the celebration of his son. But incredibly they considered other things more pressing, more important For these trivial things, for these trivial things, they were willing to risk the wrath of the king. There was no urgency to their business, they simply didn't care. Their shallow pedestrian excuses revealed hearts of stone and a taste for things only in this life, with no care for what was eternal. While some of the invited in verse 6 responded with mocking smirks, others were engaged with anger to a level of violence. Showing that Jesus was fully aware of what these religious leaders intended for him. As stated, the mistreatment of the king's servants was previously described in the parable of the vine dressers and that mistreatment uh by these that was still to come. Clearly, the parables are dealing with the same themes. There was no respect for the king, no fear of his wrath, and thus no respect for God or fear of his wrath. From verse 7, we learn that the servants of the landowner and the servants of the king represent the prophets. The anger of the landowner and the anger of the king is the anger of God toward those whom he seriously wants to join in the celebration. He wants that But instead they mock him for his kindness. It is clear from verse 8 that the celebration will not be canceled Because the invited guests refuse to come, God graciously looks for others to celebrate with him. Verses 9 and 10 describe the theme of the kingdom being repopulated by unexpected people when the citizens of the kingdom, the Jewish people originally chosen by God They failed to respond and were cast out. Verse 11 indicates that the king's servants had gathered all the people they could find, both good and bad, the text says The presence of the bad in the new group requires further clarification. The new tenants of the kingdom of God were those outcasts. That the Jews despised and thought themselves better than those tax collectors and prostitutes who were replacing the so-called religious of the kingdom But who repeatedly refused the invitation of the Lord. But those attending, those attending must themselves bear fruit. Or their fate will be no better than those who rejected the king before them. We are to understand that if a person stood out not being dressed properly, that everyone else was dressed properly, meaning that all of them had a chance to change their clothing. Verse 13 shows, as elsewhere in Matthew, it will only be at the final judgment when it will be revealed who are the true guests. of the king at his banquet. The judgment may sound harsh, being cast out, gnashing of teeth, and all that But it only sounds harsh because our ears are too used to being tickled. Verse 14 is an easily memorized passage. That summarizes the parable and the two parables prior. It isn't proof. It isn't proof of the doctrine of predestination, however Because the parable prior speaks to people making decisions for themselves and then suffering the consequences of those decisions. Predestination and the idea of free will are mysterious to us, for we don't know where the will of God and the will of one human being connect and or disconnect. What we know from this parable is that people who were expected to attend the celebration did not. And those who were not expected did. But even with those who did, some did not properly prepare themselves What we should first get from this parable is how much a privilege it is to be invited to celebrate with God. There is no requirement for God to invite you to the celebration of his son and his son's bride. Nothing compels God to invite us and enjoy his company other than his love, which is stated in that most often repeated verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. To be invited by the means of God's love is to recall how we have done nothing to earn God's favor. But only by him choosing to reveal himself to us are we able to be invited to join him. The statement that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God includes us. Without Him awakening our spirits and showing us the futility of our minds prior to knowing Him We would still be wallowing in our self-righteousness, thinking that we are deserving of love, deserving of health, deserving of happiness, because, well, we're just better than most. The failure of the Jewish leaders to appreciate the privilege they had to be chosen of God, chosen of God to bring forth the Messiah. To have the character of the Messiah revealed in the law of God. To have leaders that revealed the will of God. To have prophets that God had given them. Showing the virtue of humility over pride, it is all too easy to conclude that being chosen by God means that we have done something to earn his favor. The devil makes it easy to conclude as much, but the opposite is true There is nothing within us that is worthy to be chosen over another, but only God's will. Being humbled by that reality is to make all of us more grateful and thus more loyal. To the Savior. The second truth to be revealed from the parable is all of the trouble that God goes to ordering To ordering the fatakha, to invite the people, to create this celebration. Consider that God could be satisfied to celebrate by himself. He is triune, after all. He is sufficient within himself to enjoy the company of himself, and yet he desires to have people among him. He desires to be a loving, caring, and providing God to the people made in his image He wants to celebrate with his people so much that even when a spoiled and privileged people reject his invitation, he goes out again to find a different people Again, with the final goal of celebrating with them. I will be their God, and they will be my people, he said through the prophet Jeremiah. That is what he wants. And to fulfill what he wants, he sacrifices to get it, even sacrificing his own son. The third truth to be received from this parable is that God loves to celebrate. The end goal of our salvation is described several times in Holy Scripture as a feast, which shows that God wants us to enjoy pleasures of the flesh only in due time and in due order. To feast. To feast is to enjoy taste and fullness, and to drink is to enjoy mirth. We should always appreciate moments around our kitchen tables when food and drink are being enjoyed by the people we love. Such are glimpses of our heavenly celebration. The fourth truth to be received from this parable is that we are individually responsible for how we ready ourselves for the celebration. In the parable was a man who did not properly dress for the occasion, which showed himself to be disrespectful about the occasion. To say he was speechless is to say that he had no justified reason as to why he was not properly dressed, which means that he purposefully did not go out of his way to prepare for the occasion. His was a heart that understood the king, offering cheap grace. He thought of the invitation as requiring nothing of him other than to accept it and enjoy the bounty. With no sacrifice or respect on his part. Such thinking leads us to our epistle lesson Where Paul gives direction on how Christians are to get ready for the wedding feast. And before we look, That Paul's instruction further. Let us acknowledge that the Christian faith is not for slackers. Those who follow Christ and call him Lord are told to count the cost because it costs a good deal to follow him. It costs friends. It costs family. It costs lost sleep because of prayer burdens. It costs forgiving others when you do not want to. It costs time because we give up our days and our hours to serve the church, his bride. It costs money because Christians faithfully give to his bride. It costs patience because we endure others. It costs endurance because we choose not to quit. It costs self, for it is self that we are to die to. And all such sacrifice does not come naturally. When in college, my freshman year, playing on the football team, I played on what they call the scout team. Which was the team that ran the offensive plays of the opponent that we were to face that weekend. One of the defensive backs, a starter, I will not name him publicly When I would line up as a wide receiver, he would whisper, Jurg, Jurg, that was his pronunciation of my last name, Jorgensen. He would say, Jurg, Jurg, what's the play? Where's it going? And if it was going to the other side of the field, then he would slack off. He would be lazy. If I told him it was coming his way, then he would give full effort, knowing that the coaches would be watching. Beloved, there is no place in the body of Christ for slackers, for there are no place where you can be lazy. And so Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, chapter 4, says, chapter 5, excuse me, says, for us to walk circumspectly Which is to live one's life strictly or accurately. The word is generally used in the context of intellectual accuracy or thoroughness In this context, it means to look for the traps of the devil. Thus, you cannot live circumspectly and be a slacker. And why else should we walk strictly and wisely is because he says the days are evil The days are evil is to be understood in a general sense, which is to say that there are temptations to sin at all times and in all places. And thus you cannot live strictly and judge the world accurately and be a slacker. A common manner of evil to be strict about is drunkenness For the alcohol dulls the senses and fogs the thinking while weakening a person's constitution. Whereas the sin Being tempted no longer looks dangerous, and the strength to say no to earthly desires is overwhelmed by the desire to satisfy the flesh. The answer, instead of drunkenness, is instead to be filled with the Holy Spirit, which grants the opposite effect of the wine. It is the Holy Spirit that renews the mind to think God's thought. And strengthen conviction and enables a person to say no to self and yes to God's commandments. To do so is to go against the spirit of this world. And to go against such a spirit is in no way enable you to be a slacker. And while being filled with the Spirit, he says we are to sing to one another psalms, hymns and spiritual psalms. The Psalms are clearly what we have in the Old Testament, considered the first hymn book of the church, which are also songs accompanied by musical instruments The hymns are those songs which are sung without accompaniment, and the spiritual songs seem to be a catch-all category for other types of songs. That these songs are to be melody in the heart is an encouragement towards emotion, which is our passion. Thus, our passions are to be poured out to God in song rather than being poured out in our flesh. To control our passions takes discipline, and discipline is unknown to slackers. And as mentioned last week, giving thanks to God is giving glory to God, and such is what we must do, for that is what we are created to do. And finally, there is the last instruction in the section of scripture read, which tells us to submit to one another, which is to be accountable to one another. And that is and that is in place before Paul continues about the proper roles of the Christian household. To be accountable to one another takes a great deal of courage. A person submitting to one another says, look at my life, and critique it. See what I see. See what I do. See what I write. Know what I say and correct it where it need be. Who says such things? No one I know, except it should be all of us. It is the slacker who submits to no one Going back to our parable, we realize that we have been privileged to be invited to the wedding of God the Father, to celebrate the wedding of his only begotten Son, to the church. And admits that privilege is a warning to prepare properly and thus not be a slacker. And Paul directs us on how to prepare. Beloved, you and I have been invited to a wedding, the greatest wedding of them all. It is time to look for a new dress, or a new suit, or a fancy sport coat. It is time to get the hair done. To cut the nails, to bathe thoroughly, to shine the shoes until you see yourself in them. Press the slacks until the crease can be clearly seen. The dinner has been announced as ready, with the oxen and fatted calf having been cut, cleaned, and cooked. I ordered the filet. Many of you probably ordered the crab cake, I imagine. But we all want to be there. Let us pray. A gracious God, for this image that you have placed before us For the excitement of joining the wedding feast. May all of us feel that privilege and be motivated by it to serve you All of our days that we will enjoy that day and enjoy it forever. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.