Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. No reason to come up with anything new. or different when it comes to preaching sermons of this magnitude. So we're simply looking at Titus chapter one, beginning at verse five, and you're more than encouraged to open your Bibles and or pew Bibles and to follow along. If you could order a perfect pastor, what would he look like? What type of gifts, demeanor, and intelligence would he have? For those of you who are murmuring under your breath, I'll just say it out loud for you. Whoever he would be, Pastor, he wouldn't be like you No, some of you wouldn't order me, and I get that. But what would you have Differently. Now don't answer that out loud. Twenty years ago, a survey was sent out to the congregation of Saint Stephen's asking what the members wanted in the man that they would call pastor. I was given the results shortly after I arrived and was installed as rector here. And initially I didn't read the results of the survey. I just thought it's a bad idea all around. I thought it was a bad idea because surveys tempt people to conclude that they are going to get what they want. And it communicates that hiring a pastor, calling a pastor is like ordering a pizza. You can decide what you want on it and what you don't want on it. And I also did not read it because I did not want to feel any pressure to please people, but only to please God. So I let it sit in my drawer for over ten minutes. Years before I finally opened it and took a looking. Now you should know that these were anonymous answers. One person requested that the man called would be a pastor first and a Moral crusader second. He was not, he must not have a hidden agenda. And I can guess what this person was after, but it would only be a guess. Another person wanted the pastor to be involved in community affairs. And another, in contrast to the first, wanted him to be involved in moral issues and taking a public stand. Obviously it would be hard to please both persons, the first. and the third. One person wanted sermons that were more uplifting and positive. Another person wanted the pastor to be outgoing, friendly, and always lively. Another person wanted the pastor to include less of the book of common prayer and And more praise music. The search committee obviously didn't consider those last two people when they chose me. But when considering what we want in a leader, it is important to acknowledge that what we want isn't necessarily what we need. And what we want is not as important as what God wants. We all say that, but it's harder to follow through. Now I want to get to Titus's words, but first I want Ricky to hear the following. In 1 Kings chapter 8, Solomon prays to God for help to lead God's people. The prayer is beautiful as it is inspired by the Holy Spirit. It communicates what Solomon needs to be as a leader and what the Israelites need to be as followers. Knowing that Solomon veered off course to follow false gods, well that's pretty troubling. He started so well. And if Solomon is the author of the book of Ecclesiastes, well we can say he finished well also. It's that problem in between. It is the life example of King Solomon. Solomon, that we as ministers of the gospel can be challenged to change, that we begin well, that we end well, but we do well in between the beginning and the end. So that the Heavenly Father will say one day. Well done. So let's get to Titus chapter 1. Verse 5. There Paul explains why Titus could not travel with the apostle, but needed to stay behind. Things increase. among the Christians needed to be straightened out. What needed to be straightened out is evident by the next instruction, which was that Titus needed to appoint leaders, elders, who can use words, we can use words like precipitation. Priest pastor in each city in the area of Crete. Those groups that have formed in the Christian faith, uh the Amish, the brethren, the Quakers, they don't pay attention. To these passages as much as our tradition does. But leaders, as Paul explains, are essential. If there are no leaders, then things need to be straightened out. We need to be Led, whether we want to be or not. Jethro, father of Moses, recognized the need when he met up with Moses after the Exodus. You remember Moses agreed to appoint men to govern. To lead numbered family groups. One of the first things that God did when giving the law was then to establish leaders. The Levites were leaders. They were assigned to lead the people and Worship and expound and apply the law of God to individual lives and to community lives, thus, the need for leadership in Scripture is explicitly understood. But this need for leadership will not always be. You will remember the prophecy of Jeremiah. That new covenant will bring a day when men will not need a teacher, because the law of God will be written on the hearts of believers. For they shall know me. says the Lord. But that time of fulfillment is not yet. That time of fulfillment is when Jesus comes again and we all see him as he is. Until then, men need to be appointed to leave. Leaders need to feed the sheep of the great shepherd. According to St. Paul, the first requirement of a leader is that he is to be blameless. Well, that is quite a bit. quite a start of describing a church leader. And if we were to take that word as a general description overall, well, I need to bow out at this point in time. In fact, I suspect that it disqualifies pretty much Everyone. Maybe Bishop Cox would would have be able to uh fit the description, but not the rest of us. If God does not want to disqualify everyone, it must refer to something more, and and and indeed it does. The word Literally means not called to account. Which means that that changes cannot be made charges cannot be made against the man, and the charges made are in reference to the points that follow and 6 through 9. The church leader does not need to be blameless in all things, but blameless in the things that follow. The following description. What follows first is familial. Principled. Let us look to the home of the man who would be a leader. Is he blameless as a husband? If he has more than one wife, he is not morally upstanding or a faithful man. And this is not simply referring to a man who might have a plural marriage, which was not common in the early centuries. It refers to a man who would be an adulterer. For it was understood that a man who was having an affair was behaving as if he had another wife. As St. Paul describes to the Corinthians, when a man joins his flesh to another, the two become one flesh. It is a false marriage. unholy union, but a union nonetheless. Next, the leader is to be blameless in regards to passing on the faith to his children. We hear jests about The children of pastors, because well, first we expect more from them, and second, we often get less. But this should not be. The primary point of mentioning a man's wife and children is something Elsewhere by St. Paul, where he says that if a man cannot pastor his own home well, then he cannot pastor a church. The logic is irrefutable. If a man cannot lead the Those who are under his nose and most important to him, then he is automatically disqualified from discipling a body of believers. And even so, even though such as stated clearly It is not readily heated. There are many examples of men who have poor marriages and children who have abandoned the faith, and yet men still lead the church. Why so? Well I submit two reasons, at least. First, people don't want to cause conflict or be in the middle of a confrontation, and so they don't require a pastor to live up to this standard. Second, such pastors treat their job their their leadership like a job. They treat their job, their calling as a job, as if if they didn't have this job, they wouldn't have any income whatsoever. Of course, we know it is a calling, not a job. Requirements are not met, it tells us that a man is disqualified from the position, even if he doesn't acknowledge it. And again, this is highly controversial, and it's not the place to get into it. But plays into the idea. ideal of starting well, finishing well, and doing well in between. And the first congregation to do well is the family. Consider the description Paul gives Of children, of how a pastor is to have a testimony to unbelievers and believers regarding the effectiveness of the gospel. A pastor's children are not to be accused of dissipation in King James Verse. Dissipation describes a person who lives in a state of indulging the flesh. It describes a person living for pleasure. Such persons don't just sin once and therefore need repentance, they are living in sin. Next is being accused of insubordination, which refers to a person who has cast off the rights of those who have authority over him or her. It is the breaking of the fifth commandment. Thus, we are not talking about children who get in trouble or young people who are struggling in life. We are talking about children of pastors who live in open sin, purposefully rebelling against their parents. Children set such a poor example to the rest of the congregation that no one can have real confidence in their leader. Well, you are aware, I trust, but the word bishop here was used in interchangeably with presbyter until the apostles passed on to glory. And thus we can read in verse 7 as describing elders or pastors, and of course, since bishops of today were presbyters, it is describing them as well. Leaders and Next are to be blameless as stewards. As stewards, pastors are to take care, great care, of what has been entrusted them. And their work cannot be, hear this, about them. That is why they cannot be self-willed. They cannot lead in order to get what they want. Of course, the minister must lead and fight for those things he believes God wants for the church, but it cannot. It must not be about what he wants. It is not about him. Regardless of how charismatic and effectual he can be of getting his way. It must be about Jesus, it must be about the authority of the Holy Spirit, it must be about the authority. the triune God having his will fulfilled. The remaining description in verse 7 is based on the virtue of temperance and the fruit of the Spirit identified as self-control. If a leader is quick-tempered, he either scares a great many people away, or he finds himself in one fight after another. Little disagreements become large battles because emotions are out of control. Being quick-tempered. can often be connected to being addicted to alcohol, and that is why pastors must not be addicted to wine. It is not by accident that fights break out in bars and ball games and not Bible studies and church picnics. Quick tempers and wine bibbing can more easily lead to violence, which is why it is mentioned next. And this is certainly the opposite of the command of Jesus to turn the other cheek and a call to meekness. Anyone is going to exemplify taking it on the chin, as we say. It needs to be bishops, it needs to be presbyters, it needs to be deacons. It may or may not surprise you how much the pastoral position requires. Requires a man to take a punch. Punches verbally and otherwise. There are many who think that they know what a minister ought to be or ought to do, and they are quite free to tell him. And they know that the The man of God is called to take it. He has to endure it without getting angry and without getting violent. The aggressor knows this, and the minister knows he knows this, and still he has to endure. It is all a part. of the call. If a man cannot endure it, then he is not called. Taking it on the chin is a major part of doing well in between. The description in verse 8 moves the listener from what he ought not be to what he should be. Being hospitable is opening one's home to those he watches over and the stranger. Being hospitable is being vulnerable. Communicating that people are more important than things. People are more important than time. St. Peter gives the same instruction to all the church. He says that we are to be hospitable to one another, and he says it just before he explains. how we have different gifts. This means that hospitality is something that we should all practice. It is not a specific gift. If a person says she doesn't have the gift of hospitality, it should be noted that it is not It is not a gift. It is a command. And especially those who lead the church. Next, a pastor is to love the good. The good is righteousness. It is all of the virtue. By loving it, he is to pursue it, exemplify it, and point others to it. The good is what is beneficial to others. And this again is to remind us that the ministerial work is not about him. It's about that. Next, a pastor is to be sober-minded and just. These characteristics are applied to the many decisions, painful realities faced. Any man who has held an ecclesiastical office for very long will have seen a great deal of human suffering caused by life circumstances or self-infliction. Another translation. uses the word sensible. And we could add wisdom. There's a great deal of wisdom needed when trying to guide someone through a dark time or counsel someone through the repercussions of their sin. The term holy is also found in 1 Timothy in the context of a minister being pious. Because a pastor's foremost responsibility is to lead God's people in worship, he must be pious, he must be reverent. It is more specifically written in the canons of the Reformed Episcopal Church that there is to be nothing in worship that is irreverent, light, or unseemly. The description of being self-controlled is the positive of the negative listed in verse 7. And finally we come to verse 9. It is a vital part of being a pastor who starts well, finishes well, and does well In between, for a pastor to teach the sound doctrine they have been taught. And the sound doctrine is to be preached in order to move believers into thinking rightly about God, and it is to be used to contradict. to come against those who would teach otherwise. I perceive this part of the call is woefully underappreciated in Anglican circles. So it is my charge that your preaching begin well, end well, and be done well in between to fulfill that call to feed the sheep of Jesus. So what type of man do you want to lead you? Do we need to take a survey? I trust we do not. The description is right here. And it is easiest to fulfill this description early in one's ministry. Idealism. And energy allow a man newly ordained to begin well. But the day-to-day grind of fulfilling all that St. Paul describes to Titus eventually takes a toll that is undeniably difficult to endure. And it is during those days which are the most of your days in ministry that the people of God need clergy to be true to St. Paul's words right here. The powerful truth. Is that if a minister faithfully lives out these words given by Saint Paul, God's kingdom will come. His will will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And God will say, he will say, in the end, well done. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter into your rest. Ricky McCarl, Ricky Lee McCarl, may you one day hear those words. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, for all the prayers that will be offered here today and the promises and the commitments, may this holy word spoken by St. Paul be ingrained in Ricky's mind and all of our hearts, that we might pray for those who are called, love those who are called, and hold them to the standard that you've given. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.