In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Thank you all for coming out tonight. Thank you for this honor. Reverend Bowles to preach this charge for you. At the dinner table our son Joel mentioned the 40% rule. I had not heard of the 40% rule, so I did some reading. And came across a story of a rich executive and a Navy SEAL. The young executive met this particular Navy SEAL while participating in a 100-mile run. The executive was in the run as a member of a six-person relay team. The Navy SEAL was running the hundred miles by himself. After the race, the executive introduced himself to the Navy SEAL and asked him to come live with the executive and his family, that they all might receive from the SEAL greater mental toughness. Now the first day together, the executive learned what the forty percent rule is It is when your mind is telling you that you are done, and yet you are really only 40% done. To prove it, the SEAL asked the executive how many pull-ups he could do. The executive said eight. And so he went about doing eight pull-ups. He rested 30 seconds and the SEAL asked him to do eight more. He could only do six. He rested another 30 seconds, and he asked him to do eight more, and he only did four. The CEO then told the executive to do 100 pull-ups. The executive thought that he had no strength left in his arms. He couldn't even move them. But the SEAL insisted they keep going. And although it took a bit of time that day, the executive did a hundred more pull-ups. That he never would have believed he could have done. But that story is not hard evidence that the 40% rule is real. The following quote is from an exercise magazine. Quote, in a 2008 study, researchers found that subjects who were given a placebo, but told that they were given caffeine were able to lift significantly more weight than those who were really given caffeine. The article goes on. Of course, this doesn't imply that our bodies and minds are limitless, but it does confirm that to the extent of those limits need revising. Often we limit our abilities, but stories like the Executive and the Navy SEAL are numerous and show the capability of exceeding those limits. St. Paul's letter to the Corinthians, the second letter He was concerned about who was influencing these new Christians, and he was concerned that these Corinthians were rejecting his influence. And so he lists what he had endured for the sake of the gospel. His resume, if you will. And I wondered how the list would read if it was used as a job description for leading God's people, a job description to be a pastor. Imagine this, listening for a job. To be our pastor, five times you will need to receive 40 lashes less one. Three times the Presbyter will need to be beaten with rods. Once he is to be stoned, by the biblical definition of being stoned. Three times he is to experience a shipwreck with one night and a day adrift at sea. On journeys of visitation, he is to suffer dangers from rivers, danger from robbers, danger from saints. Danger from sinners, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers. The Presbyter is to have toil and hardship through many sleepless nights. in hunger and in thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. And apart from other things, there is the daily pressure to suffer anxiety for all persons in the church. The Presbyter is to be weak, he is to be made to fall, and he is not to be indignant about it. For the sake of Christ, then our pastor, is to be content. with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. All serious candidates send their resume to the senior warden, and the address is listed. Any fakers? When St. Paul heeded the call to follow Jesus. And to be an ambassador of the good news of Jesus, he had no way of knowing what would be his journey No man stands up and says, here I am, send me, can know what is in store for him, how God will use him, what he must endure. And oh yes, Paul knew some of it. He was one of those persons who dished it out. He was a persecutor, making him fully aware that he too would be persecuted. But the manner and repetition and the situations he found himself in the middle of could not have been prepared for. Even the rest of the apostles, who were told by Jesus that the world would hate them because it hated him, and he specifically told them that they would die for Jesus They were not ready for what was going to be their moment. Last month I read to our congregation the summary of the apostles and their martyrdoms. And we told the story of Saint Peter, who was counseled to leave Rome to save his life, and as he was leaving, saw a vision of Jesus coming in to be crucified once again. Peter, even Peter, was not ready. You can be told often that you will face many difficulties as an ordained minister of the gospel. And you cannot anticipate how gut-wrenchingly hard it can be. Now, of course It can be easier for some men than others. Those who tickle the ears of their parishioners and who work hard not to take over any of the devil's territory, well they will find it easier The devil leaves such men alone. Such men are always already doing the work of the devil. But a man who truly loves God and loves the gospel will be harassed by the devil, and the biggest harassment will come from within, not from without. And oh yes, it will come from without, as is being proved in more and more in our culture. But for now it will first come from within. And it will appear to you that everything that you dreamed of your calling is just the opposite. Even in the church, yes, in the church, you will find what love is not. Consider the listing that Paul has in 1 Corinthians 13. In the church, it can happen the opposite. People will suffer shortly with you. Some people will not be kind to you. Some people will envy you. Some people will parade themselves and be puffed up. Some people will behave rudely, seek their own, be provoked, and think evil thoughts about you. They will rejoice when your sin is revealed. They will not believe the best of you and they will not endure you. And the question you have to answer, and I sincerely mean you have to answer it and answer it every day What are you gonna do about it? Are you going to run and hide like too many pastors do when they get roughed up? And so they go to another parish with their three years worth of sermons to preach them all over again, only to be roughed up again and to leave that church. The Christian Church has plenty of that type of man. Are you going to roll up your sleeves and fight for yourself? Are you going to make it about you against them and see who comes out ahead? You can prove them wrong and showing how their sin is actually worse than yours And you can win each scuffle, and you can raise your own right arm and the symbol of victory, and you can do so while your congregation is walking out the door, never to return again. Young ministers, such as myself, need to learn sooner than later that winning an argument is not winning people. And to be a fisher of men, which is what we are called to be as ministers of the gospel, is to win people. And I realize thus far that I have described uh what I've described about being a Presbyter is not positive. So, I'm going to double down. Recall in the book of 1 Kings When Elijah had defeated the prophets of Baal, and the Lord had answered his prayer to end the drought, and the rain came upon the land. And although all of his actions were good for the children of Israel, still King Ahab, that big baby, went and told his mommy wife Jezebel what Elijah had done. And this caused her to swear that she would see Elijah dead. When the news reached Elijah, he fled. He ran. He was scared for his life, and he was a day's journey into the wilderness before he sat and prayed that his life would end then and there. He was alone, or he felt alone. Elijah was at his forty percent. He thought he was drained. He thought he was alone. Do you psychologists say that being alone is one of mankind's greatest fears? And those that are before it are rejection, death, and failure. And all those include feeling alone. A minister, a teacher, a preacher of the gospel will have times of feeling alone, all alone. There are instances when even our spouses cannot get to us. And oh, a bit of personal advice. Don't ever tell your spouse, when she is not understanding you, that she sounds like the rest of your parishioners. I've heard that doesn't go over very well. The problem with Elijah when he reached his 40% is that he had been depending on his flesh, as was evident by him running into the wilderness, and his flesh let him down. He was depending so much on his own courage, his own strength, that he had a breaking point. And what he discovered not too long after was that he was never alone. And that God was with him always, as he proved being that still small voice. Things were not as Elijah thought they were, for God had other men he had saved and other men he had called. And Elijah could trust in God's sovereignty and the plan of God's salvation, even though he was looking through that glass dimly. Again, I understand that I have painted a gloomy picture of what it means to be called, to be ordained into the Christian ministry. But what I have said is true. And it is perhaps why, according to our prayer book, at the deacon ordination, this is the Presbyter ordination, at the Deacon ordination When the bishop asks the candidate if he is truly called, the appropriate response is, I think so. And I know I put the accent in the wrong place. To imply that there's some doubt, but it seems to fit. For we who save those vows truly don't know what we are going to experience So allow me to provide sage advice that was given to me before I entered the Christian ministry. Make your ministry about the gospel of Jesus Christ first and last. The bishop will ask you if you believe and will teach the holy scriptures, and you will say that you are persuaded And you are persuaded because the holy scriptures teach the gospel. The Bishma will ask you to perform dutifully the sacrament. And you will say you will do so because the sacraments and the water and the bread and in the wine preach the gospel The bishop will ask if you will protect the church from false teachings and other dangers. And you will say, I will, because you want to maintain an environment within the parish that will be easier to hear the gospel. You will be asked to commit to study, and you will say, you will endeavor to do so because you will teach and preach from your study the gospel. You will be asked if you will pursue a holy life, and you will say you will apply yourself to do so, so that your life will not be a hindrance to teaching and preaching the gospel. You will be asked to commit to maintaining love in the church, and you will say you will do so because it is by the love that is expressed from Christian to Christian that the world will see the gospel When your pride is hurt and you have feelings of anger, remember your calling is about the gospel. When your opinion is not appreciated, your sermons are questioned, your office is not respected, remember it is not about any of that. It is about the gospel. When you are attacked for your personality, your manner, or whatever it is that someone doesn't like about you, it is your responsibility to remind yourself that it is not about any of that anyway. It's about the gospel. The second and last stated advice is to have faith that you are not alone. The last question the bishop will ask is if you will obey your bishop and other ministers whose charge you are placed under. And you will say, I will do so. But that statement is for your benefit. That promise is for your benefit. The church is in existence for your sake. You have men over you, under you, and beside you to help you and be helped by you. That is what the body of Christ is for. Helping the needs of each other as part of the body. And your bishops and your fellow presbyters and deacons are in your life to be what you need for them to be for you to minister the gospel. And also the Holy Spirit is with you and will never leave you or forsake you. And when you are at your 40%, Jesus will be that extra 60%. And because Jesus gives you the first 40%, well, he's pretty much 100% of what you need When you feel alone in your ministry, recall that Elijah did as well. And the devil works hard to place a lot of noise in our lives so that we don't hear the truth. And the truth is we need to remember that God is with us and that still small voice. And to complete the point that you are not alone, I charge you to believe in this process. Believe in the church's process of vetting you, and believe in the church's authority to ordain you When hands are laid upon you and prayer is made for you, believing that, believe, believe that something happens to you that doesn't happen to all other believers. You will be given special authority. Set apart authority so that you will be able to carry out the duties as a priest. Don't ever forget it. The anointing is real. It is most very real. And it keeps us from doubting our call. Believe me, the devil will continually cause you to doubt your call. Don't let him. God speaks through his church. He empowers by way of his church. And at the laying on of hands, he will empower you. With every wedding that I have officiated here at St. Stephen's, I stand with the groom in the back room just before the ceremonies, right through that door. And the room has a door that leads out of the building. And every room that I have had back there, I tell them that this is the moment, your last chance, you can get out of here And I am not joking. I am not joking because the vows they are about to make are life-binding. And I want them to understand the gravity of the moment Well that is what I've tried to do in this sermon. I've tried to present the gravity of the moment, but the bows made here are powerfully important. They matter for eternity. Heed them, and God will use you for the coming of his kingdom. Amen.