In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I invite you to pick up a Bible and turn to First Corinthians chapter four. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Our reading started at verse 8, but we're going to be starting at verse 6. Verse 6. The phrase these things refers to being a servant and a steward, as we spoke about last week. The phrase beyond what is written applies to a minister being no more than what is written, which is a servant and a steward. That they would be pumped up addresses their temptation to think that following one man over another made them superior. In verses 7 through 10, 7 through 10, we find an unusual but effective sarcasm. I have had conversations over the years with fellow Christians who have said that they don't like sarcasm, with some insisting that God would not use sarcasm. But the fact is there is a great deal of sarcasm in Holy Scripture. The Corinthians are not wise while Paul and his companions are fools. They are not distinguished while St. Paul is dishonored. But Paul was treated like a fool, and he was dishonored by the Jews and the Greeks. His sarcasm is to humble the Christians who are dividing themselves from one another, while he and his companions Are concerned first and foremost about the gospel being preached. Verse 11 through 13 This is not here a list of complaints, but of reality. Working with our own hands, he says. That refers to making a living to support his own ministry. Paul describes himself elsewhere as a tent maker. Also, the point must be seen that while Christians are de-fellowshipping from one another, Paul and his companions are giving love to people who mistreat them. The contrast again is to humble them. Verses 14 through 15, Paul reminds them why he is able to say these things directly To say he is their father is not a violation of Christ's command that we are to consider no one, no man, father. Paul is a father to them and that he is God's representative as God their father. Because he brought the gospel to them, he has a right to be honored and respected as their spiritual father. When Jesus warns against calling a man father, he is not referring to giving a man and he is referring to giving a man and his teachings authority above the Holy Scriptures. He is not rejecting the relational title of father. That is why it is biblically acceptable to call a minister father if you believe him to be your spiritual father. Verse sixteen through seventeen, there to imitate the apostle is to listen to the teachings of Timothy, who comes on the apostles' behalf. What Timothy will teach them to do is how they are to imitate Paul, to live out their Christian life daily. Not on Sundays, daily. Verse eighteen through nineteen, those who are called puffed up are arrogant. They're arrogant because they speak as though they have more understanding and insights than the Apostle Paul. He used the term word, not referring to the word of God, but the words of men. Again, contrast, words of God, words of men. In verses 20 through 21, the kingdom of God is not in word, again the words of man The power of the kingdom of God is displayed in the words of God and in his deeds, what he has done. The apostle can come to the Corinthians displaying both. How he comes will depend upon the attitude and actions of those who are arrogant. Those brief notes on this passage will serve as a background for highlighting two main subjects that are being contrasted in this section of Scripture. The first is the contrast between humility and arrogance. The other is of suffering versus kingship. Suffering versus kingship. Now the story of God's kingdom consistently places the spirit and ethic of every age on its head. Every culture of every age experiences and accepts the ethic that might makes right. The strongest and the fittest receive the power and the glory of man. The boy with the biggest fist and the meanest nature rules the playground. Whether it be a third-world culture that pays homage to a man who can throw a spear the farthest Or a first world that pays millions to a man who throws a ball. They are all controlled by the same ethos. I realize that those who are being blown by the winds of our day are trying to say that the meekest make right, or that the immigrant is to receive the greatest respect But please look critically again. While the progressive holds up the victim for praise, they hold up the victim as more righteous. The most pure. And thus they are still holding up that which they define as the greatest. And they bully you if you don't agree. To our age and every age, the voice of God speaks to this in the same tone with the same message If you want to be great in God's kingdom, you have to be a servant. If you want to have eternal life, you must become like a weak child. In a Darwinian culture such as ours, where the survival of the fittest is not only taught in our classrooms, but practiced in our boardrooms, this makes no sense. Eat or be eaten, killed or be killed are the slogans that the kingdom of God replaces with, he who tries to save his life will lose it, and he who gives up his life will save it in the end. The Bible forces us to examine the manner the world thinks and to transform our minds to think in the manner of God. On the issue of humility, we are forced to recognize that those who are arrogant are blind to reality. Only those who are humble see things as they actually are. In verse 7, the apostle challenges those who are arrogant to re-examine why they are so high on themselves. If they are as smart as they think they are, how did they become so? The answer, of course, is that any gift they have has been given to them. They have nothing that they have not received. It reminded me of an interesting exchange Between Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, an MBA team, and Shaquille O'Neal, who is a former NBA center. O'Neill was criticizing the owner of the Mavericks by stating to a reporter that the owner's wealth was not earned but gained by lucky investments in the stock market. Cuban, when he was told that about this comment, shot back sarcastically by saying, Oh, and Shaquille O'Neal is over seven feet tall and weighs over 300 pounds because he earned it I think such is a very good comeback. Far too many people are arrogant because they do not recognize that what they are, the gifts they have, have been given by God. Those who are puffed up, as the apostle describes them, are in such a state because they believed they had greater understanding about God than others. They believe themselves to be more perceptive and perhaps even more learned than the apostle. Such an attitude is not much different than our neighbor or co-worker Who knows that we attend church regularly and that we participate in Bible studies, and they perceive us to be blind and themselves having sight You're wasting your time. You're wasting your money supporting a church by your giving and by your attendance. To them, you look the fool. To them, you are a weaker person because you need, as they say, a crutch. The truth is Those who consider followers of who are considered followers of Christ, those who consider them fools, are themselves foolish. They are foolish because they are bound by their sin. They carry guilt wherever they go. They're burdened by a load of sin, vices, and they have no hope beyond the grave. They call the call of the grave screeches like nails on a chalkboard, like a haunting echo down an empty hall, and they refuse to acknowledge those horrible sounds. They cover their ears as they harden their hearts. Their denying of their fear of death simply leads to greater expressions of sin in desperation, which again causes the grave to beckon. This vicious cycle is unending until it ends in death. The only hope, the only possibility for the sounds of the grave to be silenced is if arrogancy is turned to humility. Humble yourself before the Lord, and he will lift you up. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted, said the Lord. He does not ask of us what he himself has not done. He humbled himself, Philippians tells us, and became obedient even unto death. Jesus' death at the hands of those who are his creation, think about that, he died by the hands of those he created, that defines humility. He, having set the standard, expects all who would follow him to have the same humble mind. Let it be heard this way. A follower of Jesus cannot hear the call for humility to be an option. It is a requirement. To be Christian is to be humble, humbled by the reality of your sin and your desperate need for a savior. To be a disciple of Christ, you have to be humble to confess that you don't know God, and you need to know Him. It requires humility to allow others to teach you and to remain a student the rest of your days. God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble. The second contrast, as I said, is suffering versus kingship. When I was 11 years old, I was a sixth grader in Lakeland Elementary School. In my class was a boy named Mark. Mark was teased repeatedly. He was punched, poked, belittled by his classmates. On the final day of school before summer break, He was surrounded by the boys of his class. His pants were taken off of him, passed around as he cried in the playground, standing in his underwear. Later that summer, I was over at my best friend's house, who was a year younger than me. He probably still is a year younger than me. I looked at a group picture he had taken at church camp when he returned. In that picture was Mark. The boy that had been teased in my class all year. I asked my friend about Mark, and he told me he was a nice guy to get to know. I was stunned. I thought those who suffered such teasing and torture that they were deserving, not nice average guys. There were some within the Corinthian church who had a similarly warped understanding regarding the virtue of suffering for the sake of righteousness. Because they are comfortable, meaning they didn't lack anything such as food, shelter, clothing, wisdom, and influence, because of all that, they perceive themselves to be royalty To be important. To be a king is to have rule. So they thought they should be in control. Their condition had fooled them into thinking that God had placed them in a position to rule. And this mistake is not uncommon. When persons take inventory of their lives and they like what they have, they can wrongly assume that God is pleased with them. Others who suffer are perceived to be receiving their just reward. We have been referring to this line of thinking in our study of the book of Job. For it is a system of thinking that seemingly transcends time and global regions. Throughout the history of man, people have believed that those who have wealth and power are blessed of God, or of the gods. And those who have little, well, they're cursed. One of the dangers of this way of thinking we can summarize as: you get what you deserve in this life. It is as if you are comfortable, then you can become complacent because God is well pleased. But complacency contributes to you forgetting that you will stand before God on judgment day Remember that in order to wake these Corinthians out of their complacency, the apostle uses sarcasm as he calls them rich, wise, strong, and honored while he and his fellow servants are poor, foolish, weak, and dishonored. Here again, the manner of this world is turned on its head. As the apostles, those whom Christ had chosen to lead, they go hungry, they go thirsty. They wear rags and they are physically mistreated They are cursed, persecuted, slandered, and considered the refuse of the earth. In the kingdom of God, such a life is the outcome of being first. Suffering is a product of following Christ. Those who think of themselves to be reigning as kings do not know the power of God. The power of God is not expressed in the words of a man. A person can be conniving, manipulative, and influential within the world, but such is not true power. The power of God is given to those who suffer. Jesus said to his disciples, that everyone who has left houses and brothers and sisters and fathers and mothers, children, or fields for my sake, will receive a hundred times as much as they inherit eternal life. Thus, true power is not something that can be manipulated, but is instead given by God. An article in the Harvard newspaper from nineteen eighty two nineteen eighty two An article in the Harvard newspaper described the reception of a featured class speaker to their upcoming graduates. The speaker spoke strongly against premarital sex, against abortion, spoke in favor of prayer She prayed that the graduates would go into the world and work for Jesus. She said, it is unbelievable that today mothers can lawfully murder their own babies. She praised virginity as the most beautiful thing a young man or woman can give one another, and thus they should give such only on their wedding day. The writer of the article said that the woman spoke with mesmerizing conviction and that she received a long-standing ovation before an unusually large crowd. You likely have guessed that that speaker was Mother Teresa. Such a story gives a clue. Why many long for the old days when people would respond to such a speech in such a manner? But why was she received in the manner described? It had to be because she spoke with power. Power coming from years of suffering with the least of humanity. Such suffering can even bring the respect from those who don't believe, because it's obvious that there is goodness in such suffering. From suffering comes power. Power of God. Power that demons cannot deny. Because power in the kingdom of God comes by suffering, of course no one has greater power than our Savior. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows, familiar with suffering, like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted. Therefore, therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name above every name. That at that name Jesus, every knee shall bow and every tongue confess. If a person thinks he has kingship, his kingship is in his own mind. Only a person suffering for the name of Christ has the power of God. St. Paul ends this portion of his letter by telling the church that he plans to come to them. Yet those who are puffed up converse and behave as if he's not going to come. Paul then gives this direct warning. When he comes, he will either come with a rod, which refers to judgment, or he will come in love. The manner in which he comes will be determined by the humility and suffering of the Corinthians, or by their arrogance and their perceived royalty. In the same manner, our Savior comes to every man. Before he does, before he comes to each of us, he gives us this warning. He shall come with the rod of judgment or in love and grace. What determines how he comes to us is whether we choose humility over arrogance and suffering over royalty. To choose humility and suffering is to choose Jesus Christ. Beloved, we do not have a visit from the apostle approaching. What we have is a visit from our Lord. He is here in spirit as he has promised, and he will come again in glory as he promised. May our choice of humility and suffering be a welcome that for his entrance. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for the courage of St. Paul, for him addressing directly the problems in the church. And recognizing that those who humble themselves will indeed be exalted, embracing the promises of Christ, may we do the same. May we uphold those who suffer. May we uphold those who are humble in spirit. That all of us might be just that. Father, we do anticipate your coming. Come again, Lord Jesus, and help us to be humble In Jesus' name we pray. Amen