In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. You want to turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 4. We're looking at verses 17 through 24. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 through 24. Last Sunday, a news organization interviewed a woman who is being called the Facebook whistleblower. Believe me, I am no defender of Facebook or any of its social media outlets. Get that straight. I am no defender. I think it is obvious that such social media can be a danger to many, especially the young of mind, who put so much importance in what their peers Think or say of them. When a young girl posts a picture of herself and gets critiqued or gets only a few people to push that like button Such can be devastating to her self-awareness. That companies would take advantage of young persons' frailties is upsetting and it is immoral. But I had several problems with the interview of the Facebook whistleblower. She started off saying that Facebook Repeatedly chose what was good for Facebook as opposed to what was good for the public in general. But she never defined what was good for the public Consider that the same argument could be made against the Mars Incorporation, who put profits before the good of people. By producing candy bars that make them profitable while also making us fat. There has been no whistleblower from Mars Incorporated She also accused Facebook of allowing hateful and polarizing rhetoric. This may be true But hateful rhetoric was never defined, and neither was polarizing rhetoric. In fact, it's very likely That if you were to post on social media that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and no one can come to the Father but through him. That she and many others would label such rhetoric as both hateful and polarizing. Again, I am in no way defending any social media outlet. In no way. My simple point is that there is very little critical thinking going on today, and I want that not to be true of Christians. We of all people need to be critical thinkers with our ears and minds doubting what the world is saying and comparing it to the standard of what the Holy Scriptures are saying We are going to dissect Paul's words to the Ephesians that were from our epistle lesson, only we are focusing on, again, verses 17 through 24. St. Paul has been describing the church as a body, and where our reading picks up is his use of a metaphor being a new man instead of an old man. Thus we are to put off the old man as if he is a garment worn too often. But to know what to take off is important. And so the apostle describes what that old man is and what we should take off. He begins with, therefore, which makes the connection not only with the glorious spiritual privilege laid out from Ephesians chapter 1 through Ephesians chapter 3. But also with the high call of a unified, mature body, as described in Ephesians 4, verses 1 through 6. Because of this high calling, he says we should walk, which is to live, in a different way than the world walks and lives around us. There is an ever-present temptation for Christians to display to the world that we really aren't different after all. This is usually a misguided effort to gain the world's respect or approval This must be resisted at all costs because the goal in itself is both undesirable and unachievable. Paul says we are to no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk. The Gentile walk is characterized by, he says, the futility of the mind. In the end, their thinking is futile. Why? Because their understanding is darkened. Why? Because they are alienated from the life of God. This does not mean that mankind in his rebellion against God is not capable of mighty intellectual achievements. Of course it is. By God's grace it is. What it does mean is that all such achievements fall short of true wisdom, because the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Thus, with no fear of God, there is no true wisdom. As one commentator said regarding the word futility, quote, the thought is not that unregenerated minds are empty, it is that they are filled with things that lead to nothing. As Christians, we have a proper way and place to walk or live. It is as if Jesus turned us around and put us in the right direction. And now we are to walk and progress in that direction. And yes, we get lost at times, and we need to be put back on the right road, and so we confess our sins, and Jesus is gracious to us time and time again. St. Paul continues his description of the old man or the unbelieving man, saying, Because of the blindness of their heart From this we learn that fundamentally the ignorance and lack of understanding of humanity that does not believe all of it is a heart problem. It is shown not only in a foolish denial of God, but also in moral failures They are listed here as lewdness, uncleanness, greediness The unbelievers, we are told, who are the old man Paul speaks of, were either atheists or they believed in gods who were themselves immoral. Therefore, in their denial of the true God, they denied any standard of morality, and in doing so, they are without excuse. Paul next describes the unbelieving as people being past feeling, which has the idea of a person's skin becoming callous. No longer sensitive to pain, such as understood as the logical result of the blindness of their heart. Blindness can also be understood here as hardening. And this ancient Greek word is used medically to denote the callus formed when a bone has been fractured and then reset. Such callous can be even harder than the bone itself. Lewdness is sin that flaunts itself. Throwing off all restraint and having no sense of shame, no sense of fear. Uncleanness is a broad word, mostly with reference to sexual impropriety. The phrase in verse 20, you have not so learned Christ, is a repetition of the idea. That shows that putting on the new man has a strong aspect of learning and education. You have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus, says St. Paul. This is what he means to be renewed in the spirit of your mind, as directed in verse 23. Thus before we knew Jesus Or let Jesus in our lives, we did not think right. We did not critically examine the world and our place in the world. We are allowed, excuse me, we allowed false teachers in our minds and we believed them. We listened to entertainers tell us what is most important in life and we trusted them We allowed news sources to tell us what reality is and we didn't question them. We heard the psychotherapy world tell us that self should be priority and we allowed that message to comfort us. But what did Jesus say about what is most important in life? Or what reality is, or what our personal priorities should be? St. Paul says that we Christians have heard Jesus and that we have been taught by him. And thus the plea by St. Paul is to go and see what Jesus said. Jesus said that there would be false teachers who have the sole purpose of leading God's people astray. He said that seeking the kingdom of God and the righteousness of God was the most important thing to do in our lives. He said that reality is only possible to realize when you put our faith in him as Savior and Lord. He said that our priority in life individually is to glorify God in everything that we do If any teaching, if any doctrine, if any proposal says anything in opposition to what Jesus has said, it is to be rejected and marked as false and a lie. Of course, our Christian life must go beyond head knowledge, but it must absolutely include head knowledge and influence our whole manner of living. What we know should influence how we live. This is not just in the sense of knowing facts, but the ability to set our minds on the right things as Jesus has taught them. Beloved, this is so fundamental to the Christian life that Christian maturity is described as renewing of the mind. If you want to know how you're growing in Christ, is your mind being renewed? But head knowledge is more than just knowing about Jesus. For just knowing about Jesus isn't enough to keep us pure. As Charles Spurgeon, the great preacher, said, quote, so if you want to know the Lord Jesus Christ, you must live with him. First, he must himself speak to you, and afterward you must abide in him. He must be the choice companion of your morning hours. He must be with you throughout the day And with him, you must also close the night. And as often as you may wake during the night, you must say, When I awake, I am still with thee. The metaphorical language of putting off the old man and putting on the new man informs us that to do so is a matter of the will. To put off the old man and to put on the new man has the same idea of putting off or putting on a set of clothes. The idea is to change into a different kind of conduct. Think of a prisoner who is released from prison but still wears his prison clothes and acts like a prisoner and not a free man. The first thing to tell that person would be that they should put on new clothes So just as putting on different clothes will change the way you think about yourself and see yourself, even so putting on a different conduct will start to change your attitudes. This means that we shouldn't wait to feel like the new man, but we should put on the new man It is the individual will of every Christian to put on the new man and to do so get this every day. It's an everyday choice. Fundamentally, Paul says that for the Christian, there must be a break with the past. Jesus isn't merely added to our life, but the old life dies, and Jesus within us becomes our new life. In verse 24, Paul says, put on the new man, which was created according to God, in true righteousness and holiness. Thus, this new man is a new creation, just as Paul described to the Corinthians, where he said Old things have passed away and all things have become new in Christ. We become closer and closer to how God intends us to be. This new man, this new person is created according to the image of Jesus, and thus it is instinctively righteous, it is instinctively holy. Now this is again in contrast to the old man who is the person inherited from Adam who instinctively rebels against God. My first Christian album that I purchased after being renewed by Christ at the age of 18 was by a group called Petra. And on that album titled Never Say Die, ironically was a titled song Killing the Old Man. So which is it? Do I Never Say Die or Do I Kill the Old Man? The lyrics are as follows. I think it's gone far enough. I can't take it anymore. I've got to even up the score. Before he sweeps me off the floor. I've really got to find a way of taking care of him for good. I know he'd kill me if he could So I'll nail him to the wood. Killing my old man. You may not understand. He's a terrible man. Got to make a stand and kill the old man. Every time that I think he's gone and I finally won, he just just keeps coming back. Puts me on the run. I think I'd better do it now. Get my hammer and a nail. Pray to God that I won't fail, lest he keep me in jail, and I don't want to stay in jail. Killing my old man. You may not understand. He's a terrible man. Got to make a stand and kill the old man Sounds right, doesn't it? That is what we should be doing is killing the old man, correct? Actually, no. Petra had some nice songs, but their theology wasn't quite informed. What Christians are to understand, how we are to think, is what the Holy Scriptures say. And what they say is that the old man, your old man, my old man, has already been killed. Hear what St. Paul wrote to the Christians at Rome. He said, Knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, Jesus, that the body of sin might be done away with. This means that the power of sin, which is that that holds on to us individually as sin, is our sin nature. It was overcome by the death of Jesus, for he was the perfect sacrifice to satisfy the wrath of God, and therefore all persons that put their faith in him also have their old man. Our sinful nature, inherited by Adam, crucified also. Thus, the only life the old man has is what we give him. What we give him when we don't take him off and fail to put on the new man that Christ Jesus has made for us. And the truth is, no one puts the old man on us except ourselves. We put him on. He can be like a comfortable old pair of shoes that you can't throw away because of how well they mold to your feet. They are ugly, they are worn out, and useless, but they are too comfortable to be rid of. So it is with our old man. He is too comfortable to be rid of. We return to him when life is stressful. We put him back on when current relationships are strained, and when we need to protect our emotional state. We put them on when we are insecure in a new job, or a new school, or with new people We put them back on when the newsman tells us that all is not well and it is not safe to leave your house. We put them back on when we are told to fear death more than to love life. We put them back on. Wow. That's preaching. We put them back on when the newswoman tells us it is more dangerous to go to church than it is to go to the grocery store We put them back on when we trust doctors over the Word of God, much like Israel trusted in horses and chariots over God's promises. But that person who bows to the stresses in life, who hides from emotional pain, who hides from change, who believes every word of a news anchor, who fears death, that person is not who you are. It is not who anyone is who follows Jesus Christ. Each of us has been made new, and thus we can put on our new person. And again, it is a choice we make. We can put on the new person Jesus made, the person who has all had all things made new. And we can overcome the stresses of life and even see them as challenges to be conquered. We can embrace emotional pain as a means by which we mature. Our new man can embrace changes because we now see them as blessings specific to us by the hand of God Himself. Our new man can critically think in terms of what media tells us, and thus we can discern when it is right to be cautious and when it is right to obey God over man. And here is the important point. Once again, you must put on the new man every day. Because the old man remains with us until heaven is our home, and we have been given new bodies that will never die. Thus it is easy to return to our old ways, to return to faithless days, to return to who we once were. No one who speaks the truth has said it is easy to follow Jesus Christ. The Christian road is narrow, having few that travel on it, and that means it's not easy. But it is it is the only road that leads to the heavenly shore. So put on the new man every morning and don't take him off. You need him. You need him to walk the narrow road. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God This metaphor that St. Paul has developed, we easily see ourselves. We know when that old man is calling us, we know when he tells us to put him on. The temptation is real for all of us. We confess it. But we want to be thankful to you each and every day that you've given us a new man, that you make us new each and every day. And with that hope and with that gratefulness, may we put him on and keep him on until you return to us. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.