In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 11. You are going to need to again walk. through these passages with me, Romans 11, Romans, Revelation 11, Revelation 11, chapters, or verse 1 through 14. Now I imagine that our study of Revelation during these past months has been difficult for some of you who miss a Sunday here and there. I imagined it to be similar to watching a movie and you keep having to get up several times to take care of the dog or whatnot, and upon returning you ask those who are there. What did I miss? Who's that person? Why did he do that? And so on. Unfortunately, I cannot get you entirely caught up on what you have missed, and I don't even think it would help when you heard the reading today. Who are these people and what is happening to them? What is going on? Well, first of all, this is an interlude period. between the blowing of the sixth trumpet and the seventh trumpet, and the trumpet blowing is all a part of the breaking of the seventh seal In the interlude vision of chapter ten, you remember that John the Revelator was instructed to eat a small scroll. And it was sweet as honey to his mouth and bitter to his stomach. We learned last week that the sweet taste is the good news of Jesus Christ. Who has offered himself as a sin offering for those who need God's forgiveness? The bitterness is the judgment And suffering that is part of living in the kingdom of God in this life. John was given a charge to speak to peoples, nations, and kings The message that he consumed that was both sweet and bitter. The position we will take this morning regarding the beginning of chapter 11 is that the content therein is the sweet It's the bitter message John was to eat, digest, and then speak. It begins with John being given an instrument of measurement, a ruler in our vernacular. and is told to measure the temple of God, to measure its altar, and to count the worshipers. For those who believe the temple of God had been destroyed at the writing of Revelation, this instruction is purely spiritual. For those like myself, who believe the temple was still standing at the time of John's vision, thus at the time of the writing of Revelation, before 70 A. D. The call to measure was literal. This instruction to measure the temple is similar to the one given to Ezekiel in chapter 40 through 43 of his prophecy. In Ezekiel, an angelic priest measures the ideal temple. Measuring is a symbolic action used in Scripture to divide between the holy And the profane. That which does not measure up is the profane. Measuring is like witness bearing. It is the precondition for judging. Measuring and witnessing correlates to guarding because it sets up boundaries and bears witness as to whether or not the boundaries have been observed. Along with being told what to measure, John is told what not to measure. The outer courtyard of the temple was built for Gentile worshippers. It was the outer courtyard where our Lord turned over those money changer tables while condemning them that they had turned a place of worship into a den of thieves. We are told that the outer court was not to be measured because the Lord had ordained for there to be A time in which the Gentiles would rule the holy city of Jerusalem and trample the outer court. Historic accounts inform us that the Roman Empire fits the description of such Gentiles when they sacked Jerusalem and burned the temple in 70 AD. The prophecy says that the outer court and the city of Jerusalem will be trampled on for 42 months. It was not by accident that the Roman siege of Jerusalem under Vespian and then Titus lasted three and a half years, from 67 A. D. to 70 A. D. Three and a half years is forty-two months. During the 42-month period, there were to be two witnesses. Clothed in sackcloth, who though they had the power of God and are slight excuse me, though they had the power of God, they are slighted by men. When their days are finished, there will be a great onslaught against them from hell itself. The witnesses will be put to death, and even the honor of a burial will not be granted them. But amazingly, after a period of three and a half days, they will be given new life. Terror will be felt by those who see the resurrection of these two witnesses In terror, they will hear the voice of heaven calling the witnesses home, and they will look on as the two witnesses ascend to heaven in a cloud. In the same hour as the ascension, an earthquake will strike down a tenth, a tenth of the city of Jerusalem, killing 7,000 people. The survivors will respond by giving praise to God. This is the summary of the vision, but what does it mean? To better understand, we must first recognize all of the symbolism that's involved. The city will be trampled by 40 for 42 months, and the witnesses will prophesy for 1,260 days. Each of these is a period of three and a half years. The number three and a half is half of seven. Seven is the number of completion. Three and a half is seven broken in half. Three and a half symbolizes brokenness. It is therefore a number that is not good in being the opposite of when God created all of his creation and said, it is good. Three and a half represents necessary brokenness. Next, there are two witnesses. There must be two witnesses according to Jewish law to verify a truth. There are also two lampstands that stand before the Lord. Light is the symbol of truth. The two olive trees supply the oil to the lamps of truth. The oil symbolizes the Spirit of God that guides men to truth. The lampstands are like the two witnesses, and the two witnesses are like the lampstands. The two witnesses wear sackcloth. Sackcloth is a garment for those who mourn and were worn by Elijah and the prophet John the Baptist. The identity of the two witnesses is unknown, but not mysterious. They have fire that comes from their mouths to devour their enemies As recorded in the book of Numbers, chapter 16, fire came down from heaven at Moses' word and consumed false worshipers that were rebelling against God. Similarly, fire fell from heaven at Mount Carmel and consumed Elijah's enemies when he spoke the word. From these accounts, fire became the standard symbol for the power of the prophetic word, as the Lord said to Jeremiah. Behold, I am making my words in your mouth fire, and this people are wood, and it shall consume them. So the witnesses also have the power to shut up the sky so that it will not rain. Elijah was given such a power, and it did not rain for three and a half years. There's that number again. They also had the power to turn water into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of play whenever they wanted. This is the same as Moses' power while leading the nation of Israel out of bondage from Egypt. From this evidence, it is natural for us to conclude that the two witnesses are Elijah and Moses. The same two witnesses that appeared on the Mount of Transfiguration with Jesus. Elijah is the representation of the prophets And Moses represents the law. Jesus said, the law and the prophets speak of me. Do you see the puzzle coming together? The person of Jesus and the gospel he came to proclaim are found in the law of Moses. In fact, Moses himself was a type or shadow of the coming Messiah. Elijah, in his words and actions, taught of Christ, and he too was a type or shadow of the coming Messiah. We must not, however, see it necessary to understand the two witnesses here in Revelation 11 to be actual or historical characters of Elijah and Moses. It is enough for us to understand that the witnesses represent what Elijah and Moses represented, the law and the prophets. Verse 7 says there will be a time in which the testimonies of the two witnesses will be finished. What that means, finished, is unclear. What is clear is that they will be killed by the beast that comes from the abyss. We know the abyss to be the burning depth of torment. It is the dark, raging deep where Satan and his evil spirits dwell. The abyss is hell The beast comes from the abyss and is a reference not describing, making it obvious that John expected his readers to be familiar with this meaning. You remember though that when Adam and Eve refused submission to God in the garden, they tried to attain their own godhood. They were choosing to submit to a beast, the serpent. By submitting to a beast, they became identified with beasts. Even in their redemption, you remember they were clothed with the skin of a beast to cover their nakedness. Beasts are consistently referred to in Scripture as being enemies of God. That's why we read from the Old Testament about Nebuchadnezzar. Who because of his pride was judged by God and became like a beast. Another example of beastliness That is in opposition to God and his people is contained in the dietary requirements for the Jews against unclean animals. Like the serpent or beast in the garden, all unclean animals eat dirt, that is refuse They crawl on the dirt with fleshly pads on their feet, making contact with the earth, and they revolt against human dominion by killing man and killing other beasts. To eat of such animal was to eat of beasts and to live as Satan lives. It was to eat of death, to eat of rebellion. Thus, the enemy of God and the church is represented by the title Beast. After the witnesses are killed, they are put on display for the whole world to see. If this is to be understood literally, we would have to imagine cable news organizations or cell phone footage for all to see. Not only will the bodies of the dead witnesses be viewed by all, but their death will cause a worldwide rejoicing They rejoice, even sending one another gifts, because the two witnesses tormented all the inhabitants of the earth. We know by historical precedent that a common enemy can make a strange for strange bedfellows The Soviet Union can be at volatile odds with the United States and still join forces to fight a Nazi regime. Shiites can hate Kurds or Hezbollah unless they are fighting against Jews. In this vision, given by St. John, the factions of the world send gifts to one another Because of their common enemy, and that enemy is dead. our Christian minds further confusion as we try to understand exactly who these witnesses are and what time of history or the future is the vision referring. Jesus is the only one that died at the hands of angry men and raised the third day, followed by ascending into heaven. This has caused scholars to wonder whether this vision is actually describing Jesus. After all, Jesus was a prophet, a witness like these two men. He was spoken of by the law and the prophets. He tormented rebellious men with his words of condemnation against self-adulation and cultural idolatry. All of these similarities could mean these witnesses represent Jesus. But no one confidently takes that position because obviously reasons such as Jesus being in a grave, not lying dead out in the open. Jesus ascended after 40 days, not immediately after his resurrection. And his ascension did not bring an earthquake that took the lives of 7,000 people. So far, as we have discovered, much of the symbolism in this vision, the meaning of the vision is still yet to be tapped. And I appreciate the honesty of learned men such as the late Bishop Frazier of Manchester, England, who said, I have no interpretation of this vision. I have no meaning at all. Personally, I have a desire to make a similar statement to you, but I anticipate that would not be received well. It is right for you to expect some application of my sermons to your life. Otherwise, why preach them and certainly why listen to them? I make it a point to present to you each Sunday something that you can be challenged to change in your life, or something that you can believe more deeply. I work to feed the Word of God to you that you might be nourished by it every Sunday. The same task is before me with this text, just as any other. It is quite likely that the vision John presents to us here is a mixture of events that have occurred or were occurring when John was writing or will occur It is quite likely that the symbolism of the passage is to take our minds beyond literal fulfillment, To a coming of the kingdom of God that is yet unknown to human experience. What we can take from the vision are at least three things Number one, the gospel we proclaim torments the rebellious. Number two, anger and violence will be expressed upon those who hold to the proclamation of the gospel. And number three, God will raise up those who are faithful unto death, and he will enact vengeance on those who rebel against him. Regarding the first, that the gospel torments the rebellious, the fire that comes from the mouth of the prophets condemns the guilty. Since all men are guilty of sin, all men feel the heat of the words. Regarding the second, anger and violence are expressed upon those who speak hard words The church, the messenger of the prophecies and law of God, will be hated and targeted to be silenced because of the truth it proclaims. Jesus clearly warned of this, and generations of Christians have known it to be so What I want burned in your mind, however, is the use of the numeral two in this section of Scripture. The use of the numeral two. First, this is the second law, the first use of the numeral two. Next, the measuring of John finds two sides, the worshippers of God and the Gentiles. Next, the time of destruction is forty-two months, a time which has a derivative of two Next, God has two witnesses, and their days of prophecy also have a derivative of two. Next are two olive trees, and then two lampstands. Finally, there are those who rejoice at the killing of the prophets, and those who gave glory to God, giving again only two sides. And because there are only two sides, two sides only, passages like this give all who hear them opportunity to choose which side you will be on. And just in case you don't see that a choice needs to be made today, you better notice You better notice that the same people who are promoting transgendering children are the same who insist that there are more than two genders. Are the same ones defending, mutilating children, are the same ones who perform drag queen dances before children. Are the same ones who think having abortion is a moral obligation to practice? Are the same ones who want to defend the pol defund the police and are the same ones who want to silence Christians. You may not choose a side, but they will choose a side for you And if you are against anything, anything they are for, you are an enemy, and it is personal. And so the third lesson is important, which is the resurrection and ascension of the witnesses, and the vengeance passed upon God's enemies. With it, we are assured that if we choose the side of righteousness, if we choose to be on the side of what the Bible teaches, We are assured that if we are faithful as the church in what we proclaim, God will be faithful in the end and reward to us heaven. We can also be assured that the enemies of God will be put down Notice notice that one tenth of the city will be destroyed. One tenth. A tenth is a tithe. God is owed a tithe. And if the city will not honor him, he will take what is his. 7,000 dead symbolize the number of completion multiplied by a thousand. God takes what is his, and the number that is judged will be complete. The use of symbolism and narrative in this vision gives warning to both the church and to the rebellious There are conflicts that have been, are being, and will be experienced between the church and the rebellious that will consist of proclamation, anger, retribution, fulfilled glory, and eternal judgment. For each ear that hears these words, it is for him or her to decide which side to be on. If you have not decided, now is the day of salvation. Let us pray. My gracious God, although there is much in this passage that is confusing, to our first hearing and much symbolism that needs to be brought out. There is no question that what you have done has painted us a picture of choosing a side. Choosing for eternity of life or eternity of death. Choosing for righteousness or sin. May those who are on the fence choose today, for today is their day of salvation. Amen and Amen.