In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. I want you to recognize that there is a great irony in many so-called Christmas movies. For many of them focus on some type of means or manner that Christmas needs to be saved. My personal memory allows me to conclude that such Christmas needing to be saved type movies began with Rudolph, the red-nosed reindeer. You recall that it was one foggy Christmas Eve that Santa realized he would not be able to fly his sleigh and deliver toys in the great fog that evidently covered the entire globe. He next realized that a reindeer with a glowing red nose would be able to cut through the fog and lead Santa around the world safely. It is a wonder that engineers and manufacturers have not yet discovered how red glowing lights pierce through dense fog. It appears that there is a lot of money to be made if a company wanted to learn from Santa and Rudolph. But as I said, Rudolph was the first. Here are some other titles of movies of Saving Christmas. There is The Dog Who Saved Christmas Vacation. The night they, whoever they are, the night they saved Christmas, the tree that saved Christmas, the three dogateers that saved Christmas Surviving Christmas, which we actually watched and I don't recommend it. The Toys That Saved Christmas And who could forget, Ernest saves Christmas. I could go on, but I won't. There was even a movie produced by Christians five years ago titled What was it titled? Saving Christmas. And the gist of the plot was in the movie was that Christians are overreacting to the secular world in terms of it basically hoarding Christmas for themselves. And so it was a message to say that it's okay as a Christian to decorate trees and to light candles and to have lights and to have candy canes because all of them or each of them symbolize something about the Christmas story. And so We give gifts because God gave us Jesus and remember the candy cane is the shepherd's staff and the white is his purity, the red is his blood, and we can go on and on and talk about Such symbolism. It is a type of film that's supposed to help Christians feel better about the festiveness that we put into our Christian Christmas celebrations. Now, I said that there is a great irony in all of this, and here it is, as far as I can see it. It is the fact that Christmas is about God saving us. Not us or they or Ernest saving Christmas. Christmas is about God saving us. And why does God need to save us? Well, here is the coal in your stocking. You and I are guilty of sin. We deserve coal in our stockings. We are guilty of sin because we are of the human race, which has walked away from God's covenant with us We are guilty of sin because each of us in our individual lives have committed acts of sin such as worshiping false idols. Taking God's name in vain, dishonoring the Sabbath, dishonoring our parents, hating our fellow man, committing sexual immorality in thought and deed. Taking material wealth from others, lying about our lives, and doing so purposefully and coveting, which is simply not appreciating, first of all, all that you've been blessed to have. That is how we have sinned. And we have sinned against our own consciences. How many people do not talk about that type of sin, but we all know it is part of each of our story. We do things we know we shouldn't do, and we do things we know we should we don't do things we know we should do, and we justify it, all of it. To ourselves and conclude that we are at least not as bad as Hitler, and that makes us good in a generic sense. But our conscience is no different. Consider this example. Does your heart ever jump when someone knocks at your door at home? We have become so isolated from one another, and we rarely visit one another, especially out of the blue, with someone coming over. When I was a kid, we went from house to house to our with to our friends' houses in the block every day. So knocking was part of everyday life. But now we jump inwardly and outwardly when someone knocks at our door Who could that be? What do they want? Well that jumping inwardly is what happens when someone confronts you about the things that you have done wrong. We get a similar feeling. The same as when mom and dad would call you to their room to talk to you. Or a teacher wants you to stay after school. Or a pastor calls you to his study and does not tell you what he wants to talk about. Our hearts jump, our throats get a lump, we can't swallow. Because we are guilty. We have guilt that we carry around and fear we have that someone is going to uncover who we really are and what we really have done. My whole point in describing this is to say, such is what God came to save us from. He came to save us from our own personal guilt as well as our guilt of being part of Adam's race and our personal sins that broke God's commandments. Mary knew that Christmas was about God saving his people when she sang these words. And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. It is God's mercy of how we are saved. Zacharias saying about Christmas being about God saving his people with these words. For God has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us. Simeon knew that Christmas was about God saving his people with these words of prayer after seeing the Christ child. For my eyes have seen your salvation. Anna, the prophetess's widow, knew that Christmas was about God saving his people when she saw Jesus Jesus and proclaimed the child to be the redemption, the means of salvation for Israel, for God's people. Now I know that some of you did not come here to hear that you are a sinner needing to be saved. I am aware of what sells I have witnessed churches advertising their Christmas services as being nothing but celebration. But about what they are celebrating, I'm not sure. I was made aware of a church in Florida that celebrated Christmas with what they called Christmas Olay. Which consisted of having a circus show to replicate the popular movie The Greatest Showman. They had women in tights dance around the stage, jugglers, magicians, trapeze artists. How such a production presented the story of God saving his people from the guilt of their sin I don't know, and neither did the parishioners, or we can call them the audience who attended said church. And such a description of a church service so-called reminds me of what else is being taught in some of these churches. Some people are hearing that Jesus came to save them from their times of emotional depression, from anxieties, and from periods of stress. No, he did not. Jesus came to be like us to save us from sin. And the result of sin, which is death, both spiritually and physically, and he came to save us from Satan's power. Now I will grant you that a result of Jesus forgiving our sins can be a lighter consciousness, and a lighter consciousness can help us with bouts of depression and anxiety and stress, and all that is good. But that is a byproduct of our sins being forgiven, which again is why Jesus was sent to us. There is another genre of Christmas movies that is not about saving Christmas, but about saving people. It's a wonderful life. It's about saving a good man from great despair. Family man is about saving a man from a life of only pursuing worldly endeavors. Home Alone is about saving a kid from criminals. And A Christmas Story. Well I don't really know what that movie's about. Other than a boy getting a BB gun. I mentioned such movies because those are the usual ones that Bobby Lynn and I watch during this season We like them because of their sentimentality. We like them because they have a sincere message to them. And yet, the Christmas story isn't about saving people from despair, even. Because they are being accused of stealing a bank deposit Uncle Billy carelessly gave to Mr. Potter. And I realize that may sound strange to some of your ears because you think that the Christmas story must be about saving people from despair. Well it can be, if that despair is caused by a person not being in right relationship with God. If the despair is caused by a recognition that I am a sinner in need of a savior, and I am crying out to God to be saved from my sin and the punishment of death. Then yes, the Christmas story is about saving from despair. But the point is the same as I made. When I said God becoming man dwelling among us was not to overcome depression, anxiety, and the like. Overcoming despair over one's sins cannot be solved by family and friends gathering together to donate money so that a person won't go to jail. That is another part of a wonderful life, in case you didn't catch the reference. Money can't save me from eternal death. Money can't pay for my sins. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. I have not seen Ernest Saves Christmas. For those of you who are young, Ernest was a character in the 80s that saved a lot of things. But here's some of the plot of the movie. A man claiming to be Santa Claus arrives in Orlando, Florida, where Ernest P. Laurel is working as a taxicab driver. He picks up Santa. Who tells Ernest that he is on his way to inform a local celebrity named Joe Carruthers that he has been chosen to be the next Santa Claus. Joe hosts a local children's program with emphasis on manners and integrity. While they are driving, a runaway teenage girl who says she is named Harmony, Starr, joins Ernest and Santa in the taxicab. When they get to their destination, Santa possesses no legal currency, only play money. So he his uh so he in his Christmas spirit, Ernest tells him that the ride is free. The decision gets Ernest fired from his job. Ernest later discovers that Santa left his magic sack in the taxicab and Ernest begins to press to find the old man and return it to him. At the Orlando Children's Museum, Santa tries talking to Joe, but Rudy is interrupted and rebuffed by Joe's agent, Marty Brock. Santa begins to worry when he discovers his sack is missing. and becomes even more discouraged because of his increasing forgetfulness result of being sat there for 151 years. Ernest poses as an employee of a governor of harmony as a governor's niece and to help Santa escape from jail by convincing the police chief that Santa must be taken to an insane asylum. Santa explains to Ernest and the Harmony that he has been handed the job in eighteen eighty nine and he's been losing his magic ever since. The only way to restore it is to make someone else the new Santa. Ernest disguises himself as a snake rancher so he can sneak Santa into a movie studio, and I'm going to stop here because it's crazy and silly and stupid Such a story is not about Christmas. Christmas is Christmas is Christmas is Christmas. It is God, it is Mary, it is Joseph, it is a baby named Jesus, it is shepherds, it is a manger, it is peace on earth and goodwill towards men, because God gave his only son.