In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Join with me in looking at First Peter chapter three, the first seven verses. We come upon the section in 1 Peter that is labeled by scholars to be a household code. We find something similar in the letters to the Ephesians, to the Colossians, and in 1 Timothy. The household codes address expected Christian behavior from wives to husbands, husbands to wives. Parents to children, children to parents, servants to masters, and masters to servants. Because the family unit has been and will always be the foundation of a healthy society and culture. It was necessary for certain behaviors within Christian households to be a point of emphasis. This morning we are going to examine the technical aspects of these verses and then speak openly and frankly. about how these passages passages should be applied to our modern lives. So verse 1 The word likewise has the apostle move on from the relationship of master and servant as one element of social life to the other more universal and involving from the Roman point of view almost a greater subordination which is of husband and wife. Wives are to be subject to their own husbands. While the word own as in own husbands, did not apply in the first century that that women are only required to submit to their husbands and not other men That is emphasized today to calm the distrust our modern minds have on such an instruction. The words that follow indicate the frequency of the cases in which the wife was the only one converted to Christianity in the home. The Greek text can be translated that even if any obey not the word, as though in some cases at least it might be expected that husband and wife would have both then converted together. Using the phrase the word, we have a familiar collective expression of the whole doctrine of the gospel. The word was Jesus, and all that was spoken about him was the gospel. The Greek verb to obey not implies a positive Antagonism rather than a mere absence of belief or obedience. And this means that the husband might not only have not believed, but he didn't like the faith Next is the phrase, may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives Now the Greek word this time for word has no article before it, so it's referring to being without speech, without a word being uttered. It is the silent preaching of conduct is what the apostle relied on as believing it to be the most effective instrument of conversion than, let's say, an argument or a debate. The verb be won literally means to be gained over. And we have the same word used in 1 Corinthians 9 and from the teaching of our Lord. And Peter might have been A little impressed by that reference in Matthew 18 where it talks about a sinner being won over to repentance. Verse 2. Because the unbelieving husband will be jealous and watch to see if his wife does what what his wife does while embracing this religion that he thinks is foolish. It is the hope that he can conclude in the end that Jesus must be the Messiah, for his wife could not have been so chaste if he wasn't. And the adjective chaste is here to be taken in a larger sense. It is the same which enters into the verb translated purify or purity. It is implied that this fear of the husband has been an incentive for a sweet virtue to be revealed in the wife It is like saying that she will so timidly be so timidly pure as to be effective upon his conscience. Verse 3. Two things are to be noted about the advice given in this verse. First, it is not intended directly as a corrective of vanity St. Peter is not warning them to beware of the love of dress, although the three words used here, plating, wearing, or literally mean putting around oneself or putting on And it might be referring a little bit to the elaborate way in which dressing might take a bit too much time But the main thought is, how are the husbands to be attracted to the faith? Well, not, says St. Peter, by external prettiness of adornment, but by inward graces. Second, the apostle is not forbidding the use of gold or other precious ornaments on a woman But that such adorning is not in the place of what should be most attractive to the unbelieving husband. Hence verse 4, the hidden is here equivalent to the inward person, and and Paul uses that in Romans 7. And first or 2 Corinthians 4 and in the in the letter to the Ephesians, this idea of that we have a hidden life in Christ. It's in the heart. It's where God is fashioning us to the likeness of Christ, forming us, the new person, which is renewed in the knowledge and image of Christ. That's what our focus is to be. This is hidden. It does not display itself like those conspicuous ornaments that he mentions in verse 3. To win her husband to Christ, her character is to be of a meek and quiet spirit. And such ornamentation is incorruptible, not like those corruptible things that adorn the outer person. The meek spirit, this meek spirit described, does not flash into anger Does not answer back, but instead takes harsh words gently and humbly The quiet spirit is calm and tranquil, peaceful in itself. It spreads peace around. And then he says, which is in the sight of God a great price. The adjective great price, interestingly, is also used in Mark chapter 14, where Mary anoints Jesus with an ointment, that of great price. Outward adornments are costly in the sight of the world. The meek and quiet spirit is precious in the sight of God. Verse five. It is obvious from the special instance given in the next verse that the apostle has in his mind exclusively the saintly wives and mothers of the Old Testament. He says such women trusted God, and we more accurately could say they hoped in God, the idea of trust. Is of course not far removed from hope. He then says that they were hopeful while being in subjection unto their husbands. And we see a repetition of this verb submit. It's used by Peter twice before this, and perhaps should be noted as a key note of the epistle itself. All of us who follow Christ must live submissively. Verse six Sarah, wife of Abraham, is the given example. You remember that her name was changed from Sarai to Sarah. For God had breathed his Yah name into her, and she was prophesied to be a mother of kings. And even that being true, she obeyed Abraham. And this is spoken in praise of her obedience. Calling Abraham Lord was not merely a compliment from her to him, but was the reality of her heart, thereby acknowledging his authority over her own subjection. Peter next says to all wives, whose daughters you are, not only according to the flesh, but spiritually according to the promise. By imitation of Sarah and her faith and her holiness, Christian wives can be successors as long as you do well by following her good works, which was submission. To not be afraid with any terror is to do your duty with a resolute mind and to keep from that which is contrary to your faith. Or as long as you subject yourself to your husband willingly, cheerfully, without fear of being taken advantage of, or fear of being ridiculed by those who claim that they are free from their husbands. When we hear instructions from Holy Scripture that tell us not to be conformed to this world. And that we are not to love this world, and for us to set our affections on things above rather than things of this world, and that friendship with the world is is being an enemy of God. Perhaps there is no better or more obvious way to sperm this world than for a Christian to live a life of submission. Because everything that happens in our lives is providential, meaning that God is working in our lives for the good, and the good is establishing his kingdom on earth You and I love it when God allows for us to see his providence at work. Well, just before I started studying this passage about submission of women to their husbands Bobby Lynn and I took a long car ride, and during that ride, she read to me from a book that she was enjoying, titled You are not enough, and that is okay. The author is a young woman by the name of Ali Beth Stucky. In an interview about her book, Ali Beth states that her audience is young women, and her concern is for what she has labeled trendy narcissism. She describes trendy narcissism as a belief in self that says to every woman that you are sufficient within yourself, having the ability to have internally Joy and finding that joy internally. The first step then is to love yourself and come to the realization of just how awesome you are Which then allows a young woman to find her own truth. The base premise of this trendy narcissism is that you are the most important person in your life. And this leads to allowing a young woman to become literally her own God. Evidently the message of self-love and self-determinism regarding truth is presently trending on social media. It is a message that is widespread, and we can understand why it is trending For when we are told that thinking of yourself first and last, well, that's a virtue now. Well, we already do that quite easily. If someone is going to tell us that to do so is to be a good person, then our ears are tickled and our consciences are muffled. The book Bobby Lynn is reading intersects for me with a book I recently finished titled Live Not by Lies. It's by Rod Durrer. It is Drewer's premise that there are very similar signposts of warnings that are presently trending in the United States and the West in general that are frightfully similar To pre-communist Russia. And the alarmists that Drewer uses to highlight his concerns are former citizens of the Soviet Union who escaped the Soviet bloc. countries never imagining that they would see the same politics developing in the United States They are scared, and Drewer wants us to be warned and then to do something about it. One of the signpost concern concern identified by Drewer is The ideal of groupthink, and the speed at which groupthink occurs, being aided by the internet and social media. Group think goes along with group identity, which tells us that we are not individuals who are working out our lives to the best that we are able. but that we are to identify with the groups who are genetically like us. And we are to be seen as no different than our group. i. e. , all blacks think alike, all whites think alike, all Latinos think alike, etc. And then once we have been forced into our group, We then need to be reformed to thinking as our governing authorities would have us think, while throwing out all the prejudice that comes with our group. Once we have been brought into a larger group, think that's trendy, we are only one step away from totalitarianism. And as theologians, and you and I are you're a Christian, you are a theologian, it gets interesting, it gets fascinating, I believe, for us. First, there is a group of young women, imagine, who all think alike because they have embraced the worldview of self-love, self-determination, self-truth. Once that group is formed, then they can be guided by a larger group think that starts to believe that class disparities are the root cause of all suffering in the world This conclusion allows them to listen to leaders who believe the government can get rid of class disparities and bring everyone under one large roof of cooperation and prosperity. Now, in truth, as history has shown, there will be no cooperation, but only subjugation, where all citizens submit to the state. As we step back and look at such a scenario, we can see that the devil is up to his old tricks. In fact, he doesn't even vary from what he did to Adam and Eve. He tells us we are oppressed and that we don't get to have the freedoms and rights that we deserve. We don't get to be as God is. That is what he told Eve. And that is what he tells every person who doesn't like their current position in life And once he gets you to go down a road he says will lead to your freedom and your rights realized, he next pulls the old switcheroo. And you find yourself merely having traded one bondage for another. Only the next one is much, much tighter. That is what he does to women who balk at St. Peter's teaching on wives submitting to their husbands. For anyone who has tempted to balk at such teaching, concluding that it is not addressing modern issues and thus is a teaching that time has passed by I implore you to examine St. Peter's main point in bringing up the subject at all. The scenario is a woman Who has become a Christian and her husband has not. And he may even see the Christian faith as an enemy. If a wife finds herself in such a situation, she can have hope that her husband will be converted to the Christian faith. And she has been given a pathway for that to happen, which is her submitting to her husband, so that he does not see the Christian faith as an enemy. And so that he concludes that Jesus, the Jesus that she serves, must be the Messiah because a woman A woman would not be so chaste and caring if Jesus were not the Messiah. Thus, the end goal is the eternal salvation of the husband. And then the salvation of the household, and then to the glory of God. And we can imagine even further that a family Who are all believing on the Lord Jesus Christ and who serve Him faithfully, that they will be a witness to the truth of the gospel, and thus the truth of Jesus as the Messiah And then other families watching them and observing them and seeing that they truly believe that they too would come to a to the faith And thus the belief spreads. And you can see then a whole town that believes on the Lord Jesus Christ. First a wife, then a husband, then a family, then a town, then a nation, then a world? Is that too wild to imagine? Maybe that is the providence of God. I plan to state an argument next about the importance of wives submitting to their own husbands with the point that well you're gonna have to submit to someone. Just like our young girl scenario, who thought they were not submitting to anyone but self until Group fate lured them into submitting to a totalitarian state. And once again we can hear Bob Dylan singing in the background, well, you gotta serve somebody. Might be the devil, it might be the Lord, but you gotta serve somebody But that argument fell flat as I saw the outline. It was rather simplistic. Wives submit to your husbands because, well, that's the best scenario you're going to get in life. There is not a lot of hope in such an argument. A better argument to encourage wives to be submissive toward their own husbands is the freedom We don't often hear that. Freedom and submission. But the freedom we find in submission. Beloved, we are made for submission. Every human being submits to something or someone. The thing might be an ideology or a desire. The someone may be a political leader, a guru, a boss, or something else. As Christians, we first and foremost submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have no better example of living a submissive life than Jesus Himself You remember that it was Jesus that testified that he does not do anything unless the Father wills it. The submission of Jesus took him to the cross where he died and then was buried and then was set free as no other man has been set free. Thus, true freedom is found submitting to Jesus Christ. And finally, submitting the act of humbling oneself to the authority placed over us Well, it's not effectual. It has no value if it is done only for the submission itself. It must be done in faith. In faith, believing that God will use it to build his kingdom. And Sarah is the example, and so it is Sarah to whom we turn. Abraham not only lied by saying Sarah was not his wife, he did it twice. And each time it was done to protect himself, not his bride, himself. Abraham, we remember, was a type of Jesus, but but only a type. He was weak in certain ways, especially when it came to the sin of self-preservation. But Sarah went along with him and did so both times. To do so, she had to have faith that God would make up for the deficiencies of her husband. Every woman has had to watch her husband make a decision that seems foolish or at least a mistake. If any wife wishes to be a daughter of Sarah, she should say her peace, for she is the helpmeet. That's what she was created to be. She's designed to aid her husband, to be by his side, to help him If a husband does not look to his wife for said help, he is indeed the foolish one. But after she shares her peace, she must trust in God that he will guide her husband. She must have faith that God will work all things to the good for those who love him. That is his promise for all of us. To submit. To submit is to have the mind of Christ Jesus. God takes care of the rest. Let us pray. Now God, we thank you for this standard, and we know how difficult it is in this day especially to live up to it. But we see your word, we believe it to be true, and so we entrust ourselves to it. May all wives take the challenge on personally to submit to their husbands. And may all husbands live lives that are worthy of it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen