In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. One one of the repeated themes that runs throughout Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. is a contrast between communal celebration and private grumpiness. The contrast begins with the familiar greetings from Scrooge's nephew, a hearty Merry Christmas. And the famous Ba Humbug response. The next passing description is of a young man who tries to visit Scrooge at his place of business and sing him a Christmas song with the hope of a returned gift for the gesture. Before the bo young voice was able to express itself fully, Scrooge scares him away with great energy and action. The contrast between a happy heart in celebration and a cold one that thinks only of one's thoughts is intensified with the coming of the three ghosts. You remember that the ghost of Christmas Past is first, and the ghost takes Scrooge to his old school house. The first people they see are young boys passing. They are wishing one another Merry Christmas All the boys were in great spirits and shouted at each other until the broad field was so full of merry music that the crisp air laughed to hear it. Going from that place into the schoolhouse, Scrooge comes upon his this scene. Dickens writes They went across the hall to the door at the back of the house. It opened before them and disclosed a long, bare, melancholy room, made barer still by lines of plain deal forms and desks. At one of these, a lonely boy was reading near a feeble fire, and Scrooge sat down upon a form and wept. Wept to see his poor forgotten self as he used to be. The boys on the street are merry in heart and merry with one another. Anyone who would look upon them would smirk and be amused at their gaiety. But the boy in the schoolroom reading alone brings a different reaction upon the observer. Something is wrong with him, or something is wrong with them who would leave him out. Whatever the problem, it is simply not a happy boy or a happy scene. A few scenes later, Scrooge finds himself standing at the shop of his first apprenticeship. It was almost time for the proprietor, Mr. Fezziwig's beloved Christmas party. The party started with a closing of the shutters and a clearing of the floor for dancing, for what was a party without dancing All were invited to the party, the housemaids, the cook, the cook's family, the boarders, even those who were behind on their rent. All who were part of Fezziwig's life and business were invited. Then the dancing began. Dickens writes. There were dances and more dances, and there were forfeits and more dances And there was cake, and there was negas, and there was a great piece of cold roast, and there was a great piece of cold boiled, and there was mince pies and plenty of beer. The evening did not reach a crescendo until Fezywick stood up and danced with Mrs. Fezywick. Dickens writes. And when old Fuzzywig and Mrs. Fezziwig had gone all through the dance, advance and retire, hold hands with your partner, bow and curtsy, corkscrew, dribble the needle, and back again to your place. Fuzziwig's cut Cut was so deftly that he appeared to wink with his legs, and came up on his feet again without a stagger. Scrooge was agitated while he watching all of this. Not because he hated it, but because he remembered loving it so much. Scrooge then describes the effect that merriment of Mr. Fezziwig had upon him. Again, Dickens writes He has the power to render us happy or unhappy, to make our service light or burdensome, a pleasure or a toil. say that his power lies in words or likes in things so slight and incid incident is nicknamed. That it is impossible to add or count them up. What then? The happiness he gives is quite as great as if it cost a fortune. At these words, the mind of the reader and the thoughts of Scrooge are taken back to the manner that he treated his clerk earlier that day. It was hardly in the same spirit of old Fezziwig. It was the opposite. And Scrooge began to ponder, at least a little, how his countenance affected others He too had the power to make service light or burdensome, pleasure or toil, and he chose the latter every time. When the ghost of Christmas present reveals himself, it is in Scrooge's own room, in his own house. Dickens writes, there is no doubt about that. That phrase lets us know that although it was Scrooge's room, it looked nothing like the room he once owned. The lights, colors, roaring fire, meats, puddings, chestnuts, fresh fruits and bowls of punch filled every part of the once dark, dingy, and cold space. Scrooge had never seen anything like the ghost of the colours and the excess of Christmas, because he had never truly celebrated it. himself the four. When the ghost of Christmas present takes Scrooge throughout the streets of London The attitudes of the people are notably lighter than any other day, as their tempers were fairer and their manners politer, because it was Christmas Day. The first house visited was owned by Scrooge's clerk, Bob Cratchit. The Cratchits had six children, varying in ages. Each of their countenances was bright and cheery, for they all anticipated a great day of celebration. Their feast was meager by our modern standards, and by the standards of their day, but they would never complain or want more. Each course and portion was cherished and enjoyed thoroughly. When the feast was finished, it was time for good cheer. Blessings and singing. Singing is what tells others that the heart is merry. All the time the chestnuts and the jug went around and round and by And by they had a song about a lost child traveling in the snow from Tiny Tim, who had a plaintiff little voice, and sang it very well indeed. Dickens writes, There was nothing of high mark in this. They were not a handsome family. They were not well dressed. Their shoes were far from being waterproof. Their clothes were scanty, but they were happy, grateful, pleased with one another, and contented with time. The lessons regarding the joy and singing and contentment continued as Scrooge is taken to a home poorer and in greater need than the Cratches. And the main focus of the family's Christian celebration is gathering around the fire to sing. Christmas celebration is gathering around the fire to sing. It is the same with men they visit on an ocean vessel who, at least for one day, can think happy thoughts about families who remember them fondly, and thoughts bring their voice to a pitch. The next house visited is that of Scrooge's nephew, who is identified by his smile and hearty laughter. His house is filled with family and guests who desire to make merry every moment of the day When they are not laughing, they are playing. And when they are not playing, they are singing. When they are not singing, they are laughing again. The last game played was called Yes and No. Dickens writes, where Scrooge's nephew had to think of something, and the rest must find out what, he only answering to the questions yes or no, as the case was. The brisk fire of questionings to which he was exposed elicited from him that he was thinking of an animal a live animal, rather a disagreeable animal, a savage animal. An animal that growled and grunted sometimes, and talked sometimes, and lived in London. As you know, he was thinking of Scrooge. And this brought great laughter to the gathering. The effect upon Scrooge, as he witnessed himself being the butt of their joke, was surprising. When they all had wished an absent Scrooge Merry Christmas, Uncle Scrooge had imperceivably become so gay and light of heart That he would have pledged the unconscious company in return and thanked them in inaudible speech if the ghost had given him time. He was grateful for their merry wishes even if they did so in spite of their disliking of him But we know the rest of the story, as Scrooge was changed, a changed man after that night, and it is said to have kept Christmas better than anyone. And Dickens wants that to be said of us. And if we are to do so, we must understand what it is to be merry and what it means when we say Merry Christmas. For we are to be merry in contrast of a secular world that says the days are too stressful, or that the season is supposedly based on a pagan holiday. And Kowanza and Hanukkah should be highlighted and eventually replaced the public celebration of Christmas. With that reality as our backdrop, we are to be merry. To be married suggests cheerfulness, joyous, uninhibited enjoyment of frolic and festivity. It is expressing what is within our hearts in a holy manner. Expressing merriment is what Mary, mother of our Lord, did when she visited Elizabeth and had it confirmed that what the angel said was true and that she would give birth to the Messiah. To be married is what Zechariah did when he heard that his son would lead the way and make the way for the Messiah to come. To be merry is what the angels did when they announced the birth of the Son of God to the shepherds watching their flocks by night. They made merry on Christmas. It is very sad that we, we as a post-Christian culture, have lost the ability to make merriment. We don't sing in our homes as we used to. Music, games, and laughter are not central to our celebrations as they should be. If true merriment is to be regained, it needs to start within Christian homes. My charge this night to every home this Christmas is to sing around a fire or around a lighted tree or around a piano And if you are too uncomfortable with your own voices, put on Bean Crosby, Nat King Cole, or any other Christmas album and sing along with them. Play a game, tell stories, and laugh. Laugh at yourself. Laugh at one another. Make merry And when we do, when Christians truly make merry, the contrast between us and the world will be as stark as old Scrooge and the merry people around him. And the result might be that the unbelievers around us may desire to know how they too, how they too can have a merry and thus have a merry Christmas. Amen.