Alright, greetings. My name is Eric Jorgensen, and this is my wife, Bobby Lynn. Say hi, Bobby Lynn. Hello. And uh we are recording this as a Christian parenting class, calling it Christian Parenting 101. We have been asked about child rearing, uh, and we had been asked to teach a class on child rearing, and we have not taught a class on child rearing for quite a few years and so we think it's now time to pick up that subject again. Just so you know who we are, this is on our uh St. Stephen's YouTube channel. So If you've seen that channel before, you know that I am pastor of St. Stephen's. I've been there for uh 22 years, been in the pastoral ministry for 25 years. We've been married 34 years. We have six children. All of them are married. And we have ten grandchildren that's coming too that are on the way. Four of our children and their families currently worship at our parish. One of them worships in an Anglican church in Richmond, and the other we lost to the Presbyterians. Can't win at all. Um before oh, I did want to share this also. Um We're teaching this together because we want the perspective of both the father and the mother, and uh we want to clarify something. That um That we are parents who failed. We don't approach these lessons as if we had it figured out when we started parenting. or that we were figuring it out uh as we were parenting, or that now that we look back, now we we we figured it out. None of that none of that's true. We are sinners and will remain so until Jesus returns. We are offering this wisdom, wisdom gained, that you as a parent can build on whatever we might have to offer you. and adjust it to however you run your Covenant Ohm. And we'll touch on Covenant Holmes in a minute. This format is also done so that you can refer back to them if there's anything you want to rehearse that we talked about it's also that you can share it and I encourage you on YouTube to like and to share that broaden if you think we have something good to say that broadens our audience And we're also going to be receiving questions each week. So if you have a question, you can type it down on the YouTube channel space where it has comments, or you can email me those questions, and that's at Pastor E. Jordan. At gmail. com. That's P-A-S-T-O-R-E J-O-R-G-Y at Gmail. com Okay, um we have a great deal re we have read a great deal about uh child rearing uh while we were raising our children and we want to show you some of the books that we have of uh used and this is uh sampling of it's not all of them um but it's enough of them. This is uh called Christian Living in the Home and neither of us remember much about this book. Um but it was done by a well-known um counselor named Jay Adams and so uh i it sounds it sounds good but I don't I honestly don't remember that. Um my wife like this one tell them why you like this one. Oh boy This is to Train Up a Child by Michael and Debbie Pearl. Now, I like this. Whoop. Um Well one thing I remember about this is that they focused on the child as being part of the family and not your light revolving around the child. Remember they had one story in there. Okay, so it's It's Missionaries to the Amish, I believe. It's been a long time since I read it. But they were their story was an Amish couple in their cart being pulled by the horse and a child falls off the back of the cart and the horse doesn't stop and the parents don't stop. They expect that child to get up, run, and get back on the cart. Um, I just thought that was a good example. Um that that helped me to realize we expect the child to follow along in our family, not for us to revolve around them. Although I will say there's some things in here that Um, I may have tried that I regret. Um they're very, what is that fundamental? Uh prescription like. Um but there's some good things to gain from it. So this one started off for us data discipline, um really challenging families to go back and recognize that children need to be disciplined. So as a basic uh book on parenting I would recommend it. See. This is another one by Adobson, Children at Risk, and this is for uh children who have uh more severe behavioral problems, and he tells some pretty daunting stories. He he was a course like a counselor of uh psychology psychologist uh for families and children so um that one was is some good reading um Let's see this one, this is to you and your children, and it's about covenant theology. And I I bought it and I would recommend it because it has some people that I really respect on here. Rob Rayburn, Dr. Rob Rayburn, who was a pastor to my sister, my brother, my brother-in-law. He has a great teaching on covenant home, covenant children. uh covenant family and he has a uh chapter in here about the covenant family so I would recommend it's more heady than other books but uh Good reading. Um let's see. This one about uh teenagers, raising teenagers. opportunity to train or age of opportunity excuse me. Um and and this has got some good advice especially for parents who feel like their teenage years were were not good and and they didn't really get an an example from their parents on how to work through some teenage problems. This one uh can can serve you well. Here's another one on teenagers. Um This one we bought because we use it with the youth group and found some fun in it. But it was also a good reminder of how we want our children to behave in public. And finally oh not finally. Oh yeah, she's the one. No. Go ahead. Oh, oh, this is just one Uh we did do some homeschooling and what I found out if you want to homeschool, your children must obey you. There is If your children are not disciplined, there's you will not be able to homeschool them. So this book gave me some very helpful hints, and she does talk about discipline in here. and how it's um some practical um advice on that in here too she gave us the idea of doing a SWAT chart which we may talk about later um so okay And this one is my favorite. This one is called What the Bible says about child training. And I went to this more often than I went to any other book. This was very good at explaining many things, biblically based, sound, and uh we both found it quite helpful. uh in the long run. Yeah, I'm sorry. Uh what's his first name? I can't remember because Fugate is quite a bird. Richard Richard Fugate is the author of this book. What the Bible says about child tree Well, I'm gonna start off by answering a question. Uh I'm asking myself this question and I joke that it's those the best questions to answer because You know the the answer before it's finished asked being asked. Um what is your overall view on childhood? I'm speaking for both of us here. We talked this up many times. Um Before I can answer that question, we have to define what is meant by covenant family, covenant children, covenant home. We understand God to be a God of covenants, and I strongly argue that the covenant in Holy Scripture is not two covenants. It's not law and then grace. It is one covenant. One covenant beginning with God's promises that a son would be born to a woman and that son will crush the devil's head. That was the same covenant was further revealed to Abraham. Further revealed through Moses, further revealed through the line of David, further revealed through the prophets, and then Jesus coming among us. to be the fulfillment. For us, a covenant family is one where the parents have been baptized and have a confession of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That means that they are a family When children come into that family, they are born under that covenant, and thus are to receive all the covenant promises that are given by Scripture That is why we baptize our children. It flows along the same logic. So we believe that a children born into a Christian home is to be treated as a Christian and raised as a Christian. That means that we're all under the same covenant and all able to receive the same blessings from that same covenant. Um now certainly there's people who would ask, well, what about a child who goes wayward, who doesn't want to follow the faith when they're on their own, or even even when they're older and are able to make their own decisions. Well, uh we would say that that child is a disobedient child. We would say that child is a wayward child, a backslidden child, as Jeremiah uses that term. Uh but we would not say the child is not a Christian. He's been marked by God. Of course, in the end, God is going to make that decision whether that child is a part of the kingdom or not. We recognize that. We're not foolish enough to to think that because the child has been born to us it's automatically saved. We don't believe in that. But we believe that we need to raise them as being saved, preparing them. uh to be saved. Uh we believe that we are making disciples, that we are forming discipleship, that we are training our our children to be soldiers, uh to be inheritors, to be uh sons and daughters of the king, all of those descriptors that the Bible gives. Thus our overall view of childbury Is that the child was, Pastor Times, was that the child we were given was placed in a covenant home, and we were stewards of those souls. God intends for his kingdom use. And that means that we need to raise them as soldiers, as children of the king, and so on. Now, children uh raised in this matter do not automatically uh produce covenant adults, again, recognizing that. And a general lesson that that we learned, and I was so grateful we learned it in the middle of raising our children, was that, because we made this mistake early on is thinking that the children are like uh a recipe book and you just go in and you or like a cake, bacon cake. So you just go and you do your recipe and you do this way, this certain way, and the child's gonna Once the bell rings and the the baking is done, the child's gonna come out a Christian. Um we abandoned that and we're so grateful that that we did. We could have harmed our children even more than we than we did There are so many variables within the personhood of each child and how parents relate to each child and then how each child relates to one another. you can't treat them all the same. And even even if the situation is is the same, uh as far as needing discipline, each child's different. So you have to take in all the variables. That's very important. All right, considering the many variables within the personhood of each child, it's important to discuss how many children you should have. Surprisingly, this topic is not found in any of the books that I showed you and more that we have. It's just not covered, but it should be. And so uh what is the answer? How many children should you have? Well I came up with um Some principles that I think could help you decide how many children you should have. Um first of all, you don't decide how many children you're going to have based on what you think you can afford Every child that you have, expected or unexpected, is a blessing from God, and God promises his people that he will provide our daily bread. No need to worry about how much money is in the bank, how am I going to get them through college and so on, which they might not even be able to do or or should go to college. Um but it shouldn't be based on what you can afford, what you think you can afford. Number two, principle, replace yourself. This is off the command that God gives to Adam and Eve. Um be fruitful and multiply. What's the birth rate in America right now? Uh I thought it was below It is below below two per family. The first time in the history of America there's been below two. Um we're not replacing ourselves. If we are Christian and obeying God's command, we need to replace ourselves, and that should be uh two children at least. But three, I think, uh for families, three is uh the the lowest we should go, if possible, of course People have a hard time conceding. But three, if possible, because that's a witness. That's saying that we trust God. That's saying that we want to be fruitful and multiply. It's saying to the world that we can we can raise children and and do it right. Number three, have as many as you can disciple. Now I said that in a positive way. It was said to me in a negative way, but in a good way, um, by a preacher who said that Christian parents are not to populate hell. You don't have more children than you can actually disciple. It's not a a praiseworthy thing to do to have a lot of children in the And think that you're doing it all by day when you're not ready or able or willing to disciple them. So that should play a part of the equation. And number four, don't let anyone but you and the parents end God. You the parents and God decide how many children you should have. And be sure all agree, including God, and how many children You should have that takes a lot of prayer, a lot of conversation, maybe even some counseling. But uh yeah, it you should definitely include God in that I would say that that would be priority number one is to pray about how many children you should have, not go even into your marriage. Well I want four kids, well I want three kids. But this is a prayerful thing and God needs to be involved in your um decision making. And to be open about it with one another. It was her who came to me and try to talk about the idea of six is probably where we need to stop. Um and then, you know, a lot of conversation, a lot of prayer and and and to make that decision. But uh yeah, have open communication. Alright, so we now turn to parenting uh the parenting part of our council. Um when it comes to parenting covenant children, The first priority, the very first priority, is husband and wife. It's the mother and the father. It's that relationship that needs to be cultivated and be the highest priority in the family as a whole. The reasons, some of them should be obvious. Parents need one another for support. As any single parent will tell you, it's extremely difficult to do it on your own And and children will take advantage of you and your relationship if they can. They recognize the old adage, divide and conquer And if they can do so, it will to their benefit they will do so. And that reminds us to tell you also, or to remind you. that your children are sinners and they will behave sinfully. They will think of themselves first. I am always surprised about how people are surprised from our academy, new new families, that they're surprised that their children are sinners. They're surprised that their children would do anything at all. Of course we recognize that children will do wrong uh at every chance they get for the most part. And so uh a child will divide and conquer if he is able, and parents need to be the support for one another. The relationship between father and mother needs to be a priority also because a good marriage of a child's parents provides an emotionally stable and secure home. There should never be a time when a child is fearful that his home is going to break up. That mom and dad are at each other, that mom and dad are arguing, that mom and dad are Not just arguing but but threatening to leave one another or or hurt one another in some emotional way. A child should never have to experience that. The best place for a child to be secure should be the home Also, the relationship between mother and father needs to be a priority because the child needs to see himself as part of the family, not the center of the family, and that was referred to with the book that you uh that you mentioned. No child should be made the center of a family, and that's a form of child abuse, and I hope that you hear that clearly. It's a form of child abuse. There are many forms, of course, of child abuse, but when a child is the center of the home, he gets a warped understanding about the world and about himself. Hear this from Proverbs 13, 24. Whoever spares the rod hates their children. Hate. That is, if you don't discipline the child, you don't put the child in the proper place that he or she is to be, that child is being hated by the parents because again that warped perception So let's talk about what are some practicalities that can be done in order for that covenant relationship to be the priority of the family. Well, um, why don't you tell them some of the things you would do, dear? My children were young, um Uh, we decided that I would stay home and work or from work to to be a stay-at-home mom. And I did take that as my full-time job And uh one of the things that we we did is I knew when dad was gonna come home And I wanted to make sure that my home was a haven for him to come home to, that he wanted to come home and to be with us. Therefore the children, I would make sure that the toys were cleaned up, they were clean. Um I would freshen up. I didn't want him to come into a home of chaos. I didn't want him to be all frantic. Um I would prepare. Um uh food preparation earlier so when he's coming home I'm not a in the kitchen only. And when he did come home the children knew that it's mom and dad time. I mean they they would greet the father, but we'd have mom and dad time on the couch. ten minutes, fifteen minutes, whatever it was, to brief the day, and then it was kids time and dad would play the kids while I finished making dinner and getting getting it ready to go. Um That was one way we established that the children need to see mom and dad have their time and and in the right time would be their time with dad. Also I think we did um date nights And um we had a lot of people in our church that were gracious to us to watch our children so we could do this. Um realizing that as a young family sometimes we couldn't afford a babysitter, but people in our church were very good to us to We did go out on dates and we also did little mini trips. Um my grown children today will s will say thank you. to us for that and they know what a priority priority it is in their marriage to make um that important. So you can't overestimate the communication in that um when you are having those times together to be honest with one another about how your day was. Um be honest about the things that you're burdened about. And um we we we would uh also take our evenings once the children were in bed uh and debrief in our bedroom alone um And and and and make that a priority. That that we're talking about how the children are being disciplined, we're talking about concerns we have about certain children. We're in this game together and and the communication part of it is is so very important and the man needs to initiate that. It can't just be the wife initiating communication. Um I can't overemphasize But you saying that makes me remember as well. A big no-no for our kids was to get out of bed after we tucked them in. They would get into huge trouble if they got out of bed because we were revering that time for us We didn't want them coming into our room wanting water, wanting a bathroom break, or whatever it might be. There could be exceptions if they're sick or something like that, but um We revered that time and they knew it not to get out of bed. Yeah, and we didn't that didn't change until they turned eighteen. Kidding. It was a very small one talking about. Alright, um the last thing to cultivate uh the marriage uh one parenting is uh grab your wife's hand and pray. Um and what I mean by that is Whenever there's confusion about training a child, whenever there is an issue of character with a child, grab your wife's hand and pray about it. Um and whenever there's a prayer request, uh whether it be family prayer requests, whether it be extended family, whether it be in your church family Grab your wife's hand, have the children bow their heads, and pray. Be a praying family together as a couple and as a family. the the the the dividends that paid off for that uh are of course our Lord hearing us and and answering our prayers, uh but are also the unity that that comes together that comes when we pray together. Alright, is there anything else? Okay, that's our first session. Um I did want to uh I wrote down in my notes Grace because I don't want to start off communicating it all to you that this is uh work that you do and you do it alone and and we'll see what God does. This is this is recognizing that there's grace all over this when we're when we when we're raising our children. So I'll Can I add faith? We we try to do the best we can, but we realize we have to trust God that He will fill in the the gaps. Yeah. Because we are imperfect. Um yeah, faith and grace. So if you have any questions again, um write them at to my email or write them in the comments and we would love to answer them in our next session. God bless. Next week. June now