I can do screen if there are any. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. That most appropriate hymn considering the funerals of this past week and also our topic today in regards to the Passover. We are in Exodus 12 Watching common Jewish families celebrate the Sabbath is both inspiring and convicting. We watched a few families celebrate in the hotels that we stayed while visiting in Israel. Women wear fine dresses. Men put on a talus that looks something like a shawl. There is wine for specific moments in the meal. Special bread is shared, and a blessing is said by the father for first the young boys and then the young girls. It is inspiring because the event is about celebration with family and devotion to God. They focus on passing their faith in God to the next generation. It is convicting because not enough Christian families show such devotion to God and effort to passing on the faith to their children. On what we identify as the Lord's Day, the day of our Savior's resurrection And if you think the average Jewish family makes a big deal about the Sabbath, well, you should observe them celebrating the Passover. Those of you who participated in the Haggadah or Seder meal we hosted during Lent this year, you know a little of that celebration. Regarding our scripture reading and really uncovering the whole chapter of Exodus 12 What we are looking at today is a pivotal text or section of Scripture that reveals God's plan of salvation, not just in the Old Testament. But in the new. It is pivotal because it is historic in the way that Israel was saved from God's divine wrath, in which they were given hope of a new life in the promised land. It is also pivotal as an event in that it served as the great anticipation of God's ultimate redemption, which was to save mankind from his wrath by Jesus becoming the Passover. St. Paul said it this way, Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast. Also, for Christians, it is pivotal as an event because the Passover as a feast at the night that Jesus was betrayed, he turned it into the Lord's Supper. Which is the central point of our Christian worship. By chapter 12 in Exodus Pharaoh is essentially forgotten. Played such an important role, now forgotten. Instructions for that first Passover night are given in verses 1 through 13 and instructions for its perpetual celebration in Israel in verses 14 through 28. And then the narrative turns and tells us that they indeed escaped, exited Egypt. The specific instructions regarding the slaughter of the lamb will point to the perfect Lamb of God who would be slain. The bitter herbs are understood to represent the bitterness of Israel's toil as slaves and to represent our sin. We read as much in Exodus 1. The unleavened bread is a symbol of the readiness, readiness and haste. Israel was to leave Egypt Symbolize that there was no time for waiting, no time for the dough to rise, and this is explicitly explained in Deuteronomy 16. When we read in verse 14 of chapter 12 that the day of Passover was to be a day of memorial, we Christians naturally turn to the words of our Savior. Who said, do this in remembrance of me, which is the same as saying, do this in memorial of me. And what follows in Exodus will include the slaughter of the Passover lamb, and then it was to be roasted, and the family was to eat it together with those bitter herbs and unleavened bread. But at the Lord's Supper, Jesus only needs bread and wine, for he is the Passover meal. It is of interest to note that the instruction about staying inside all night, which is found in Exodus 12, is applied only for that first Passover And we know this because Jesus, after he celebrated the Lord's Supper, went with his disciples to Gethsemane. Some other interesting observations. Are the Israelites asking the Egyptians for proper clothing for their journey? Apparently, as slaves, they would not have sufficient clothing for a long journey. There are also not many verses given to describe the Exodus. Apparently, even though we've been working towards this and working up to it, apparently we are to know that they got out. And that was enough. Also, because of the numbering in Hebrew for a thousand, it could actually be describing units and not actual people. Thus the number could have been smaller. We don't really know. But we know that a lot of people got out. A lot of people were saved. And let us now underline and highlight the importance of the Passover in the history of Israel. And as I said, in the story of God redeeming his people as a whole, because God tells Moses that the celebration of the Passover is to begin Israel's calendar year. There is a real sense in which the Passover marks the beginning of Israel as a nation. It gives them their first identity. This then leads naturally to God after the Exodus giving his law shortly after, his law that would govern God's people. The teaching of the New Testament is that the death of Jesus is the fulfillment of the Passover. The event which the Egyptian Passover anticipated, typified, and really actually only began. Consider the words of John the Baptist, who identified Jesus as the Lamb of God, the Lamb that takes away the sin of the world. It was, as you recall, during the feast of the Passover that Jesus was crucified. And the night before, he turned that Passover feast that he shared with his disciples into the new commemoration of his death, our Lord's Supper. And then Paul makes that point explicitly in 1 Corinthians 5, Christ, our Passover Lamb. has been sacrificed. It is not then difficult for theologians and preachers to tie the events of the Passover and the sacrifice of Jesus together. In fact, if we do not do so, we don't then know the story of God redeeming his people. In Egypt, God revealed himself to be judged. He passes through Egypt exacting punishment as he himself says in Exodus 12. I will pass through Egypt. I will bring judgment. It is God who is the destroyer. That judgment was passed over, however, for everyone who was protected by the blood of the lamb that had been sacrificed. And for every family that followed God's instructions on how to apply that sacrifice to each of their homes. It is important to note that Israel, they were not to leave their homes that night. As they were to be sheltered under the blood. In the commemoration of this event, in the annual Passover ritual as we read in 1227, is done to fix the mind and the heart on how God redeems his people from judgment. By this act of judgment, God is forthrightly revealing his manner of redemption. And hear this, know this. His manner of redemption is substitutionary atonement. Someone in our place. Christians have never had any difficulty understanding how Jesus Christ is the true fulfillment of the Passover. The God and Savior of the Passover and the God and Savior of the cross are the same. And believing that is what it means to be Christian. The God of the New Testament is the God of Exodus. It was He who visited judgment on the Egyptians as he will visit judgment upon the whole world at the end of the age. And it was he who passed over the Israelites' homes. It is the same God today who judges the nations while giving peace to those who follow Jesus. It was the same God who provided the means for Israel to be passed over in judgment, a judgment that was so destructive to the Egyptians physically, emotionally, and spiritually. And it is the same God who raised up the living and the dead, dividing them as you would divide the sheep and the goats. The means that God enabled the Passover of Israel to take place is the means by which the final judgment of God will be stayed. For those who follow Jesus, and that should be meditated upon. The people of God were delivered from this judgment again by substitution. And we today, who know Jesus as Lord and Savior, are delivered from eternal damnation, which was assuredly our destiny and our just desert by substitution. Again, only the homes that were spread with blood were those in which the lamb had died. A lamb's blood had been shed. As we studied the use of blood in the Bible, we have seen it as a symbol of life given up in death. To put blood of the lamb on the doorposts of a house was to demonstrate in a public way that a lamb had been killed by this household. And killed for those who occupied the house. And the application was more as the lamb's blood was to be sprinkled after it was shed. There had to be then an individual appropriation of the blood for it to serve its purpose. It was not enough simply to kill the lamb. One had to take the blood and put it on the doorpost of his home. And there is so very much to learn about the manner the blood of the lamb was to be applied to each Jewish household. Consider that it was the father who sacrificed the lamb. It was the father who bled the lamb. It was the father who cut up the lamb. It was the father who sprinkled the blood and painted the blood upon the doorpost of the house for his own family. The application for us today, I hope you do not miss. For the fathers, the application today is for the fathers to take responsibility It was the spiritual welfare of their homes, and in particular their children. You cannot be with your children all the time. No. You cannot protect them from temptation No. You cannot protect them fully from the many things that will snare them or be a snare to them, and we shouldn't want to. But as fathers, you are the covenant head of your children. God made a covenant with you, and then gave you children to raise under that covenant. To know and love Jesus. And thus, fathers, you have to do the dirty work. Just as the Jewish fathers did, who chose the lamb as God instructed, and who cut its throat. And who bled it and spread the blood on the doorpost of his home so that his family might be saved A Christian father needs to get his hands dirty. A Christian father gets his hands dirty. By checking on his young sons to see if they are keeping their lust of the flesh, their sins of youth, under control. A father gets his hands dirty by assuring that his daughter is loved by him first, and thus does not look to the opposite sex for desperate affection. A father gets his hands dirty by doing battle with teachers who are godless, peers who are rebellious, and fads that are careless. Many, many times when children don't keep the faith of their parents, it is because of the father. And not just because the father is a hypocrite, although that is the worst scenario. It can be that the father did not get his hands dirty and thus allowed godless influences into the lives of his children that went unchecked. And the result is the devil having his way. We next Learn that obedience of the Father by providing the covenant sign God commanded of blood on the doorpost, the result is the salvation of his whole family. By redeeming his people in this manner, God is showing us the ideal of how salvation can be done. God redeems his people by families first. The father being obedient takes on the faith himself and then applies that faith, the blood of the Lamb, to his whole family, preserving them all. And then when his family is saved, he joins up his family with the rest of the people of God, and they make their way to the promised land. Today, the Father applies the blood of the Lamb to his household by having all of his children baptized. He then, with his wife, trains the children to know the Lord, teaching them the Lord's Prayer, the Ten Commandments, the Creeds, all things a Christian ought to know. And then the family joins God's people, the church, and they travel together to reach the promised land, which for us, for Christians, is heaven. I say that it worked first for the Exodus and it can work for the covenant of Christ And a major point to be made regarding this manner of salvation, this ideal pattern of God, how he can save his people Is that he does so as families, and he does so as the body of people who we would call the church. In other words, the salvation is procured by God by way of the Passover, not by individually. It is done corporately. God saved each household first and then saved an entire people Beloved, I perceive that the devil has been working an angle in the Christian church, especially among evangelicals. That has convinced many who claim Jesus as Lord and Savior, that a faith, a faith that I call just Jesus and me, is sufficient. Just Jesus in me is believed to be sufficient for salvation A just Jesus in me faith believes that a personal relationship with Jesus is the most important aspect of the Christian life. And I'm aware that some of you are uncomfortable if I am going to say that it is not the most important aspect of the Christian life. I will qualify my point by agreeing that because of the presence of the Holy Spirit in the lives of Christians, we can have and we need to have a personal relationship with God. But that personal relationship is not biblical if it is outside of the church The Christian life, as prescribed in the Holy Scriptures, is a relationship with God within the context of the body of Christ. Just Jesus and Me faith has wreaked havoc on the Christian church, especially at the end of the 20th and into the 21st centuries. Just Jesus and me has resulted in too many independent churches starting up with no affiliation with the larger body of Christ and thus no accountability. Just Jesus and me has resulted in faith based on emotion, as it promotes how we feel, how we feel about worship How did you feel about the sermon? How did you feel about the style of music? How did you feel about the people in the church? As if how we feel about any of it is important compared to the objectivity of the gospel and the fact that the only audience that matters in worship is God. Just Jesus and me also wreaks havoc and that it allows for Christians to refuse labor in the church or to submit to authority in the church. And it allows people to church hop when issues are too difficult to work through, because we can always say We prayed about it. Such phrasing allows us to blame our decisions on the Holy Spirit. Because when we say we prayed about it and leave a parish or turn down an opportunity to serve or reject authority in a parish, it is implied that it was a decision of God and not our own. And such practice is a cheap way to blame God for decisions that we make as individuals for the individual as opposed to the kingdom of God. Beloved, we quoted earlier. The words of Saint Paul Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Let us keep the peace. And hear those words again. It is our Passover collectively. It was for us. Not as individuals, but individuals within the community. Jesus passes over his people, and because they are under his blood, under his covenant, they are given life. Yes, life. For individual believers, but always in the context of being part of something greater than themselves Beloved, our individual salvation has always been greater than our individual self. Only in the context of the church, the church sitting down with God's people, only in that context can we keep the feast. Let us pray