Привет краси на белый, но рождать умоли, что я не могу. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. To be seated. Most of us know that only the Gospels of Matthew and Luke give the narrative of the birth of Jesus. Mark bypasses it altogether, getting right to the heart of the gospel message, and John paints the picture of Jesus on a scale of creation itself, providing a more poetic tone. Scholars believe that the narrative in Luke's gospel was received from Mary, while Matthew's tells the story from the perspective of Joseph, at least some of the perspective of Joseph. What I will do to start this morning is to place the stories in Luke and Matthew in a chronological order as much as we possibly can. The story begins with the angel Gabriel appearing to Zacharias while he served his time in the temple praying and offering incense to the Lord. Zacharias was told by the angel Gabriel he would have a son, even though he and his wife Elizabeth were older and thus passed the time of bearing children. Like Sarah before him, Zacharias was shocked to hear such words from the angel, and that shock made him question the possibility So, in response, the angel made Zacharias mute until the baby was born. Next, the angel appeared to Mary, who was told she was highly favored And that the Lord, by means of the Holy Spirit, would impregnate her with the Christ child. Mary told Elizabeth about a child, and so she visited Mary is told about Elizabeth having a child, and so she goes and visits Elizabeth because they are relatives Upon her visit, Elizabeth believed the story of Mary and called her highly favored and Being that Mary was or the Christ child was in Mary's womb, such a presence was made evident by the baby in Elizabeth's womb, leaping to celebrate the presence of Christ. Mary believed and so she celebrated by singing a song of belief we know as the Magnificat Next, Elizabeth gave birth to a son and insisted he be called John, just as the angel instructed Quickly the tongue of Zacharias was freed, and he breaks out in song of his belief regarding the call upon his son's life to prepare the way of God's child, and He prays and sings about the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham. Sometime after Mary was visited by the angel, she tells Joseph, the man she was engaged to, what had happened to her. The details of that encounter are not known to us, but we are told that Joseph was a righteous man, and in being righteous, he did not want to disgrace Mary. So he put it in his plans to divorce her quietly. And we met recognize, you see, that such engagement engagements in Jewish tradition, that was a promise exchanged To go back on a promise meant a type of covenant had been broken, and thus a type of divorce was needed also. Before Joseph could go through with his plan, an angel appeared to him in a dream, confirming Mary's story that the child within her was conceived by God. Joseph believed what he was told, and took Mary as his wife, and did not lie with her before she gave birth to the promised child. In the latter part of Mary's pregnancy, Caesar Augustus puts out a call for all Jewish citizens to return to their family's town. So that a census could be taken, so that once the citizens were counted, Caesar then knows how much he can tax them. So Joseph, required by law, takes himself and his pregnant wife to Bethlehem to report for the census and to pay his taxes. When they arrived in Bethlehem, Mary begins the process of birth, causing Joseph to look for a place where she can have the baby, but there are no available rooms because The house of David had returned to the city of David, Bethlehem, and there were too many people and not enough rooms for lodging. So the next best thing is to sleep with the animals in their shelter, and so Joseph finds such a shelter for his family. Mary gives birth to Jesus, wrapping him in bands of cloth to keep him warm and snug, while next laying him in a trough for livestock, we call it a manger. likely filling it with straw. Historians believe a nursemaid would have been called to help Mary, but that's not told to us in the story. Because it is quite an event for God to become man, angels appear to shepherds in their fields and announce the worthy glory to be given to God for his tremendous act of love. And the angels instruct the shepherds to believe what they are being told and to go see for themselves the child born to save the world from sin and shame. And the shepherds did as they were told, and when they saw the child, they told Joseph and Mary about the angels and what they said. And Mary, we are told, pondered all of this in her heart. She pondered it, which means she reflected upon it, she considered the various meanings of it, and she believed. That ends the narrative of the birth of Jesus, but of course there is more when the Magi follow a star and Herod hears about it, but that is for Epiphany. What I ask of you today, after hearing the story again told in what is most likely the chronological order, what I ask of you today is, do you believe it? Do you believe all of it? Now don't dismiss that question with an immediate answer such as, well, of course I believe it. Examine yourself and see that the answer is not a quick or simple one. I had a professor in seminary who told the story of attending a theological seminar. where he was talking with a fellow professor, and the man was a liberal man, and asked him if he really believed the stories of the Bible like the sun standing still in the book of Joshua so that Israel could win a battle. And my professor responded, Yes, I believe, like I believe that Jonah swallowed the whale. He thought his answer was quite clever. That is why he told us the story. But I knew from taking this professor for several classes. that he did indeed struggle to believe the more fantastic stories of the Bible, even the details of the birth of Jesus. There are likely many reasons why people become doubtful of the miracles described in the Bible. One that I know of is how life experiences can make us cynics about life in general. Oh, we believe in God. That's easy enough. Jesus? Sure. I believe in him and love him as my Savior. But all of that other stuff just seems to distract from the basics of religion, and it seems to be used to divide us. And such is how a cynic thinks. And we get cynical because much of our lives is void of the miraculous. We don't witness children born to virgins. We don't hear of people being healed of diseases like we read of in the Bible. And when we do hear of it, there is no verification of a bona fide miracle, or it happened in a jungle in South America, and so we don't know what to do with that type of testimony. Our lives are so void of the miraculous that we start calling things that are not miracles miracles. I really did have a hard time writing this down, but I need to say sorry But a miracle is not the US hockey team beating the Soviet Union hockey team, even though that was a great moment. And a miracle is not a teenage boy cleaning his room. A miracle is best defined by examples. A miracle is a virgin giving birth to a child. That's a miracle. Consider how some treat the teachings of the Bible. I preached on wives and husbands obeying the teachings of St. Paul. This past Sunday, which talked about allowing our spouse to have authority over our bodies. I don't know how many of you believed what the passage was saying. And how many actually obey it or have obeyed it? If you don't obey it, does it not show that you don't believe all that the Bible teaches? And if you don't believe all that the Bible teaches, then you are picking and choosing what you want to obey and what you don't want to obey. And that makes you the authority over your faith rather than the God you say you love and believe in and the Jesus you say you have faith in. There are other such teachings in the Bible that people don't think are very important to follow, such as wives submitting to their husbands, husbands sacrificially loving their wives all followers of Jesus, putting him as priority before our children, our grandchildren, and our spouses Those are easily dismissed as not important because they are emotionally hard to accept. Other such warnings against gossip and being busy bodies are weaked at because everybody does it and it can't be all bad. And that Sabbath law, that just doesn't come close to applying to the Christian life, and certainly is not going to interfere with my love for the ravens. Or my soccer star child, God wants me to be happy more than anything else, right? Such thinking might sound right to some, but it is not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that how we treat our spouse is directly correlated to how we portray the gospel to the world. The Bible teaches that we are to love Jesus more than anything else. And if anything even comes close to competing with our love for God, it is to be labeled an idol and an idol smash. The Bible teaches that gossip and being a busy body are just as serious as the sins of sexual immorality and taking of the Lord's name in vain. Those who live in such sins will die in such sins, and to live in such sins is evidence that the Holy Spirit does not live in you like you think he does. The Bible never teaches, even remotely, that your happiness is what God wants most. The only happiness that God wants is for you, that you would love Him with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself. And the only way you can do that is by having faith in Jesus. Your earthly happiness does not equate to eternal happiness, as our study of Job this year has verified. Examine how many things you believe without ever questioning the information. You believe something as simple as George Washington being the first president of the United States without any doubt in your mind And yet you have not done a personal study to ensure that that is true You accept that in 1969 Neil Armstrong stepped onto the surface of the moon, and you believe it, even when there are doubters who say it was staged. We believe such information as factual because such information doesn't change us. We don't have to do anything with that information. But when you believe the Bible and all its stories, you have to do something. You have to believe, and then your life is to be lived in accordance with what you believe. So ask yourself again, do you believe the Christmas story as told in the Gospels? Think upon it. Does it change your life at all? Do you believe every detail? I say you can and you should. And the reason why we should believe is the person of Jesus. We can believe every detail of the Christmas story because it is told by those who follow Jesus, who knew him and his family personally. And we believe in Jesus because he had and has the words of eternal life. No one is ever taught like him. No one has known the heart of humanity like him. No one has explained the truth like Jesus explained the truth. No one defined love like Jesus defined it and lived it. No one loves the least among humanity and bravely rebukes the greatest among humanity at the same time. No one makes grand promises and fulfills every one of them. No one but Jesus. And no one has overcome death as Jesus did. That seals it for me, and I trust it does for you. The Christmas story is before us this holy day, with all its miraculous and unbelievable, believable stories. All its believable details. Believe the details, all of them. And teach them to your children and to their children. Every detail. And let it change us, and them, and the next generation, until Jesus comes again. Let us believe the details for the glory of God. Amen.