In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. No doubt most of you adults have heard about the controversy over the song Baby It's Cold Outside For the awake generation, it is supposedly a prelude to date rape. They call themselves awake or woke. Because they see things in American culture that older generations did not and do not see They see racism and gender disparities and homophobia in places the rest of us have conveniently and willingly overlooked. Now they are aware of such social sins, and they are going to point them out in order to change them. Well this got me to questioning if there are other lyrics in Christmas songs that are politically incorrect or just plain odd. Let us examine, if you haven't heard, Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. The woke generation says it is a dangerous song because it describes bullying. However, if they use the other side of their brain, they can notice that it sings about overcoming bullying. But that's not what stands out to me. I question, why are we asked if we recall the reindeer Rudolph? You know the line, but do you recall But yet he's supposed to be the most famous reindeer of all. Why are we questioning whether we recall him if he is so famous? It doesn't make sense. Especially since we are told that we already know the names of the other eight reindeer And then there is the song Jingle Bells, a song that my grandson Jackson says is his favorite. Christmas song. When I told him it isn't a Christmas song, because it does not use the word Christmas or the name of Jesus, he was baffled and upset. He broached the argument with his mother, who told him that it has the spirit of Christmas in it, and he understood that. And the next time he came to me He challenged me again on my argument. Remarkable. But what Jackson doesn't know, I haven't told him is that not only does the song Jingle Bells not mention Christmas or Jesus, it actually contradicts itself. For in the first line it says that it is fun to ride in a one-horse open sleigh. And yet the second line, the most that most people don't know, goes like this. Miss Fanny Bright, seated by my side, the horse was lean and lank, misfortune seemed his lot. He got into a drifted bank and we got upstot. Which apparently means tipped over So a fun sleigh ride into a turns into a slamming into a snowbank and sprawling all the riders across the road. Are we awake now? Others that have some strangeness about them, perhaps you've heard these, Santa Claus is coming to town, where we are told that he sees you when you are sleeping. That is indeed creepy. And then there is the too often played Seed the World Right? Feed the World Christmas song that has millionaires telling us how to give our money away while being motivated to describe the poor as so thirsty that they don't that their only water is the stinging tears that they drink. And then, and then they mock us by saying, well, tonight, thank God, it's them instead of you. And while we are in a depressed mood, did you know that the song Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas with its original words actually goes like this Have yourself a Merry Little Christmas. It may be your last. Next year, we may all be living in the past. If that is being awake, I think I'd rather stay asleep. But the idea of being awake and woke was first a biblical metaphor, not a millennial metaphor Christians are the ones to be awake. We are awake because we were once dead in our sins and trespasses, and now made alive in Christ Jesus, as the Holy Spirit came into our souls and gave us life. God has given his very self to us in the spirit, and thus we have victory in Christ evermore, and thus we are awake. As people who are spiritually awake, the celebration of Christmas is focused on the miracle of God becoming man. And that means God in Jesus. condescending himself to be like us so that we can be like him. To know as Mary did That Jesus was the Son of God, the Lord of all creation, is to be very much awake. Now, speaking of Christmas music and being awake. There is no contest when it comes to the greatest Christmas music ever to be written. It is, of course, Handel's Messiah. In Messiah, there are lyrics that are direct quotes of Scripture, such as describing God as the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace And there is also the line quoted from Isaiah that says, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. Isaiah prophesying over 700 years before the birth of Christ told us that Jesus would be human just as any other child born to humanity. But the full person of Jesus was not born because he did not have a beginning. He was instead begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father. As much as we proclaim it true that Jesus was born to Mary, we should realize that there is a great mystery in what we say, in what we sing, in what we hear. It is a mystery that remains only in the understanding of the Godhead, and we are simply privileged to believe that it is true. Jesus was not born into this world as God's son, but instead Jesus was given. Unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. And I must, as a preacher of the gospel of Jesus, while I'm proclaiming that God became man, and that is what we are celebrating here and now. I must also bring a challenge to you all as listeners. The challenge is for you to question whether or not you can honestly say That Jesus was not only born unto us, but can you include that he was born unto you? Unto you. Is it so? Is Jesus born to you You know, religion is a word, as it is used in our culture, that encompasses a great deal. A person can speak and think upon God as an afterthought and call himself religious. And some in the Christian religion can hide themselves in the church by attending large churches where tr no one truly knows one another unless a concerted effort is made to get involved and to be held accountable. When I was in the Roman church as a young man, it was easy to show up in the service, greet no one, and be greeted by no one. And then leave directly after the one-hour service, no more time and no less time, one hour, with no contact with another human being, and think that I was being religious. But the Christian faith requires a great deal more than thinking you are religious. It requires that you know if Jesus is born to you. It is required of us to self-examine. Do I believe in Jesus as Savior and God? If the answer is yes, then Jesus is born to you. If the answer is no, then you remain dead in your sins, and hell is your destiny. Sorry to seem as I am ruining Christmas for you, but actually I'm trying to make this the best Christmas ever for you, with the opportunity to repent for your sins and believe and be saved For those of you who are confident that Jesus is born unto you, there is the question of what to do next. What is to be done next is to grow in wisdom and grace before God and men. What is done next is to be sanctified by the Holy Spirit within us, as it convicts us of wrongdoing, of wrong thought, of wrong deed, while leading us to maturity in both our speech and in our behavior. This is the tough part of living in the Christian faith. It is easy to start in the faith. It is easy to confess when you are finishing the last days of your life. But it is the in-between time that many find themselves sliding back to their old ways. It needs to be confessed that living the Christian life can be wearisome and require a great deal of effort. It requires effort to bring your thoughts under captivity by the Holy Spirit. It can be painful work to bridle your tongue when speaking. When speaking your mind is so much easier. If you are susceptible to alcohol, it can take a great deal of concentration and discipline to say no to that bottle that is so easily picked up. If you are susceptible to temptations of sexual pleasure outside of biblical marriage, it can require great effort to remain faithful to your spouse and your mind and in your body. If you are prone to be selfish, the call to pick up your cross daily and to think of others before yourself might seem impossible, but strive for it, you must Ah no, I am not presenting you a fun advertisement to sell you on living the Christian life of being a disciple of Jesus But it is the way that Jesus taught us, it is the way for those who believe that unto them a child was born. Now the next there is the irony of the Christian life. For if you are able to say that indeed Jesus has been born unto you, and if you can next say that you are striving to have Jesus revealed inside of you and to others from you, what is required next is that you are to become a child. I say this as an irony, because what describes the Christian life takes discipline and the constitution of a mature adult. Thus, how can mature adults be as a child? When Jesus tells his followers that they must be as a little child, he is not putting forth before them immaturity. But he's instead focusing on what it means to trust and to wonder. There is no doubt As all adults can attest, that Christmas is a great deal more enjoyable when we see it through the eyes of children. We can live our wonder of Christmas all over again, watching our children and our grandchildren. That wonder is wrapped up in a mystery. In the mystery that there is hope and joy and all the fuzzy warm feelings we could stand. Regarding trust, children have to trust because they can't provide for themselves. They can't protect themselves, they can't even discipline themselves. They need to trust that you are going to buckle them in their car seat, that you are going to feed them and help them grow in their bodies, that you are going to train them from right and wrong. That trust is necessary for their survival. And it is the same type of trust we are to have in God. We are to trust Him for needed things while we seek His kingdom first. We are to trust him for our protection while we turn the other cheek. We are to trust him for our emotional well-being when we forgive our enemies. We are to trust him for our overall well-being when we live lives counter to our culture, for we will be hated for it. In summary, our trust is the substance of things we hope for and the conviction of things we cannot see. People today who think they are woke think that the family of Mary, Joseph, and baby Jesus, that there in them is an example of homelessness and immigrants. Well, for the woke, Mary and Joseph and Jesus were neither homeless nor immigrants. For the woke, Parson Brown has no business asking if you are married And by the way, with that song, you ever wondered why they say, No, but you can do the job when you're in town, when he's actually in town right then? Very strange For the woke, Christmas today is about pointing out all of the hypocrisy of everyone else. Why they should focus on instead is the question, is Jesus born to me? And if Jesus is born to you, then it is for you to grow in wisdom and grace. And to grow in wisdom and grace must include becoming a child. A child that trusts and stands in wonder before God. And there is no better time for Jesus to be born unto you For you to commit to maturing and growing in grace, to be a child this night, this most holy night. May this Christmas be Christ born to you. Amen. We take this time now to worship the Lord in the giving of our tithes and our offerings, ever being reminded that God loves a cheerful gift. Gentlemen