All right folks, we uh welcome you back to another Christian Parenting 101. I verify that that is what the class is called. This is uh installment number three, and we appreciate you uh joining us. Want to uh update um one of our uh children and his lovely bride had a daughter. Her name is Hazel Denise Jorgensen. Hazel Denise Jorgensen. We welcomed her and uh mother and baby are doing quite well. Um I want to put in another qualifier, just to make sure you you understand. Um we do not think that we were perfect parents, far from it. Um we we are aware of many of our mistakes and some of them we're not aware of. And as our children get older they let us know what those mistakes are. And we if we have chance to repent or ask forgiveness, we do so. Um t to not teach on parenting because we were not perfect parents Well, if that principle was carried out, I would never preach or teach again. Um We we've got to address these issues because they're so very, very vital. Um your messengers are weak vessels but uh vessels that God uses nonetheless. So there's my qualifier. So let's start off with recognizing that any good teacher or headmaster will tell you that the first thing that needs to be done for good instruction is control. The classroom needs to be under control in order for instruction to take place. And just as a teacher needs to control her classroom before she can begin to teach, so does a parent need to control the child in order to train him or her of the scripture warning us about controlling our tongue. In every situation a Christian is to know the words that are coming out of their mouth. And we know the power of words because God spoke the world into existence. A tongue lashing does not likely bring a child under control. And there's always that danger of saying something you're going to regret. Consider you are training a child. By a tongue lashing, you're training them what to do in a conflict. What are you training them to do? Screaming, yelling. Temper tantrums? Growing fits. That's how they solve problems. That's how they deal with difficulties. This every dysfunctional family has that in common. They handle things through uh yelling and screaming at one another. Again, number two, what is chastisement not? It's not begging for a child to submit. Why not? When you do that, you put yourself in a subservient role, and it's unlikely you will get that back. Yeah, once you do once you submit to the child, um the idea of getting uh that relationship back in order is is very difficult. And I'm reminded that we're both reminded of a story that we read and I think it was uh Discipline to Dare. Dare to discipline like uh Dobson where he tells the story of In his practice he remembered a woman coming to him and her son was in full rebellion and drugs and alcohol and and uh cursing his parents and so on. And she came to him, what do I do? And he asked her, well, tell me about raising him. Do you remember certain moments of raising him? And she said, I remember when he was in his crib and he would not lay down to sleep. I I would I would put him down and as soon as I turned my back he'd get up. I'd put him down, get up. I was exasperated and I remember the last time I did it, I put him down, he got up, and he spit on my back And I never had control over him since then. It's such a haunting story and one that we all need to avoid. Do not submit to your child. Keep that proper relationship of parent-child. What else is chastisement not? It's not psychological uh manipulation. And how do people use psychological manipulation? By bribing. Bribing is one. It's one of the most common. We try to bribe our children into proper behavior. Reasoning is another which always g gets me because I don't know why we think children can reason like adults. Um redirecting attention in order to get proper behavior. This reasoning though would be a child you going to your child going, why did you do that? They don't ask a child why they did that. They did that. Yeah, the reason doesn't matter. Um playing on their emotions is another example of psychological manipulation. Now it doesn't mean that these can't be used. A parent trying to get his child to eat dinner, give them the promise of the cookie. Understandable. Everybody does that. That's But what we're talking about is replacing, using psychological manipulation in place of chastisement. These types of practices, in order to change a child's behavior, are what they call behavioral. as opposed to chastisement, which is eternal. Behavioral are not sustainable. Chastisement helps change, train the heart. Sure, you you said about um promising, you know, you have to finish your dinner if you want dessert. Those can work if you follow through. Yep. Yeah. You have to be true to your word. Or it it will never work. Yeah, he uh and you can't let them whittle you down. Okay, uh three bites. Okay, one more bite. Um yeah. If you're gonna set a standard, you might wanna keep that standard. So be careful what you say. Yeah. Um again These types of manipulations might work for a time, but the child's obeying because he's duped, not because he's under your authority. I heard the following from a teaching seminar. It was the Reverend George Grant. I had never heard this before, but he said that learning is a form of repentance. As a teacher You talked for so long. What type of And my hardest students were the students I thought they knew it all. They were the proud students. I had a student who uh I was at the blackboard and teaching and wasn't complying because he he didn't need my instruction. So I uh actually in frustration turned around and gave him my marker and said, okay, you teach a class. No, but those students that were proud, you know, they wouldn't answer a question if they didn't know the answer. Um They were much harder than the child that was rebellious. And the problem is always saying I knew that. I knew that. So learning as repentance means first that you need to be humble. You need to then confess that you don't know something, and then you need to be willing to receive what you lack. In order for a child to be trained, they must follow a form of repentance. That is opposed to being shamed by verbal abuse, being coaxed by begging, being fooled to a place of learning. Those are not forms of repentance. Think of it in terms of repentance. Now, we need to address a topic of rebellion. And as our favorite character, television character says, it needs to be rebellion needs to be nip-up, nip it in the bup. Um when you engage a child in a moment of rebellion, you must You must win the battle. You gotta throw everything into it. You must win the battle. If you do not The next battle will be harder, and then the next battle will be harder until the entire war is lost. And you must see raising your child as a war for the soul of your child. And you wanted me to emphasize that. I did. I I thought um battles were more difficult, middle school, high school age. And I remember having conflict with my children and I remember thinking to myself, I will win this battle. This I'm going to war and I will win. And um you have to pick those battles Yeah, when when you do, you've got to finish him. Remember that there are two things the devil wants uh for your children. That is the devil. He wants for him or her to walk away from the faith. uh where he wants him or her to die. Deny or die. That's that's the devil's plan for your child. So you are at war with that plan. Consider with me some positives for chastisement. For proper chastisement, what are some positives? Well, consider that you are giving the gift of self-control to your child. And I don't know if there's many more gifts you can give more important than that besides Christ himself. You're giving that child the ability learning how to be self-controlled, which pays off so many dividends. Um In the future, in their future. I remember uh I was a youth pastor in uh Kennewick, Washington for three years, and the youth group I remember one particular meeting where the kids just seemed out of control and out of sorts and I I didn't seem to be able to to gain any um anyone to be able to listen to me. And finally I got them all to sit down. And I went around and I s pointed to each child, I said, Spanked And they would nod yes or no. Not spanked, nod yes or no. I guessed everyone, about 25 students, guessed every one of them correctly. I could tell which ones were self-controlled. Whoops. Chastise. But I did use that other word. Um yeah, I did use that other word, uh chastise. Uh and it you can see it. Uh you're giving the gift of self-control What else? Uh also you're giving um the gifts to others in authority, those um coaches and teachers. They'll like your kids. Mm-hmm. You know, I was reminded too when you were talking that um it always seemed like our boys got yelled at the most by the coaches But but uh we believe it was because they took it. They looked at them in the eye. They said, Yes, sir. Um they didn't fly off the handle. They knew how to take it. Um yeah, and having those manners or um and and other adults in general appreciate it. Yeah. Your kids are gonna be liked. Yeah. Um You're giving the gift of knowledge with chastisements. You're giving them the opportunity to learn, helping them be ready to learn, learning that idea of that form of repentance, allowing them to take that position and then and then to learn. Last one. Oh, that's funny. Oh, they learned the proper place for fear as a motivation. Yeah. So when your mom's home alone with those younger kids and she has to chastise a child, the child needs to see dad behind mom, and behind dad is our heavenly father. Metaphorically speaking. Right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's one thing we tried to get across to our especially our boys, is that um if you do something against your mother, you've just made war with me. And uh you'll have to answer to that. So uh that allows her a greater leeway to especially discipline young men uh who are desperately needed at the time when dad is not available, they need to see The dad and then then eventually you see God. And and fearing God, and all the spectrum of fearing God has to be a part of a Christian life throughout. It never leaves us. And we're giving that child that fear, that needed fear Now we we talk about using chastisement to bring the child under the authority of the parents in order for the parents to train, but what are they supposed to train them to do? We need to answer that as well. And we as Anglicans, we make certain promises, and I'm going to test her to see if she remembers. At baptism, parents and their sureties make what promises? They promise to teach the child the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, the creeds. And all things a Christian ought to know. All things a Christian ought to know. And what are some of those things that a Christian ought to know? Well, it's It's the gospel. That's what a child ought to know. And how the gospel fits into every aspect of our lives and and and how the gospel can be seen all throughout Scripture. And we should also include what we're training our children to do, and that is have manners. Wanna read read that section? Oh sure. Am I here? Oh. And we should include that we are to teach our children manners so that they can be a respectable member of society. Those manners include respecting elders and those in authority, boys protecting girls, girls allowing boys to protect them, let them Hold the door open for you. Keeping a clean room, caring for the things that you own, taking extra care of the things of others. Saying please and thank you, and yes, sir, no sir, yes, ma'am, no ma'am. Looking people in the eye when speaking or being spoken to. A firm handshake for boys and gracious greetings from girls. Yeah, that's those are just general manners that describe what it means to be human and and to treat others as If image of God bearers, it's respecting the humanity of those people around you. Um you want to mention something about yes, ma'am and yes, sir. I do. Um So when we moved here to the Northeast, our children say yes ma'am and no ma'am, yes sir, no sir, and for some reason that wasn't uh taken very well. We didn't understand why. Um, but they just thought they just didn't like that. But I was say then if you don't like ma'am and sir, they need to acknowledge that you said something. Gave them a command. And they respect that of the word. And they yeah, so have them say yes mama or Um yes, Father, or however you want to say it, but it also helps so you know what they um that they're they heard you and now they need to decide if they're gonna obey you or not So if you just think you said it and they didn't hear it, it's not really fair to chastise them for that. But if they acknowledge it But the but even just saying it already puts you in a place of respective authority. You're showing respect. You're showing that that person has authority to say those things to you. Yes, ma'am. And it can first it confers them to life later on, adults. And they're they're bosses someday. Addressing manners means you do not accept a child's social struggles, but train them to overcome those social struggles. And what I mean by social struggles is say you have a child that leans towards being shy, or you have a child that leans naturally toward be to being boisterous. Both a shy child and a boisterous child can be rude. What they both have in common, why they I can say they are both being rude, is that they are thinking of themselves first As Christians, we are called to think of others first, not ourselves. We have to train this predisposition out of our children and help them to work on these Manners that again honor the humanity of all those that they engage with. And along with training, the need to train out personal predispositions, too often parents fulfill their own prophecies. What do I mean by that? Well I I thought of a scenario. Um you can conclude that Your daughter Sally won't greet grandma when she is visiting from out of town because Sally is shy. Then it is likely Sally won't greet grandma when she is visiting out of town. My point being, don't anticipate bad behavior from your child. Don't accept and anticipate bad behavior. I said that wrong. You should anticipate. Don't accept anticipated bad behavior from your child. Intentionally attack the bad behavior and coach your child to be that greeter or to keep his voice down. Whatever will take to make the child more socially polite. Now it may sound as if I'm saying that a child is to be socially acceptable. I don't mean to communicate that. As Christians Our children will learn when they are older that just because they are Christian, they are not socially acceptable. So that's why I use the phrase socially polite. We want to raise children that people want to be around and other children their peers Okay. I wanted to mention also Before you go there, you didn't mention that we don't want to make excuses for our children as well. So if you think, oh, they're shy, you're making an excuse for them It's no excuse. So they need to come out of their shyness. Or let's say um they're tired. Oh they're tired. What is the child gonna do but when they don't want to do something? They won't be tired and you're gonna go, oh yeah, you're tired Yeah, again it's fulfilling a pro prophecy. Um I would say that that uh the dog is barking about it is also true um when when it comes to this that um the the child may be tired and and that may be causing or at least not causing but at least contributing to the behavior which is a reality we all face but that doesn't change the standard The circumstance doesn't change the standard. Keep the standard there. Recognize the child's weakness, do something about it, but also keep the standard where it is. I also wanted to mention in this session about development because Fugate goes into it and I think makes an important point that as our children go through different stages, parenting does change along with the stages. And the Greek language provides an outline of these stages. For instance, the word brefos is used to describe infants. The word Python is used to describe young a young child between usually eleven or twelve, I'm sorry, um as a toddler and then eleven or between a toddler and eleven or twelve. The word país describes youth between 12 and 18 years old, and the word onair describes an adult male These words we recognize as uh fitting pretty closely with the classical model of education, as we see that the uh Pi dion uh it represents, well, first of all, the um Or is the first one? Uh uh grammar stage. Python uh Pideon is the grammar stage. Logic stage is the pais and the rhetoric stage is on air. The point being that when a child transitions from each stage, uh The training has to change along with it. For example, we did not chastise our children after they were confirmed. Once they were confirmed in our tradition, they publicly confessed their faith, they become part of the church in terms of the church's authority. And so now the church has authority over them as well as the parents We also gave them more freedoms. The children can make their own choices in regards to music. Not everything, you know, but we're giving them more freedoms. We're still training. We're not we didn't stop training. Other media that they were exposed to, given more freedoms, and yet Wow, today we recognize that such freedoms are not what they were when we raised our children. Our children were raised with flip phones. uh quite a difference. Cell phones are amazing and amazingly dangerous in the hands of the immature. The advice we have regarding freedoms allowed to a child is based on the same principles you you you find in the past. Which is that freedoms are given to each child based on the fruit you see in each child, and each child is going to be different. A child that repeatedly shows self-control with s with smaller freedoms is going to be given more freedoms more quickly than a child who reveals himself to be having less self-control. Giving cell phones that have internet access can be like giving a seemingly unlimited source of information to one child. Whereas to another child it may be like showing him the address of the harlot that lives in town. Which reminds me, a great source for raising children, especially boys, is the book of Proverbs. As you know, it was originally written from a father to a son. Now, to see how a child is progressing, what fruit they have in their lives, you can and should plan testing moments. Purposeful testing moments. Such are justifiable in Scripture. God tests us to show us what is in our own hearts. And I I'm reminded of what Amy Carmichael said, I bring this up quite a bit in Bible studies, gave that analogy that when a teacup is jostled, it reveals what's inside of it. That's what we do as human beings. When our lives are jostled, we reveal what is inside of us. And so when you put your child through a testing moment, you're going to reveal to him and to you. what is inside of him. And so I thought about a scenario. Let's say you taught your five-year-old child um how to pick up his toys, how to obey your your uh commands. And he's walking by and you say to yourself, I'm going to test in this moment. And so you say, Hey buddy, uh will you go get me my pipe over there and bring it to me? And if he says no, he's revealed defiance in his heart. You jostled him, and that's what he revealed. If he says why, well then respect is absent. If he complies with you know the body language, I don't want to, he's weakening towards defiance. And if he complies, his heart is ready to learn. And that's that's what you want in training. Matthew Henry, the commentator and minister, made this point that I loved. Talking about laws given in Leviticus 19. He makes the point that God gives seemingly arbitrary laws for several reasons, and one of those reasons is that he simply wants us to obey him. as opposed to what Adam and Eve did. And we can do the same for our children. Give a particular command because you simply want your children to obey you. I remember one specific story. I thought about this with my children when we lived in in uh Tailo, Texas for one year. And they were all playing in the in the house and beating up on each other and I thought, hmm, I wonder where they are for obeying me. So I said, all right, everybody, in the backyard, now. And they of course looked at me and frozen in time. I said, in the backyard, now. Off they went. And that told me something. It told me where they were in terms of obeying their father's voice. I don't know if I give them this example, but I was reminded of happening to Jared when Was it Jameson that was running running across and our house is gonna do I mentioned this before? No, I think I didn't know Bible study. I'm losing it, I don't remember. Um but the busy road was running towards a busy road near our house And he yelled, Jameson, stop! And Jameson stopped. That's the type of obedience that's needed. You're trying to prevent your child from running into the proverbial road and getting run over. So oboy Obeying your voice is absolutely necessary. Now, we've been talking about children who are disobedient, but we wanted you to chime in about the compliant child and the warnings about a compliant child. The compliant child in my opinion is um more concerning. So you'll have the child that's um defiant and his sin goes before him But the compliant child is hiding her sin for her, hugely as girls. Um But there's something in there. We're not we all are sinful. And whatever she's hiding inside her heart, you need to go discover it. You need to find it so you can address it her sin when they're young so when they're older they don't have um even bigger problems and also alleviate them from thinking they're perfect. Um the whole idea of thinking you're so perfect, you're you know, a princess. No she's not. Mm mm. Yeah, and and the idea is to also recognize that if if she's never been disciplined, she doesn't know what it means to be forced to be under someone's authority. And imagine her not having to deal with these things when she's younger because she naturally just likes to comply and wants to please people. When she gets older and there's some temptations to rebel, she doesn't know how to resist those. And she certainly doesn't know how to come under authority, being forced to come under authority. So problems can uh be created by not addressing issues even with a compliant child. All right, finally, in this session we want to address the subject of formal education. What should you do? Our opinions. is what we're going to give you. A general rule is for me is to say that public schools are not an option. But I am not willing to segregate myself from Christian parents who do send their children to public schools I say it primarily because of the social interaction and the temptations that the the things that went on in when I taught in public schools just out of college, horrendous. And it you know that that was I hate to say how many years I was. Um and also the the social agendas that that are out there today are dangerous. Um but unfortunately There are many private schools who are following along the same lines as the public schools. So to make a decision of who will educate your ch child whether s the school is public or private, is to examine the curriculum and to fully examine the curriculum, thoroughly examine the curriculum. know what they are going to be learning. And if you're good with it, if that is what you want them to be taught, then you go with it. But I'm predicting that Christian parents who take their vows of baptism seriously, that is their children's, the vows you take for your children at baptism, and desperately want their child to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior When you see those curriculums, whether public or private, you will know what decision you need to make. Now I recognize also the other option of homeschooling and There are fantastic resources and they keep getting better and better out there. And don't buy the lie that it can't be done properly. It can be done properly. And there are mixed options that you can uh search for such as some states allow students to attend certain public school classes while the parents fill in the gaps for at home schooling. Some private schools allow for the same. There are even community colleges that allow um uh students, uh younger students to to take courses. The full point is of course you mentioned online courses. A lot of many good online courses. Again, you are responsible for the education of your children. Fear God as you make those decisions, and you will make the right ones Anything else? I think that's good. I think I want to let you also know that uh we are putting these on uh sermon audio our church's sermon audio link so that you can listen to them or have other people listen to them uh without having to turn into you t onto YouTube. I recognize listening on YouTube can be a little frustrating. You can't Search any other place on your phone or your computer. Insists that it stays on and I get that. So you can have access to that. We'll uh try to put a link up for that access. And we are trying to do this weekly. We apologize. We skipped a week, but we don't apologize. We don't really apologize. We went away for our thirty-fourth wedding anniversary and it was a wonderful time. It was wonderful. God bless.