In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We know the following verse well, especially because it is read, before an infant is to be baptized, from Mark chapter 10. And they were bringing children to him that he might touch them, and the disciples rebuked them. But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, Let the children come to me, do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. Truly I say to you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it. And he took them in his arms and blessed them, laying his hands on them. And the following is like it from Matthew chapter 18. At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them and said, Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me. Preachers and teachers have tried to explore what it means to be as a child when receiving the kingdom of God and humbling oneself to receive it. Those who identify a wonderment in the child and a desire to be taught, a desire to be led, a desire to be instructed are likely the closest to what Jesus wants us to see in those who follow Him The older we get, the more stuck we become in how we think and understand. Things new are not as exciting as they were when we were younger. But there is also a gentleness in a child and a vulnerability in a child that must be part of the analogy Jesus gives us. In the book of Revelation, This vulnerability of a child is captured in chapter twelve, where a vision of a woman giving birth is described. while a red dragon having seven heads and ten horns stands before the woman, ready to devour the child as soon as it is born. But the child is caught up and taken to the throne of God. It is thus the child versus the dragon, or versus the tyrant, that repeats itself in literature and lore. It is a simple observation to note that Christian writers are obsessed with child versus tyrant motif. But the characters can also be childlike, such as the lead character in Don Quixote, who is said by Sancho Panza to have a childlike innocence. But the standoff between a child and a tyrant isn't only fascinating because it should not even be a contest. The tyrant should defeat the child. It is fascinating because the opposite occurs. And therefore the storylines are fascinating because of the irony in them And God loves irony. He loves his son to be born of a virgin, and the bloodline of his son to include a prostitute. And his son Jesus loved to say the last will be first, and the first will be last. And it is things like that that turn the world downside up. We see the use of iron of the irony of child versus tyrant in Charles Dickens' A Christmas Carol. Which is a surprise to some, for Dickens made himself a part of the Unitarians who denied the divinity of Christ, which interestingly Did not prevent Dickens from saying that Jesus was his Savior. G. K. Chesterton considered a Christmas Carol to be Dickens' best work. Consider how insightful he was in choosing his characters. The Apostle Paul in Romans 7 uses the analogy of being old. To be similar to being under the law. And being under the law was being dead. Paul also instructed the Ephesians in chapter 4 of that letter to put off the old man. Of course, the old man doesn't know he is old until he is made new. Ebenezer Scrooge didn't know he was old either. And Scrooge would never be charged as a lawbreaker, for he was a strict lawkeeper, while condemning anyone who would receive a handout. Scrooge is described as old in every way. He is bone skinny, confined to his office and flat. Struck in a dreary routine that made him a part of the walking dead. We are introduced to him at a funeral of his dead partner, Jacob Marley. Both of them were collectors of debt, getting as much money from the poor as the law would allow. Death and law was the identity of Scrooge. What Scrooge could not see was that he was a man in debt himself, in debt to God and his fellow man in terms of love and morality. Hear this description given by Dickens. Oh, but he was a tight-fisted hand at the grindstone Scrooge A squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutching, covetous old sinner, hard and sharp as flint. from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire. Secret and self-contained and solitary as an oyster The cold within him froze his old features, nipped his pointed nose, shriveled his cheek, stiffened his gait. made his eyes red, his thin lips blue, and spoke out shrewdly in his grating voice. A frosty rhyme was on his head, and on his eyebrows and his wiry chin He carried his own low temperature always about with him. He iced his office in the dog days and didn't thaw it one degree at Christmas. We are next to contrast Scrooge at Christmas to his nephew Fred. Who greets his uncle cheerfully and is described as ruddy and handsome. And with his greetings, he says, God save you. And God must save Scrooge. For he cannot save himself, but only becomes colder and more alone as the clock ticks. Fred's cheerfulness is childlike, for it will not be daunted. This is the first bah humbug we hear from Scrooge. When Scrooge challenges Fred asking, whatever good did anyone receive from Christmas, Fred responds with childlike wonder. There are many things from which I might have derived good, by which I have not profited, I dare say, returned the nephew Christmas among the rest. But I'm sure I have always thought of Christmas time when it has come around, apart from the veneration due to its sacred name and origin If anything belonging to it can be apart from that as a good time, a kind, forgiving, charitable, pleasant time, the only time I know of in the long calendar of the year, when men and women seemed to be one consent to open their shut up hearts freely, and to think of people below them as if they were really fellow passengers to the grave and not another race of creatures bound on other journeys. And therefore, Uncle, though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket, I believe that it has done me good, and will do me good, and I say, God bless it. The clerk, hearing such an answer, instinctively applauds only to be shamed by Scrooge We know the story has Scrooge arrive at his flat with his plain meal and a restless sleep ahead, as he will be visited by four ghosts. The first is Marley, followed by the ghost of Christmas past, and then present, and then future Where a child plays a role in the story next is Ebenezer himself, as he sees himself as a child being taken there by the ghost of Christmas past. There he was at a boarding school, and Ebenezer was sent there by his father, his angry father, only to be alone twice. first by his father and then being rejected by his peers. In another scene, we hear and watch him struggle to stay in a relationship with a woman that might have given him children. It is Bell, who is the one he is to marry, but he will never fully commit as he is busy building his business and learning to prioritize money Bell says to him, You are changed. When it was made, their contract for marriage, you were another man. I was a boy, he said impatiently. A boy his now older self rejects. Another saga of the child against the tyrant. Only the tyrant is rejecting himself as a child. With the Ghost of Christmas present, we are given another chance to compare and contrast Scrooge with a child. And this is the center child of the story. Tiny Tim. The scene is Bob Cratchit carrying his son Tim, who is crippled, and that is made obvious by a crutch and an iron frame on his legs. They were coming home from a church service, and Mrs. Cratchit asked how Tim fared. As good as gold and better was the answer. And it was noted that Tim said to his father during the service, he had hoped people noticed him at the church because he was a cripple. And it might help people remember Christmas as a day to celebrate a man who made the lame beggars walk and blind men to see. Scrooge, the tyrant, is smitten with the child, for the child may be a part of the surplus population and a liability But his heart reveals a love for humanity that Scrooge does not yet know. But is then, right then, while watching the child and listening to the heart of the child is having something grow within him that was not there prior. And a fear has developed in Scrooge. He wants to know if the child, if Tiny Tim, will live. The answer is a hint. The ghost confesses seeing a vision of a chair in a corner that is empty and a crutch that has no owner. When Scrooge objects to the vision, his own words are quoted back to him. If he'd be like to die, he had better get to it and decrease the population. Dickens here reveals the value of a child, even a crippled child, as compared to a crotchety old man who cares only for his bank account. Christians are called to be born again, which is to become a child, and to receive Jesus as a child. Because the heart of a skin flint is difficult if not impossible to turn around Next is the ghost of Christmas Future, which reveals to Scrooge how people will dishonor him at his death. And if such is not difficult enough, Scrooge is shown Bob Cratchit returning to his home at a much slower pace than when carrying Tiny Tim. It is clear that Tim has passed, and the family is very much in the grips of grief With the following words, Bob tries to console his family and raise up the child as an example for all them, saying this But however and whenever we part from one another, I am sure we shall none of us forget poor tiny Tim, shall we? Or this first party that there is among us Never, father, cried they all. And I know, said Bob, I know, my dears, that when we recollect how patient and how mild he was, although he was little, little child We shall not quarrel easily among ourselves and forget poor tiny Tim in doing it. No, never, father, they all cried again. I am very happy, said little Bob. I am very happy. Mrs. Cratchit kissed him, his daughters kissed him, the two young Cratchits kissed him, and Peter himself shook his hand The spirit of tidy Tim, thy childless essence, was from God. Of all the spirits that visited Scrooge that night, and of all the things he witnessed, both past, present, and future, and of all the warnings of his own demise, nothing moved him like the life and possible death of Tiny Tim. The child, the child once again tamed the tyrant. We know the rest of the story, how Scrooge awoke. to find himself on Christmas Day and able to rectify the evils he had perpetrated on those who had tried to wish him a Merry Christmas just a day earlier, as well as committing himself to make merry the rest of his days. But likely, likely you don't remember or glass over the words Dickens wrote for Scrooge when realizing the night of the spirits was over. Scrooge said to himself, I don't know what day of the month it is. I don't know how long I've been among the spirits. I don't know anything. I am quite a baby Never mind. I don't care. I'd rather be a baby. Hello, whoop, hello here. It is here that we are challenged, yea, encouraged, to rather be a baby. For this is the time of year we get to call out of ourselves the children we once were. And how much we loved life and loved others and loved God. On this day we say, unto us a child is born. Allowing us to be vulnerable children again. And Amen.