In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Here is the Christmas sentence. The word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory It is two sentences, really, one with a compound predicate. God has spoken to us by his son, the brightness of his glory, and the expressed image of his person. Each of us has likely imagined what it would be like to witness creation in those six days God wielded his power to bring into being that which did not exist before he spoke. The green leaves, the brightness of the flowers, the sparkling waters, the movement of the hills and mountains, all that have astounded us, likely placed us in a state of befuddled awe. But as our imaginations take us beyond what we have experienced, we ought not underestimate the beauty of the second creation. And which was, in an important sense, far brighter than the first creation. The second, the incarnation, God becoming man, built upon the first, and then turned it upside down. Thus we can say that Christmas turned creation inside out. It broke the stranglehold of death. It thickened water. How could we even begin to express this second creation? Wineskins could not hold it. Even Saint John, even Saint John, who gave us the Christmas sentence, gave up. He gave us word upon word, sentence upon sentence in his gospel and in the book of Revelation. And then he had to finish by saying Even the world itself could not contain the books that could be written. If this is true If John struggled to describe it, it is quite ironic that we are expected to teach the story to our children and our grandchildren. If John didn't have the words, where are we going to get them? And yet it is impossible to hold it in. Like a pregnant woman, it pushes our skin out to its breaking point. It gives us stretch marks. For me, this is an anniversary of sorts each Christmas season. It was just a few days after Christmas. of 1982 when I surrendered my life to Jesus the Savior. And it was the Christmas message that sent me over the edge. It was too much to resist, too much to take in, that God would humble himself in such a form of an infant. How does a person say no to that type of love? And what words are there to say in response? And yet you can't just sit there and say nothing. Mary couldn't hold it in. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior, for he has regarded the lowly state of his maidservant For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. If she can't hold in Christmas, why should we? There is no reason to. But imagine the tension of living under the covenant in centuries before the Messiah. The mental conflict would be stark. The psychology is twisted as the heart and mind longed for relief The prophets proclaimed justice. Israel will certainly be judged. But the prophets also proclaimed grace. God will come to redeem his people. Even though Israel sin, they're worse than those of the pagan nations of Cana. Even those of Sodom and Gomorrah, which we know God destroyed. We would expect that God could do nothing less than wipe Israel out entirely. Yet the promise of grace came again and again. God will surely redeem his people. But how can he wipe them out and redeem them at the same time? It seems as though God's justice violates his mercy in the other way around. God, it seems, is in a bind. If he redeems, he is winking at sin. If he judges, he does not fulfill the promise of salvation. God seemed to be wanting to build attention and build it and build it and then came Jesus. Can we feel the agony of life without Christmas? No wonder Mary sings. She carries life from the dead, light from darkness, home from exile. Seeing, O baron, you who have not born, break forth into singing and cry aloud, you who have not labored with child, for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married woman. Imagine sitting in the deserts of Babylon and Assyria, counting the stars, juggling mercy and justice. O come, O come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel, that mourns in lonely exile here, until the Son of God appears. Rejoice, rejoice Emmanuel shall come to thee, O Israel. And Mary sings on, and his mercy is on those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. These words speak of fulfillment and victory. I wonder how much victory we have spoken this year. How much victory has the church proclaimed this Christmas season? Our Christmas celebrations are no longer accepted in our culture. They are no longer regarded as religious. It's a winter song fest at the school, not a Christmas concert. The greeting, as you know, is Happy Holidays, not Merry Christmas. It's a winter break for college, not Christmas vacation. So settle down, you who get all excited with your unwanted and unwarranted Christmas cheer. Save it. It's not wanted. But the beauty of the story cannot be hid, for old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. In the incarnation, we see that in him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. Light light overflows, overpowers, and blinds like its creator The triune reveals himself as a God of excess, the God who gives all, the light that chases away darkness. The Son. The Son gives all for the Father and the Spirit. The Father gives himself over to the Spirit and the Son. The Spirit returns more sacrifice and love back to the Father and the Son. The coming of the sun is the expressed image of God bursting into the old world. He dwelt among us. And how lovely is your dwelling, O Lord of hosts. My soul longs, yes, even faints, for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Words of King David. David fainted and cried at the excess he saw. How he would have burst forth if he had seen the sun. The excess of the incarnation bridles my tongue each year as I attempt to preach with words that seem impossible to express. I see parents struggle as their little children grow older to ask questions. They struggle with how to explain what we are celebrating. Some have come up with the birthday idea. Jesus was born this day, and so we wish him happy birthday. But as well-meaning as that is, we must understand it to be more than a birthday. We are not celebrating that Jesus is 2,025 years old today. We are celebrating that God became man and walked among us Singing Happy Birthday does not provide the required awe that the story contains. And so and so we rely on readings of old, the songs of old, and we use them again and again, and somehow. Somehow, unlike everything else that becomes passe and tedious, the readings always say more than they did before, and the songs never, never disappoint. It is obvious why the message cannot disappoint. It should not surprise us that Christmas contains the most traditions and most symbols of any of our holy days. We need them, for they attempt to express the depth of God taking on the form of a man. The Christmas tree, for instance, causes us to look backward and forward. For it all began at a tree. The need for a savior began at a tree, as Eve ate first and then Adam. Judgment was passed on a tree as the Savior was nailed to and hung from one. And it ends with the tree, as the tree of life takes center place in the new heaven. What goes under the tree is a type of excess we worry about during Christmas. It's too much. We care about earthly goods too much. The extravagance of the wrapping with its bright and shiny colors and bows is beautiful and stirs the imagination The content inside those boxes excite the mind of a child almost to a frenzy and cause many excited stomach aches. The older and seasoned among us say they don't get excited for gifts as they once did, but they love watching their children and grandchildren get excited. And part of the reason is because they remember the emotions and stomach aches they had as children. But all of it can seem so secular and materialistic The gifts are only matter. Matter we see a thing burn in the fire on judgment day. And we are spirit. We are destined to live in the heavenly realm as spiritual beings We should be shouldn't be concerned. We shouldn't be concerned about earthly things. But those wrappings are still pretty, and my stomach still aches with excitement. When we spiritualize our celebration in such a manner, we have missed what we are celebrating. We are celebrating matter. You are celebrating that God became matter, flesh and blood, man. In doing so, he redeemed his creation, his matter, his world, that he called on the sixth day of creation very good. And Mary sings on. He has put down the mighty from their thrones and exalted the lowly. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent empty away. She still bursts forth. Her song continues. And that's another thing we do to excess during Christmas. We eat a lot this time of year. And we eat what is rich in sugar and fat. We eat sweets in the form of candy canes, chocolates in all shapes and textures, cookies with frosting, pies and cakes that fill up our eyes and then our stomachs. We eat too much. We eat more than we need. And yet Jesus was sent to fill us, fill us with good things. If we were to spend all our days eating and reclining in like manner, it would certainly be to excess. But this day, on this day, it cannot be to excess For it is only in the grace of God that we see true excess. He has given more than we can ask for or imagine. And Mary sings. He has given help to his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. That's the word, isn't it? Mercy. In his mercy he remembered man. How do we express it? What synonyms or Greek lexicon can help unravel it? Can a word study or a theological encyclopedia help us understand mercy? No, it must be experienced. For Mary, a song burst forth from her womb just was filled with the Savior of the world For each of us, a song bursts forth within our hearts, for Jesus is in our hearts. This takes us beyond speech, for what we are saying is not only did God come to dwell among us, but within us. Even saying it in a casual manner that I just did embarrasses me. I don't have better words. There is not enough oratory skill within me to express this reality. And so I turn to the old readings. And I say, unto us, a child is born, unto us a son is given. And he shall be called wonderful counselor, Almighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people To light a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people, Israel. And then I turned to the old songs and sing as we did today. Joy to the world. The Lord has come Let earth receive for king. Let every heart repair him room and heaven and nature sing. And heaven and nature sing. O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant. O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem. Come and behold him, born the king of angels. O come, let us adore him. Oh come, let us adore him. Oh come, let us adore him. Christ the Lord. Hark, the herald angels sing. Glory to the newborn king. Peace on earth and mercy mild. God and sinners reconcile. Joyful all ye nations, rise. Join the triumph of the skies. With angelic host proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem. There is more to say. Yes, indeed, there is. But these help. They help us burst forth. And we are allowed to. Nay, we cannot help but do so this day. Merry Christmas.