This is uh number two of our Christian Parenting One on One. Uh uh The uh what were they calling it? I called it something else last year. Christian Pering 101? That's what I call it this time. We wanna didn't we want to call it intentional parany? Uh maybe if we'll figure it out. Okay, um So Bobby Lynn uh suggested that we go a little bit different direction than I was originally planning on and and she w I think she's right. Um it's it's an attempt to go chronological. We talked about how many children to have. Uh so let's talk about when you do have a child and what are some of the things you need to have in order. Uh that is in order the order of your life, what do you need to have in order? Uh and so she's gonna talk about schedule feeding. Uh yeah, I would like to first talk about things that I noticed of parenting styles and they're I have seen that there are pretty much two different types or styles of parenting Where when you bring your baby home, there's a parent that their style is but let's remove everything from the house that could cause danger. Let's um get all the safety locks from the cabinets and doors, put all the um plugs in the outlets and you know, and and bumpers around your coffee table or your fireplace and And then there's the other poll, which is let's not do anything different in our home, but we will teach the child no. And I think there's a lot of gray area in between there that most of us will land in. So when we talked um last week about it was important to us and I think important in parenting that your child becomes part of your family and that the family doesn't revolve around the child, but the child becomes part of the family. So what we found is on the second style of pairing that I um was talking about um describing is where we lean more towards. because the child became part of our family. So in doing that, um there were different styles of feeding your newborn and and there was demand feeding And there was scheduled feeding and we f felt that the scheduled feeding was more towards the idea of the child becoming part of the family. And that was um There's there's many books that you can find about both of them. Um but what what I found in feeding the baby on a in a schedule in a routine was helpful for the child as well as for me in order to be productive in my day, to know when the baby would need to be fed, um, went along with it. And as we had more children We had six children in nine years and they were all very close together in age. And it was necessary in order for them to have a routine so I could meet everybody's needs. Because if it was on demand I don't know how I could have survived. So what I what do I mean when I you know say about a schedule routine? Um there was the basic thing of always there is sleep time, play time, and feeding time. And usually it within that pattern to where um I the baby would wake up, I fed the baby, the baby played and the baby went asleep They woke up, I send them, they play they um in that in that way, every two to three hours when they're an infant. I would like to plug a book for you. Um, which is called Baby Wise. I don't even know if this would work on here because that's what we backwards when they see that. Okay, so it's Baby Wise and authors Our pediatrician Robert Becknum and Gary Ezo. There is also, you can find this on Spotify and you can listen to it. I actually got this book, but um there were women in my life that um had this book and were feeding their shoulder in um on a schedule and helped me um So that and the other thing that that's a uh plus I think as a routine and the scheduled feeding is that you're not teaching your child to cry the way wants. And that will continue. If you start that as an infant, they're gonna be a toddler crying for everything they want. I found that when I did the routine and the scheduled feeding, they trusted me. They had they were secure in their routine. They I they knew that their me needs would get met and a trusting which I thought could can uh convey back to God, trusting and trusting God to meet their needs. No, I think that's enough. Um I want to tell the folks about the time that a visitor a person came to our home and uh they asked you if Uh Dave is our second born was was on was on schedule feeding and she said, Yes, but only he knows what that schedule is. And the woman gave her such a s Strange, strange. Look, what what what did you mean by that? What I meant with that is I never woke my baby up to feed them. Alright, so there are those diehard schedule feeders that have to keep it every two, every three hours. No No, there is always gray area. There is always exceptions. And if my babies I put them down at night to to sleep, I let them sleep as long as they could. When they woke up, then I fed them Um, so that's why that's I didn't know what time he was gonna wake if if he wanted to sleep past three hours I let him. That's all I was saying. So I'd also like to say though with the routine it's okay to break the routine. Um is you know, again, your family what your family does and if you worship every Sunday, you can take your child to church. They don't have to be home at a certain time to take their nap. One day a week isn't gonna put them off schedule, you put 'em right back on it and you and you on Monday. Right. Uh my only comments about it is to protect yourself from being l legalistic when it comes to schedule feeding. Um some people I've even projected that it's the only way to do it. It's the Christian way to do it. It's a wise way to do it, that to be sure, but uh to put any label beyond that, uh uh is is dangerous to me. So be careful when when it comes to these types of rituals we do in parenting thinking that this is the best way. It may be for your family, but it might not be for someone else's All right, I want to go on to the topic of uh responsibility. Now I'd like to plug another book. Uh this one is uh Standing on the Promises. I should have mentioned it last week. This is by Doug Wilson uh it was a good help to me and then one of the major ways it helped me was to take responsibility, to encourage me to take responsibility for my family. Fathers are responsible for the health of your family, including your children who walk with the Lord. It's not in this book, but in Reforming Marriage. Uh Doug Wilson uses the example of of a ship and a captain, and I think it's perfect when it comes to the entire family, not just the marriage. But the father is responsible for the health and spirituality of his children like a captain is responsible for the shit that he's meaning his captain over. Um it's this idea that even when a captain is not at the bridge, even when he's not steering the ship He's still responsible for what happens to the ship, even if it runs aground and it's not his fault. He's still responsible. The same thing is true for a father and a husband. He is responsible for the spiritual health of that family unit. And he needs to carry that weight of responsibility on him Now I received an accusation I was dealing with a family uh that was uh going through some very difficult times and the father was challenging me. He said, Well you you you by that principle you that means that God is responsible for uh Adam and Eve failing and sinning. And uh I said, yeah, he he is. Um he he's not at fault Um, but he is responsible and he showed he was responsible by taking on the responsibility of restoring Adam and Eve by way of sending his only begotten son. So in that sense we are to be responsible, we're to do whatever we can to uh uh enable the health of our our children's spirituality and of course our lives as well Um, remember that y it's a weird concept, but you are God to your children. As infants especially, you are God. And so you are conveying to them who God is by the way that you uh sustain and and part of that way is to take responsibility. And the other part of that is you are not God. And that means that you are going to fail. You're going to uh sin and you're going to wrong your children. You're going to uh fumble and bumble yourself uh at times. And What that means for you is that you need to humbly confess when you do fail. Your children need to see that you can be a humble person, acknowledge your sins And no car. A knowledge of wrongdoing to them. and restore the relationship by asking for forgiveness. The best testimony of the gospel is that you exemplify to your children humility. The worst testimony against the gospel is hypocrisy. And hypocrisy without confessing your hypocrisy. Humility trumps hypocrisy. Pastorie, I find that there are three words that need to be sweeping through Christianity today, and that is humility, humility, humility. So why don't you speak a little bit about husbands taking responsibility? I guess I would say ladies, um submission isn't a bad word. And what I have found in submitting to my husband's authority is liberating. Aren't you glad you don't have to answer to God for leading a family? He does. And I do love that. Now that also is liberating when you have a good marriage and when the husband is loving the wife as Christ of the church, and when the woman is respecting her husband it works. And um it's beautiful and it wor it just um I j I just can't overemphasize how much freedom there is in that. There are times when, yeah, we may think we know better. But we do and we might. Um, but we have to let our husbands fail. I think in a in a good marriage he's gonna ask your opinion and you're gonna be able to freely give it. Um, but it all comes back to he has to make the final decision and sometimes that's hard But you answer to God for that. So be right in the right relationship with God over that and uh it God will do good things. And a wise man knows that that woman was created to be his helpmeet, and so you turn to the one that God created to help you and you seek their counsel. Alright, take responsibility um does not mean that you have complete control of the outcomes of your children. There is a great mystery in how our children turn out and who they choose to become This mystery is a combination of the will of God, your input as a parent to that child's life, and that will of the child. It is not as simple as saying whoever your ch your children turn out to be is caused by you. You didn't simply get what you get when it comes to training your child uh some children have godly traits that has nothing to do with any of your training, but are caused by maybe genetic disposition, someone else's input into their lives, or maybe it's just a Holy Spirit blessing them. with a character that uh that you just did instill. And then it goes the opposite way as well. There are ungodly traits that you did not foster, that you were not aware that needed to be addressed. Again, it's that mystery where the individual will, strength and weakness of the parents and their wit and their wisdom, and the will of God, all of it remains a mystery of how it interacts. The Reverend Rob Raymond, who I mentioned last time, in that book I referenced, Covenant Family, he uh he talks about this Uh and for me he introduces a word that I needed as an a theologian, not just as a as a father. The word is tension And he talks about how there's a lot a great deal of tension in Holy Scripture. Uh he explains well how the Holy Scriptures teach about the sovereignty of God working for our salvation And then there are passages like this in John 6. 44 about God's sovereignty. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me sent me draws him, and I will raise him up at the last day. Now, as a former Armenian, which I embarrassingly was, I know that there is no sufficient response to a colonist for a passage like that. Everyone who comes to Jesus must be drawn by the Heavenly Father. That word draw can be persuade, or it could mean even drag, and since we are dead in our sins, it's It's drag. But just prior to that verse, and that again we're talking about tensions here. Just prior to that verse in John chapter 5, 30, uh 39 through 40 Jesus is talking to his Jewish detractors, and he says, You search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me, but you are not willing to come to me that you may have life. I emphasize that phrase, you are not willing. That word willing. Jesus speaks as if we have a choice to follow him. So which is it? Well, it's both. That is a tension within Scripture. Two truths seemingly pulling in opposite directions, both of them just as legitimate as the other. So you have God's sovereignty and you have individual responsibility to choose. Both are true. In the same manner, in the same manner of that tension, you have tension where we put our children and their will to the training that we give them to the will of God, all of those things fall into tension. To accept that reality. Uh lost my place here. In accepting that reality, I come up with a model of my own, which is essentially this. You need to train your children up as if their salvation is all up to you. And you need to pray as if it is all up to God. Keeping those two tensions as reality as you treat as you raise your children. Now recognizing these tensions is also necessary to pastorally care for spiritually wayward children and their parents. The one prayer request that is not heard enough, in fact it's deafening how often it is not heard, is prayer for wayward children. I don't know exactly why. I'm guessing that many parents are embarrassed, one reason, but also perhaps they've been told it's it's their fault And therefore they humbled and chagrined and and and feel like they just can't share it with anybody. Well they need to. Those tensions of the will are real, they're undeniable. And we need to recognize those tensions and be humble with every parent that has a wayward child. And all of us should be praying Some parents still hide behind the will, as if, you know, uh well it's just they just chose and I didn't have anything to do with it. Some hide behind it. I realize that But the majority are just hurting, caring so much about salvation for their children. So we need humility, humility, humility, one to another Nothing should impede us from praying for our unwayward, our wayward, our wayward children. Let us commit to praying to them. So let's go back to some fundamentals regarding uh parenting. First, speaking about responsibility, parents need to take responsibility for raising their children. That simply means that It's not anybody else's responsibility, but yours. God has given them to you, and you are to do the work. Now, there's no other scripture needed for that point than this, the Shema, Deuteronomy 6. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children. You shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorsteps of your house and on your gates. Again, no more passages are needed. It's very clear who is responsible and the work that it takes with that responsibility. So this is clear enough to remind us of a word that we often use, and she mentioned it uh at the beginning, intentional. Intentional parenting. And for us, that meant that there are many important lessons to teach a child regarding their their faith and what it means to live for Christ But those lessons must be planned out. Just as any good teacher plans out their lessons for the day, parents need to be planning out their lessons in training their children This is opposed again to trying to parent according to crisis. Because you go from crisis to crisis and you're trying to keep up training while getting through the crisis. It can be done. Some do it better than others But planning is another way to go. An example can be a child screaming who doesn't get away. And every time she doesn't get away, she responds by screaming. So we set up a time, block out a time, set up a scenario where the child, when this happens, will likely scream, and then you discipline when she does so. And you repeat the process and repeat the process until she breaks out of the habit of screaming when she doesn't get her way It's very much like both of us can attest to this because we are training a puppy right now. It's very much like puppy training. You gotta take the time out. You gotta you gotta set the time out. Set your heart right And prepare yourself for the work that's needed to train this child out of a bad habit. Again, intentional parenting. Now this brings us to another subject. It is the subject of disciplining because when you're in that screaming scenario, trying to train them out of uh screaming, you need to discipline We have been cautioned. We have been cautioned by some that there are certain uh words on this particular video display site that uh set off warning bells And when it comes to children, the word that I'm referring to is S-P-A-N-K-I-N-G. Those may set off some bells. So instead of that word, we're going to use the word chastisement. Okay, so from now on, the word chastisement is in re- in is in is replacing S-P-A-N-K-I-N-G. So let's lay a foundation for chastisement. We use the King James because the word chastise is what they use. This is from 2 Samuel 7, 14. This is the Lord speaking I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men and with the stripes of the children of men. And from Hebrews chapter 12, verse 6. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. So these two verses show that chastening is God's means for training. If you refuse, consider this, if you refuse to use the rod to chasten, You are saying that you have a better means to train than God has. You don't want to be saying that. So go about training as God does and would Now a common question is how early should chastisement be practiced? Let's see yes. As soon as they're defiant. As soon as they're defiant, yeah. Um, and that could uh occur uh pretty early. Um but I have I have a label um I think three things. First, if a child's behavior is endangering to himself or others, like a sibling, or and as in the case of screaming, or his behavior is disturbing, disturbing the peace of the home. Or when his behavior is clearly defiant. This reminds me of mistakes also, and I and I'm I'm Chief sinner here with this mistake. Um it's when you discipline a child by scolding or chastising before you have taught the child to go But you would say that the child has to understand what no means Because it's uh a child before they know it know means is crying and disturbing the peace. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah, very good Um but my example is a fourteen year old fourteen month old boy fourteen month old boy uh seeing his newly born baby brother and picking him up like he's a doll, you know, to to scold or to chastise uh in in that situation would be uh uh unacceptable because the child just doesn't know. So what is the primary purpose of chastising? Can you answer that dear? To bring the child back into right right relationship with the family and with college. Yeah, and and to right and lace should would also be the describe in bringing the child under the authority of the parent. The child has stepped out of that authority and a perhaps defiant way, and we're trying to bring that back in. It is not to simply punish. Primarily it is to be done to bring the child under the authority of the parent. Now some might say that it uh should never be done for punishment, but we would be hypocritical if we uh said that because we did use uh chastisement for uh punishment. It was primarily in public and we'll tell you just how what we would do for um the public situations. Um we were out with the kids and of course we all know that uh when a child acts out uh out and about in public, it can be uh uncomfortable for everyone involved and it can let's face it it can be embarrassing. So a practical method that we would do is that if a child acted that we would get their attention and we would just hold up a finger. And they knew what that meant. It meant when I get home, I'm going to get a swap. And if they keep kept acting acting out, we'll go. That's two. Um and pretty soon, rarely did we get to three. Um the the two was was sufficient enough for the most part. Um And then when we got home we would go ahead and and give the uh chastisement. Um the humor for us was that there were many times when we would get home And our children they they know if they and if we had they had the fingers uh held up to them that they need to go to our room and they would go and sit on our bed. Well, when you're out and about and then you um come home and you're putting things away and got other things to do, you forget. And so they come to your bedroom and the kids were sitting there and picture our our parents' son Isaac, puppy dolls Isaac. What are you doing there? He told me I am to come here and be like Um displacement. And uh and we uh and we would do it sometimes it was serious uh enough. Some t a lot of times we don't uh the weight was hard enough on you. So uh There's also something else to you want to add about chestis. Well a couple of different things too. Another thing is because we did use a rod, which could be uh a small dowel, we a lot of times used uh a wooden spoon Or we would hold the the spoon part in our hand. So I would pack her with the spoon in my diaper bag and if we're in the car and they're starting to um disobey. All I had to do was to lift up that one food and show it to him. And it would stop. It was a valuable uh what do you call that? Object lesson or object that um Reminded them to obey. So do you want it new circumstances within here now? No, no. I I'm gonna mention um We uh got a tip from Dr. Dobson to say it's better to use a rod than your hand. Your hands are for loving and for caring. Um the rod is to be something objective that's not you, separate from you Also wanted to speak about, believe it or not, technique. Don't chastise to ever harm a child. Um it's usually the the flick of the wrist, uh the quickness of it, the sting of it um that is sufficient enough. And the the sooner you do it and the age of a child, the more readily they'll respond. If you wait till the child's older, um they might be more resilient and this the the quickness of it might uh need to be a little bit quicker. Um another reminder is that you do not use a uh uh rod uh out of anger. That's hard to do because sometimes a child can be that defiant or do do something that dangerous. that uh you are angry. Um, but the child is not learning anything by you being angry and them being uh chastised at the same time. Well that was one reason as well is that we would have our child go to our bedroom. And sometimes that was for the child's sake, sometimes it was for our sake, for us to calm down Because we know going in there is a teaching opportunity. It's a time for repentance. We taught we spoke to the child before we inflicted the chastisement so they knew why they were in trouble Um, we'd inflict the chastisement and then we would pray together and they would repent. If they were not ready to repent, then we had to start all over again. Um it again is to bring him into a right relationship Right, right. And there are no hugs and kisses. And if they weren't ready to join the family because they just wanted to be alone, that's fine. Yeah. And we wouldn't bring it up again. No, that's my next point. Um Forgiveness um after the child apologizes and repents, forgiveness i i is another important principle The sins of a child that have been forgiven should not be brought up again. You are modeling the gospel to your children After you pray, after you forgive, it's over with. It is as far as the East is from the West. It is never to be brought up. You are never to say to a child, you always do this A type of wording or this is the same thing you did last week. Ah, what they did last week has been forgiven. It's under the blood. We're not bringing that up And however many times it takes to forgive, recognizing that there may be a pattern developing and and you as parents need to get together and recognize I think there's a pattern of behavior here that needs to be addressed, uh larger than just the chastisement that's going on on. Um and and that so you need to make a plan to address, but to treat a child as if they're they're a habitual sinner in terms of one particular behavior and remind them of their sins of the past. is not modeling the gospel. And if you've done that, understandably if you've done that, apologize to your child. Tell them you recognize that that was wrong for me to do. and model to them that sin is as far as the East is from the West when it has been. And we're we're talking about little children, but that goes on uh up its own in a golf age. Oh man. Yeah. Yeah. Even And that can be even harder when they're older 'cause they're they should know better, right? And and you have that mindset, but yes, we're still to be modeling. The rest of your life. We shouldn't be bringing up sins, uh our past sins to one another and we shouldn't do that at the church as uh as well. Um So yeah, uh repentance and forgiveness uh need to be modeled and um and practiced. All right, I'm gonna go ahead and end that we're already almost half an hour in. So uh Again, folks, if you have any questions, my son told me he can get the comment section on, so I'll put that in his responsibility. My son, oldest son, Jared. So Please ask. We love the feedback that we got personally from folks and uh on Facebook and it's been very sweet and uh we're hoping that this uh serves many many people uh also All who would appreciate it if needed. God bless.