In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Rather warm for a Christmas Eve. All that up and down gets a little hot. We can uh open some of the windows if possible. I don't know if you are aware, but there is a video available made by a man named Frederick Larsen. who is a lawyer who has investigated whether or not the Bethlehem star, or what some call the Christmas star, can be historically verified. Historically verified. Using modern knowledge on how planets move Larson invested in software that enables anyone with basic knowledge of astronomy, now again we're talking about astronomy, not astrology, astrology is uh a sin in scripture, but astronomy. If you're able to follow the patterns of the past guys, then you can determine what planets align with what planets at certain times in history. What Larson found was that Jupiter and Venus, the two of the brightest planets in our solar system, came into alignment. displaying unequal brightness in the sky in 3 BC. Now in case you're not aware, Jesus was not born on zero He was likely born around 4 B. C. , 3 BC, because that's when we speculate that Herod died, and Herod was still alive before Jesus was born, or when Jesus was born. Now Larson also adds that prior to the aligning of Jupiter and Venus creating this bright star, there was movement of Jupiter seemingly across the sky in a backward and forward motion. over the star Regulus. Three times in fact. One, two, three. Stars and planets can appear to be moving from our vantage point because of what is known as retrograde movement, which appears to occur because we are in motion. You and I are in motion right now. The earth is revolving around the sun and it is spinning And there are other celestial bodies moving. And so at times we can look up in the sky and celestial bodies can do, seemingly do odd things. Well, this movement of Jupiter over regulus three times occurs prior to these planets aligning, that is the aligning of Jupiter and Venus. And Larson points out that Jupiter, being the largest planet in our solar system, has been called by the Greeks and the Romans the god of the universe. While Regulus is the name for a king. And all of this occurred, get this now, in Leo, the star constellation, Leo. After the movement of Jupiter over Regulus, then the star Virgo seems to follow Jupiter. Now Larson brings all of this together by pointing out that Jupiter represents God. And God crowning the king star, Regulus, or Jesus, within Leo, the lion. Jesus is of the lion of the tribe of Judah. And then you have the star Virgo, which means virgin, appearing after in the skies. Now all of this seems to come together from a verse from Revelation chapter 12. It reads as follows. A great sign appeared in heaven. A woman clothed with the sun and the moon under her feet. And on her head a crown of twelve stars, and she was with child, and she cried out, being in labor and in pain to give birth. Of course, all of this is very interesting and would confirm, if accurate, what we already know to be true about a star leading wise men to the place where Jesus died. I hope I've done this justice. I'm not uh obviously an astronomer. Um but you can go online and you can watch this video. It's about an hour long and it's very interesting Now the Bethlehem star is fun to speculate about as it is one of the more prominent symbols during our Christmas season Stars adorn trees. They are a top to remind us of that star of Bethlehem. But we first read of the importance of a star in Holy Scripture in the book of Numbers of all places. There you'll find an account where the Israelites had escaped from Egypt, been delivered from Egypt from slavery And they come upon the Moabite people. Now the Moabite people, you will remember, were related to the Israelites as they were descendants of Abraham's nephew, Lot. They became frightened that Israel was at its borders. Oh, children at Christmas time. And so Balach, the king of Moab, he called for Balaam, who was a well-known prophet, to come down and curse the Israelites to protect his people. Balaam was an interesting fellow, for we know that he had a prophetic gift, but he did not fear God, and so he did not use his gift always in a righteous manner. Essentially, he was a prophet for hire. But try as he did, he could not speak a curse upon God's people Because if God wants to tie up a tongue of a man, he's going to tie up a tongue of a man. If he wants to loose a tongue, he's going to make it loose. Now the following passage is from Numbers 24. It reads, Then Baloch's anger burned against Balaam. He struck his hands together. And said to him, I summon you to curse my enemies, but you have blessed them these three times. Now leave at once and go home. I said I would reward you handsomely, but the Lord has kept you from being rewarded. And Balaam the Prophet answered Balak. Did I not tell you the messengers the messengers who you sent to me Even if Balot gave me all of the silver and gold in his palace, I could not do anything of my own accord, good or bad, to go beyond the command of the Lord. And I must say only what the Lord says. Now I am going back to my people, but come, let me warn you of what this people will do to your people in the days to come. Then he spoke this message. The prophecy of Balaam, son of Boor, the prophecy of the one whose eyes sees clearly, the prophecy of the one who hears the words of God. Who has knowledge from on high, who sees a vision from the Almighty, who falls prostrate and whose eyes are opened. I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near A star will come out of Jacob. A scepter will rise out of Israel. He will crush the foreheads of Moab. The skulls of all the people of Shech, Edom will be conquered. Saire, his enemy, will be conquered, but Israel will grow strong. A ruler will come out of Jacob and destroy the survivors of the city. Interpreting the prophecy from this side of the incarnation, we know the scepter mentioned is a promised king, and we can either understand the star to be metaphorical Or actual. For a prophecy to be true, we know that it has to be fulfilled fully. And for it to be miraculous, it must go beyond what you and I can explain in this world. The difficulty of the star of Bethlehem Is that it doesn't just shine brighter than any star in the sky, it moves. And then it rests, and by rest I mean it stops. It had to for the wise men to know where to go to find the child. To take a literalist approach on this is risk-taking. And by risk-taking, I am referring to looking like a fool because you are believing a star could stand still over a town. Now what we know about stars, they cannot do what the Bible is describing this particular star did. In Matthew chapter 2, we read that the wise men saw the star in the east, but followed it west to Jerusalem first, and then to Bethlehem, which is about six miles south of Jerusalem. So the star, excuse me, the song, star of wonder, star of bright, uh star of might is accurate when it says westward leading, still proceed. Matthew also says that the star which appeared in the east before the wise men went before them. Again, it moved. It guided their movement. I recall in seminary there were certain students and professors who would try to guess which miracles described in Holy Scripture were for metaphorical use and which ones actually occurred. Miracles like Jonah being swallowed by a fish and being in his belly for four days and and the sun stopping for Joshua, those two most agreed upon were metaphorical. They could not have actually occurred. And all of the doubt was and caused by fitting miracles into our so-called enlightened experiences. It seems that when we experience life for a certain amount of days, we are less and less convinced that miracles occur. A man living in a fish four days cannot be imagined to have occurred. The sun standing still until a battle is won would throw the whole solar system out of balance. Thus they could not have happened because we can't imagine that they could have happened. But I wish for us to consider That doubting miracles, such as a star being brighter than any star and moving and then standing still at a particular place and a particular time To doubt such things is the breaking of the first commandment. For it is placing ourselves at the judgment seat of creation and the judgment seat of time To determine what God can pull off and what he can't pull off. What is missing? When imagining how a miracle the star moving and then resting To point to an even greater miracle. What is missing is mystery and awe. There is great mystery in our world and in our galaxy and in the universe that should leave us with a continuing sense of awe and wonder. Consider what we have become familiar with that should cause us to pause and to wonder. Philosophers think it is fascinating to imagine a beast, a creature like a unicorn. But unicorns are boring. They're just horses with a horn. Compare that animal to a giraffe. What is a giraffe? What can you compare a giraffe to? Imagine never having seen a giraffe before and someone describing it to you. You would laugh. You would call them silly, thinking that nothing like it exists or ever would exist. But they do exist. We can see them and interact with them when we're in the right place. And if you did interact with a giraffe, would you know it better And if you knew it better, would you lessen your wonder about such an animal? I doubt it. It lessens our wonder only when we try to control it. When mankind gains knowledge about things, it is then that he is tempted to try to control them, those things. Evolutionists, for example, speculate that giraffes have long necks because their choice of food was leaves in trees. And for many years they spent straining their necks to get to these leaves, and so that eventually evolved into a need to grow a longer neck, and therefore they are these creatures with very, very long necks And that sounds plausible. Therefore, giraffes, well, we now know them, they're no longer mysterious. Therefore, we can move on to something else that we can find out about and then control. But how is such speculation actually knowing anything about the essence of a giraffe? It is when mankind comes to the conclusion that he really can't know anything fully that he has the opportunity to wonder. And when we are in a state of wonder and awe, we are then open to picturing a bright star appearing in the sky to guide men to a baby boy in Mary's arms. And when we picture that, when we open our minds and our hearts to believing that that baby boy could be in Mary's arms Then we can also then believe that he is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. I don't know if Mr. Larson's speculation about the Star of Bethlehem is accurate or not, It is fun to speculate about and certainly makes some sense. Regardless of what happened in the sky. It was all done to shine upon the greatest wonder and awe of all, God becoming man. Amen and Amen. Let us pray