In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. This is the second installment in our series That I have titled The Summer of the Saints. And in it we are looking at the epistle or letter known as 1 Clement. 1 Clement is a letter written to Christians in Rome, and to whom all it would be distributed after Rome. According to the third century Christian historian Eusebius, this letter by Clement was widely read and popular in Christian churches. Which may cause us to wonder why it is not in the canon we call Holy Scripture. The main reason would be that Clement was not an apostle And therefore, his writing had no apostolic authority behind it, which was an unwritten criteria to be included in the canon. The letter, however, is consistent with all of Scripture in its doctrine and moral standards. It can be said to be a confirmation of what the Bible teaches. But who was Clement? Well, we don't know for sure. What we do know is that he was either a student of St. Paul or a student of a student of St. Paul. He was likely a presbyter in the church and likely serving the church in Rome. Some say he was the third bishop of Rome. His life and letter are either second or third generation Christian, for he lived somewhere between 80 to 140 A. D. The feel of his letter is as if Christians have been so busy suffering martyrdom And holding on to the faith, as the apostles instruct for us to do, hold on, so busy that they needed a refresher of what the Bible teaches regarding how Christians are to live. Outside of surviving persecution. The letter mentions the suffering and death of both Saint Peter and Saint Paul, who died under the persecution of Nero So the letter of Clement is either written in the midst of Christian suffering under Emperor Domitian or shortly before said persecution began. What is highlighted for me, and therefore will be highlighted for you in this sermon, is the attention Clement pays to young adults. You can see a focus on young adults throughout the letter, and that is why it has a feel for being a letter that recognizes that some things that should have been said to young Christians has not yet been emphasized as it should have been, and so here is Clement's opportunity to do so. Youth. Youth has many of us looking at it as if it is in the review mirror. And yet youth is a most precarious time, and the devil knows as much, and therefore does everything to use that precarious time to his advantage. I know some young adults, no names needed, who seem to need to learn not learn, I should say, who seem to need to not learn from their parents mistakes, but want to be sure to learn things on their own, even if it threatens to kill them And so they repeat the same sins as their parents, or near the same sins, and it is all so unnecessary. Such sins are the ones that the Bible refers to as the sins of youth Sins of youth refer to both the time of the sin in their youth and the kind of sins committed. These are sins that are committed when the power of lust is at its strongest. And animal energy is at its greatest. Dr. Timothy Horton describes said sin as, quote, vanity both of spirit and of conversation. Flexibility to do evil, easily wrought upon and drawn away and enticed to what that which is evil Unteachableness, wax to temptation, and flint to admonition, impetuous intemperance and uncleanness. Sounds pretty bad, doesn't it? And then there are the young adults who are addressed in the book of Proverbs because they are prone to laziness. Many young men fall into that category. Sins of laziness leave the fields unplowed as winter settles in. Sins of laziness include indifference, self-indulgence, and cowardice. Resulting in a refusal to take personal responsibility for the outcome of one's life. Sins of laziness find a young man walking down the street of prostitutes because, well, there's nothing else to do. And while we think that because of the technology of our day, the sins of youth are different Let us not think too highly of our current situation. For example, our elders say that kids have their heads buried in their phones or in their tablets. And the result is that our culture no longer converses with one another as we did back in the day. But I recall a painting by Norman Rockwell that shows a young husband having his head buried in his newspaper while his wife looks away in great disappointment. And I have seen photographs of crowds of people also burying their heads in newspapers as they stand on a street corner to catch up on the news of the afternoon. They came after the news from the morning paper, and still there would also be an evening paper to read as well. No, our proneness to sin is the same, and it's to the same sins we only find different ways to practice those same sins. Well, the first thing that Clement does, addressing the youth, is to praise them for their faithfulness. This is not false praise as in simply using words to encourage what was not actually taking place. in their lives in order to psychologically manipulate them to behave in a godly manner, being described. This was true praise because of true obedience to God and to their conscience. This is what he wrote, quote, and you were all lowly in mind and free from arrogance Yielding rather than claiming submission, more glad to give than to receive, and content with the provisions which God supplieth And giving heed unto his words, you laid them up diligently in your hearts, and the sufferings of Jesus was before your eyes. Such words are high praise. And considering the suffering many Christians endured in the early persecutions of the church. To remain faithful as described is a great testimony of the presence of God in their young hearts. And I confess to you my own sin of not praising my children enough I was prone as a father to notice flaws before I noticed virtue. I regret it, and yet I rejoice when I see my sons being better fathers than I was as they make effort to praise their children when their children do well. May that continue. We all need a pat on the back from people we respect and admire. We need to be told that we are doing well so that the devil cannot discourage us by tempting us to doubt ourselves and especially doubt the voice of the Holy Spirit. Young adults need such encouragement most of all, for there is no greater time in life to doubt yourself. than when you are young and trying to make decisions as if you are mature. Finding that vocation you should pursue and whom you should be with the rest of your days are daunting decisions. To be given confidence that their walk with God is being lived well will help young adults be confident in the decisions they make for the future. Clement also understood how necessary good examples of faith are for young adults. He wrote, quote, Let us set before our eyes the good apostles. There was Peter, who by reason of unrighteous jealousy, endured not one but many labors. And thus having borne his testimony, went to his appointed place in glory. By reason of jealousy and strife, Paul by his example pointed out the prize of patient endurance. After that, he had been seven times in bonds, had been driven into exile, had been stoned, had preached in the East and in the West He won the noble renown which was the reward of his faith. The sin being talked about in these two examples was jealousy by others And the way such sin was endured by each. And Clement believed young adults need such good examples to follow, to imitate. We addressed two weeks ago the need for each of us to know that what we say we believe comes to a good end. We need to know it works. We need to know if people truly can forgive, that people can love unconditionally. That we can overcome fear, sin, and strife. We need to know that women can submit to their husbands and not be taken advantage of. We need to know that men can sacrifice for their wives and still be respected. We need to know that if we take the time to both properly discipline our children and properly train them to know the Lord, that they will always remain Christian. We need to know that God truly does provide our daily bread, no matter our present circumstances, and we need to know so much more. Young adults need to see fruit from the Christian life of those who are older. Receive this truth from me as a clergy who has observed many Christian homes. A devastating blow to the faith of a young person. is to see hypocrisy in his or her parents and other Christians they respect. And I don't mean a hypocrisy that reveals that their parents, that their elders are sinners in general. Of course we all are. I mean hypocrisy where a parent or elder declares to believe in a moral standard and then fail to live up to that standard, which happens. But not own up to that failure, to not confess that failure, and to not repent of that failure. That type of hypocrisy allows the young mind to think the Christian faith is all a scam. It must be a ruse or something that people play at but never actually believe. I am reminded of an interview I recently heard from Dr. Jordan Peterson, who I have mentioned before. Dr. Peterson has a strong following of young adults as he teaches them necessary skills to be successful in the culture such as we have now. In the interview, Dr. Peterson addressed the question of whether he believes in God. He answered by saying that to say you believe in God Places a great burden on yourself because then your life needs to show that what you say you believe is true, your life reflecting what you believe To live not as you believe is to be a liar, and he doesn't want to be a liar. And so he says, he tries to live as if God exists. And he said it with such humility and angst in his tone. He caused me to respect his point a great deal. However, a Christian who knows what the Bible teaches understands that he or she will not live up to what he says he believes, as we are continually falling short of the glory of God We are not perfect as our Heavenly Father calls us to be perfect. But that only means that we are to live in a perpetual state of asking God for forgiveness. And receiving said forgiveness by the means of Jesus our Savior. That's the Christian life. And that points us to these words of Clement. Quote, let us fix our eyes on the blood of Christ. And understand how precious it is unto his Father, because being shed for our salvation, it won the whole world the grace of repentance. He then goes on to review that throughout Holy Scripture, God has always included the grace of his call to repentance. I ask, can we see the value of seeing the call and act of repentance as grace to us? We more often speak and think of grace in terms of the forgiveness of God and not the call to and the act of repentance. But it is good for us to think on the call to and the act of repentance as grace to us. For we we must see it as an opportunity we would not otherwise have to be right with God and to be right with our fellow man. When you hear the call to repent, it is to ring in your ears as good news to you. It is good news that you have an opportunity to turn away from what leads to destruction. It is good news that you can get back on that narrow road that leads to eternal life. Now for young adults, it is most important to change your thinking about the call to and act of repentance. For in young adults is a strong temptation to be defensive rather than teachable. To claim you know something when you clearly don't. And so your first inclination when someone says you are doing something wrong is to stiffen your neck and defend your honor. But such defensiveness does not coincide with understanding that repentance is grace to you. Repentance necessitates that you admit you do not have it right, that you did not do it right, that you are in the wrong, and that you need to change. And to admit these things is to do what Clement next says to be done. Christians are to pursue the virtue of humility. Clement uses the phrase, quote, to obtain a good report. He uses it as a goal which all young adults should pursue, to obtain a good report. To obtain a good report is to have others speak about you in terms of respect. And no one but a fool speaks negatively about a humble man or a humble woman. In order to obtain a good report from others, you must be humble Clement says the following, quote, you see, dearly beloved, what is the pattern that hath been given unto us? For if the Lord was thus lowly of mind, what should we do? Who through him have been brought under the yoke of his grace? After describing the humility of the saints of the Old Testament, he said, quote, The humility therefore and the submissiveness of so many and so great men who have thus obtained a good report Have through obedience made better not only us, but also the generations which were before us, even them that received his oracles in fear and truth. Humility as a chief Christian virtue There is sound reasoning in the fact that most moral stories are addressed to children and have children in them. For it is in childhood that bad habits can be addressed and sound virtues instilled. And so we learn from our bank of moral stories of a boy named Dick who needed to say please. We read of Godfrey Gordon Gustavus Gore, who needed to learn to shut a door And of Rebecca Offendoort, who made sport of slamming those same doors. There was Jim who ran away from his nurse and was eaten by a lion, and Dirty Jim, who it was reported of him, was never seen clean. And we all know of Jack, who was at first thoughtless, but then with courage slayed a giant And we uphold the virtue of a boy who people loved so, and when people asked why, it was because he never told a lie But when such lessons are not learned well when we are children, they are much more difficult to learn when we are adults and still young. The difficulty of being young, young adults, again with lusts that are at their strongest and energy at its greatest. Makes it difficult to fight off temptation and to follow a path of righteousness rather than personal pleasure or gain. But God has great hope for the young Let us not forget passages in the Bible that speak directly to the young adult. St. Paul instructed Timothy to not allow others to look down on him because he was young. When commissioning Jeremiah to prophesy, God would not let Jeremiah have the excuse of being young. God said to him, Do not say, do not say, I am only a youth. For to all to whom I send you shall go up, you shall go up, and whatever I command, you shall speak And hear this from Ecclesiastes. Rejoice, O young man, in your youth. And let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes, in your youth And from the prophet Joel, as repeated by Saint Peter. God said, And it shall come to pass afterward that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. We are to see from such passages that God has a call on a young person's life. As age is not a determining factor regarding what can be accomplished in the name and power of Jesus Christ. The second generation Christians needed to hear such a truth and Clement gave it to them. And we need to hear the same truth. And so I pass it along, and may it be repeated to every generation until the Lord returns. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for the call on young men and young women to be fruitful in your kingdom, to be used by you for the sake of your kingdom. To do things that you are calling them to do that are standing up to the temptations of the world and being a witness to the grace you so freely offer. May that be true for our youth, we ask, in Jesus' name. Amen.