Uh Alfred Kinsey not only according to the Kinsey Institute's own figures, between three hundred and seventeen Alfred Kinsey not only uh used children in his studies, knowing that these children were being molested but he also used uh convicted pedophiles. And he would have these convicted pedophiles record their activities and then send the results as they fill out their questionnaires. to him. And so he based much of his understanding of sexuality and sexual development based on those who were uh criminals, giving their accounts of their perverted expressions towards children. Now, if that doesn't um affect the way you view uh science uh and our understanding of sexuality, then I probably can't influence you anymore. I would simply say that Kinsey's summation is that children and adults are being suppressed, their sexual desires are being suppressed, and all teenage boys would say, Yeah, that's true and it is true for most teenage boys, but for the most of society it's not. And with that, uh, Kinsey then bases everything off of we need to loosen up, we need to open up, we need to allow for there to be greater sexual expression. And what he's talking about certainly uh then goes against what we would call the um biblical standards of morality, sexual morality that God would have us live by as opposed to what man desires. Yes. Feminism is the way to Feminism? Um that's more complicated historically. Feminism founds finds its roots on equality from anything to um to getting the vote, uh to um having the same rights as men. Um It then did feed into sexuality, but its beginnings doesn't necessarily have to fit with Kinsey. Let's talk about sexual expression and understanding sexuality from a secular perspective. The meaning of sexuality from a sexual from a secular perspective, a non-biblical perspective, the first purpose of sexuality, according to the secular mind, The ungodly mind is for pleasure. That's the priority. Pleasure. Then it might be for expressing of love, expressing of caring, and then procreation. Notice how procreation will come on the bottom of that list from a secular mindset as opposed to the top. From other aspects of sexuality besides that, between a man and a woman in procreation. Are things like homosexuality, incest, adultery, fornication, prostitution, masturbation, bestiality. These are all extensions of the one simple act of of sexuality between a man and a woman. Now the arguments arguments in favor of Unreserved sexuality. What does that mean, unreserved? Unreserved. That means that you can express your sexuality in any way you desire. As long as there is a person on the other end that is a willing participant. No. I'm going to give them to you. Arguments in favor of unreserved sexuality. The first one, just like suicide, individual freedom. should be able to do with their body what they want. Familiar, isn't it? Suicide to abortion, these these uh stay the same. Euthanasia, individual freedom, I can do what I want with my body. Next argument, the irrelevancy or um the the the um old foginess of traditional values, that those no longer apply to today. Again, the idea values change. Another argument in favor of unreserved sexuality is the refute of the domino effect, which is to say that we're not going to get worse. It's not going to get more depraved. We're just going to enjoy what we like to enjoy. Another argument, changing in public mores. Mores M-O-R-E-S. Changing in public mores, just like our arguments in regards to relativity, uh moral relativity, this is the idea that morality changes. public accepts these things more readily, therefore they are acceptable. Transmitted diseases today are preventable. Another argument for the idea that you can express yourself. sexually however you wish. Uh the old condom, right? It solves everything. And arguments against unreserved sexuality. It violates traditional values, and those values are to be kept intact because they serve humanity, they serve cultures. The domino effect is another one. If you accept this perversion, you're going to look to to have this other perversion accepted, to this other perversion accepted to where you are truly debased and and and no longer have any values whatsoever. Argument against unreserved sexuality, it's offensive to the majority, and therefore the majority shouldn't have to have it in their face. And transmitted disease. That the that it's a very easy way to transmit disease uh through unreserved, unprotected sexual expression. Now I'm ready for a question. Yes. I was just going to ask more reasons. Or more. Okay. The destruction of relationships. Relationships don't really function properly. Okay. When that kind of stuff goes off. Okay. Yeah, you mean as far as trust is concerned? Yeah, and that issues of intimacy? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, th that can certainly be added to uh to to to those arguments, although it's not really a secular argument for or against but society relationships which eat the family families become tribes, tribes become society. No, that's a natural understanding. That's a n y your your understanding is right, but as far as a secular point of view, no. I mean From a worldview that would not see the importance of society, but would just see individual expression, that's not as important. I mean we live in that society today to accept homosexuality marriage as being equivalent to heterosexual marriage is a society that doesn't really care about the unity. It doesn't care about family, to tribe, to community. It just cares about the individual. Yes. That's why we're in trouble as a society. But what is our main argument? What is our main argument against free sexual expression? We're calling it free from a secular vantage point. Free what is our main argument against free sexual expression? What the Bible says, right? Okay. What the Bible says and what the enemy says about perverse sexuality. Exodus twenty, um you the word for adultery in Exodus twenty, the text. Commandments, thou shalt not commit adultery, is na'af. Na'af is the Hebrew word that covers any sexual intimacy outside of the marrow covenant. This is where single people get into trouble. They think, well, I'm not married. He's not married. It's really not adultery. Well, according to the Hebrew word, it is adultery because it's sex outside of the marital covenant. Neither one is married and therefore it is outside the covenant. Where we are confused as a sati society today is the apparent assumption that any sexual behavior within a marital covenant is acceptable to God. That is, if you're married and you're homosexual, it's okay because after all you're married. But the Bible condemns specific perverse sexual behaviors. Homosexual behavior is prohibited in Scripture. Leviticus 20, verse 13. Leviticus 20, verse 13. The major cause of divine judgment against Sodom and Gomorrah was homosexuality and homosexual practices. It's clearly stated in Genesis 19, 4 and 5, 12 and 12. through 13. The Apostle Paul listed homosexuals among the unrighteous who would not inherit the kingdom of God. 1 Corinthians 6, 9 is where that is found. 1 Corinthians 6 9. And declared, Paul declared, that God's wrath stands against such behavior, whether practiced by men or women. Romans 1, 26-27. Romans 1, 26-27. The Bible mentions bestiality in four different passages, saying in Exodus 22, anyone who has sexual relations with an animal must be put to death. Leviticus 18. Leviticus 18. Do not have sexual relations with an animal and defile yourself with it. A woman must not present herself to an animal to have sexual relations with it. That is a perversion. Leviticus 20, verse 15 and 16. If a man has sexual relations with an animal, he must be put to death, and he must kill the animal. If a woman approaches an animal to have sexual relations with it, kill both the woman and the animal. They must be put to death. Their blood will be on their own heads. Deuteronomy 27, 21. Cursed is the man who has sexual relations with any animal. From these verses it is abundantly clear that according to the Bible, bestiality is a horrible, unnatural, and abundant Abominable sin. Other passages regarding sexual perversions. You shall not uncover your the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness. So the time. Hold on a sec, hold on a sec. Not one little key. No. What it asked that again? Oh, um you should not look you should not pursue seeing your mother naked. Um cursed be anyone who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother. And all people shall say Amen. None of you shall approach any one of his close relatives to uncover nakedness. I am the Lord. If a man takes his sister, a daughter of his father or a daughter of his mother, what is that? Cousin? And sees her nakedness and she sees sees his nakedness, it is a disgrace, and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness, and he shall bear his iniquity. In First Corinthians fifteen one is actually reported there is sexual immorality. Sorry, first Corinthians five one. It is reported that there is sexual immorality among you of a kind that is not tolerated even among pagans, for a man has his father's wife. Cursed be anyone who lies with his mother-in-law. And all the people shall say, Amen. She is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, not to the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. Now, going back to the foundation of this all, God is it Expecting his people to be pure and to be natural in regards to their sexuality. The primary purpose for a Christian with sexuality is what? Procreation. God said you are to Be fruitful and multiply. It's to have children and to raise those children to fear him. That's the primary purpose. Does that mean you can't enjoy sex without having children? No. But it's in the marital covenant. That's the primary purpose. With that's being served, Everything else is acceptable in the marital covenant. Outside of that, it is a perversion. Yes. Back then, like in the beginning of Psalm, like Adam and Eve and had their kids. Right. Right. And you remember that the necessity of that certainly is there, but when you come now to the law, which is how many years later, this law given to Moses was probably about 1400 BC or late a little bit later. When when Adam came into to being, we don't know the exact date, but in order for the humanity to start, yes, that had to happen. When we came to God wanting his people to be pure and holy. and separate from the nations, he required this of them. The scriptures tells us, interestingly, in a couple of places, that for a time God overlooked sin until until a revelation. And here we have a revelation of what he prefers, what he desires of his people in their purity. Okay, well, um I have this question here. What about fornication? Now I already mentioned that fornication falls under the. the category of adultery. There's no equivocation about that. One thing that God holds very dear, one thing that I've upheld to my children to be proud of is their virginity. That is something that you have that only uh you can control and no one else. And it's a privilege to have that. And only that which God has chosen for you is allowed to to um that you are allowed to give that to. You're not allowed to take someone else's virginity and you're certainly not allowed to give it away when it's someone that you're not married to. It's something you're to cherish. Oftentimes our culture doesn't see it that way, but you should. You should see it that way. Obviously there are plenty of arguments Arguments against premarital sex. What how list them quickly? Arguments against premarital sex. In a secular perspective. Wait, is this a choice? Can your body your choice? Good. Yeah, against it. Against? Against. Against premarital. Yes. Okay, um again back to the the destroyed the relationships. Okay, the hurt relationships. Sexual disease, right? Yeah. And these are all that they give you. People get mad. But notice how notice how they're all physical. They're all physical. We're not just physical beings, we're spiritual beings. When you add yourself to someone else and you're not married to them, the Lord is not blessing that, and yet you're adding adding the Lord Spirit of God within you to someone who is not your spouse. Therefore you are corrupting the Lord. You are corrupting his very spirit within you. You are taking him along with your desires, with your sinful desires. And we as Christians cannot must not think that way. We must not think the way the world does. The world their arguments f in favor of female sex. Um you need to be find out if you're sexually compatible. That is a bunch of bumps. Don't even buy any The stupidest argument ever. You spend a lifetime finding out what your sex is about. Not not in a in a moment or even more than a couple moments. Um Now there are other issues other issues related to sexuality that I must address um and one of them that is quite Quite common in our culture today is pornography. And uh anybody that has a smartphone can quickly uh find pornography on uh The internet. Again, it's it's this idea of of we can do what we want with our bodies, we're not hurting anybody. that now the viewing of pornography. I'm not talking about producing and selling your own pornography. That's really not a problem amongst Christians. Now there are several warnings that you can be given when dealing with pornography. The first one could be that you you degree did the persons that you're looking at. And it's going to cause you, especially males, to look upon the female as an object rather than a human being with the very spirit of God within them. All that's to be true. There's also the idea of the slippery slope. that once you start down that path then your desires become more and more perverted to be desired. You've ever heard of Ted Bundy. Uh he's a serial killer that testifies that his addiction to pornography took him down a road that even led him to want to uh have sex had killed the person at the same time. Um that argument has some weight to people who are already over the edge. Um it's not really for the average person. But I can give you all of those arguments. But Jesus gave us the most uh simple argument. He said that if you lust after a woman, you've committed adultery in your heart. And that that's the starting point of sin. Sin starts in the heart. Now I want to to ease your minds, even you ladies, but mostly men, because men are more visually uh adapted to be attracted than women. Some women are. But it's the man's tendency to lust. But as as he looks. Let me say this. To to alleviate some guilt. Number one, it's it's only a sin if you look twice. So get a good look the first time. No, no. When Jesus says this, when Jesus says this, he's not talking about admiring that a woman looks beautiful. sexually attractive. There's nothing wrong with that. That you notice that is perfectly normal and fine and I hold some. The problem is that when you scheme in your mind and you plan in your mind and you imagine in your mind how to get in bed with her. That That's when you stepped over, not just admiring the beauty of a woman, but actually in your heart wanting to sin or planning to sin with her. That's the issue. So don't feel guilty about being attracted, but recognize you take it any farther than that, then you're entering a zone that our Lord has said, don't go. Because that's the beginning point. We are to be a people who learn how to self-control, how to control our desires, how to put them under the discipline of the Holy Spirit, how to use them according to God's glory, not as opposed to our own personal um pleasures. And that applies to any aspect in life. And that's the only argument that I can give you that really matters. I can give you all the the the wisdom in terms of um you want to avoid disease and and you don't want to have bad relationship and all that's true but it's really the matters your relationship with God that's what needs to matter folks not whether you're gonna get it for aerial disease, that's really not the point. Now, in in closing on this subject, I will say that the sexual temptations usually come about and we follow those paths because We are being foolish. We are we put ourselves in a situation that we ought not be. Um we seclude ourselves from people when we shouldn't. We walk into temptation when we could avoid it. We are like them we're we're like the child or the young man that the the father in Proverbs says, Don't walk down that street. That's where the harlot is. Don't go there. She's gonna woo you in, she's gonna suck you in. So instead of being tempted by that, just don't go down there. So don't go down those paths. Don't go down those paths where you can be alone and looking at your computer. Don't go down those paths where you can be alone in the backseat with a girl you really like. Don't go down those paths. Avoid them to begin with. With, that way you have all the more strength to resist. But again, in the end, it's between you and God. A lot of things that you can do that no one knows about. Some people's sins go before them, some people's sins follow them. After. Some people's sins go before them and everybody knows them. Some people's sins follow after, and nobody will until the day of judgment. It's up to you as what path you want to go. Now in regards to uh I want to finish up with uh uh the subject of homosexuality because it's so prominent uh today. What has happened today is that people have decided that they're going to identify themselves as who they are by their sexuality. And I want to say to you that that's a sad, sad thing. What are you? I'm a homosexual. Anybody ever ask you who are you, and you say, I'm a heterosexual? No. Because you don't identify who you are by your sexual desires. How sad it is that there is now a group of people that identify themselves solely with what they desire to have sex with. with. That shows you their obsession with the issue of it in and of itself. That shows you their struggle with their own identity of what a human being actually is. We're not just our sexual desires. We're much more than that. And we as Christians have the ability to give people that understanding. We say, Well who what are you? Who are you? I'm a Christian. I identify myself with the God who made heaven and earth, with the one who died and rose again so that I can live forever. That's my identity, not with what I desire, not with what I prefer. It's much deeper, much greater than that. How about gender but now like people that have something with different genders now? Yeah. Wait. You mean like people who think nanny is a good gender you can just like describe yourself as something with nanny and unfortunate and our and our culture is feeding into that I don't know if you know, but a local um a local psychologist or psychiatrist out of Johns Hopkins has already labeled transgen transgender affiliation as being a mental disorder. And and yet our culture, our pop culture, doesn't want to do that. They want to parade it, they want to praise it, they want to treat it as normative when it is anything but. So just because our society's more that way doesn't mean that's what we Christians ought to do. Yes. Um like most of the time like uh some homosexuals say that um well you're born homosexual as a homosexual yeah And I don't understand that people born homosexual. Some people y it it it's as though they were born, but I feel like no. But it's people I've I've seen like kids that are born, you can tell that they're gay. The idea hold on. The idea of being born a homosexual we have question and answers, we're gonna do that downstairs. We'll close up now. Got a ten minute break when we'll meet downstairs amongst the uh sofas and we'll have Thank you.