We are now moving into our last section. Have we established that there are moral absolutes? We've talked about moral absolutes in terms of subjects pertaining to life and death, we now move to those pertaining to sexuality. Again, not because it is the most important thing, but because it's the most prominent question of our days. Some people ask how we've gotten here to the place where we are a culture that accepts so many uh sexual identities as if they're uh normative or at least as if they are moral. And my answer Personally to that is two things. Number one, Sigmund Freud is an answer to that question, how we got here, and how he understood the human psyche and its development and his justification for human behavior related to sexuality. Sexuality. If you uh read any of Freud, if you uh read anything about Freud, you'll find that he was obsessed with sexuality, especially when it came to uh sexuality in its formative years. Another person. That fed into where we are at today is Alfred Kinsey. Alfred Kinsey, let me read this article to you. It's not too long. A good summation. During the 20th century, no one individual did more to bring homosexuality into the public forum than Alfred Charles Kinsey. A professor at Indiana University, Kinsey was a zoologist by training and spent the early years of his career studying Gall, wasps, collecting thousands of specimens of insects. Kinsey then transferred his obsessive and taxonomic approach to research to the study of human sexuality. Much like the gall. All wasps collected, Kinse and his colleagues gathered thousands of interviews in which he and his researchers asked detailed questions about sexual backgrounds of research participants. Kinse compiled the findings from these interviews. Into two books that were the opening salvos of the sexual revolution that soon swept the United States: Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, 1948, and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, 1948. nineteen fifty-three. Both works contain many sweeping assertions and often move quickly from tables full of data to moral speculations about the repressed sexual ethics of America. Began sexual research in 1941 with the help of funds from the Rockefeller Foundation and the assistance of the National Research Council. In nineteen forty seven, Kinsey founded the Institute of Sex Research at Indiana. university. Instead of the state atmosphere most people associate with academia, the Institute for Sex Research became the kind of sexual utopia for the gratification of the of the appetites of Kinsey and his team. According to one biographer, Kinsey decreed that within the inner circles of men could have sex with each other, wives would be swapped. Freely the wives, too, would be free to embrace whichever sexual partners they liked. Kinse himself engaged in various forms of heterosexual and homosexual intercourse with members of the institute's staff, including the filming of various sexual acts in the attic of his home. The purpose here is not to engage in an ad hoc But to emphasize that Kinsey was not a dispassionate scientist seeking truth. He was an agenda-driven reformer bent on changing the sexual ethics of a nation. Remember we said follow the trail? Follow the trail back. What are they getting at? What are they after? And here Kinsey is is akin with many of his predecessors. As Kinsey and his colleagues tabulated the data, they used a novel approach to defining human sexuality. And employed a graded scale to define a person's sexuality. Prior to Kinsey, people were generally considered to be either heterosexual or homosexual. Instead of this binary approach, Kinsey saw sexual behavior as a continuum which rarely described individuals. Individuals as either strictly homosexual or heterosexual. The Kinsey scale is as follows: zero exclusively heterosexual with no homosexual, one predominantly heterosexual, only incidentally homosexual, two predominantly heterosexual. Heterosexual but more than incidentally homosexual. Three equally heterosexual and homosexual. Incidentally heterosexual. Five predominantly homosexual but incidentally. Heterosexual and six exclusively homosexual. On the Kinsey scale, six out of the possible seven scores could be interpreted as indicating some level of homosexual attraction. In this way, the Kinsey scale. normalizes homosexuality and helped contribute to inflated percentages in some findings. The Kinsey scale has since been widely used in numerous research projects related to sexuality. It is from Kinsey's numbers that we would get the number where some would say that there we are are a population of ten percent homosexuality or homosexuals. Where in that reality the number is less than two percent That's the actual number of those who would claim themselves to be homosexual, as opposed to Kinsey, who thought that anybody who had any type of incident of homosexual uh temptations or actions that they are automatically homosexual. actual. Well what I'm going to show you is a video that um you can find on YouTube. Someone had mentioned YouTube before. Now now the quality of the screen obviously it's small and the sound and so on. So uh I'm not gonna pretend that this is altogether what we want