With press for time. Um but we now move into our second section. Now that we've established that there are absolute truths, absolute morality, now we need to look at some pressing moral issues of our day. And one of those that is is right before us and is heart wrenching uh for us to to consider what's going on is the issue or the subject of abortion. And the morality of abortion. Thinking about last night what I share with you in terms of following the trail, why is abortion an ethical issue? I'm sorry? Right. That's well we're gonna get to that. But what I'm asking is, why do you think this issue has come to the forefront in our culture today. Why is it an issue where in in the past, when you look at the the 19th century prior, abortion was not an ethical issue. an obvious thing to to all to Western cultures that it was wrong. Yes. Like like how you had said earlier, like uh tolerance is being more like push that is like so like and like some people think Right so like they like child some people are saying like tolerated. Right. Tolerance is is a good trail to go on, but why is it tolerated? Yes. Because in the nineteenth century no one um like all the fornicated relationships were hidden in the dark okay now celebrated. So the focus, the trail leads to sexual gratification. Sexual expression. That the if abortion is at the forefront in terms of allowable, then that means that I can continue to have sexual relations anytime and the way I want to without repercussions. There's a trail there, folks. There's a lot of trails that lead to sexual expression. Moral standards are changed in order to lead to a more, what they would consider freer sexual expression. Yes. Um that name, do you feel like we're too far down the road to be able to fix that? In terms of abortion? No, no, in terms of like the whole sexual. No. No, I don't. Um does that mean that our Western society doesn't have to collapse in order for us to be rejuvenated? I don't know. That may be the case. But in in terms of being able to turn things around, God has had a way of rejuvenating uh his people and rejuvenating cultures as the gospel has infiltrated and changed people's hearts and minds. One of the things that that I feel convicted about in terms of issues when it comes to homosexuality or abortion these two primary ethical issues that are at the forefront is that we have to as a church to change people's hearts before we can expect any change in the culture. And uh part of this is part of the changing of hearts is is to prevent young Christians From being influenced by the culture. Another part of it is that we live it out as Christians. We live out our ethical standards and to be an example to the world around us. So we follow the trail to sexual expression, to sexual expression. Gratification without repercussions, abortion plays into that. One of the things that has the the left or the liberal persuasion has succeeded in is defining terms the way they want. want them to be defined. And so we have in the subject of abortion many different words used in it to describe the subject. But I want to give you the the technical or accepted modern Definition of abortion. Here it is: the premature termination of a pregnancy. That's the accepted definition of abortion. The premature termination of the preference. of a pregnancy. Now this could be induced or it could be spontaneous. This allows people to equate a a um a miscarriage with an abortion, but they're the same. With that definition, they would be. But realize that there are persuasive definitions as well. And that definition I gave you, the accepted one, is a persuasive one. It's trying to get you to see the subject of abortion as neutral. Uh an amoral subject, where it doesn't have morality. Morality attached to it. But there are other definitions. I could persuasively give you this definition, and you tell me what I'm trying how I'm trying to present the subject. Abortion. A woman's right to choose. What to do with her own body when pregnant. No, I want you to tell me what's trying to be communicating. What what are they after there? Yeah, justification for abortion. The the the reason is given in the definition, isn't it? It's the woman's body. Here's another one. Persuasive. Abortion. The murder of an innocent life for the sake of convenience. Okay that that try to persuade you against the subject matter, right? They're only looking at it from one vantage point, and that is that it's wrong, and if you accept that definition, you're automatically admitting that it's immoral. As you see from these definitions, there is is no middle ground when it comes to the subject of abortion. It is either the death of a baby or it is the well as it says here um A woman simply choosing what to do with her own body. There's no middle road there. It's either moral or immoral. The act of abortion is either moral or immoral. Now the the the the where it gets a little bit tricky in terms of sensitivity. Activities, when we talk about it, even within the church, is there are Christian women and even Christian men who have participated in abortions. And they've come later on in life to realize that shouldn't have been done. There's a lot of guilt that they carry along with them, and hopefully they'll realize that the blood of Christ can cleanse them from that guilt and they don't need to have that guilt. But Christians can have a difficult time talking about abortion because of that sensitivity of people who have that in their past lives and and regret it and therefore we don't want to make them feel overwhelmed, but at the same time we can't ignore it because it is a subject that is right before us and of course pressing upon us even with these videos that have come out from Planned Parenthood. if if she was raised um or if like she grew up in a bad neighborhood and she didn and she was like addicted she couldn't care for it would have had a bad like we're gonna get to all of those arguments. So hold on to those because we'll we'll we'll touch on them. Now I want to also yes. Absolutely. Termination has a Killing, yeah. Those who recognize it as a viable life, it's killing. Those who recognize it as simply a part of a woman's anatomy, termination. Yeah. Don't people use like use of deaths like all the time? Like um like if a fully grown person, like if they kill you, they they would say terminated too for a death. Like or Terminator. Oh. Their life was terminated. Sure they would. And they're always trying to soften it. Yeah. Sure. So always trying to soften it. Yeah. I'm sorry, you gotta speak up. No euphemism. Euphemism. There are some things that legalise. There are some things that did legalised. I think all performing is one of those. You're talking about euthanasia? Yes. Okay, we're gonna touch on that too. Let's stick with abortion here. We're gonna get to all that. Hold on. First, throw out to you what the liberal perspective is going to provide for you. Because they want to change things. We've already defined abortion as a premature termination of a pregnancy. They also use the word zygote. Zygote is a word that describes the cell or group of cells that result from the union of the sperm and the egg cell. In other words, it's not a person, it's not a baby, it's a zygote. They're talking about the stages of Development. Then you have the embryo, refers to the human individual from the second through the seventh week of gestation or after pregnancy, the growth of that baby. Then you have the word fetus used. used, and that is w to describe the baby from eight weeks until birth. A child is only used as a word to describe the baby after the baby's been born, or the fetus, they would call it, has been born. So notice all of these terms are used to get away from the idea that it's a human being. It's a zygote, it's an embryo, it's a fetus, it's only a child after birth. They've even come up with the word conceptual. Conceptus is defined as that which has been conceived. It is useful, according to them, because they say it's a neutral term. Now, when we talk about whether the the uh baby is is a a child or not, we're talking about viability. Viability, they say, occurs between the twenty-sixth and twenty-eighth week of gestation or the child's growth, and that uh it means that the child is able to survive outside. What are the variables when it comes to viability? Well, that's up for grabs. Just how young a child can survive out of the womb is for debate. You are aware that there are There are some laws that allow babies to be aborted up till nine months. Some that restrict it only uh to six months, some to three months. Different states vary. But again, these are terms used to try to separate the uh the the baby from different uh growth stages. Now I want you to be logical here. How many chromosomes do we have uh as individuals? Twenty three, twenty three. Twenty three, okay. Twenty three. So you and I right now have twenty three chromosomes, right? How many does how many does a baby After conception, after the egg, um, after the sperm goes into the egg, how many chromosomes does that baby have? Twenty-three. Twenty-three. The DNA that you have right now, is that the same DNA that you had when that sperm went into the egg? Yes. There is no difference DNA-wise from that sperm into the egg at that moment than you are right now, correct? Correct. The only difference is growth. So everything that you were in your mother's womb at that moment of conception is what you are now. It's just been that you've grown. And once you reach my age, you're shrinking. Everything starts to go down. You're dying essentially. But you're the same DN So we're not talking about anything other than growth. It would be as if the logic would be, well, you're six years old now. You're going to grow until you're 18 years old, so I can take you at any time before you grow to your to your fullest extent. That's what the logic is when it comes to looking at a a a baby just being conceived to its full growth in the womb. And there's some people that even give the argument like it does here. here in terms of viability, that it's a baby, uh I'm sorry, it's a zygote, it's a it's a um fetus in the in the womb that as soon as it's out, now it's a child. So let's say there are is that geography changes, whether it's a a person or not. Geography? Geography. It's in the womb. Now their position has changed. Now they're out of the womb. All of a sudden they're a child. That's the logic. You see if that really makes any sense. If if we have 23 chromosomes per person, how many does a pregnant woman have? Pregnant women? She has money. Twenty-three. She has twenty-three? Sure because if the fetus is part of her body, then she has what? Is she a human being? Do human beings have forty-six chromosomes? But that's pretty great. What is she? Either she's non human because she has 46, or she's human and that baby is huge has 46 phones on it. How many arms does a human being usually have? Two. If you count the the fetus within her, how many does she have? Four. Four. And so on. So you're looking at the idea, the logic, is this another person or is it part of her? If it's part of her, then she's abnormal. If it's another person, then everything is most certainly normal as God intended to be. Now, when it comes to these issues, um you've heard of Roe versus Wade, right? The decision handed down by the Supreme Court. I want to read to you some of that. January twenty second, nineteen seventy-three, the US Supreme Court decision which created a new right in the Constitution for a woman to have an abortion. In fact, at any time during the pregnancy, Roe's decision was issued on the same day of Doe v. Bolton, a companion case which held that the states could not prohibit a physician from performing an abortion after the fetus had become, quote, viable. If the physician determines that the abortion is necessary for the health of the mother, which could conclude physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and a woman's age, all of which the court determined to be relevant to the well-being of the mother. the patient. The woman represented by Roe and Doe have both since come forward to oppose these decisions, and Doe has even described the deceit of the lawsuit brought in her name. There have been other cases that have been brought before the court that have uh step back this issue again. Webster versus reproductive health services 1989. The court prohibited government employee doctors from aborting a fetus that believed to be viable, prohibited the use of state employees or facilities to perform or or assist abortions except for the mother's life, and so the states have gone back and forth as to whether uh there should be standards or not. Um the Supreme Court overturned that decision uh in their wisdom. Then you have Planned Parenthood versus Casey 1992. The Supreme Court upheld Roe v. Wade with modifications holding that states may regulate abortions only so long as the regulations do not place undue burden on a woman's constitutional right to terminate a pregnancy. I'm going to speak candidly here. giving you my um opinion. The uh Supreme Court has overstepped its bounds time and time again and our nation and uh the greatest examples are its decisions on abortion, saying that the Constitution gives a right Uh to for a woman to uh have an abortion. There's nowhere in the Constitution that it states such a thing. And then and now even uh homosexual marriage, it uh it reads it into the Constitution. Yes. US but then isn't it statewide for like specific modes? Certain states have put forth certain regulations on it and some of those have been challenged and have gone to the Supreme Court the Supreme Court. Others have not been challenged and therefore remain intact. Maryland like if it's like only six months or something is like when the baby like can have nervous healing or something like after there's a certain I think like I was just wondering 'cause Yeah, as far as Maryland's law, I'm not sure um the specific restrictions. The argument as as far as when a baby actually feels is most certainly up for grabs. If you've ever seen the movie Silent Scream, um there are there are evidences that infants can actually feel when they're being aborted. Um, okay, so when it comes to law, right, is it is it that there's uh the whoever the judges or whatever is named the law, we didn't need to have a moral s uh of course they have a law standard about what I'm saying is Okay. Do you do you uh uh put that moral standards in the lawmaking or do you make the law uh by what the societal Yeah, that's a that's a fair question. Does it go by moral standards? Well certainly our our society doesn't recognize Objective moral standards. So it tries to go to precedented law. What laws have been established that have governed us thus far? And do those laws equate with the constitutional laws that are supposed to govern us? our land. That's the way it's supposed to be. But what we've had is is judges who have read into laws, who have read into cases, and therefore use them to justify what they think should be done. So it's still there's no moral standard that anybody's agreeing to other than we might say that life is important, right? However, and even the liberals would say that that's a natural law perspective. Human life is important. But then they just simply redefine life. Human life's important, but this isn't life. So when they redefine it, again application makes all the difference. We could all agree that life's important, but I'm just going to say that this life is doesn't really exist. And then change my morality. Yeah. Isn't the moral like what the usual say is human this isn't human rights? Like it just like it's another species? Well that no they would consider another species but they would consider alive under the control of the mother only. Her decision. Because it's part of her. That's their argument. And that's what I was going to get into next. Here are the arguments for abortion according to the secular liberal mindset. Number one, rights of women over their own bodies. This is believing that that which is nurtured within that which is created within the woman, that that's still part of her body and thus under her control. Another argument for abortion is that birth begins, I mean excuse me, human life begins at birth, not before. That's why we called all these different names. It's everything but human life until after. Third, what about unwanted children? It's the argument that if there are, if there is the possibility of a child being born into this world unwanted, then it's it's it's destined for a life of of um of uh deprivation, it's destined for a life of um sadness, and therefore why not end it before it even starts? Then there is the argument for abortion that the the that abortions are safe now, that there's no there's no um danger to a woman's health. And then there's the argument for the dangers of pregnancy, that women die more in giving birth to day than they do actually having abortions. Therefore pregnancies and giving birth are more dangerous than uh having an abortion. Now arguments against abortion Arguments against abortion. Genetic view. That is to say that life begins at the moment of conception. Even if two sides can never agree, it is moral to err on the side of life. This is the value of life principle that ethicists would put before us. That is to say, if you and I can't agree when life begins, let's err on the safe side. Let's err on the side that says life begins at conception. To do otherwise and be wrong is a great failure. Next is the sanctity of life. Innocence and vulnerability of the unborn. That is to say that a child inside the womb can only be protected by its mother. And if the mother is the outside agent that decides for it to be exterminated, the child has nothing to else to protect. Therefore, law should protect it, because it is an entity, it is a life unto itself, and the most vulnerable of life, and therefore should be protected. Then there is the argument of the domino effect. The domino effect is to say, abortion is wrong, it's immoral, and if you don't recognize it, then things are going to get worse in regards to the deprivation that we will go as a society. Here's something I want to read to you. This comes from the Journal of Medical Ethics, 2012, by Alberto Giubbinini and Francesca Minerva. The title of the article is after birth abortion why should the baby live this is how it reads abortion is largely accepted even for reasons that do not have anything to do with the fetus's health Health by showing that number one, both fetuses and newborns do not have the same moral status as actual persons. The fact that both are potential persons is morally irrelevant. And number three, adoption Abortion is not always in the best interest of actual people. The authors of this article argue that what we call afterbirth abortion, killing of a newborn, should be permissible in all the cases where abortion is, including the cases where the ability to be able to do. Where the newborn is not disabled. What they're saying in this ar in this article is, and I believe I remember it's up to two years of age, that a parent at any time from the time that a child is conceived, up to two years of age, can choose to terminate the life of that child. And the argument goes, if you're going to say that it's just a fetus and therefore not an entity of itself, even after it's born, it can be considered that way as well. Parents should have the opportunity to make the decision to terminate the life of that child even up to the age of two or three. Yeah. Um well consider that the TSM that doesn't mean so um Isn't a law that said that all humans are have the right to believe Again, only if you accept that it is a human. But if you're going to redefine it as a human, then it no longer has that right. Yes. the the principle of like if after like after it's born then it's a human but before it's born it's not a human, right? So if someone was to do like was to kill the baby ten minutes before it was actually born, what's the difference? between ten minutes before it was born, ten days after it was born. Their argument is that there is a difference. But but the point of this argument is to say the domino effect is that you're actually going to say, no, we're going to say that that it's the right of that mother to choose the death of that child up to age of three. Because the same logic can be applied. That child still depend it's dependent upon me in the womb, it's dependent upon me when it's three, I should have the right to choose whether it lives or dies at any time. Now if we look at that we go, No way, that's a fanicide, that's terrible. But that's the domino effect. That's where we're going as a society, where we are playing God. We're we're we're deciding who gets to live and who gets to die, and who gets to be defined as a human and who doesn't. What you're saying in the non effective areas like three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. It could, right? So if that were to happen, right, and like say a kid was like eleven, right? His parents decide to kill him and he kills his parents instead in self defense. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Well by the human. You're certainly pointing out you're certainly pointing out where you guilty a murder or what? You're pointing out You you're pointing out where it gets truly complicated. Where does where do the actual hu wh what when do we call it a human? And then when do his rights actually play a part? And because we're such a confused society morally, because we won't acknowledge what life is is only that there are moral absolutes, we can't answer that question. And going by that, not to be too pessimistic about it, but because we don't have a moral absolute uh you see it's like everyone understand that uh even if that is wrong, everyone knows it's wrong, but for the sake of offence, uh being because well no one to go to be you. Right. So since society has gone so far and we have already set our own standards, you know, it seems like we're fighting a lost yeah. Well, there's two things to say to that. Number one, we can't give up until the Lord has taken us home. We continue to fight for what we know is true. That's what God calls warriors to do, to continue to fight. And number two, we also have to fight for ourselves, for children. For our own sanity, for our own uh faith in God, that even though the world is going to hell in a handbasket, we're not supposed to. And and and to keep true to ourselves i is part of the the Christian life, regardless of what's going on. around you. The the Romans didn't respect life. They only respected certain rights of their own citizens, but they didn't stop the Christians from living their life in a moral and upstanding way. Just because the Roman society was going to hell didn't mean the Christians were going. Uh yeah. So uh I guess. Um so if we did like have some sort of societal class, right? Do you think that would put us back on track or are you gonna we just keep continuing our ways just and dropping the flat I couldn't speak prophetically whether having a actual um physical flat uh confrontation would would help. Um but I can say that if if if need be, Christians should be willing to lay their lives down for the innocent. And and and I'm certainly ready to do that. I hope you would be as well. The final argument against uh abortion from a secular point of view is the danger to the mother. There are many complications that can result from abortions, uh uterine aspiration, uh histr hysterotic what is it called Hysterotomy, partial birth, self-induced, all of these things, psychological damage that is done to a woman are all arguments against abortion. But again, these are secular arguments, not necessarily Christian arguments against abortion. What I want to do is to point you to what the scripture say. We said that the Bible is our authority. Well, what does the Bible say about life? God is the only one in Scripture that gives life. The word in Hebrew for uh y it's pronounced bara uh or creator or giver of life is only related to God. Man is never given the responsibility or the right or the privilege to decide what life is or to create life. It's only given to God. We also know that God commands that we do not take an innocent life. Exodus 20, verse 13. Ten commandments, thou shalt not kill. Now we've better translated murder. Taking of an innocent life. That's God's direct commandment. If you if you accept that an infant in its womb is a life, human life, then that commandment applies. Another principle, God refers to life in the womb. as individuals separate from their mother. From Psalm 139, you have made me. Fearfully and wonderfully have you m made me in my mother's womb, David says. From Jeremiah 1. 5, Jeremiah talks about God calling him from the womb. From Luke 1. 44, we have the idea of Jesus being in the womb of Mary. In Matthew 1. 20, we have the idea of John the Baptist leaping in his mother's womb at the presence of Jesus. All of these are to show us that you have an individual life within the womb of their mother and not something that is simply a part of the mother. Now I need to, before we we come, we need to address certain um other issues when it comes to abortion. What is what is the the main alternative to abortion? What's that? Adoption. Adoption, thank you. An unwanted pregnancy, adoption. There are plenty of people Who cannot have children, who want to care for children, want to love children, adoption is the most viable, most reasonable way in which we can help a child who is unwanted. Another thing to consider is sexual responsibility. Too often, abortion Is used because, well, I wanted that that sexual gratification in the moment, this baby is a result. I just want to get rid of it. We need to be more responsible than that when it comes to our sexual expression. And then it comes to the last. Last issue, and this is the one that trips people up: rape and incest. You hear these people say, I'm against abortion except in cases of rape and incest. Can you recognize now as a discussion we've had what's what's what's illogical about that way of thinking? How so? Uh they they said they're against abortion uh the entire act, however, when they say except uh incest and reef and that's Yeah. That's you're talking about about if we say that that a a fertilized egg in a mother's womb is life, human life. If you say except in rape or incest, well then you've tried to put another middle in there. You've tried to put another alternative in there. No, it's either life or it's not. It's either human life or it's not. And therefore the taking of a human life, regardless of how it was conceived, it's still a human life. Does that make the rape right? No, it's immoral. Right? No, it's immoral. But that baby isn't immoral. And there's a difference. The action that was done is immoral, absolutely, and should be condemned. The baby is never immoral. It's still human life. Now is that painful for the mother? Absolutely. Absolutely. And we should come alongside people who have suffered in that way and support them and encourage them. And if they can't if they can't raise that baby without seeing the the rapist or without seeing the incestuous person that that harmed them, then by all means we should help her find someone to care for that child. But it's still a human being. Logically, you have to see that. Reasonably you have to see it. It's still a human being. Yes, emotionally it's it's tearing emotionally terrible that doesn't change the truth that it's a human life. That remains the same. Janice is 15 years old. Bob is 16 years old. They have sexual intercourse several times, and now Janice has discovered that she is two months pregnant. Janice's mother was raised a Roman Catholic, and she does not want her daughter to have an abortion. Neither, however, does she wish to raise or help Janice raise the child. Instead, she wants Janice to go through with the pregnancy and give the child up for adoption. Janice's father is an agnostic and he wants her to have an abortion because he knows that Janice is a good student and is interested in a law career. He is a practicing uh I jumped here. Hold on. Hold on. Here we go. He's a practicing lawyer himself. Bob who wants to be an engineer. wishes Janice to have an abortion and he is willing to see that all of her expenses are paid. Janice herself is quite confused about what she wants. She has been raised a Roman Catholic and shares some of her mother's misgivings about abortion, although she is not as committed to to her faith as her mother is. She has talked to a young sympathetic priest at her church, but he has told her she must not have an abortion as that would be a mortal sin. You know what a mortal sin is versus venial? Yes. Mortal sin being it would ensure her e eternal death. She has also gone to an abortion clinic to discuss the abortion procedure and its cost. What should Janice do and why? Her dad's a lawyer? Dad's a lawyer. Women fate birth certificate and then adopted, nothing will happen. Why? Huh? Why? I see she already went through the process of having sex and everything, this number of months probably won't change her life that much. And then after that Oh, okay, so you're basing your decision on what will happen in her life? Yeah. Yes. Firstly, um the whole lawyer thing. Sounds like a horrible decision. Okay. Again, opinion but what what should she do and why? Um I say she Why? Because it's a baby. Okay, there you go. What does everything What does everything deter what is everything determined on? The life. How you define what it is. If you believe it's a baby, it doesn't matter the circumstance. It doesn't matter if her life will be good or bad afterwards. It's a human being. If you say it's not a human being, then I guess you're going to be concerned about what's it going to do. do it her life, how her family's going to relate to it, all the problems ins and outs. But if it's a human life, if you define it that way, that's really all that matters. You don't take a human life. All that you do to try to help the circumcision sense afterwards that you try to do. But really rub. The whole issue rubs on is that a human life or is it not? And for the Christian it should be a pretty clear answer, yes. Why do we just assume we deserves to have a good life I'm saying say it again. That's a fair question. Yeah. created this and and so it's part of her. And that's a fair question that we can delve in later. But the point being on this issue, is it life or is it not? But you have that decision you came on a sixteen year old, fifteen year old and you go Right. So how do you more problem is that she's gonna make the right decision or bad decision without knowing all the facts. Clearly she can't make the right decision if she has to do it. Whether she's fifteen, whether she's twelve, whether Whether she's eighteen, whether she's twenty-eight, there's still a truth there. It's either life or it's not. All right, that ends our time, we'll break for lunch and we'll pick back up. I covered a hair mass to you.