Well, um good morning again. Gordy asked the Lord to um to bless our time and so we'll go ahead and and get started. I want to follow up on these and if you're taking those, make sure you write these down um because they're they're important to refer back to. And I want to address something that was brought up after our session last night he was brought up by Ryan who asked me about the laws of the Old Testament. Uh your dietary laws were the example that he asked about. We can point out some others like uh not uh taking two different types of claws and and weaving them together. We find those laws in the Old Testament. He asked how do those laws maintain their identity or their truth value? value carried over into current day. Do we still continue to follow those laws? Are there are their truth values constant? And so if God says that you shall not eat certain types of shells, fish or restricting the types of uh meat that you can eat, such as restriction on pork, do those values continue on into today? Now I gave him an answer that he seemed uh sufficient with, but I have something else to add. to that. But I want to know from you, how do you think you should wrestle with that in terms of knowing that the Old Testament law forbids clearly uh moral um sin? Such as adultery, and yet at the same time it also has other laws that seem to restrict you in a way that doesn't seem equal to uh a sin like uh stealing. So how Would you answer that question? Do the laws such as restrictions of what you can eat, how do they maintain their identity or their truth value? Are you guys hot? Because this is fine. How to maintain the truth value? Right? Um, because when they were initially put together they came with a stipulation. What type of stipulation? That they were meant to be temporarile from the beginning. Okay. This comes from our conversation last night. My answer to him was that God had always intended these laws to be applicable to Israel until they were fulfilled. Of course, Jesus is the fulfillment of those what we call the ceremonial laws. Now, I want to maintain, however, and add to what I answered to Ryan last night, and that is that the the that the truth value of those laws continue to today, not just because Jesus fulfilled them, but because of their purpose. There is a greater purpose to such ceremonial laws than just the laws themselves. Why did God have Israel follow these restrictive laws as far as what they could eat, um, what they could do on certain days, um, what they had to do in regard to the way they worship God and all of the um all of the descriptures they were to follow in regards to the garb that the priest was to wear, to the manner in which they were to offer their sacrifices. Why did God instill those laws? to begin with. What was the primary purpose? Didn't know you're gonna have to think today, huh? A little bit too close to waking up. Yes. Yes, very good. Yes, it was to separate them. The laws that God gave Israel, even though they seemed so unique and some of them seemed arbitrary, were actually used to separate Israel from the nations around them. That they did not look like the nations around them, that they were a people separate unto God. Now that purpose then would go, well, why wouldn't you interweave certain materials? Why is that a law? Because of what it it points to because Israel was not to interweave with pagan nations. It was the symbolism of that law that mattered, not the law itself, but the symbolism. And so the truth value of the law remains. Even though we go ahead and we we interweave different claws today and we don't feel like we're we're breaking God's law, we still recognize the principle which is to be separate from the world, separate from the unbelievers, not to intermix with unbelievers. That Remains. That principle, that truth value remains. What's that? See that we speak for like that today. Israel. That is a uh Israel does not follow those laws because they no longer have temple worship. They they don't have access to temple worship. They don't have a high priest who oversees um the ceremonial laws that they are um required was required of them. Israel is still in exile, if you will, without a temple. But um whether they follow those specific laws, uh maybe the Orthodox Jews do, um but as far as how restrictive they are, I am not sure. But for Christians, we're not to look at those laws and say, well, they don't apply to us anymore. They do in a principal way. And remember we talked about how the principles are still in play. It's the application now that has changed. And so when Israel had the restriction in regards to what they could do with clause, we have that same application in terms of how we separate ourselves from the world. We don't interweave ourselves with the world. So those are a couple of ways in which you can see the law of identity remaining, but the application might be Difference. Taking you back to some comments made last night, when we talk about commonality of morals, we are still making the argument that the morality in every Culture are the same, but their applications are different. And the morality that we can see in different cultures, we ourselves can find a commonality. C. S. Lewis made the argument in this way. Can you think of a culture that upholds the virtue of cowardice? Is there any culture that would say Run away, run away, that that's the answer to a particular conflict. No, there's no culture that does that. And so we see that all cultures embrace courage. They might apply courage differently, but they still embrace the ideal of courage. You can take that in another way too, where you you can't find a culture that's going to uphold someone as heroic who uh does not keep his word. A man who is uh continually making promises to his neighbor and doesn't keep them is never upheld in a in any culture as if that's a man to emulate. And so because of that, Lewis would argue that we recognize we all have certain certain values or virtues we recognize to be true. And I'm going to use this word now to you or this this category that uh may or may not be new to you, but I I beg of you, it's very important these days. And that is the concept of natural law. That natural law provides for us all an ability to recognize that there are virtues that everyone can uphold as being true and morally upright in every culture, in every circumstance. circumstance in every um historical or future setting. These remain constant. And the pagans and the the religious can both find them together and agree upon them together. Natural law I believe is a way in which we can reach a culture that doesn't know Christ, that doesn't know the truth of God's word, because we can at least find some commonality with them, some importance with them. Um in in lieu of what we weren't able to cover last night, I want to present to you uh a a list of arguments about relativism and our responses. Let me hand this out. See if you can just grab a few and pass them around. Great. So the few person behind you. Once everybody gets one, let's take a look at it here. This is a summation of arguments from a book called The Best Things in Life. It's by Dr. Peter Kraft, and that's pronounced Kraft, not Krieft. It looks like Kreift for this speaker. According to him, I was in the in the uh auditorium when someone asked, how do you pronounce your name? He said Dr. Kraft. Uh so that's how it's pronounced. If you um haven't read The Best Things in Life, I encourage you to do so. It's a fictitious depiction of Socrates coming upon a modern college campus. And he is uh he is having conversations with various types of students, even those who are leaders of the university, called desperate state university. And in those conversations, Socrates even though he is not proclaimed a believer in Jesus Christ, is a believer in God. And the concept of God, of course, Jesus hadn't been revealed at the time of Socrates' time on earth. Yet at the same time, Socrates had Had an understanding from natural law that there had to be a God, and that that God had to control things in the universe and the world. And also, Socrates was one who embraced the idea of morality. Morality that was constant, that was objective. Craeft, at the end of the book, has a young woman approach Socrates and she's going to present arguments to him that would conclude that. That morality is relative. Arguments for relativism. And this is a summary of each of the arguments she presents and the responses that are given back as a counter-argument. So you see, number one, A-R-G. G stands for argument. The first argument is values are relative to culture. Values are relative to cultures. This one we've already addressed, yet at the same time we haven't dealt into it much uh in far as deeply. So we have four answers that are presented to this position. And this is the position you will hear from teachers on college campuses. You will hear, and it's it's It's readily accepted as if everybody knows this, that values are relative to cultures. Well, is that true? Here are four answers to that. A value opinions are to be distinguished from actual values. What do you think we mean by value opinions? Everybody knows what an opinion is, right? Yeah. Value is what you think is most important. And so yeah. Yeah, it would be what you're going to choose as to be the most important. And what What the argument is, is that you need to recognize that you're not pointing out anything that's an absolute truth, you're just pointing out an opinion. And so what would our culture today, what would a liberal professor say is the most important value? Reason. Reason? No. Oh money. What's that? Money. No. In fact, most liberal professors would say no. Except for how much they're getting paid, that's important to them. But money's not supposed to be important. Happiness. Happiness? Maybe. What are you told time and time again in your in your uh from from media, uh from from liberal uh um uh talking heads to teachers, yes. Like uh uh self expression. Do whatever makes you happy. Oh well that Yes. And all of these things, self-expression, do what it makes you happen, all those come from the ideal for modern liberal thought, tolerance. Tolerance. That's that's a virtue that's to be up held is higher than any other virtue or value in in society tolerance. We coexist, right? See the bumper stick bumper stickers? You relay turn off your phones guys. I I guarantee you none of you we're gonna have an emergency today that's that important. The value of tolerance is upheld as being the most important. You see these coexist signs, right? You have these um pictures of the Islamic um uh symbols and the Christian symbols. Does anybody know history? Those don't go together. Israel and uh Islamic states do not go together. They they don't coexist because one wants the other dead. It's just a rather silly thing to put before us. It's poor history. So the idea of tolerance is what's put before us, whether it can actually be achieved, well one would argue to be false. But these are opinions what's most important. argument, even value. Opinions are not wholly relative to cultures. There is agreement on principles but not application. This goes to what we've already mentioned. When you talk about what you think is most important, Recognize that there are agreements as to what people think are is important. Peace, having peace with one another, all cultures believe that that's important. But application is different unless your peace threatens what I hold. Dear. Then peace is not important anymore. Because to me peace is that all of us agree on the same belief. And so you have an Islamic State that says, I'm not going I want peace, but I only want peace peace with those who agree with me. So peace is important, just like it is in other cultures, but it has stipulations, it has applications that are different. Under C. Moral arguments presupposes agreement on Principles of it. What does that mean? Um where are we gonna like all agree that car is wrong, for example? Okay, you're on the right track. It's the idea that You and I cannot have a moral discussion about anything unless we agree that there are morals to discuss. And so to say that everything's relative, to say that everything is dependent upon cultures would mean that we We can't even have a conversation. But we do have conversations. And we do try to figure out what's best and what's true, what's what's right and what's best, what or what's good. And so when you do that, you're automatically accepting that there are morals, standards, to talk about to begin with. Therefore they're not really relative, are they? And finally under this first argument, subjectivists expect objective justice from objectivists. Okay. Now, as Christians, we would be objectivists. We would be the people who say that there are objectives. There are things that are true and things that are false. A subjectivist would say, no, it's all relative to culture. But then they would say But I want justice from you. But isn't justice an objective, not a subjective? You see, if if someone's going to argue that they insist on justice, that everyone be treated equally. Isn't that a value? And is that an objective value? And so you can't have one thing saying it's all relative and another thing saying, well actually I would like justice and I'd like it from you. for an an objective position, even though you're saying you're subjective. Trying to show a contradiction in the argument. Argument number two. Society conditions values on us. That is to say that we are products of our environment. You believe in what you believe only because that's what your environment tells you to believe. And so you're limited by your environment. And this is saying that proves that. Then that there are no objective values, just subjective according to your uh your society. Well, here's the answer. Answer to that objection. Society conditions opinions, not values. Values. Think about that, what we've been talking about in terms of uh application and and opinions. Values are the importance of life. That's a value. Opinions are What is the definition of life? Opinions are when does someone deserve the justice for their life? Those are opinions. And so we enter the abortion issue and we say, well, we're gonna say that the life is actually means this and not. This, but you're still upholding the principle of life. But you're just going to redefine it. Your opinion's going to change about how to apply that principle. But the principle still remains. And so they're automatically. recognizing that there is something objective that they're reaching towards even though they're trying to present it as something that society has placed upon them. No, what society has placed upon you are your opinions as opposed to your values. Consider For example, how homosexuality in just a a decade's time or even less has gone from being something that was a a a cultural um uh sidebar, something that that that people were uncomfortable with and many would condemn to something that's now not only accepted, but it's legal to practice sodomy and celebrate it in a marriage ceremony. That's a movement of a society that has has moved towards its opinion of how to apply the definition of marriage, but that hasn't changed any value. There's still still a value out there that needs to be matched. There's just opinions about how to apply that. It's interesting, isn't it, that excuse me, the value of marriage seems to still be at the forefront of our society, but the opinion about what makes a marriage has changed. Another argument to this idea of society conditioning our values, not everything we learn from society is subjective. Which is to say that if society puts before us the idea of courage being a value, our society is not putting before us opinion, it's putting before us something that's objective. something that historically cultures have put before their people and and always put it before the people as courage being of of a virtue or or of a value. So just because society presents it to us doesn't mean it's subjective. Society could put before us those things which are objective. And then finally, the argument as opposed to society conditioning our values is parallel between ethics and physics. Disagreement does not Subjectivity. There are rules that govern physics, are there not? You can argue against those rules, but those rules remain. And so as many as much as you want to uh resist gravity, it's always gonna remain, and it's gonna remain constant, regardless of how you want to argue against it. And that's the same thing with ethics. When it comes to moral statements, when it comes to ethical standards, those things remain constant regardless of how you want to argue against it. Regardless of how you want to change definition. Disagreement does not prove subjectivity. In other words, just because I disagree with physical laws doesn't mean they're going to change. Just because I disagree with ethical laws doesn't mean they're they've changed. They remain constant. It's you who have changed. It's you who have determined your own position as if you are yourself are God. You can decide now for yourself what's going to be true or false. You can do that all you want, but the ethical standard remains the same, just as the physic physical standards remain the same. Now going down to argument number three, argument uh for moral relativism, moral subjectivism produces toleration. This argument is saying that if I recognize morality to be subjective, then I'm going to be better at tolerating you. And we'll get along better if we tolerate one another. Now notice what this argument upholds as the highest of virtue. Tolerance, right? This argument upholds that tolerance is the highest of virtue. So, answer to this. The value of toleration does not logically entail subjective. So um how does that work that necessarily that subject that it means you can get along better? Like what if my subjective morality is completely cutthroat and I I just whatever I don't like has to get. Yeah, well uh th that's a that's a fair objection. Um I think that'll go down near C where it says it is intolerance refused to tolerate intolerance. Um it's it's to recognize that there can be contradictions when someone is being subjective. Autom automatically this argument seems to assume that the person is going to be a good person when it doesn't necessarily come out that way. But let's hold off on to that. Dealing with the first re reference, the value of toleration does not logically entail subjectivism. Can you be tolerant and be an obje Objectivist. I hope so. I I'm an objectivist. I hope you're an objectivist. That means you believe that there are certain truths and certain falsehoods that don't change. Or when people behave in a manner that do not does not match up with your objectivism, you don't cry out that they should be dead. You don't run in the streets and say that this person's done wrong, let's hang him. Maybe you do. I trust that nobody does. We tolerate it. We i if you take the stance that uh adultery is immoral, And yet you see that someone's in an adulterous relationship, you're not crying out for their undoing, for their demise. You don't agree with them, but you can still be kind to them, can you not? I'm certain there's plenty of people in your lives that you disagree with the way they're living, but you're kind to them. That's the point. You can be objective but still tolerant. Subjectivism does isn't the only thing that can be tolerant, yes. So is it that uh all who are killing more by objective is it is that is well you we can be objective about some things and not objective about other things. This is the an objectivist is being defined as someone who believes that there are moral standards that are constant, they don't change. And yet when other people don't live by them, the argument here is that we can still be tolerant of them. And still stand by our objectivity. But as Christians we're saying that I'm more tolerant as better because of God's Yes. Because of God's love. Because of God's mercy. How tolerant is God of you and I when we break his law. He's very tolerant of us. He's calling us to repentance. He's patient with us. He's wooing us to understand our sinfulness and and and continually calling us to to renew our lives. To be better. That's tolerant. Not tolerant in the sense that I'm going to overlook it and let you live in your sin. God's not like that. But He's patient and that we who stand by objectivity can be patient. Um, when you say you like tolerate something, aren't some things that need to be called out? Sure. Like the adultery example. Wouldn't it be immoral on our part to not at least let the other person know? Or call them out or it? Am I a god's job? No, it's our job. It's um I'm supposed to confront the person. Well you the judge rights you're not like basically uh Love the love this in or hate this in. Sometimes you can call it out but just I mean In private. Don't call it you you have to be very careful about how you call it out though. If you're gonna open your mouth about it. We are calling it out. You have to word it a certain way and come up a certain way. Or else they're gonna be or else they're even if even if you're not judging, they're gonna leave you with oh you're judging me. Yeah. You know because yeah so Jesus words about casting our pearls before swine is is applicable here. And Proverbs provides us the wisdom that you're referring to that you don't just go out and be a crier to everyone um because such pieces persons come up abrasive and unloving. So Every time you see of a situation to where a person is acting immoral, you don't say, Hey Because that person isn't willing to listen to you. There's no evidence of that person. Now if the person comes to you and says What do you think of this? Or they give you an open door to t to give your opinion. Most certainly you should tell your opinion. But just because someone's living that life doesn't mean you're gonna go around calling it out. That's not gonna be productive. Jesus didn't do that. There's plenty of people that were living immoral lives. It wasn't until the Samaritan woman he had a conversation with and she asked him questions, did he then confront her adultery. That's a relational thing that you do, not something that you go out crying about. Now, there's other examples, isn't there? Did not um John the Baptist confront Herod in his sin as an adulterous relationship? And he did. And if God is so calm. you to be such a man, then then then by all means go for it. But remember that John the Baptist also ended up in prison with his head cut off. That's the result of crying out. And and and and if God has called you to do that in in a moment, that then then yes. I think there are other also other things that are more obvious. Let's say that a a child's being beaten uh in in front of you in the street. That that's your responsibility to do something about it. You are you are that that faithful citizen. You are the the one who's going to come to the aid of another. That's that's your responsibility. Um and so you wouldn't shy away from that. Um even today I feel very compelled I hope you do, if you've seen those these videos that are being played about what's going on at Planned Parenthood, that you can do whatever you possibly can do to stand up for the unborn, then that's what we should do. And these are the the weakest among us. But when it comes to crying out everyone's sins. Remember what Jesus did in his example with the woman who was caught in adultery. He f forced everyone who wanted her to die at that moment to look at their own sin. And many of us could could cry out um when we know someone's in an adulterous relationship, hey, you're in sin and you need to repent. Well we just came from lusting after the girl who walked by five minutes ago. Um, you know, what was going on here physically? is going on in here and in our hearts, we have to recognize that and be humble about it rather than be um strident and and prideful about it. All right. Let's go on here. Go down to the uh third, no, yeah, we're still in the third argument, aren't we? Um point B, the value of toleration presupposes real values. Ooh, that's good, isn't it? That's good. recognize if you're going to say that that that tolerance is a value, you're at least saying that there are values and that there are objective values. You're saying that that the most important objective value is tolerance, okay, well at least we agree that there are objective values. That's a that's a starting point. Again, a natural law argument. Um then point C, it is intolerant to refuse to tolerate intolerance. That goes back to the hypocrisy of the ideal or value of tolerance. You say that you value tolerance overall, yes. Well, can you tolerate those who are intolerant? No. Well, aren't you breaking your first value? Yes, but I can't. Why? Well, again, they're going to be a very good thing. going t into subjectivism, aren't they? They're trying to use objectivism tolerance and then using their subjectivism argument to say that I can um uh choose which which value I want to be most important. Uh you can confront people on this and I have before as well. They don't bend, they just say, well, it's okay, I can contradict myself, and that's fine. And if they want to, there's no there's no winning that argument, but maybe they'll go away recognizing their hypocrisy. Point D. We talk tolerate only evils presupposing an objective standard. This um again recognizes that if you're going to tolerate something, you're recognizing that there's a standard out there that you still want to be met. You're putting up with people, but you're still saying they fall short because there's an objectivity out there that we can all identify. Argument number four. Morality is a matter of subjective motive. And we haven't touched on this yet. And I and I loved um our passage today in our reading. What did God say? Man looks at the outward, but God looks at the heart. And so it's not just a matter of what we do on the hour but what's going on inside of us that matters as well. And so this is recognizing that more that um motive is subjective, at least the argument is, and uh and this is going to be turned around. against morality is a matter of subjective motive. Motives are naturally connected to objective deeds. You get that? The idea that there are are are objective actions. See, see, oftentimes folks will talk about subjectivity and objectivity in terms of what we think, but this is recognizing that our behaviors are objective. If I help someone up who has fallen, that's an objective act. And my motive for that is connected to what I physically did, the objectivity of my actions. I might have done it to be seen by men, or I might have done it because I truly care about that person who has fallen and I want them to be restored. The motive can go either way, but there is an objectivity of what I did helping them was a good thing, an objectively good thing. Pepe B, pri the primary of motive does not entail the absence of other moral determinants. Now the determin determinants can be defined as those factors with which decisively affect the nature of the outcome. So there are mitigating circumstances that affect the outcome that are objective. Again, the primary of the motive does not entail the absence of other moral determinants. So we can recognize that my my motives contain more than just one. There are other factors that feed into my motives. It's never just one reason why I do something. Argument five. Morality is a matter of relative situations. Now this goes back to the idea that not only are are moral is morality relative or values relative, but situations are relative. Well, let's look at that one. And answer. Situations are objective, not subjective. If I'm relating to someone personally, what you mean? Abraham. Abraham. If I'm relating to Abraham personally That's an objective moment. That's not subjective. We are actually talking. We're actually communicating. We actually might be doing something together. That's never subjective. It's actually happening. It's real. It should be recognized as objective. And thus it has value in it in and of itself. B, situations are only one of three moral determinants. Um in other words, There are other factors that are going into our relationship. Not just the situation itself, but other things, such as our motives, such as our actions, all that are a part of the relationship. Argument six. We find no moral values in objects. Okay. Um value in those things that are uh related to our senses, physical objects. Um answer. We see values by the inner eye of conscience. That is to say that we recognize that there are values in things Wasn't it fascinating in our reading that Jesus, as he's entering into Jerusalem, that they say, you know, quiet, don't cry out his name. And he says, if they are quiet What's going to cry out? The rocks. That is to say that all of God's created order has meaning to it. All of God's created order matters. And so we recognize that even God's creation cries out for redemption, to be saved, to be renewed. There's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. That is that God is going to restore what has been corrupted by sin. And so the physical things of this world actually do have value to them, objective value to them. We are not Gnostics. We believe that the physical world is something that God is redeeming. Our bodies, our trees. All the created order has value to it, not something purely subjective. Finally, argument number seven. If we are free, we create values. Okay, this is an argument that says that mankind is free and therefore we can create our own values. We can decide for ourselves. That's what freedom means. Well, actually the argument can be reversed. Answer to that argument, we do not have freedom to create values. Our freedom is to choose whether we're going to follow the values God has established, not to create values ourselves. Second answer. Free will presupposes an objective good evil distinction. In other words, free will allows you to choose. And if you're going to choose, you choose between that which is good or evil. Free will assumes that you're going to have that option before you. Otherwise, it's not free will. Answer answer three under C. Freedom to create your own values is hellish, not heavenly. What do you think he means by that? Do you mean like if everyone creates their own values? If each person had to choose their own values, why would it be hellish and not heavenly, I guess? Because like uh humans like with the desire to swim. Yeah. simple bodies and like follow those instead of the like righteous bodies that you know. Exactly right. Because of our fallen condition, our propensity to be moved towards that which is wrong. Let me do a little Experiment with you. A pretty simple experiment. Everybody have their eyes on me. Right now, everybody's eyes on me. Even your sleepy eyes. On me. Do not look at that door. Do not look at that door. Do not look at that entry right there. Do not look. Do not look at that door. Look at me. Don't look at that door. What do you want to do right now? Where does that come from? Where does it come from to to hear a commandment? Do not do this and you automatically want to do it. Go ahead and look in the door. Where does that come from? Well, the Christian argument is that comes from our fallenness. It comes from our nature that doesn't want to be rule, we want to rule ourselves. And therefore when someone says, do not do this, we automatically want to do that. Doesn't mean we will, but we automatically want to. And that shows what pulls us. This this is the argument that I get frustrated with when it comes to the secular mindset, the liberal mindset. When I when I'm trying to argue with folks that there are are objective values and people would say, but they're different everywhere. Why are they different? One of the answers is that that you don't hear in in modern philosophy or even ancient philosophy. is that we have lost it. The argument is that we are fallen creatures and therefore we have suppressed the moral truth that was put into us by God. And over the centuries has been dumbed down and and been marred. So you look Well why does this culture over here, why do they sacrifice their children? Well, because they've stuffed down the truths of God for so long. They've ignored and rebelled against God for so long, they become numb to the truths that God initially instilled in mankind. It's because of our fallenness that we've lost the idea of objective values, of objective virtues. Finally, lovers yearn to be bound. not free. Lovers learn to yearn to be bound, not free. What this means is that lovers of God, lovers of truth, want to be protected from God's. going astray, from going into areas that are false. It's like looking at the Ten Commandments as if they are wonderful boundaries that God has put in our lives and we are free to run around inside of them. Thou shalt not steal, okay? So I I I shouldn't take anybody else's property. But enjoy the property that God has given you. Enjoy the things that you have. The whole idea of coveting at the last commandment, you say, Who hasn't broken that one? Everybody sees that. covered at some time. But God is saying, don't be concerned about the things you don't have. Enjoy the things you have. Be blessed by the things you have. That's what a true lover does. They want to be bound by the things they have. Because there's freedom in that. There's freedom in in loving your spouse. There's freedom in in enjoying the things that you have and never feeling guilty about it. It's when you step outside of those bounds that you find that you're entrapped. And you're lost. And then you're You're you're bound by those things as opposed to what God has provided for you. Alright, I'm going to close this section now by encouraging you, matter of fact, put the name of the book and the author, Peter. Craft is his name, uh, if you want to get that book. It's it's a great dialogue that that will pay off uh for you. Now before we leave, um the idea, the ideal of objective values, um Uh we're going to get into what we can look to as objective. Yes. Um I'm gonna ask a question on that. Wouldn't you consider curiosity as a kind of like a thing, I think? Curiosity. Curiosity. Good question. Because somehow there's some curiosity too, isn't there? Yeah, who's what they're told not to do? Um no, I do not. And if I could again recommend a book by C. S. Lewis. It's the last one in his space trilogy called Paralandra. And in there he he presents the situation of a planet that has not been Marred by sin yet, and there's a woman on it, like an Eve-type person. And she has curiosity about her. But it's a curiosity that has not yet been marred by selfishness. It's a curiosity that wants to know truth. wants to understand truth, and there's a curiosity that wants to do it for selfish gain. When Adam and Eve sinned against God, they were curious about what it would mean to to eat of the forbidden fruit. What Lewis does is explain that that God has always intended for man to know God and to know the secrets of God, but in a manner that God wants to reveal, not in a matter that man wants to pursue his poor selfish gain. So no, I would say that curiosity in and of itself. as a very healthy thing. Well it comes to covetousness, that's like like say I want something, right? And I buy it, right? Yeah. And that wouldn't be covetousness, right? No, no. You you you if you have the resource resources and um and you have the ability to make good use of it, absolutely, you are free to do that. God gives you the freedom to do that. We we tend to covet when we don't have the money and and we want to buy it anyways. And we might hop, we might sell we might um steal. We might go into debt to get that which we want when it's really for selfish gain. But when you have the freedom, you have the money, you have the resources, you have the time, God gives you that. That's what didn't occur context of of your freedom. So we're gonna move on uh and and this part is probably I anticipate to go through it more quickly. There's probably things that you've heard plenty of times before, but I have to do it just in case. I have to cover my bases. So please take some and have a question. Passing around. Anyone gets one? have to move on. One page. We have to move on to at least point you to that which is objective. And the statement I'm making that I trust you've already agree with, but I'm going to give you, again, I'm this guy feeding you bullets, right? I'm the guy that's helping you shoot your machine gun. Because people are going to say, okay, if I give you the argument that that that there are objective values, there are objective truths, where do they come from? You're gonna answer God. Well, God, but God gave us the Bible. So you're gonna say the Bible, and they're gonna say, that's old. That's one of the arguments, right? That's old. And if you have studied your logic, you're going to recognize that that that that's a generational fallacy, right? So the idea that something is old isn't untrue just because it's old. So that's a f that's a false uh that's a false false argument, false implicant informal fallacy. Then they're going to say it was written by men. Right? That's the other argument. Written by men, how can you trust it? Then they're going to say the Bible contradicts itself. The best answer to that is please tell me where. Because they don't know where. Probably never even read the Bible, but they've heard that it contradicts itself, therefore they're going to go ahead and repeat it. Those are some of the arguments you're going to hear against the Bible being our authority. Well what I've given you here are are some bullets, are some some ways in which you can defend the Bible being God's word. That you can have confidence, it is indeed of God. Let's look at the first one, and that is of internal proof. Internal proof that the Bible is the Word of God because it says it's the Word of God. Now I'm trying to find the Bible here. The Bible says it's the Word of God. Let me read to you the passages that I have listed there. We go 2 Timothy 3, 16. Should be familiar to you. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And then from 2 Peter 2 Peter 1, 20 and 21. Know this first that no prophecy of Scripture is of any prophecy. Private interpretation, for prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. And then from uh Old Testament you have one like Psalm 19. And and please understand, of course, these are not exhaustive uh passages that speak of God's word being being wholly inspired, but just examples. Psalm 19, verse 7 and 8. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. All of those tell us that the Bible is the inspired word of God. Holy Spirit breathed God's word into the men's minds and hearts, and so they wrote it out. We believe that. Problem is, again, taking logic, that's a circular argument. How do you know the Bible is the Word of God? Because it says it's the Word of God. Wait a minute. You can only be confident if it's the Word of God that you know beforehand that it says it is, as opposed Afterwards, because it's just a circular. It's closed in a circle. Now, circular arguments are not invalid in and of themselves. They're only invalid if that's all you depend upon. You say the Bible's word of God because it says it is and that's the only only argument you use, you you've got a problem. But there might be other arguments that help us out. And so we look to other arguments like under B, primary sources were used to record the events of the Bible. This is particularly true when it comes to the New Testament. And so we look at Luke chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. I'll read that one and I'll read the John one. So Luke Mark, Luke, this is the very beginning of Luke. Luke chapter one, verses one through three. Inasmuch as many as have taken in hand to set it in order a narrative of those things which have been fulfilled among us, just as Those who from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things, from the very first, to write to you an orderly account most excellent. Theophilus. Luke putting the stage before us to say, this is the Word of God, the story of Jesus, as was given to me by eyewitnesses. These are first-hand accounts about who Jesus was and what he did. These are not secondhand accounts, but first hand accounts. Then we have a passage like 1 John 1-3. 1 John 1-3. This is the Apostle John. That which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. So here's John saying, I'm giving to you what I witnessed. I'm a witness to what I saw, to what was true. And thus he defends himself. Under C we have, within the scriptures, prophecies spoken in the Old Testament were fulfilled. in the new. Now, I don't have a handout for you for that, but you can go through certain Bible study Bibles and they'll give you prophecies of old, fulfilled in the new, confirming that God's word is consistent, that which God promised, He fulfilled. God promised, he fulfilled. And so the scripture remains consistent. So those are internal proofs. Then we go to the external proof. What are the external proofs that the Bible is the Word of God? I totally lost my place in my notes here. Hold on a minute. Here we go. External proof. Historical events are confirmed by archaeological discovery. Archaeological digs have uncovered proof of biblical places and persons such as the city of Jericho, Ramses II, he was to be the pharaoh who wouldn't let Israel go and then finally let them. Go after the Ten Plagues. King Solomon and others. In other words, there have been archaeological discoveries that confirm biblical stories. There have not been, there has not been any archaeological discoveries that contradicts. a biblical story. Ever. Ever. There's no, there's, there's not archaeological digs that confirm every biblical story, but there are no archaeological discoveries that ever contradict a biblical story. Finally under under B for external proofs, historical accuracy of events described. Historical non-biblical writings either confirm or do not contradict biblical events. And a primary one is Josephus, but we can look to other Jewish writers as well. There's even writings in the hieroglyphics from the Egyptians that speak about a Haburi people taking over the Promised Land about the 14th century BC. Um and there's every evidence to conclude that the Haburi people are actually the Hebrews that they're describing as enemies now of the state. But I want you to take you to the last one, Roman numeral three. The most Valid proof that the Bible is the Word of God is our objective truth, is the person of Jesus. The person of Jesus is the most valid proof of the Bible being the Word of God. Jesus speaks of persons such as Abraham, Moses, Elijah, And other and others as historical figures, he refers to events such as the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the reign of King David as factual. If Jesus is accepted for who he said he is, then his confirmation of Scripture being the Word of God. God is sufficient proof. Now I want to underline that and highlight that. Most recently, we've had people who have stepped up, these neo-atheists, and they've said that even Jesus as a historical Figure is false, that he really didn't exist. Well, no credible historian would ever say that. There's every evidence that Jesus most certainly was a historical figure. What we have to figure out is who he was. Was he really who? he said he was. Was what recorded of him was that actually factual. And when you read the words of Jesus and you read the the eyewitness accounts of what he said and what he did, it's pretty hard to refute. that there is this man who is different than any other man. And so whenever you come to an argument with anyone or a dis uh discussion about Bible as the Word of God, point to the person of Jesus. Let's talk about Jesus. Okay, you can deny whether whether um Jonah uh spent um three four nights in a whale. That that's fine. If that's a hang up for you. But let's talk about the person of Jesus. Who was he? What did he say? Was it true? And what he what he's taught and what he said What he did, does that ring true to your soul? The person of Jesus makes all the difference. It makes everything come together. Without him, nothing makes sense and nothing matters. Yeah. I remember my Eingar Yeah, uh we can we we can find that um in the Gospel of John. Um the one of the more of course there's statements it's a great question because they're Statements about Jesus, like John does, the be in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. John is very clear about that. But John also records Jesus as saying, this is in John 8. 58. Passage worth remember memorizing. When Jesus talks about in John 8. 58, when he talks about Abraham, and he says, before Abraham was, I am. Now, of course, that ago me in the Greek, I am, is the exact phrase that God uses with Moses on the mountain. Whom shall I say sent me? I am, Ego Amid, sent you, sends you. Jesus at that moment is claiming to be God when he says, I am. Before Abraham was, I am. And you know why we know for sure that they understood him to be saying he was God? Because they tried to stone him. Picked up rocks and tried to stone him. Because he automatically, from their vo vantage point, blasphemed God. But he was t saying saying the truth. That's who he was. That's a good question. All right, we're gonna take a break now. So we're let's make it about a seven minute break and uh get what you need and then we'll come back and uh get into our ethics.