God in angels has our hope for years to come, for we are God was God will stress man. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn to Genesis 15, if you would. We're going to be going through that story, the whole chapter there, Genesis 15. Becoming tired, depressed, and struggling to keep faith is part of the human condition. And perhaps we Christian leaders don't mention that enough. If I don't remind you enough that traveling on the narrow road can become wearisome, please forgive me. It is helpful for each of us to admit that we can go from an emotional and spiritual high to a low very quickly When in college, the church I attended held a retreat that they called Heartbeat Retreat. Quite a clever title. The sessions were highly emotional as we confessed our sins to one another, and in the end wrote our sins down on a piece of paper and then threw them into a roaring fire to represent our sins burning away. The games and the singing and the praying and emotional healing all made for an emotionally high weekend. And stood in great contrast to getting home Sunday evening with homework to do, studying to do, and practice to prepare for. It was like living two different lives It became evident that the Christian life, a life of faith, is not a continuous retreat. Instead, the Christian life faces the realities of everyday life that consist of more downtimes than up times. We all have experienced similar letdowns after a great wedding celebration or a great Christmas party or other types of celebrations. In these letdowns is revealed our human weaknesses. The silence can be deafening, and we may wonder what there is to look forward to on the calendar after the highlight of the year is over. Thankfully, by God's grace, He does not leave us to ourselves while we are in such a low state. In the midst of being downtrodden, God, via the Holy Spirit, picks us up. In chapter 15 of Genesis We read of God picking up Abram, who was coming off a high, a high caused by a great victory over several kings and tribes with just over 300 men. Abram has learned at this point in his life that trials, what he thought was a trial, can be a blessing. What we think will hurt us actually turns out to be what is best for us. And now, after achieving a great victory Abraham must learn, or Abram must learn, that blessings can be trials. What we initially see as a blessing turns out to be a trial. So far, for Abraham's God's God's promises have been blessings. All that Abram has achieved since God's promises have been blessings. And at this point in his life story, Abraham is tried more deeply, perhaps than any other time that had befallen him. When Abram learned that he must depart from his home, you will remember, depart from his extended family, he listened and obeyed. When he learned that he must part from Lot, his nephew, because their herds were too large and fighting with one another, the Lord's promises came to life, and he made a clean break. When he learned that Lot was in trouble against tribes that the kings of Sodom and the kings of Gomorrah could not defeat, he did not hesitate, but believed in God and came to the rescue. And now, after the victory, a word from God comes to Abram saying what God has already proven God said, Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your SHEOL, your exceedingly great reward. Abram knows this to be true about God, but the blessing The blessing which was the promise, which was the promise for a child, that becomes a trial Abram looks and does not see how God will fulfill what he has promised because Abram doesn't have a son of his own. Abram's answer expresses a deep soul trial. As we note, after what God had done for him, now he wonders if anything more will be done. At this point in Abram's spiritual walk, he is looking beyond the joy of his initial conversion. Many who come out of a sinful life and are born anew in Christ experience an initial joy like nothing they had ever known before. It is like the seed in the parable of the sower that springs up quickly. For the seed to become a lasting flower, the roots must be dug deep. What tasted sweet as honey to Abram initially as he learned that he was chosen of God and he obeyed God cheerfully has now become bitter in his belly. Much like that scroll you remember eaten by John the Revelator. We start with joy. But years pass on, and if we have not yet seen the fruit of the promise, we are tempted to waver It is not a waver outwardly. We don't leave the church or renounce the faith. Instead, we struggle inwardly. Unsure if we understood God correctly. At such a moment of need, God speaks again. God's next words are no less a trial than the first, for they are words of promise that are not fulfilled in the immediate, but will take some time before they are fully realized. And this is what makes them a trial. They are words from God regarding salvation, but they are yet to be fulfilled, causing us to be tempted to question whether they will ever be fulfilled. And please understand that Abram's desire to see the promises to him fulfilled is in no way sinful The soul of a believer longs for that which God has promised. In this we should recognize our kinship with Abram. For as he longed for the promise of his son to be fulfilled, so we too long for Christ to be revealed in us and before us regarding his second coming. We long for our flesh to submit to the Spirit, and that the Spirit of Sonship might fully grow within us. We long to see the eastern sky split and for Jesus to come in all of his arraignment so that our faith can be vindicated and be no more. And God replies, like he did to Abram, that such too is his will, but like Abram, it takes time. To inspire Abram and us, God has him go outside of his tent. His tent represents his earthly body. It is limited. It is temporal. Abram needs to see beyond his earthly limits. And so God directs his attention to the sky, to the heavens. For that is from where the promised seed will come. Count the stars, God challenges him. Abram is to understand that just as the stars cannot be counted, so his descendants will not be able to be counted. As an in inside, by the way. As an inside, it is important to realize why the Lord becomes upset at David when David takes a census. Practically speaking, counting the people can can be a help, but it is an attempt to do what God said you will not be able to do, and thus it is not trusting in the covenant being fulfilled. And as another insight, I have had the privilege of looking up at the sky near the equator while in Brazil. And the stars seen from the naked eye are more bold and bright and numerous than I had ever seen before. And that is what I think of when I read Abram looking up, told to count the stars that he cannot count. As Abram looks upon what God is pointing out, something happens within him. Perhaps it is The awe that most men feel caused by the immensity of the heavens as they testify of the Creator. Perhaps he is inspired by the hope of being the father of so many descendants And what we can be sure of is that he is given the gift of faith. He believes. He believes, although there is still no fulfillment in front of him. He believes what God has promised. And that faith was counted to him, God says this, counted to him as righteousness. This type of faith, the faith that is counted as righteous, is the same faith that saves us Faith comes from hearing, hearing the word of God. Abram heard God's word and believed. He believed in the promised seed as we do. As Abram was reckoned as righteous, so are all persons who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. All of this is good news, and there should be great rejoicing by Abram and us who stand on the other side of God's revelation. However, there is still more to believe without seeing. God follows up his promise about Abram's descendants with another word about giving Abram land. Although Abram now truly believed the promise of the descendants, he is once again skeptical about this promised land. And here again we are akin with Abram. We believe, we have confidence that we are forgiven, but not all of what will happen to us is understood, and therefore we waver. We are like the man who had a son who was possessed by an evil spirit. It was our second reading. He brought his son to the Lord Jesus for healing. Jesus asked the man if he believed. The man responded, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. That is what we say, is it not? As Christians, we believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah We believe he is the Son of God who died for the sins of mankind. We believe that he rose again on the third day and that he ascended into heaven. It is the rest of God's promises that we too will ascend to heaven that confuse us. Can we admit that? The promised land to Abram and his descendants is a type for a shadow of God's heavenly promises to us. Heaven is our promised land. That is helpful, but we wonder how it all works. Where is it? Is it a physical place? If so, where does it now reside? We are told elsewhere that when we die we will be with Christ, but not our bodies, for they will still be in the grave. When Jesus comes again, he will raise our old bodies and give us new ones. In the meantime, we will be with him, but in what capacity is not clear. And what type of bodies will we have when he gives us new ones? The Apostle Paul says that they will be incorruptible bodies, but we still wonder whether we will look at all like we do now. Will we be recognizable to others as we are now? Will we recognize our loved ones? The unknown causes some angst within us. We like Abraham ask, how shall I know? I will inherit it. How shall I know? God is merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in love. He knows well that we see through the glass dimly. He is not angered by Abram's questions, nor is he angered by ours. His response to Abram's question is one of instruction. Abram is to cut into a three-year-old heifer and a three-year-old goat. He is also to sanctify a three-year-old pigeon, but not cut it in half. He is to place each half of the carcasses of the heifer and the goat opposite sides of himself. In doing this, Abram is giving the substance of Abel's offering and a figure of the offering of Christ. The particular animals instructed by God to the sacrifice are important for what they represent. The heifer is a service animal. It is used to till the ground and grind wheat, bread. The goat is a sin-bearing animal, chosen by God as an acceptable sacrifice for sin, blood. The dove is a symbol of innocence and peace. Each of these sacrifices is an outward sign of what is to occur inwardly within each of us. We are to be as a heifer and offer our services to God as a sacrifice. We are to be like the sacrificial goat and die to self. We are to be like the bird and be a people of peace. Peace with God and peace with our fellow man. We are to be living and holy sacrifices, for such is our reasonable service. After Abram offers the sacrifice as the Lord instructed, vultures come down upon the carcasses No sooner are the bodies of the beasts offered as worship unto the Lord than fowls come down flying to mar the offering. How true this is for every person who attempts to offer himself or herself to the Lord. The fowls or vultures symbolize evil spirits, powers who are subject to the wicked one. These are angels of the devil himself who come to distract or mar our communion with God. We are told by James, are we not, that the devil prowls, seeking whom he may devour? Peter warns the same. We are to resist the devil, and he will flee. Abram gets up to drive the vultures away. We must learn from this story of Abraham giving an offering unto the Lord that it does not result in the safety from the from the enemy. The enemy will come and tempt us to become bitter and jealous of our brother. He will tempt us to satisfy the flesh by withholding a part of our lives from God. Once the sacrifice is made, once the worship is offered, it is not over. We still need to resist, we still need to drive the enemy away. After the vultures are driven away, Abram becomes tired from offering these sacrifices The cutting in half of a heifer and a goat was a laborious, bloody task that would have taken great energy and strength. As he falls asleep, a great darkness, a terrifying darkness, comes over where he rests. His lesson is not over. His offered sacrifice is not complete. Whether it is in sleep or in awakened state, the text is not clear, but Abram becomes scared. Next, the word of God comes to him. His descendants will indeed inherit the land, but by trial and suffering. Abram learns from this that God's chosen way of salvation is through trial and suffering. His people will go through trial and suffer slavery because of their own sin. God's Son will go through trial and suffer because of the sins of others, the sins of all of mankind. In the end there will be a morning, a new day. There will be a dawn that will never end. Israel will inherit the land after the fourth generation. In like manner, followers of Christ will inherit their heavenly reward. This will happen, but not yet. In the meantime, a burning torch passes in between the carcasses, the offered sacrifices. We learn in the New Testament that light is symbolic of the Son of God and that fire represents the Holy Spirit, which baptizes and purifies the souls of men. God is thus in the midst of Abram's sacrifice. The Spirit of God is dwelling in the midst of a man's life as he offers himself unto the Heavenly Father. Man is not left to himself in his offered service, his confessed sin, or his need for peace. God is present. He is always present. That is what the torch in the midst of the carcass means. It means that God sets the parameters of his covenant with Abram and then fulfills the covenant himself. But all of this is not a simple answer to Abram's question. How shall I know? He asked. This is the answer. Instead, it is complicated and something that Abram is going to have to accept. It reminded me in the book of C. S. Lewis called A Grief Observed. Lewis said of asking God about the great mysteries of his will, quote, when I lay these questions before God I don't get a no answer, but rather a special sort of no answer. It is more like a silent, certainly not uncompassionate gaze As though he shook his head, not in refusal, but waving the question. Like, peace, child, you don't understand. What I hope we will take away from this part of Abram's story is how common it is to believe. To have faith in God and yet have areas of doubt and confusion. Abram did, and so do we I have experienced the doubt myself, and at times it has scared me. I have questioned whether I truly have faith. I have heard the doubt in the words of my children and in the words of many of you. The doubt we have regarding God's promises may lead us to doubt whether we are saved at all. We are tempted to think there is something wrong with us because we can't wrap our minds, even with our own imaginations, around all that God has promised to those who believe. What the Lord answered Abram and what he answers us is not necessarily comforting. It consists of sacrifice, of trial, suffering. In the suffering, we must accept the unknown, but do so with the confidence that God is with us. He is in the midst of a life offered as sacrifice. The Bible says that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the conviction of things unseen. We cannot always immediately see what good comes out of our trials or how effective our lives are as living sacrifices. And we will not know exactly what our heavenly hope is, what it is like, until we are there. And so we walk through this life, living the rest of our days like Abram. Acknowledging that there are things we don't know. We can't know. And that is okay. It has to be. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for the faith given to Abraham that overcomes unanswered questions. that overcomes not experiencing your promises in the now. And because we identify with these readily, we confess that at times we waver, but you know that. And so, dear Father, we thank you for your grace, your mercy, your forgiveness. We thank you for faith that goes beyond this life. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.