Name of the Father and of the Son. Of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I would like you to follow along with me from the Gospel, according to St. John chapter 11 We read toward the end of the story of Lazarus being raised from the dead, and I would like you to begin with me at the beginning of that story And what we're going to do this morning is follow along the narrative. So having your Bibles open to John 11 will be greatly helpful to you Who begin by identifying Mary and Martha. Mary and Martha identified here Are the ones that welcome Jesus into their home? And you remember that story of Martha being at work and Mary being at Jesus' feet and Martha getting upset and uh and and the Lord telling her that Mary is doing the greater thing. Mary is also the one who anointed Jesus with that expensive ointment and wiped his feet with her hair. And then we're introduced to Lazarus. He has not been known to us until here. And that simple fact Uh reminds us of John when he explains later in his gospel how Jesus did so many things with so many people that if they were written they would cover all the libraries in the world. Hyperbole helps us recognize that Jesus said a lot more things and did a lot more things and obviously knew Lazarus. And what we are to understand is that these people, this family, had a very close relationship with Jesus. And this is why he said to him that it was the person that he loved that was sick in verse 3. Jesus in verse 4 reveals a great deal, as he states, a truth that no one at the time and in the moment could have understood. Lazarus was sick not unto death, but was sick for the sake of God's glory to be revealed. It could not have been understood by the people around Lazarus because Lazarus was actually sick to death, and we know that because he died. But he was not sick unto death by the standard and knowledge of Jesus. Jesus knew what was going to happen. And therefore was able to prophesy that Lazarus would not die from this present illness. Now from verses five and six, We read a very unusual take on a situation like this. It says that Jesus loved Mary and Martha. So Therefore, because he loved them, he stayed two more days in the place where he was. He stayed there, it says, because he loved them. Such action we all would conclude is a strange way to show love. This is not an understandable love language. It most certainly is not a common love language. No one that you and I know confirms his love or her love for another by delaying an opportunity to help. No one with the power to overcome sickness and death holds off using said power to help someone that they love. Well, no one but Jesus. Jesus cares first and foremost about showing forth the glory of God. From the eternal perspective of Jesus, illnesses come and go. Each man and each woman will die. That there are few opportunities to show forth the glory of God in the manner Jesus planned. Reflecting upon this story this past week, Lazarus being raised from the dead, and all the personal relationships that are involved And the main purpose of allowing Lazarus to suffer illness and then die, I was hearing the wisdom of the Holy Spirit to say that such a remarkable story Should not be understood as an everyday occurrence. This means that we should not And I underline not, relate our times of illnesses or the illnesses of others that we love to the miracle that was performed upon Lazarus. People don't normally die from an illness only to be raised from the dead four days later in order to display the glory of God. Jesus didn't do it all the time. In fact, he only did it once. Jesus is showing the uniqueness of this moment, and that uniqueness is to be acknowledged and revered. And yet, and yet, there are so many personal applications that can be helpful to us from this story. And one of them is to accept and even have hope that each of us as believers in Jesus Christ can be confident that whatever we go through Whatever we suffer, whatever obstacle in our lives needs to be overcome, it can be said that it is for the purpose, the purpose for the glory of God to be revealed. Consider that we are to have faith that a lost job is in the end for the glory of God to be revealed. A bad break, an accident, a wrong done to us. And yes, even a life-threatening illness can be, for the glory of God, to be revealed. Believe that. Believe that. Well after two days, Jesus decides to go to Bethany. That's the home city of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. Bethany is two miles east of Jerusalem, just beyond the Mount of Olives, a region in Judea, where Jesus had just been in chapter 10. And that was also where Jesus was almost killed because he claimed to be God. Jesus was north of Judea at the time, a two-day's journey. Now this decision to go back to this same region appeared to the disciples to be a death warrant. The hesitation to do so espoused by the disciples is answered by Jesus so that they understand how urgent his ministry was at this time. He says twelve hours, and that is a reference, a recognizing that there are only certain amount of hours in a day, daylight in a day And Jesus has only given a certain amount of time to do the ministry his father has called him, and that time is coming short. The confidence, and we should hear the word faith, the faith Jesus has in what he is to do is articulated in the description that Lazarus is only sleeping. Because the disciples tend to understand statements that Jesus made in the most plain of meanings, they are hopeful that his illness is something that he can recover from. And this gives opportunity for Jesus to confirm why he delayed and what his primary purpose is in this moment. He wants them to believe that Jesus is the Messiah. That's why he wants to bring forth the glory of God so that he might convince them. I love this part of the story because it teaches us that belief is something that we grow in. You see, the disciples already believed Jesus was the Messiah. They've already confessed it. But they needed to believe more and more. They needed to have greater faith. Don't we all? Don't we all? We need to grow and grow in our faith, and we do so by having God's word confirmed in our lives and by experiencing the grace of God through Jesus again and again and again. And next in verse 16 we have a heroism espoused by Thomas, a very unique verse, and it shows us that he's more than a doubter. Thomas is a brave man, loyal to the end of his life. And because of the proximity of Bethany to Jerusalem, we read that so many friends and family from the Holy City were able to come to the aid of Mary and Martha. And when Jesus arrives, Martha has an exchange of words that we can read into a bit. Martha is second-guessing the timing of Jesus. O good Christians, too often we question the timing of the Savior regarding answering our prayers. We pretend often that we have divine eyes that can see what is best to happen and what time it should happen. And yet the delay of our Savior is not that he does not care, it is not that he has not heard from us. It is because it is according to his timing. It is according to his will. And it is for us to humbly accept such timing, for we are servants. His servants and thus called to wait on him and not he on us. Well Martha's faith is re- is real and honoring of Jesus, but it also reveals that she is immature and needing to grow Martha believes in the resurrection of the dead. Many Jews do, did, excuse me, many Jews did, and many Jews do. And our trip to Jerusalem, we embarked up on the Mount of Olives. And there you see scores of graves. Great markers. And there are there many on the Mount of Olives and then at the foot of the walls of Jerusalem. And they house Jews and Christians and Muslims, all who believe that their bodies will one day be raised from the dead. Yet it is only the Christian that has the testimony that such has already been done, and why we know it will happen many, many times again. Now the further explanation Jesus provides to Martha is the actual glory of God that Jesus came to reveal. These words of Jesus, I am the resurrection and the life, our everything in terms of God's glory to be revealed for the salvation of mankind. It is what he wants to reveal to us, within us, and through us. And Jesus asked Martha, do you believe this? And I say, wow, what a question. What a question to be asked. And it is necessary for any good preacher to point out that each of us is asked that same question. Each of us is asked, do you believe this? And each of us is to answer in the affirmative: if we want to live forever, never die. The confession of Martha is what needs to be said by all who want to live and never die. Yes, Lord, I believe in you. You are the Christ, the Son of God. And beloved, that is what we are each of us saying whenever we recite one of the creeds. Whenever we bow our heads and pray in the name of Jesus, we are confessing what we believe. The next part of the story has Mary coming to Jesus. St. John is telling the story to clear up the movements of the characters. Martha had met with Jesus, talked with him, and then had gone back home, shared with Mary what had they had conversed about. Mary didn't know Jesus was there, so Mary makes her way to Jesus. Sure why Jesus stays in that spot, but he does. And so Mary comes to him, and here she is more forthright than Martha her sister, for she tells Jesus plainly That if he had arrived earlier, Lazarus would have been healed, and thus would not have died from the illness that had overcome him. Verses 33, 34, and 35. I want you to see those verses as one verse. They are to be treated as one thought or one description of one event that is so very unique, but a necessary part of the entire story. Jesus, wanting to know where Lazarus' body was laid, asks, inquires, and while he does so, he looks around and he sees people mourning, and he identifies with them. In his identifying with the mourners, he joins them, joins them in their emotional pain, and the result is Jesus left. God cried. And let us utterly reject the notion or any teaching that suggests That Jesus cries here as if displaying his humanity or his human nature. That is completely false. What he is displaying is everything that he is. He is displaying that he is the Savior, the Good Shepherd, the light of the world, the bread of life, the resurrection, and that means He identifies fully, completely, unreservedly with the pain of humanity. God cried Let us all have faith and know the Savior well so that we know that when we cry, He cries. He does not just know of our pain, but knows our pain intimately, and therefore does not leave us to ourselves in our times of need, but experiences our hurts with us. Beloved, God cries. And Jesus then made his way to the tomb where Lazarus lay, and there were people observing this drama who second guessed Jesus. They too thought he should have arrived sooner and done his healing thing, and Lazarus would have been healed. But they are not looking for the glory of God to be revealed. Jesus is. And John tells us that when Jesus orders the stone to be taken away, that he is still emotionally hurting because of the pain of those that loved Lazarus. Now regarding this tomb, maybe you've seen pictures, but we assume this tomb is very much like those of the first century, either carved out of a stone or carved out of a hill. And uh such were in the first century the way that the Jews were buried. They would be placed in a uh cave-like tomb. And they would wait for their bodies to decay, and then once that had occurred, they would go in and collect the bones and put it in an ossuary. Like a little tiny casket. And then those ossuaries were placed in a uh a larger tomb for the family if the family had the means to own such a tomb Some bodies decomposed or decomposed just after 24 hours. And this had been four days. Unfortunately, because of Jesus' instruction to move the tombstone away, Martha reveals her weak faith, and the result is Jesus repeating the purpose of the whole drama that they were in at that moment. The whole purpose of Lazarus getting sick, the whole purpose of Jesus waiting two days before eating, starving toward Bethany The whole purpose of Jesus speaking to Martha and then speaking to Mary, the whole purpose of emotionally suffering with the mourners, the whole purpose was to reveal the glory of God. Jesus next prays, and his prayer exemplifies how he and the Father are one. One. He prays for the sake of those who were around him. He prays for the sake of you and I who read this story He prays to show that he that what he does, he does because of the Heavenly Father who calls him to raise the dead. And Jesus then gives the command, Lazarus, come forth. Now John tells us that this was done in a loud voice, so we can imagine Jesus shouted, Lazarus, come forth. Now this shouting was done by Jesus not for dramatic effect Because of the prayer that Jesus just prayed for the purpose of those around him, we might think that Jesus is shouting also for the people around him as if he is acting out a play And this also comes from the reality that you and I can both imagine, all of us can imagine, that Jesus could have whispered, or he could have said nothing at all, and Lazarus still would have come forward. But Jesus did say something. And in saying something, we are reminded that all of creation came into being because God spoke. And we are to recall that all creation came under a curse because of the sin of mankind that he brought into the world. Death. Thus, when Jesus shouts for Lazarus to come forth, he is remaking his creation. He is bringing life back into his creation. By Jesus shouting, he is also exhibiting how far his authority goes. It goes down to the bowels of the dead. It goes to the gates of hell. And finally, Jesus shouts because what he did for Lazarus was a precursor to what he will do for every person who believes that he is the resurrection and the life. Jesus will shout us out of our graves. He will shout to all of creation to give up the dead. He will shout so that all of the flesh will be restored on the day of judgment. And the very loving thing Jesus did for Lazarus, he will do for all who believe in him. He called Lazarus from the grave by name. And he will call each of us who believe in him by name from the grave as well. And so all that is done in this story of Lazarus being raised from the dead was for the glory of God to be revealed, and the glory of God to be revealed is that Jesus Is the resurrection and the life. In closing I want us to think of Paul Lazarus just for a moment in regards to what he experienced, what he suffered. He suffered an illness, we don't know what it was, likely, difficult. He then in that illness faced his mortality. I'm going to die. And then he died. He then was raised from the dead. And no doubt celebrated his new life. And yet, sometime later, nobody knows when, but sometime later, he died again. So he faced death twice. I love this quote by C. S. Lewis. Who contemplated the possibility of his wife Joy returning from the dead? Lewis said this I never raised the question whether a return, if it were possible, would be good for her. I want her back as an ingredient of my past. Could I have wished for her anything worse? Having got once through death, to come back, and then at some time later, having all of her dying to do over again? They call Stephen I martyr. Hadn't Lazarus a rarer deal. That's a rather whimsical way to describe the situation of Lazarus. But for the Christian, the point is not that we face death once, twice. The point instead is knowing that Jesus is the resurrection. That was the point of all the details of this story, even for Lazarus, who had to die twice. And for those who mourned him twice, it was all to reveal the glory of God, which is that Jesus is the resurrection and the life. It seems to me that someone ought to break out in song whenever it is proclaimed that Jesus is the resurrection and the life. When I was writing this sermon, every time I wrote Jesus is the resurrection in the life, I thought of trumpets and of choir and beauty. The trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. St. Paul's words to the Corinthians are the words chosen by Handel. He used for his masterpiece, the Messiah. And during this move in the Messiah, as a male tenor is proclaiming those words of St. Paul, of the resurrection The trumpets sound as one along with the tenor. Trumpets are the only true instrument this side of heaven that can adequately announce the resurrection. Jesus is the resurrection, beloved. Feel how real that is. Believe it, and it will be oh so very real for you now and in that day. Amen and Amen. Let us pray.