And thus we are nation raised all the way in third glory. And when we create our ways, will we bless our three boys? In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to the book of Revelation, chapter 4. Really, really, really implore you to follow along. You will get lost in this sermon if you're not following along in the scriptures. There's a great deal of imagery we are trying to understand, and it's important that you read along as I explain it. If a homiletics professor or New Testament scholar was in the congregation this morning I might not do what I am about to do. I'm going to divide chapter 4 of the book of Revelation into two parts. Technically, this should not be done because the whole chapter is a description of one particular scene, and each part is as important as the next. However, and I admit that the however would not satisfy a high-strong PhD, there is simply too much in this chapter to explain and digest in one sermon. The first part we will hear from this morning is covering verses 1 through 6 of chapter 4. The beginning of the chapter brings us into Revelation proper, meaning that what we had had so far has been an epistle or letters to the seven churches. From here on out, the visions that we read are of a different genre and are on a different level spiritually. It cannot be helped by us to notice the juxtaposition between the ending vision of chapter 3 and the beginning vision of chapter 4. In chapter 3, Jesus, you remember, was standing at the door of the church and knocking. In chapter 4, there is a door in heaven standing open. This means that while men have shut the door of the church, leaving the Savior on the other side. God has opened a door up for John and for us so that we might look into heaven. Look into heaven and increase our faith. Because heaven is described as having a door, we can know that it is a place. Because the door can be opened or closed, we are able to conjecture that some will be left out while others allowed in. The one who owns the voice that speaks to John is not identified. But the voice is described as sounding as a trumpet. The sound of a trumpet represents triumphant glory. I'm sure you are like me. I look forward to Mr. Dannevius playing his trumpet. For it provides a triumphant glory feel that we do not get otherwise. Of course, it's especially liked on Easter Sunday. The sound is appropriate on special occasions because it represents something very unique. In this context, it represents the triumphant glory of the Son of God. The triumphant glorious voice tells John to come up. This is not an incidental call. We are called up because that is where God is. The book of Genesis describes the Garden of Eden as up on a mountain from which four rivers flow down. God called Moses up while on the mountain. God gave Moses the commandments while up on the mountain. Jerusalem was a city set on a hill, thus it was up. To be called up is to be where God meets his people. As we worship using the prayer book, you will hear the Sersum Corda as the minister says, Lift up your hearts. And we respond, we lift them up to the Lord. Our sanctuary is built with the communion table and rails elevated because of the call of God to come up to worship. He, God, is high and lifted up, and we come up to him in his response to his call. Looking to the text, we see the phrase, what must come next? I'm sorry, what must take place after this? Such a phrase has caused unfortunate angst between Christians, for some have translated it to be an emphasis on future events. But I remind you that this does not have to be, for it was the first century Christians who were the first audience and the primary benefactors of this vision. They need to know what must happen as well as we need to know. The phrase can simply mean events that will have Have to take place with an emphasis on the word must rather than after. In other words, we are going to hear a description of what God assures is going to happen. What it means for John to be in the Spirit is not clear to us. It is safe to assume that John is explaining how he could be viewing this vision while remaining on the island of Patmos. Nothing more is said about what it is like to be in the Spirit, and so it is safe to say that we are not meant to know. We are to notice that the throne scene next described and the one that sits on it, we are told is like or as, meaning that he cannot be seen by man. And thus he has an appearance to John that can only be a simile of his true being. The three stones identified represent three of the tribes of Israel and are found on the breastplate of the high priest as described in Exodus chapter 28. as well as being mentioned as jewelry that littered the ground of the Garden of Eden, as mentioned by the prophet Ezekiel. Jasper is the first stone on the breastplate and is clear in color, representing purity. While Cornelian was the last stone on the breastplate and is red, representing sacrifice. The emerald is green, representing nature, and symbolizes God redeeming all of his creation. Next is the rainbow, and it is connected symbolically with the emerald For it was the rainbow that was made a promise by the Lord after the flood that he would not judge his creation in the manner of the flood again. The rainbow is a covenant symbol, and here this is important, and here it is described as encircling the throne of God. The fact that it is a circle is greatly significant for us because it ties into the number of elders seated around the throne, as well as the sea of glass. The rainbow circle symbolizes that God's covenant is complete. We normally see the rainbow as a half circle. It is incomplete to our eyes. Now, surrounding the throne is a full rainbow, and as a complete circle, it confirms that what we are seeing is a glorified Christ. The same Christ who has promised to split the eastern sky upon his return. But God had set out to do at the fall of mankind is completed by symbolized by the circular rainbow The circle is closed around the throne of God. The image that John is seeing is not bound by time. It is an image that is eternal. We might wonder when this image is to be realized, and the answer is that it is realized now, but not yet quite. The victory over death and sin of our Lord has always been a heavenly reality. The scripture says that the Son of Man was slain from the foundation of the world. Beloved, what John is being allowed to view and what we are allowed to imagine as he describes it is the end of the puzzle. We are imagining, and John is seeing the completion of God's redemptive work. We are seeing heaven. That idea that this image represents the completion of redemption is further bolstered by the identified number of elders that surround the throne. And nowhere in the Bible is the term elder given to anyone but men. Elder or presbyter designates leaders among the people of God. They are leaders within the church. But why 24? Why 24? We know beginning with the Old Testament that the number 12 represents God's people. There were twelve sons of Jacob who became covenant heads, known as the 12 tribes of Israel. The twelve tribes made up God's chosen people. In comparison, when Jesus walked the earth, he chose twelve apostles. The apostles were given charge of leadership over God's chosen people. The church. Simple addition of God's people represented in the Old Testament and God's people represented in the New Testament, give us a total of twenty-four Thus the elders that surround the throne, in the same manner as the rainbow surrounds the throne, symbolize the old and new covenants coming together in one covenant. What God started and promised through Israel is completed in the church, which Jesus is the head. The adornment of these elders with crowns reminds us of the promise by Jesus to Peter, who had asked about leaving everything to follow Jesus Jesus said that his disciples would receive back in the life after a hundredfold of what they had left behind. He also said that they would be seated next to him. And here they are. The adornment of these elders is duplicated by churches such as our own that have us the custom of presbyters wearing albs while overseeing the service of Holy Communion. The white owl represents the purity of Christ. It is a purity he has himself as well as a purity he provides to us. The white robes point to Christ and point to the heavenly scene around his throne rather than pointing to the man who wears it. It is this church's belief that a man who officiates the worship of Almighty God should be clothed in a manner corresponding with the task assigned to him. You will notice that there is no mention of business suits and ties being worn around the throne or even black robes as some preachers wear. The described visual effects of lightning and thunder capture what is first mentioned in Exodus 19, when the Lord is on Mount Sinai, speaking to his people. From the throne described here and from the mountain described in Exodus, there came flashes of lightning and voices as peals as thunder. These are associated with the awesomeness of God. The effects represent God's presence You remember that his presence was so very awesome before the Israelites that they cowered before him and asked Moses to speak on God's behalf, for they feared God's revealed power. Christians, in contrast, know they can fear God and still be in His presence. Like the lampstands with lamps burning in the holy place in the temple, so there are seven lamps of burning before the throne. The seven lamps are symbolic of the seven spirits of God mentioned in chapter one. This is another reference to the Holy Spirit in his sevenfold fullness of activity. Putting visual and audio effects together, we see that there are three aspects of God's glorious image. His voice is one, his radiant glory is two, and his spirit is the third. The final image we will discuss this morning is the glassy sea. It is a sea of glass, it says, like crystal. To the human eye, nothing can be more pristine and calming than a sea of glass likened to crystal. Many of us dream of sitting on the beach in front of a clear ocean water with waves calmly rolling in. Lakefront property is valuable because of the calming effect water has upon the human spirit, especially when the water is at rest. What we should first notice from this description of this glassy sea is that it is similar, the vision is similar to the one described by the prophet Ezekiel. Ezekiel, however, sees the crystal sea from below, whereas John is seeing this from above. The difference of perspective allows us to conclude that what John is seeing, again, is the finished covenant. It is the kingdom as it is and will be at our resurrection. The description of a glassy sea is also a reference to the peace that Christ will bring to the nations. At creation, you remember, God chose to use land as a symbol of his people and water as a symbol of the nations that threaten his people. At creation, he separated the land and the sea. When he chose Abraham and his descendants, he aligned Abraham with a promised land, and the Gentiles, he aligned them with troubled waters. It was troubled waters that the Lord punished his creation in the flood. It was the lack of fresh water that drove Israel to Egypt. And it was troubled waters that God parted so that his people could be freed from slavery. After 40 years, the Lord then held back troubled waters. Like he hold back troubled nations to allow Israel to cross over into the promised land. The psalmist King David poetically describes the troubled nations as troubled waters in the following verse of Psalm 65. He said to the Lord, You answer us with awesome deeds of righteousness, O God, our Savior, the hope of all the ends of the earth and the farthest seas. Who formed the mountains by your power, having armed yourself with strength, who stilled the roaring of the seas, the roaring of the waves, and the turmoil of the nations. Thus the Crystal Sea is a sea that is calmed by the gospel. Combining all of this imagery allows us to summarize that the power of the gospel brings the plan of salvation to completion As the covenants are brought together and revealed as one, and the peace, the peace that the gospel brings to all the nations The peace provided by the risen and glorified Savior has no ripple. There is no wind that can move it or rock that can disturb it. The image that John sees is that of an ultimate peace. The peace described is a peace that every human soul longs for. Some try to find it in chemicals, others try to find it in gratifying the flesh, still others by forced meditation or good deeds to the earth or to their fellow man. In reality, everlasting peace is provided only by the risen and glorified Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. In C. S. Lewis's series, The Chronicles of Narnia, he repeatedly describes the reaction that people have when they first encounter Aslan. the great lion, who is the Christ-like figure in the stories. The reactions are of great fear, along with a strong sense of comfort and security. The reactions include awe from His Majesty that would cause a person to look away, and at the same time a feeling of warmth. An invitation that causes a person to want to always remain in his presence. It is that reaction that is intended here when we look into heaven. What reaction each reader or listener has is dependent on what you hope for. If your hope is in Christ, it is in this vision that the hope is realized It is in this vision that the hope is of peace. He said, Jesus said to his disciples when he visited them after his resurrection, peace be to you. He says the same as we gaze upon the encircled throne and the crystal sea, he says, peace be to you. The book of Revelation is a book we return to again and again because of images given to us here that cause us to see why we are following Jesus Christ. Allow yourself to be a first century Christian living in Jerusalem, where there is a great deal of tension between Jews and Roman leaders. Tension. Tension that boiled over into a siege, and then into starvation, and then to a slaughter of thousands, and the fear that you feel having witnessed it all. What came to be called the fall of Jerusalem? Such fear is palpable. And then you are given this vision of John Of Jesus on the throne and nations at peace, true and eternal peace. Surely such a vision would stay with you because you need it to bring you peace. Or maybe you are a first century Christian in the city of Corinth. And the Greeks and the Romans don't much care about your faith, but the Jews do. And as a result, they won't share commerce with you and they ridicule you and and bring you up on false charges before the state. And you are hearing about Your leaders, the apostles of the Christian church being killed in horrible ways, like being crucified upside down or pierced through the heart. And you get this letter from the Apostle John, and you read of a door opened in heaven and a throne. And the one who is Jesus sitting on the throne. And Jesus is shining on the throne. And you remember the rainbow. God's promise in Genesis, a full circle, now being fulfilled. And you hear of 24 elders around the throne dressed in clothes of white with golden crowns on their heads. And from the throne comes lightnings and thunder, and you are told of a sea that is like glass, like crystal. And a peace comes over your soul. A peace in the midst of turmoil, a peace in the midst of persecution. A peace given to you because you have seen heaven. Yes. We need these scenes of heaven. And we need to come back to them because that is the reality we strive to experience. That is where our hope lies. See the door of heaven open and know that such vision gives hope for now. And may we never give up on it. Let us pray. My gracious and merciful God, we thank you for being privileged to Read of this vision, to imagine it within ourselves, and to receive that peace that only you can give For this blessing, we thank you, but we pray that you would always bring us back to it when the nations are in turmoil, when our lives are not So smooth that we might see this vision again and be at peace. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.