In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 3. You're looking at verses 1 through 6. Revelation 3, 1 through 6. Of the seven letters written, and unlike the churches addressed thus far There is no praise for Sardis. If you have ever received a complaint from someone about your person And there are no words of praise within the complaint, you find yourself with nothing to grasp onto emotionally to keep yourself steady. In such a predicament, you become desperate for something, anything to hold you steady. You can tell me I am a false prophet. Fine. You can tell me I'm a lousy pastor. Fine. You can tell me that I am a poor leader. Fine. All of this and more you can tell me as long as you give me something to hang on to, to grasp. Just tell me that you like my shoes or my wife, something, anything, and I will hold on to that compliment. Sardis gets nothing There is nothing for which to praise them. This no doubt will bring them low, and obviously low is where God wants them to be. Sardis was a small city just south of Thyatira. It was a city protected by mountains, making it seemingly impervious to enemy attack And yet, the city was overthrown at least twice in its short history twice because the people took too much comfort in what they thought was natural protection around them The history of Sardis is a fitting metaphor for the Christian church established there. They took too much comfort in their lack of persecution, and the enemy overthrew them. We have noticed that the description of Jesus as highly exalted in chapter 1 is continued in each of the seven letters With special emphasis given to specific characteristics, he wants particular churches to notice. Ephesus and Thyatira, for example, were reminded that Jesus has eyes like blazing fire. Those eyes were highlighted because Jesus was emphasizing to those churches that he could see them and that he could sanctify them as he examines them. The fire being the sanctifier. Sardis is reminded that Jesus holds the seven spirits and the seven stars. We learned at the beginning of our study that the seven spirits refers to the seven endowments of the Holy Spirit placed upon the Messiah as told by the prophets. It also tells us that the Spirit of God is within each church. The seven stars represent the church in its fullness, its entirety. Seven represents the universal church, and therefore Jesus holds the whole church in his hands. Because he holds them or it, the church, in his hands, he controls them, it, the church as a whole. Because he controls them, he is sovereign over Sardis. And he is sovereign over the whole Christian church. And the people of Sardis needed to know this. Jesus begins his address to Sardis' particular situation by referring to their reputation. They had the reputation of being alive. Contemporary Christians continue to use such an expression to describe other Christians. We speak about certain people or churches being alive in the faith or dead in the faith. To be alive in the faith is to be expressive in word and active in deed. A person who says, praise the Lord a lot, and is active in his or her church is thought by others to be alive. A person who does not mention the Lord and shows no evidence of being a Christian unless asked is thought to be dead. Today, churches are given the reputation of being alive if they have outreach programs, activities for families, lively worship, and large attendance numbers. What gave the Church of Sardis the reputation of being alive is not mentioned. But the important point being made was that their reputation was mistaken. What others thought of them was incorrect. They were dead. Even though we admit we cannot judge the heart of another man and confess that only God can. We remain guilty of looking on the outward and concluding that what we see on the outside is what's going on on the inside as well. The outward appearance of Sardis caused other Christians to conclude that the church was alive with faith. Perhaps it was large attendance. Perhaps they had members who were civic leaders. Perhaps they said, praise the Lord a lot. Whatever the cause, other Christians understood Stardust to have a faith that they did not have. The Lord looks at the heart, and the heart of the Christians at Sardis was dead. The remedy for the dead condition of Sardis reminds us again how simple the Christian life can be. Wake up, he says. Like the citizens who should have been ready for an attack, wake up! The Christians are unaware of their dead state. They are caught up in their own perception of themselves. They think they are alive, but are revealed by the definition of God to be dead men walking. In one sense, we all live in our own perception of reality. We think of ourselves differently than others perceive us. We think we are in the right regarding a particular subject when many around us think we are wrong. We might perceive ourselves to be brighter than we are or more handsome than we are. The real danger is not being in your own reality, it is being in your own reality and not acknowledging that you are. When we are in such a state, it is necessary for us to wake up. Wake up. A problem with the command wake up is how such phrasing is used today. Those who consider themselves woke. Perceive themselves to be awake while the generation before them and every generation before them is asleep. Jesus points to Christians in Sardis. And he tells them that you might think you are woke, but you are not. After waking up in response to the voice of the Lord, we are to strengthen what remains, he says This instruction is similar to the emphasis we placed on the Lord's message to Thyatira to hang on to what they had. This is based on the principle that we cannot mature in every way at once. The things we can mature in We are to do so quickly in order that we might have a foundation upon which we can build. We're an individual it may be that While the moral constitution has broken down, there is still a belief in the righteousness of God and the power of the blood of Jesus Christ. That belief needs to be strengthened in order that all might not be lost. Once faith is strengthened, it can be built upon so that a person's moral constitution might improve. For a church, it may be that the practices are in place so that worship is God-honoring and programs are meeting the earthly needs of the people But these do not involve faith in what is hoped for and a conviction of that which is not seen. The answer for such a church is not, as some have erroneously concluded. To cast out the practices of something and include something that is contemporary. The answer, according to our Lord, is to strengthen the practices you have, to strengthen what remains, and then build upon it. Once again I submit, as I did two weeks ago, that God's people are to long for the old paths, for those old paths were effectual to the salvation of men. The instruction of our Lord goes on with the notification that he has found the deeds of the church incomplete. This charge can be placed on most, if not all, churches, for each branch of Christ's church has its strengths and weaknesses. We see it in our denomination. The Reformed Episcopal Church, for example, rightly emphasizes reverent worship. And biblical doctrine, but is poor in my estimation at sending out and supporting missionaries both locally and abroad. Abroad, we only have a few that fall under the jurisdiction of our denomination. Locally, we are slow in planting churches. How often I hear from you and those who have moved from us the difficulty in finding churches that have what we have. If we believe that what we practice is God honoring and what we believe leads to the salvation of men, we ought to be planting churches in our surrounding communities. That we do not is, in my estimation, how we are incomplete. Where Sardis is incomplete is not known. It's not said. It is fitting with the holiness of the Lord that he does not publicly write down where the people of Sardis are incomplete. He tells them they are, and if they are honest with themselves, they will know what he is speaking about. Like King David, Christians are to pray these words Search me, God, and know my heart. Try me and know my ways. And then when God does, to accept it and repent from it. Only pride prevents us from offering up such a prayer, and the same pride will keep us out of glory. For the remedy for being incomplete is to remember what they have received and heard. After remembering, they are to obey it and at the same time repent for not obeying it to begin with. As with the first remedy, we are shown again how simple the Christian life is. To repent is to turn away from the direction one is going. If you believe one way and you repent, it means you now believe the opposite way. If you are behaving one way and you repent, it means that you behave the opposite way. The Christian life can be described in the following manner. Jesus Christ is the Son of God who died for the sins of men. Believe in him. Followers of Jesus Christ are baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Be baptized. Christians are to obey the commandments of God while they wait for his second coming. Obey His laws and wait for Him. The only reason such a life becomes complicated is when a person who says they are Christian or wants to be Christian lives by the flesh rather than the spirit. Our flesh provides excuses as to why we cannot believe or obey at this time or at that time or any time in the future. Circumstances in life become excuses that place the Christian life on hold. Because sinners live by their flesh so often they try to become Christian by their flesh. They try to live by the laws of God using the strength of their flesh. They fail and conclude that it does not work for them when all the while the one who holds the seven spirits is able to empower them. To receive the power of the Spirit, the sinner must wake up. Wake up to the call of Christ. Wake up to the simple trust and obedience that is needed to be saved. Wake up and repent for being asleep. Repent for being dead. The warning to those who are asleep Is that the Lord Himself will come to them like a thief, meaning at a time they do not expect? If they are not ready, their eternity is sealed. The coming that our Lord describes here is not necessarily his second coming, where the eastern sky is split, and all will bow before him, and the dead will rise. Instead, his second coming can refer to a specific coming, which means that he comes to specific people at a specific time. And we can think of it in this way. If you are struck down today or tomorrow by an accident or a disease that takes your life, in a very real sense, the Lord has come to you. And the coming of the Lord to us includes more than this: more than his second coming or the point of our death. It will occur when we do not expect it. And we are to expecting it, we are to be ready. An example I've used before is an instance such as driving down the road. You become tired and perturbed with the slow driver ahead of you, and so you honk and you make disgusted expressions. And when you finally are able to pass, you look at them and give them a scowl of your disapproval, only to realize to your embarrassment that the person you are passing is the neighbor to whom you have been trying to witness your Christian faith. In that instance, Jesus has come to you and you were not ready. I've been not ready a lot of times Jesus could come to us in the form of a beggar, employer, stranger, or person who is ill. If we do not receive him, then we were not ready. The good news in the address to Sardis is that there are those in the church, a few at least, that have not fallen asleep. A few are not dead. A few are ready. The image of soiled clothes is in contrast to the white robes promised to believers as a symbol of purity. that the blood of Christ accomplishes. The image of Christians dressed in white is repeated in Revelation. The reason these faithful are mentioned is to cause us to recall how God consistently holds a remnant for Himself We've been studying that in Romans and it reminds us of the prophet Elijah and those that God kept back from worshiping Baal. God always keeps a remnant. For those who have remained faithful, the risen Savior provides encouragement. The squeaky wheel gets most of the attention in this life. In the kingdom of God, the quiet wheel gets just as much. The Lord knows the deeds of the quiet ones. He is well aware that you have remained faithful. He says to the man who has worked most of his adult life at the same job to provide for the family that he is pleased. He says to the man who has been faithful to his one wife all their married days, that he is honored. He says to the man, Who ha who was in church whenever physically possible and paid his tithe habitually that a robe of white is waiting He says the same thing to a woman who devotes her life to raising her children in the faith instead of making a career for herself He says the same to the woman who submits to a husband that is not always kind or caring. He says the same to those who visit the sick or serve soup to the poor with no recognition and no expectations. These people and many others like them do not get the attention that the boisterous sinners and the self-proclaimed saints do in this life But our Lord promises to honor them much greater in the life to come. In his promise to those who have And we'll remain faithful. The call for the sinner to wake up and for the faithful to be strengthened come together They come together in his promise that he will not blot out the names of those who are faithful from the book of life. The reference to the Book of Life has cultural and Old Testament significance. Culturally, the Book of Life was the register of the living in every town. When a citizen died, you simply erased the name. In the Old Testament, the book of life is the register of God's people. In the case of the Christians at Sardis, like the books of every town, if a member of the church were dead, then his name would be erased. For those who were faithful, Jesus promises their names would remain. Implied in the promise is the possibility that Christians from Sardis could lose their salvation. Having their names blotted out of the book of life, if they do not wake up. This implied possibility has caused some to conclude that Christians can lose their salvation. Although such a conclusion goes against our Lord's promise that those who are his will not be cast out, and nothing can separate us from his love, and that those he has chosen he will save Still, some believe salvation can be lost. Otherwise, they reason God would not imply it as a possibility. In response, we must realize that such implied warnings are not for causing insecurity or to end the salvation where God has begun in us. Direct warnings or implied warnings are a means by which God stirs up the hearts of the faithful. It is how He wakes the faithful up who have slumbered. Those who are not God's people will continue in their ways. Those who are God's people will hear the warning and respond appropriately. The summary instruction for the church is simply wake up and strengthen what you have. Although the church has sinned, there is opportunity to turn around. The true believer will hear the call to wake up and do so. The unbeliever will continue to sleep regardless of how loud the alarm goes off. It can be said loud or soft. It can be said with implied warning. In the end, only those who have ears will hear. Thus I can say I can say it softly, and still the faithful will hear. Wake up and strengthen what you have. Amen. We continue in our worship by the giving of our tithes and our offerings, and we're mindful that the Lord loves a cheerful gifts.