In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to the Book of Revelation. The Book of Revelation, chapter 2, we're looking at the second letter. To of the seven letters to the seven churches, Revelation chapter two, beginning at verse eight This second letter begins as the first, which is addressing the angel assigned to the church identified. Interestingly, the word angel simply means messenger, and because of that, some scholars have noted the possibility Of these seven letters being written to the pastors of each church who were deemed messengers If that is the case, then your pastor can be considered an angel in your life. And your reaction is similar to when I suggested the same twenty years ago. Nothing much has changed. Smyrna was a city due north of Ephesus, only 35 miles. It too was a port city and thus a strategic one for war and for trade. Polycarp, a disciple of John the Revelator himself Was a bishop there and was martyred for his Christian faith. Jesus introduces himself in a similar manner as chapter 1. With an emphasis on him being divine. He says he is the first and the last. And the emphasis also on overcoming death by resurrection. It may be asked why would those two things, those two attributes, be important to the Christians as Smyrna? Well, Christians at Smyrna were suffering persecution for their faith in Jesus Christ. To know that Jesus suffered even to the point of death, death on a cross, is a most helpful reference point. To point to and to hold up when suffering, as well as knowing that he suffered even though he was divine. Next, because Jesus has eyes of fire, which enables him to see the bad and judge it and the good and reward it, Jesus tells him that he sees them. He sees them, saying that he knows their works, tribulation, and poverty. Their works include living out the gospel, which is having faith in the good news that Jesus is the Christ, and that to follow Him is to love Him, and to love Him is to obey Him. Jesus said himself that if you love me, you will keep my commandments. And it is because of their work that they suffer tribulation. The first to persecute the Christians were Jewish, as this is well recorded in the book of Acts. We first read of the apostles being thrown in prison by order of the high priest only to be miraculously freed. We next read of Stephen being accused of blasphemy and then being stoned after confronting the hypocrisy of the Jewish religious leaders. After Paul's conversion, he is the target of many conspiracies to kill him because he confounded Jewish arguments, proving that Jesus is the Messiah. Herod, wanting to please the Jews, decided to get in on the persecution, killing James the Apostle. Wherever Paul went, there were Jewish leaders trying to quiet him and stone him, but God kept giving Paul a way of escape. But the people who converted to Christianity in the cities that Paul was chased away from were left for persecution. And again, most of it came from Jewish religious leaders, and most of the persecuted were Jewish having converted to Christianity. And one of the tactics of persecution was what we would call today canceling. Christians were financially frozen out of society. The Jewish leaders convinced Jewish businessmen not to exchange with Christians. That is why Jesus also, he says, knows of their poverty. Their work is their faith in Jesus. Their tribulation are because of the Christian faith, and their poverty is because of their tribulation. And Jesus knows who the persecutors are. Now before I continue, I need to make a disclaimer, especially in light of the anti-Semitism that has been spewed by certain entertainers of our day. When I refer to Jews in the context of the book of Revelation, I am mostly referring to Jewish religious leaders. And I am most certainly not saying that the Jewish people as a race are guilty of persecuting Christians, nor am I saying that they behave as a cohesive unit So the persecutors Jesus knows are the blasphemers, and they are blasphemers because they say they are Jews, which is to say they are the people of God. But they are not, and in fact, they are actually of the synagogue of Satan. Such is harsh language indeed, and harsh language for any culture or of any generation, but especially our generation that sits on this side of the Jewish Holocaust. To better understand the divide between early Jews and Christians, we must know our history better. As Paul wrote to the Corinthians, the Christians were an embarrassment to the Jews First, the Hellenistic world thought that Christians were just another sect of the Jews After all, the first to follow and proclaim Jesus as the Messiah were Jewish. And they continued to worship in the synagogues and appear at the temple while also worshiping as Christians. And so no wonder the confusion. And this confusion embarrassed the Jews, who could not accept that God Would become flesh, and most certainly could not accept that he would purposefully subjugate himself to the powers of men. And the Christians wouldn't leave the Jews alone. Every time the apostles would go to a new town, they would go into the synagogue and preach Jesus as the Messiah. They were a nuisance. And if you can get rid of a nuisance, you do so. This meant that Christians were to be persecuted, and Jewish people were warned. Not to befriend them, not to do business with them, and certainly not to convert and become like them. Know this also. The Christians believed themselves, and they should have believed, that they were the chosen people of God. The Jews were also the people of God, but to believe in Jesus was to fulfill all that was promised in Judaism. To believe in Jesus as the Messiah is to believe that the promised seed that will crush the serpent's head, as prophesied in Genesis 3, that had been fulfilled. To believe in Jesus is to see how God's promise that the kingdom of Israel will come from the line of David and reign forever. Has also been fulfilled for Jesus is of that lineage, and Jesus will reign forever and ever. To believe in Jesus is to have the same faith as Father Abraham Which is a saving faith. So a Christian saw themselves as a do complete. To deny Jesus is to be incomplete, and then to speak against Jesus, well, that's taking the side of the devil, and that must be condemned. And the source of unbelief needs to be identified. And the source is Satan, hence the phrase, the synagogue of Satan. To say that such is unkind or even anti-Semitic is to not understand the times it was written And to forget that Jesus himself was a Jew, as was John, who was given this letter to write down. It was never about being a Jew physically. But about being a Jew spiritually, which was and is to be under the covenant God established with Abraham and fulfilled in Jesus. Remember when Jesus said this in John eight forty-four? You You are of your father the devil, and the desires of your father you want to do. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own resources, for he is a liar and the father of it. Jesus said such to a crowd of Jewish people. And interestingly, in that text, prior to Jesus saying that The text says that the people following him believed in him as the Messiah. But the higher his standards became to follow him, They started to resist, and in their resistance, they clung to the fact that they were Jewish, claiming that Abraham was their father. Thus, in their doubt, they went back to leaning on their ethnicity, and Jesus would not have it. Within the harshness of Jesus' words, we can learn just how serious faith in Him is, and how serious it is not to have faith in Him. I don't think I can overstate how important it is to have faith in Jesus as the Christ, and to confess that same faith to all who would hear. The Apostle Paul went to great lengths in his letter to the Romans to explain how having faith in Jesus as the Messiah was God's plan all along. And that Abraham himself had such a saving faith, and thus God made him righteous. So too does God make righteous those who confess Jesus as Savior and God. And the opposite is also true. If you do not have faith and do not confess Jesus as the Christ, your soul is under the authority of the devil, and hell is your destination. Remember these words of Jesus. Therefore, whoever confesseth me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. The word therefore announces the crux of the matter. He comes after Jesus telling his disciples to shout. what he says from the rooftops. And then like we discussed two weeks ago when we spoke of Jesus being judge. He tells his followers not to fear those who can harm the body, but to fear that which can harm the body and soul. And that is to say we are to fear Jesus. The point is that if you shout what he says from the rooftops, some people, perhaps many, are not going to want to hear it. Sinners who want to remain sinners do not like to have their sin pointed out. That is why sinners want their sin to be made culturally normative. Normalized sin calms the conscience. Christians are a threat to the conscience when they insist that certain behaviors, certain beliefs, are an abomination to God. Our culture's abandonment of the concept of absolute morality has been a slow gas leak, undetected, and quite an accomplishment by the devil himself. Even though not everyone agrees with our cultural confusion of gender and gender roles and what sexual immorality actually is. There is an acceptance of such confusion because it allows for people's personal fetishes to be acceptable as well. For example, a person may not agree with homosexuality being normative, but such acceptance of sexual immorality allows His conscience to be free while living with his girlfriend or having multiple partners. The logic is: whatever calms my conscience is acceptable. And the devil smiles at such a conclusion. To have a true faith in Jesus Is to agree with his moral standards, which are clearly stated in the Ten Commandments and further expanded upon in the Sermon on the Mount Which teaches that such commandments are to be internal as well as external. To have faith in Jesus is to do so outwardly as well as which is to I'm sorry, to have faith in Jesus is to do so outwardly as well, which is to confess it. To publicly confess him and not be ashamed. There was a story rumored back in the nineteen eighties. It might have been before that, but that's when I heard it. When the government in China was trying to slow Bible trafficking in China, and many underground Christian churches were starting up and growing It was told that in that country in those years a government official broke into a Christian worship service just beginning and pointed a gun at those who were attending the worship And threatened to kill everyone there for their insurrection against the state, and that if they wanted to remain alive, they would leave immediately. Some did, and some stayed. And when those who feared death over fearing God left, the government agent put down his gun and said, Now we can begin the service. Such a scenario allows us with our imagination to place ourselves in such a position and to question: what would we do? We cannot know for sure, but we certainly can want to be the ones who stayed and to accept their end if it meant confessing Jesus as Savior and God After Jesus warns against denying him before men, he says the following: Do not think that I came to bring peace on earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I have come to set a man against his father, a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies will be those in his own household. He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he who loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he who does not take his cross and follow after me is not worthy of me. He who finds his life will lose it, and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. I ask, is there or has there been anyone more radical than Jesus He sold out his life for the sake of the salvation of those who would confess him, and he expects those who follow him to sell out as well. I don't know how else it can be explained or understood. And why his followers must be sold out is if they are going to be tested. Jesus tells those in Smyrna that the devil is about to throw some of them into prison, and that experience will test their faith. Will they still love Jesus while suffering? That had yet to be determined. The ten days he mentions is a reference to the ten days Daniel and his companions were tested. It is symbolic of such testing having a determined end. The end reward for remaining faithful is the crown of life, which is heaven. Which is being in the presence of God with all beauty and glory for eternity. And the opposite is true To not remain faithful to the end of our days is to suffer the second death, and that second death is described elsewhere as wailing, weeping, and gnashing of teeth. Now, I've been calling us to confess Jesus and to do so publicly, but when confessing Jesus, we are not called to be donkeys about it The cashier at the grocery store doesn't need to know you love Jesus unless you are asked, or it's a natural part of your conversation. To say, I believe in Jesus to someone who is not asking or caring is not what it means to confess him before men. What it does mean is that in every live context where we are given opportunity to testify what we believe and who we follow, we are to state it. And to take whatever consequences are required. That is what it means for a Christian to overcome. I close with the reminder of how powerful God has made speech. He used words to create something, the universe, out of nothing, the void. God is characterized by his speaking and his acting, and both of them being indistinguishable. That is why it is fitting for Jesus to be called the Word of God, for his actions and his words mirror themselves. And the same is to be for us who follow him. Our words and our actions are to be the same. What we confess, we believe, is to be mirrored by the lives we live. There is no other Christianity. Let us pray. A gracious God. For the standard you put before the church at Smyrna For the standard you set for us, all of us. All of us are convicted to live by. And we know you've given us the spirit of authority and power to live such lives. May we never be cowardice to not confess you before men, and may our lives follow that confession. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.