In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Peace be seated. Starting a new series of sermons. This Sunday and I have seen a popular thing to do in megachurches is to have a series of sermons and they have fancy titles I've ran across one, a brand new you. Does that sound enticing? How about miracles, signs, and wonders? And receive the anointing. Well, my the title of of my series of sermons is The Ramblings of a Rector. Right? Catchy? Draws a lot of people in. Yeah, I'm gonna be rambling this summer about a lot of things. And today it's about our conscience. A repeated misguided perspective, and we can call it a sin, amongst God's people, is to believe That if they received no immediate rebuke or punishment for a sin committed, then God must not be concerned about it. What many people fail to recognize is how sin begets sin, especially when it is not immediately rebuked or there are no clear negative consequences. Hear this rebuke from a psalm of Asaph, Psalm 50, starting at verse 16. But to the wicked God says, What right have you to declare my statutes or take my covenant in your mouth, seeing you hate instruction and cast my words behind you? When you saw a thief, you consented with him, and have been a partaker of adulterers. You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit You sit and speak against your brother. You slander your own mother's son. These things you have done and I kept silent. You thought that I was altogether like you But I will rebuke you and set them in order before your eyes. A lesson from such words is: be not fooled by God's silence. Be not fooled by God's silence. Because simple men have their heads down, they only believe that rewards in life and punishments in life will come from what is down. What is of the earth and not from above where God rewards and where God prepares his judgments I'm aware that some of you will get riled up about what I'm about to say, but I need to say it to make a following point. I Don't conclude that it is a sin to go over the speed limit while driving, because it is not a moral sin, but it is instead a wrongdoing against man-made laws And not God's laws. Now there's a fair response to that statement that says that St. Paul teaches us in Romans 13 to obey our governing authorities. And yes, it does say that. But governing authorities have laws for various reasons, and Paul was actually breaking Roman law by preaching the gospel and was put into prison for it. Allowing us to conclude that the laws of men can be broken, only we are to accept the consequences of the laws we break. If I go over the speed limit and I get pulled over by a policeman and he gives me a ticket for speeding, that would be a just thing to happen. And I would be obligated to pay the fine because that would be obeying my governing authorities. But let me give you a more simple example. Let's say I am playing in a football game. And I'm trying to block for my teammate. And the guy I am blocking is getting by me, and so I hold his jersey. In doing so, I broke a rule of the game placed there by the governing authorities of the game, and therefore I disobeyed my governing authorities. A referee sees it and throws a flag, and the punishment is a 10-yard penalty against me and my team. I did a wrong thing. I suffered the consequences for it. Almost sounds the same as going over the speed limit. But going back to my example of going over the speed limit, I must acknowledge that if my steaming endangers other people's lives, then that adds a moral component to it that would make it a sin against God because I was not loving my fellow man. So I need to be honest with myself when I go over the speed limit and ask. Is the place I am speeding safe Is the traffic in which I am speeding congested? And are conditions on the road in which I am speeding dangerous? If the answer is yes to any of those concerned, then I am obligated by God's moral law and man-made law, to not speed. Of course, the risk of hurting someone is always a reality when driving, regardless of your speed limit. For life itself is a risk as we function in this world. But we are to weigh our risks to see if they are reasonable or unreasonable. But here is the thing with speeding. If I speed and I don't get pulled over and thus I don't have to pay a fine, the likelihood of me speeding again is greater. It is the same with my football analogy. A player who doesn't get a penalty for a rule violation is going to do it again. He will do it again and again until he gets caught, and the penalty hurts his team. The reality is the driver who speeds and the football player who holds will only be detoured if the punishment for the infraction has too high of a cost. The driver who speeds stops speeding when his license could be revoked. The football player stops holding when a penalty he receives causes his team to lose. It is the same way with people that Asaph rebuked in his psalm. They won't stop sinning until God punishes And the point of all these analogies is that it should not be the same for Christians. We should not have to wait until we are punished. From chapter 9 of Hosea, for those who have been participating in our weekly Bible study, will recall that we learned that Israel Thought they could rejoice because their harvest of wheat and wine had come in, and such made them conclude that God was happy with them. But Hosea called out their sin, telling them they have played the harlot by worshiping foreign gods. But ASAP teaches us And what Hosea points out is that God's people are not to base their behavior or way of thinking based on what they see outwardly, but they are to examine themselves inwardly. And to be honest as to whether they are living by faith, which is to live by the conscience God has given them. The context of the passage read from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, you may recall from other studies done from 1 Corinthians, but for those who have forgotten, I will explain. From what we gather from history and from the text itself, there were Christians in Corinth who in their past lives, lives before they were called to follow Jesus, That found them worshiping in Greek temples and participating in temple rituals, which included eating meat and drinking wine that was offered to idols Paul reminds such people that with them being now Christians, they could not participate in such rituals anymore because they would be mixing the food they consumed To idols with holy communion, making them no different than their former selves and no better than the Israelites during the time of Hosea. To do so, to mix the two, would be a burden to the heart of God. Next, Paul moves into an area of examination that the people of Corinth may have Been brought up in the form of a question asked of him or regarding something he had heard about them. It seems that the practice of the Greeks was to take the meat left over from the idol worshipping and to sell it in the marketplace for anyone's consumption. Such became confusing to Christians who did not participate in the worship of idols, but didn't know if buying meat that was used for idol worship would make them idol worshipers. It is a guilt by association question that many Christians work to understand even today. For example, we live in a country that allows abortions and euthanasia. We can legally kill the youngest among us and the oldest among us and the depressed among us With no apparent, and I emphasize apparent consequences. Being a citizen of such a state and country Are we as guilty of such sins just as those who want such killings to be legal? And the answer is to such a question: no. And it has to be a no because of Jesus himself, who paid taxes, taxes to an empire that enslaved people, killed innocent people, raped and pillaged other nations, and oppressed the poor. If Jesus were guilty by association, there would have been no sinless sacrifice for sin, and we are then still hopeless. But Jesus was sinless and a fulfillment of the prophecy from Jeremiah, who promised a new revelation in God's covenant. In Jeremiah chapter 31, we read, In those days it will no longer be said, the fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the teeth of the children are set on edge. Instead, each will die for his own iniquity. If anyone eats the sour grapes, his own teeth. Will be set on edge. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. It will not be like the covenant I made with their fathers when I took them by the hand and led them out of the land of Egypt. A covenant they broke, though I was a husband to them, declares the Lord But this is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, declares the Lord, I will put my law in their mind and inscribe it on their hearts And I will be their God, and they will be my people The point of the great synology is that each person under the covenant of Jesus will be responsible for his own sin and his sin only. Thus, Jesus is not responsible for the sins of Rome, nor was he made unclean by them, and we are not responsible for the sins of our fellow man, nor are we made unclean by them. But notice, but notice what we will be responsible for. The prophecy says that God will write his law on the minds and hearts of his people. God will speak to each of his followers directly so that they can know how God's law is to be applied in their lives. Now looking back at 1 Corinthians 10, notice how Paul applies the freedom to not be responsible for the sins of others. He says in verse 23, all things are lawful for him, meaning that the law does not restrict him regarding what he can eat. And where it is from. However, he says, not all things are helpful. All things he is free in Christ Jesus to do, but those same things he is free to do Do not always edify. And where he is going is to convince Christians who also feel feel free in Christ to not automatically and in every situation practice that freedom Which in this case is eating meat once offered to idols. And the reason, notice the reason. The reason is because of the conscience of others. Such teaching and such living is truly the application of the teachings of Jesus who told his followers to take up their own cross, which is what they are to die to in order to follow him. It is to think of others before yourselves. It is to assume that you are to sit in the back of the banqueting table and not the front Paul describes the same when he says, let no one seek his own, but each one the other's well-being. Although such a point is a powerful one and a high standard to live up to, that is actually not where I want this sermon to go. The final point I want to make from this passage and from the Old Testament passages we have read is how important it is for the Christian to live by his or her own conscience. The main reason we are to live according to our conscience is so that we would be obedient to God by obeying the law He has placed in our hearts. Living by faith alone and being obedient to God seem to be in tension with one another, but we know St. James in his epistle teaches our obedience to God as a fruit and a sign that we are living by faith. Paul proclaims to Christians that all of us who follow Jesus are created for good works. Such good works bring glory to God and actually bless us in this life. As I preached last week, we are free to be motivated to do good work because we love God and because He promises us reward. He wants reward to motivate us. And so it should. Receive this example. Good marriages are not good because the husband and wife are self-righteous. They are good because the husband works at resisting the temptation to lust towards other women who are not his wife. Good marriages are good because the wife chooses to submit to her husband in all circumstances. Good marriages are good because the husband examines how he is treating his wife as compared to how Jesus loves the church. And where he is failing, he owns up to it, confesses it as sin, seeks forgiveness from his wife, and they forgive one another whenever there is a breakdown. Living obediently in such a manner results in having God-fearing children who also seek to be obedient to God and eventually love their spouses as God instructs. And the result is that a lot of laughter when the families get together, and a lot of smiles watching grandchildren playing together, with every hope that they will be obedient to what God says as well Such is a reward from God. The other main reason why we need to live according to our conscience is how we will eventually ignore the voice of our conscience entirely if we think we can compromise our conscience on a case-by-case basis Using the example I gave earlier, compromising our conscience while not receiving any immediate negative consequences makes it easier and easier to compromise the next time. Remember, the one who speeds and receives no ticket will speed again. The one who breaks the rules of a game and receives no negative consequences will break the rules again. But as Christians, we are to obey the voice of the Lord, the law written on our hearts, not because of negative consequences, but because we love God and want his rewards. Now, an objection to what I have been proclaiming could be to give doubt as to how we can know for certain that what our conscience is telling us is what the Holy Spirit is telling us. How can a Christian know that our conscience is reminding us of God's law and not man-made laws? Let's examine such a concern with some examples in the negative first. In the negative first. If a person is tempted to dishonor his father and mother because he perceives they are unjust, we can conclude from the fifth commandment that such temptation is not of the Holy Spirit. If a person hears a voice saying, lie to your boss, don't get caught, lie. Because of the ninth commandment, we can say again, that's not of the Holy Spirit. If we are contemplating covering evidence for your sin because you want to maintain a certain reputation, there was no example in Holy Scripture ever of guiding his people to do such a cover-up If we are true to our conscience, we know that to be true. And let us now look at it from a positive perspective. If I have the opportunity to go to a rodeo on the Lord's Day, Sunday morning. Versus attending worship at church, and my conscience prods me to choose to worship the Lord. Such prodding will never be of the devil or your own flesh. If you have the opportunity to gossip to your dear friend about a person you and your friend do not like, and your conscience tells you to pray for the person you don't like instead of gossiping about her That will not be a demon speaking to you. If a person is upset at you and you perceive he is unjust when upset at you, and you have the opportunity to defend yourself and prove this person wrong. But your conscience is reminded that the Bible says, be quick to listen and slow to speak. Such a reminder is not from the devil. It's not from your own flesh. It's from the Holy Spirit. It's the law of God written on your heart. In truth, listening and walking according to our conscience is not complicated, or at least not complicated, if we don't ground our conscience with compromising. I close with a qualifier that I am not simply saying, as Jiminy Cricket sang to Pinocchio, that all persons should always let their conscience be their guide. Although Disney back then did have a conscience, a Christian ethic as opposed to today. Our conscience can only be our guide When it is the Holy Spirit who is writing the law of God on our hearts, so that we willingly are walking according to said law. It is being obedient with ourselves, knowing that we are going against our conscience. A conscience that is speaking to us God's truth And when we are honest with ourselves that such is indeed what we are being tempted to do, to go against our conscience, we are then to strive to be true to our conscience, to be true to God, to be true to ourselves. As Paul says, for our conscience' sake, let us pray My gracious God, we accept this standard. The standard to be careful about other people's consciences, but also our own For we know your law has been written on our hearts. You have chosen us. You have made us your people. And now we ask you to help us in our weakness that we might obey that conscience and thus obey your law. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.