In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our focus this morning will be primarily on 2 Corinthians chapter 11. We will also be touching on our gospel reading, Luke chapter 8. When I was a boy of 13 years, I watched a movie that inspired me and that it helped me focus on what I wanted to be and do as a young man The movie was called One-on-One, starring Robbie Benson and Annette O'Toole. It was about a young man who had received a basketball scholarship from a major university being a basketball star in high school. Coming from a small town to a large university was a difficult transition, and the Robbie Benson character named Henry Steele didn't play well. The coach was disgusted with Henry's play, and so he tried to force him to quit the team and give up his scholarship. Meanwhile, Henry was falling in love with his tutor, played by Annette O'Toole. In a scene of romance, Annette's character named Janet calls college sports garbage. Henry responds with the following: quote, Maybe college sports, the way they are run, is garbage. But playing sports and sports itself is beautiful. You see, when I am working out and I hear myself and I feel it and it hurts and I don't think I can take one more step. And then I do. I know my legs are listening to something inside of me, something I didn't even know existed. Such a line echoed with me and stayed with me through my high school and college days And I still think of it when I am working out or playing a sport, and my body yells within me, stop, rest, quit. And the same lines, the same lines from that movie came back to me as I read the epistle and gospel lesson for this week. The Apostle Paul didn't know what was inside of him until he did what God was calling him to do. And he was able to do it. And I know that it is true for all of us who call ourselves Christians. We can be pushed beyond limits that we have set upon ourselves. So let us look at what Saint Paul endured as described in 2 Corinthians and see where we fit in when it comes to being pushed beyond limits that we set upon ourselves Our reading picks up at verse 19, but it is necessary to know that Paul was previously addressing the presence of men within the Corinthian church That were calling themselves apostles and therefore proclaiming to have the same authority, if not more authority, than St. Paul. He points out, Paul does, that he came preaching the gospel free of charge while the others expected a wage. He next pointed out that their deeds were not righteous, nor did they endure suffering for the sake of the gospel. He next apologizes for what he is about to explain, but he sees it necessary to prove his calling as an apostle so that the Christians at Corinth would not be led astray by false teachers. Again, picking up at verse 19. And there we find biting sarcasm. Modern ears don't appreciate this type of language, and many would stop reading because of the offense But Paul is goading them to make them angry in order to get their attention, in order to get them to see just how serious a thing it is to listen to false teachers. Jesus said that we would know false teachers by their fruit, which is a way which is the way which they live Well, these false teachers sacrificed nothing while also wanting to be compensated. In contrast, Paul sacrificed everything and asked for nothing. Thus the fruit between the two should have been obvious. Verses twenty and twenty-one The sophist philosophers of that day, traveling philosophers, were rough on their audiences. The people of Corinth were allowing themselves to be abused by these speakers who tried to humble their audiences in order to convince them that what they had to say was better than anything they had previously heard. Paul did not come to them berating them, and from some people's perspective that showed that he was weak. But he could be bold if they think that is what would be convincing. Verse 22. The false teachers obviously made a great deal about their themselves being authentic Jews. But Paul was first a disciple of Gamile, a Pharisee that was very respected in the day, as we read in the book of Acts. Paul was a student of the Pharisee of the Pharisees, therefore he could make the same boast. Verse 23. What follows is a more elaborate list than what was already given in chapter 6. Here is described the hardships of the apostle's life As proof of the privilege he considered it was to serve Jesus while he was given the empowerment to do so. The false teachers obviously saw Paul's suffering as a sign of his weakness. He saw it, and he wanted the Corinthians to see it as a sign of God's strength. Verse 24. We remember that forty lashes was the maximum allowed in the Old Testament law. The rabbinical principle was to give 39 so as to assure of not breaking the law by miscounting. To judge in such a manner is similar to our system that considers certain laws broken to garner certain many days in jail. Thus, certain laws broken earned a certain amount of lashes. What was not taken into consideration in every situation was that there were given lashes to an innocent man. Verse 25. Rods were used by the Romans for beating. So Paul got it from the Jews and from the Romans. And he shouldn't have been beaten as a Roman citizen, but we know from the book of Acts and first century evidence that citizenship did not always protect a person as it should have. Verse 26. One scholar has calculated that Paul would have traveled nearly 10,000 miles, making the trips that we know about in the New Testament. He would have shared the roads with and ships with governing officials, pilgrims, letter carriers, sightseers, runaway slaves, athletes, businessmen, teachers, and students. In just this one verse, we learn that all that Paul did is not actually recorded in the book of Acts, for there is only recorded one shipwreck. But because of the Pax Romana, or what we know as the Roman peace, and because of their infrastructure that provided significant roads to every known region, Traveling the Roman Empire was done by many and done often, and yet not without its dangers. With St. Paul's travels, we add the danger of bringing a controversial message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. So he had also to deal with the wrath of mobs in the streets and the cities in which he preached. Verse 27 Paul gave all of himself on behalf of the gospel. He held nothing back In this, of course, he was a faithful servant of his master, which resulted in him losing nights to prayer and many times going without food and drink because of the calling God had placed on his life. Verse 28. His motivation for suffering in all of these manners is stated here, with the hope that the love of God is communicated to these wayward Corinthian Christians. Understand, Paul wasn't only about starting churches or about even growing churches He was mostly about keeping churches, and that means keeping the people in those churches, keeping them in the faith. Too many were being deceived and walking away just as is occurring today. Verse 29. His concern for the people is further described. He identifies with the weak in order that he might make them strong. And he burns with anger over those Christians who are made to stumble by these false teachers. Remember. Jesus said that if a little one is caused to stumble, that the one who caused it might as well have a millstone be around his neck and thrown into the sea. Jesus didn't put up with deceivers, and neither did Paul. Verses 30 through 33. Here, the apostle is aware of how the devil can twist what he has been describing so that the Corinthians might dismiss his suffering as boasting. It is easier to dismiss a prideful man. And so Paul wants them to know about his weaknesses. He verifies that what he is about to tell them is a true story. And we know this story from the book of Acts. In summary, he was going to be arrested, and so he fled like a scared squirrel. Being secretly lowered outside the city gates of Damascus. He takes no pride in that, but he has been genuine with them. That should be testimony of him telling the truth. St. Paul, of course, has not been the only Christian to suffer greatly while working to share his faith in Christ. I want to introduce you to a man named David Brainerd. David Brainerd was a product of the great awakening of the 18th century. Because of his outgoing zeal for the Lord, he was kicked out of Yale. And back then a man could not become a public preacher unless he had a degree from Yale, Harvard, or a European institution. So Brainerd changed course and studied to become a missionary to Native Americans. When he qualified for the work, he was sent to evangelize Native Americans along the Delaware River. The work was grueling because of the living conditions, along with the language barrier, along with natives not trusting him. Brainerd also traveled to surrounding tribes, but the people initially were unresponsive to his message Fighting tuberculosis, cold, lack of sleep, hunger, Brainerd fought to continue his ministry among the Indians. And he wrote this to summarize. Quote, to an eye of reason, everything respecting the conversion of the heathen is as dark as midnight. Yet I cannot but hope in God for the accomplishment of something glorious among them. And the Lord was gracious to him by allowing him to see a good number of Indians coming to having a saving faith in Christ. One year counting 130 new converts. The natives grew to love Brainerd, but his health could not sustain him. One day he called as many natives as he could to hear him as he read from the Psalter and prayed with them. He then traveled on horseback to the house of the famous preacher Jonathan Edwards, where he was cared for by Edward's daughters. He survived only two more months dying from tuberculosis at the age of twenty-nine And of course, Brainerd's story is one of many others about people who served God through hardship, disappointment, loneliness, and temptation, inward and outward. What is a concern is when we 21st century Christians living with the many comforts that we do. When we hear the listing of the many sufferings of the Apostle Paul, or the commitment of a David Brainerd, or we hear about the martyrs who kept the faith even while losing their lives We can see them as super Christians who are able to do things we could not do or things we purposefully choose to avoid. But if we think we are incapable, I am calling you today to tell you you are mistaken. You are capable of enduring suffering. You are capable of having zeal, the zeal of a David Brainerd. You are capable of facing your death while keeping your faith in Jesus Christ. And this sermon is not my attempt at a Tony Robbins speech. Just like my silly little example of a silly movie I saw when I was young. You actually can endure beyond what you thought you were capable of doing. Consider how necessary coaches and teachers are in our lives. Not many of us as teenagers would pick up a book titled Mice and Men and read it. And write a summary of it unless a teacher instructed us and held a grade over our heads as the incentive And then when the teenager reads the book and realizes reading can be enjoyable, he begins reading other literature he otherwise would not have considered. It only took one teacher to get the student to want to learn. Consider also how many of us would practice playing the piano every day for an hour. Except that we had an instructor that held us accountable. And then when the piano student gets the basics down, music becomes a joy rather than something that has to be done. Consider the track runner who doesn't want to run 10, 50 yard sprints because he's tired and he's sore. And his coach hearts on him until he gets the workout done. And after 10 50-yard sprints, the coach asks him for one more. And the runner doesn't think he can do it. He thinks he is done, but the coach harps some more, and the runner runs another 50-yard sprint The coach helped him get more out of himself, more than he thought he had in him. That is what God wants to do for you. Because he loves you. Wanting you not to be what you think you are, but what he can make you. Consider all the lies that defeat people. All the lies they believe about themselves. And consider what Paul was able to do as a non-super Christian. If Paul can endure being whipped five different times, then you can be faithful to your wife. If Paul can suffer being beaten by rods on three different occasions, then you can overcome that addiction, so-called. If Paul can survive being stoned as in rocks being thrown at him, then you can survive your in-laws by showing love and forgiveness to them. If Paul can go without food and water, then you can go without visiting that inappropriate website or go without visiting the local bar. If Paul can endure perils, then you can endure not gossiping about other Christians. And if Paul can do all of it for the sake of the church, You can ignore what you want, what you prefer, and instead make decisions for the sake of others, especially for the sake of your family I speculate that some of you hearing my voice have believed that you are not capable of sharing your Christian faith with your co-workers because, well, you just don't have the right words. Hear this truth. Yes you can. I also speculate that some of you have not stood up for Christian truth because you thought you would be socially alienated. Hear this truth. You can stand up for Christian truth, and you can endure being socially alienated. I also speculate that some of you have kept quiet that you are a Christian because you think you could lose your job. Hear this truth. If that happens, God will find you a better job. All too often Christians are living in fear. We fear being rejected, being alone, losing what we think we need, being exposed as a fraud. But none of what we fear is justified. For God has told us to trust Him in all things. And that includes where we get our daily bread and how we maintain our mental and emotional health. And even when you are found to be a fraud, we have faith in God for his forgiveness and what we confess and that he can make us new again. The parable that was read this morning, Jesus tells regarding the sower and the seed and the ground. And it can first make it appear that there is nothing we can do about the soil. Either we are good soil or not. Either the seed grows deep within us or it does not. But the seed planted among thorns represents a plant being choked, Jesus says, with cares of riches and pleasures of life. Pursuing riches and pleasures of life are choices we make While the devil, by means of the world, tells us that our dispositions to this sin or that sin are what we are, genetically or psychologically The gospel of Jesus Christ breaks us free from any disposition the world places upon us. Beloved, whatever it is that God wants you to overcome, to stop doing, or to endure, it can be done Because the Holy Spirit is within you, and Jesus overcame for you, and St. Paul was an example for you. You can, like Paul, do all things through Christ who strengthens you. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, as we read the strength you gave the apostle and all that he had to endure, and as we recognize our responsibility, To cultivate a heart that is receptive of your grace, Father, help us to have the courage to do so. To walk the roads you have placed before all of us. So that in the end you might be glorified and we might be saved. Through Jesus Christ our Lord, we pray. Amen.