Принудь, привет, связанный голодный. I think that's the first time. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Today we are veering away from our study of 1 Peter because of the occasion of a covenant child being baptized And yes, because it's my grandchild, I get to veer off. But first a riddle. A riddle. An Arab sheikh tells his two sons to race their camels to a distant city to see who will inherit his fortune. The catch was that the one whose camel is the slower will win and receive the fortune. What to do. After wandering aimlessly for days, because neither wanted to be first, the brothers ask a wise man for guidance Upon receiving advice, they jumped on the camels and raced to the city as fast as they could. What did the wise man say to the two brothers? Hopefully that riddle will keep you awake the entire sermon. If Jesus of Nazareth died and rose again from the dead, Everything changes. Every priority for every human being changes if Jesus was dead and then alive. You want evidence? Empirical evidence? What do you need? We have eyewitnesses, not just the apostles. Jesus being alive after dying on the cross was seen by over 500 people. You want historical evidence? The claim of Jesus having overcome death was never publicly disputed by any person of the first century. There was every chance for the people to debunk the story of Jesus rising from the dead, from Jews and Gentiles alike. They could have simply gone to the dead body of Jesus and said, here is his body. He's obviously not risen from the dead. Now you followers can stop your claims But no one did that because his body was no longer in the grave. So if Jesus did rise from the dead and then Everything he taught is true. Every law that God gave was fulfilled in him. Every hope for humanity is found in him. And every priority we have in life is going to need Jesus to be first place. And the greatest priority we have given to us Is our children. Some of you grew up like me where going to church and believing in God is just what you did. It was very much like being an American. You were born in America. You were taught the great history of the United States, and you identified yourself as an American. Along with everyone else that you went to school with and that you played with in the sand lot. It's just who you were. You were an American. And going to church was part of that. Of course you believed in God. You said, one nation under God every day at school during the Pledge of Allegiance. It appears that for many of us, we were raised to believe in God in the parental style of osmosis. Our parents seem to have the child-raising strategy of putting us in the environment of other people who believed in God, and we were to simply soak in those same beliefs by being present in the midst of others who thought and lived in the same manner. But religious faith can become habitual. You can easily go through the motions without there being any true belief, no true faith within you. Remember that God rebuked Israel for doing the same, for going through the motions. In fact, he even told them through the prophets that he didn't want their rituals and their sacrifices. And he was the one who gave them the very rituals and sacrifices he no longer wanted. He didn't want them because the people's hearts were not in it. The rituals were not the problem. The hearts of the people were the problem. They were performing religious ceremony out of habit and maybe even superstition. As have many who consider themselves religious. And going through the motions can sustain some sort of faith for a while, but soon another generation grows up. and says that they are tired of the ritual and they want something real for themselves. And so many walk away from their parents' faith. Well, instead of parenting by osmosis, there is another type of parents who have for themselves a living faith in God. They pray daily. They study their Bibles. They worship Jesus as their Savior corporately on a weekly basis. They model a God-fearing life to their children, and they raise their children with the hope and with prayers that their children will someday come to a faith in Jesus. And yet they have said hope with the understanding that the decision is completely up to the child. And this approach to child rearing is quite inconsistent because the child is told that he or she can make a decision to follow Jesus whenever he or she wants to But in the meantime, the parents are going to teach the child how to pray, read Bible stories for the child to believe. But how can the child pray when his or her prayers to be heard, she or he must be a believer. And she or he hasn't made the decision to be a believer And how can the Bible stories have any value if the child does not have the Holy Spirit to guide him into all the truth of the Bible? And so sometimes the child is treated as a believer, and sometimes she is not. And again, it appears to be all up to the child. And notice how odd such a parenting approach is when a parent will tell the same child when he or she should go to bed. or eat his vegetables, or that she should brush her teeth. Those behaviors aren't a choice. But to believe in God is a choice. The obvious question is if eating one's vegetables is important enough to demand it of a child, isn't believing in God even more important? Then there's something a child should be Forced to do, make their own decision, getting ahead of myself Another type of parenting does not so much concern itself with waiting for the child to believe in God, but instead waits for God to give faith to the child. Such parents place so much reverence in the doctrine of predestination that they raise their child with the curiosity as to whether God has chosen the child to be saved or to be damned. Let's see. Such parents model the Christian life to their children, but they don't want to presume upon God's will that their child is a part of the chosen people. These parents point their children to the right way to believe, but seem willing to accept that if their children do not believe, if they choose to live a life of debauchery, oh well Such was according to God's will, and there was nothing we could have done to change it. I trust you can see that each of these parenting approaches I have described, each of them is wanting. There is a great importance missing in each of them, and yet such are the primary parenting approaches within Christian homes. That you will find today and have been practiced, dare I say, for several generations. The question that needs to be asked Is there a biblical model for raising children to believe in God all of their days? Is there a model that works? And by works, I mean that their children actually believe and grow up in the faith always. The answer is yes. And none of the parenting approaches I have described fit that model. The biblical model, the only manner of child rearing that is consistent with what God has revealed has been called covenant child rearing. Covenant child rearing. Covenant child rearing doesn't raise children by osmosis by just being around God-fearing people with the hope that the child soaks in that environment and becomes a good person. Covenant childbearing does not put hope in a child making a decision to believe in Jesus, for no child has the fortitude or has the wisdom to make such a decision for his or herself. Covenant child rearing doesn't wait to see if God is going to give the child faith and merely shrug the shoulders if the child rejects. No, covenant child rearing is loving, teaching, training, modeling, guiding, and doing everything. within a parent's capacity to ensure a child born into a Christian home knows nothing other than loving God and trusting in Jesus as their heavenly hope. Remember, if Jesus has risen from the dead, then everything must be different, including and in particular how we raise our children. Covenant child learning is Christian parents raising their children as if the salvation of their children is their responsibility. It is raising children to believe in God and to trust in Jesus as their Savior, in the revelation that God is a God of promise, and God fulfills his promises. Consider that when God proclaimed the curse upon Eve, for believing the words of the serpent rather than believing the words of God. In that curse, God made a promise. He promised that the seed of the woman that is Her descendants, from her descendants would come a son who would crush the serpent's head And of course the promise was fulfilled in Jesus, who was born of the Virgin Mary, who stomped the head of the serpent, the devil, while overcoming death. God is a God of promise. A major part of God fulfilling his promises were those that he made to Abraham, who would be the father of many nations. Not just the father of Israel, but of many nations. And although Abraham only had two sons as his descendants, the promises of God made to Abraham were many, many, many people Connected to Abraham as his descendants, not just by blood only, but by faith. Yes, many have been born in the line of Abraham, who are now Jewish people and Arabic people. But St. Paul explained to us that the faith of Abraham that he had in God That was awarded to him as righteousness. And then Paul says that the same faith Abraham had in trusting in God's promises is the same Christian faith that you and I have, that Jesus is our Savior. And thus we are all children of Abraham because we believe that Jesus is the fulfillment of the promises God made to Abraham and Abraham's descendants. God is a God of promises fulfilled. God being a God of promise Commanded Abraham and his descendants to be given a sign of the promises. The sign was circumcision. Such a sign not every ordinary man would choose. But God wanted his people to be separate from the pagan tribes around them and to no longer worship false gods. God wanted his people to be marked as his and not another. But there was also another reason God commanded circumcision. He knew that the real trouble of humanity was the problem of the heart. It is the heart that is cold and hard against God. And so the circumcision became a symbol of the promise that God would cut away the stone that covers the heart of humanity and give people hearts that beat freely. And it was then revealed in the promises made by Jesus, who said that Abraham saw his day and was glad. It was the promise of Jesus that said, excuse me, that people who confessed their sin and confessed him as the Son of God and were baptized in the triune name of God that said people would be given hearts. That beat freely. And so baptism. Water baptism became the symbol of God's promise to set his people free, free of heart. It was Jesus who said that a person must be born of water and the Holy Spirit to enter his kingdom. It was St. Paul who brought circumcision and baptism together when he said to the Church of Colossae, In him, Jesus, You were also circumcised with a circumcision not performed by human hands. Your whole self, ruled by the flesh, was put off when you were circumcised by Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God who raised him from the dead. It was natural for the Jews who had converted to follow Jesus, for them to have their children baptized. With the promises of Jesus, just as they had their children circumcised with the promises of the Father, so they had their children baptized with the promises of Jesus. And when you add the ministry of Jesus who called children to come unto him and to bless them, and when Jesus healed the sick child of the centurion and healed the sick child of a gentile woman, We learn of the heart that our Savior has towards children. And then when Jesus instructs his disciples to be witnesses, To first to Jerusalem, and then to Judea, and then to Samaria, and then to the uttermost parts of the world. We see a principle of starting first with those closest to you. And there was no one closer to us that we are to disciple, to train, to become a believer in Jesus. There is no one closer than our own children. After all, did not the prophet Joel say that the promises of God were for our children and our children's children? Yes, he did. Children born into a home where his or her parents are believers in Christ Jesus are covenant children. They are covenant children because they are born into the covenant that God has with the child's parents. And a major part of covenant means promise. God has made promises for our children and for our children's children. And it is for us to keep the covenant alive. By doing our part, which is to purposefully train our children to know Jesus and to believe in Jesus and to have never a never-ending faith in Jesus And this next point is just as important, if not more, for them to pass their faith to their children. Their children to their children. Not by osmosis, not by hoping the child makes the right decision, not by waiting to see if God gives faith to the child. No. It is by training the child, each child, in the way he or she should go. And the way each child should go is to believe in the Lord God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength. It is to confess Jesus has risen, he is risen indeed. And such teaching and training must go against all odds and overcome all enemies which are in the world and of the devil. The enemies of God want our children, instead of believing, to be wasting away in a drug house, or blaspheming God in a courthouse, or living by their fleshly desires in a frat house. But the greatest most effective enemy or tactic of the enemy that I have witnessed as a pastor is not the dangers that lie outside the home, but rather inside. The greatest deterrent that would cause a covenant child to turn away from the faith in Jesus is to be a witness to hypocrisy in his or her parents. It is not that a child will witness his or her parents' sin, that's going to happen and happen a lot. No, the deterrent that is hypocrisy is when a professing believer in Jesus does not own up to their sins, does not admit when he or she is wrong, does not model repentance and confession. Many times the greatest testimony a parent can display to a child is humility and the receiving of God's forgiveness. Well beloved, what you have heard today is my heart. It's what God put in me when He called me to be a father the first time. is what he put in me when he called me to be a pastor. So tired of seeing Christian families have their children walk out the door of the church never to come back. Why? Why? Does it have to be? And God's word says no All of this is why I made my sons still think that I gave them stupid rules that would not allow them to date as their peers dated. It was why we started the academy. It was why we monitored and prayed desperately over each child's high school choices and college choices. It's why we started the college boot camps, why we stay up late with a son or a daughter who is fighting off the devil. It is why we continue to prod and plead for our children to be earnest about the manner they raise their own children. It is why I rejoice today at the baptism of Jameson. Remember, if Jesus has been raised from the dead, everything changes. Oh, the riddle. What did the wise man say to the two brothers who were trying to figure out How to come in second place in order to gain their father's fortune? What did he say? He said to them, switch camels. Christian parents need to change camels and run the race to win. Let us pray.