In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It has been over twenty-two years since I first preached behind this pulpit. And I estimate, amidst that time, that the following sermon is the most pastoral sermon that I have preached. This is like one of those meetings when my children were young, and I would call them up all together and say we need to have a family meeting. All sermons, of course, are pastoral, each dealing with what I perceived the Lord would have me say from a particular text. But this one has been written to address a great concern that I have among us. In this sermon, I will directly address issues related to the COVID-19 virus. I begin with the testimony of Bobby Lynn and I Unbeknownst to us, we were exposed to someone with COVID on Sunday, July 18th. This person was fully vaccinated, but was exposed himself. And therefore exposed us. When he called us to inform us that he had tested positive, Bobby Lynn had already started feeling symptoms. This was two days after exposure. That Thursday, she tested positive to COVID-19. Her primary symptoms included nose and chest congestion with a severe, raspy cough, headache, fatigue, and she did lose her sense of taste for a few days. I had felt a couple of symptoms, so I tested that Saturday and received a negative result. I tried to continue life as normal while also choosing to quarantine together Which meant that I would not go to church or enter the church building until all symptoms were passed. But I never felt strong. I started to have more severe symptoms the next week, continuing with body aches, dry coughs, sweats, chills, fatigue, leading to exhaustion. We knew I had the virus and that was confirmed that Friday by a test. While the improvement started that next day, Saturday, we would have better moments followed by setback moments. More than two weeks after exposure and both having finished quarantine, we still had lingering effects that reminded us that our bodies were still recovering. When informing people that we were sick from COVID-19, those that we had exposed, the repeated response or question was, are you vaccinated? No, was our reply. No one who responded in like manner followed up with a why not question, and I anticipate that such was so because it opens up a List of controversial topics that is too long to be addressed in one sitting. So I want to address some of those topics this morning. But first, I want you to know why I think it should be addressed. Within the Christian church lurks the devil. Who is seeking to divide and then devour Christians with the idea that responding to the pandemic in specific ways Results in greater righteousness before God and our fellow man, while not responding in those same specific ways results in being unrighteous before God and being unloving toward our fellow man. I trust you know as a Christian that such thinking is unbiblical and even heretical But the temptation to think in this manner is prevalent. But back to the pressing question, why did we not get the vaccine? Well, full disclosure, I signed up on two different websites to get in line to either get the Pfizer or the Moderna. The Johnson <unk> Johnson was not an option because it is connected to using aborted fetal tissue, and I will have nothing to do with that. While on those lists, I was updated, but never told an appointment could be made. I was only asked if I wanted to remain on the list, and I was asked that several times And finally I turned down being on the list in May. My thinking by that time was that I had survived over a year through this pandemic all around me and had not been infected. The odds seemed in my favor that such would continue. And I believe that I was healthy enough to survive the virus if I became infected. Natural immunity sounded better than manufactured immunity to me. I also didn't think the virus would be difficult to endure as I was in fairly good physical shape. That last thought proved to be irrelevant, by the way. The main counter-argument to my reasoning that I am frequently hearing is that I am now a part of the problem as to why the pandemic remains as the pandemic is now not about COVID-19 virus, but about those who are unvaccinated. It is now the pandemic of the unvaccinated. Those who currently diagnose the pandemic in such a manner Conclude that the vaccinated have proven that they care about their fellow man, while those who are unvaccinated do not. The disdain for the unvaccinated continues to grow with news headlines insisting that when the unvaccinated contract the virus They should suffer more than the vaccinated, and they should either be refused hospitalization or forced to pay their hospitalization out of their pocket. What is most notable, or notably missing, from this reaction to the unvaccinated, is the idea or consideration of grace being given. As historian Tom Holland in his fantastic book titled Dominion has proven The concept and practice of being gracious, one human being to another, is a Christian ideal. The effects of human beings being gracious to one another has essentially created Western societies that care for the least among us while also affording equal rights to one another. Such carrying and affording of rights is not found in cultures that have not been affected by the Christian ideal. Practical application of being gracious to our fellow man is to not condemn but help people who, let's say, are obese, or people who are chain smokers, or people who are addicts. Or anyone who contributes to their own suffering. But such graciousness is seemingly not afforded to those who are unvaccinated. Why is this? There is likely truth to the speculation that the unvaccinated are now a replacement for the ire that was focused on a particular former president. With a political pariah no longer in the daily news, the unvaccinated are the easiest targets to gang up on with blame and anger. Another possibility is that the unvaccinated allow the psyche of those who are angry to feel morally superior. This need for moral superiority relates to my belief that every human being has an innate desire to be righteous As that desire stems from being made in the image of God, who we know is righteous by nature. Because we are living under a curse of death because of the sin of Adam. Our need for righteousness cannot be fulfilled using our own devices, but we can feel righteous. And we can feel righteous when we do something we think is morally superior to others, such as show our care for our fellow man by wearing a mask, staying six feet away, and getting vaccinated. The temptation to be self-righteous, to perceive oneself to be morally superior as compared to others That's a very strong temptation. And that strong temptation is evident by how often Jesus had to address self-righteousness while dealing with the Pharisees. Surprisingly to me, the Pharisees were not a self-righteous group of men at their inception. Their beginnings would have attracted most of us here, as they desired to retain the law of Moses while continuing to live in a Roman culture. They perceive the wisdom literature and the prophetic messages of the major and minor prophets. They consider those as important. in order to understand how to apply the law of Moses in their modern world. What evolved, however was a strain of teaching that tried to apply the law of Moses to modern-day events that eventually treated such teaching as just as authoritative as the law itself. The very specific example addressed by Jesus that we read this morning to get the point across regarding the sin of self-righteousness. That was in regard to what they called Corbin. Essentially, the Pharisees had established what they thought was a loophole in the law of God. And that loophole was to their benefit. It was, of course, the responsibility of all Jewish people to honor their father and their mother. When a father and or mother became financially needy, part of that honoring was to provide for them. However, the law of Moses also allows for specific gifts, special gifts, either money or property. To be given to the temple treasury and be used in the manner seen fit by the priests, and some of those were Pharisees. This resulted in Pharisees teaching that Jewish faith that the Jewish faithful could give Corbin, special gifts, to the treasury instead of providing for the financial needs of their parents. The result was disobeying the law of Moses and replacing the law of honoring father and mother with giving of a financial benefit to the Pharisees. When Jesus rebuked them for this practice, he made it clear that they had chosen to disobey a clearly stated law, honor thy father and thy mother, and replace it with a man-made law. that was formed for selfish gain. And all the while pretending that obeying their man-made law was actually more pious, more God-fearing, than obeying God's fifth commandment. I stated earlier that we all have an innate desire to be righteous. And this innate desire is corrupted by our fallen natures, allowing us to perceive that righteousness can be something we attain for ourselves with our own strength, by our own devices. But such thinking is in error, egregious error. For the Bible tells us that our good works, the things we do where we think we are pleasing to God, That those works are as filthy rags in the eyes of God. And the description of a filthy rag is that of a woman, what she would use during her menstrual cycle. And I tell you this to make the point clear. Our works cannot in any form make us righteous before God. In truth, when laid before him, our works disgust him. And why wouldn't they? Our works are tainted with impure motives. Our motives are Mostly impure because we think of ourselves to be good, which is to say better than others. We easily praise ourselves, seeing ourselves as praiseworthy of others. We are not honest with ourselves regarding what is truly going on with inside of our hearts We think about ourselves and what adulation we deserve and what credit we should be getting and how much more we care than other people do. And how much better we look doing our good works, and how our family is better than other families because of how much we praise one another for all the good works that we do And as God watches our behavior and knows our hearts, it is rather disgusting to him. In truth, there are very clear works Jesus commanded us to do that have nothing to do with masks. Six feet apart for vaccines. Let us each take inventory regarding the words and actions these past 18 plus months. How many times have you spoken about the virtue of wearing a mask compared to how many times you have shared with someone, anyone, about salvation through Jesus Christ as the Son of God? How much have you thought about, talked about, and have been concerned about the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines? compared to how many times you have thought about, talked about, and have been concerned about people who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ. And how much holiness have you gained in your mirror as you watch yourself obey the science while harboring personal pride in your heart? Hear this perspective. If you believe the evolutionists, the Earth is 4. 5 billion years old. If you believe the creationists, the earth is no older than 10,000 years, the average life expectancy in the United States is between 76 and 81 years of age. According to evolutionists, your life does not even register as a percentage as compared to the age of the Earth. According to the creationists, your life registers 0. 008 compared to the age of the earth. Either way, the earth barely registers your existence. And yet Jesus lived, died, and rose again for your eternal existence, and he did so for all persons who would hear his voice and believe. What then is more worthy of our time on this earth? Should we spend our time sharing about the effectiveness of vaccines? or about the person and teachings and victory of the Lord Jesus Christ. Certainly you hear that as a rhetorical question. The survival rate after contracting COVID-19 remains very high. Even now among the elderly, there Has been quite a bit that has been learned on how to treat those who are elderly who have contracted the virus. And the survival rate is even high for those who have pre-existing conditions. But there remains a very low eternal survival rate for those who die without knowing the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. Each of us must ask ourselves which one we care about more: eternal life or earthly life. And what have we talked about and how we have lived these past eighteen plus months reveals what we actually care more about. Now, if you have been made comfortable with me addressing people who are tempted to care more about COVID-19 prevention than they do about the souls of their fellow men and women Let me make you uncomfortable. For just as people are tempted to be self-righteous because of the masks they wear and the vaccines they jab into themselves, So too can Christians be tempted to be self-righteous because of the masks they don't wear and what they won't allow jabbed into them. Anti-vaxxers can think too pure of themselves, believing the world to be more holy when it is naturally embraced. But the world is not holy because it is natural. It is cursed along with humanity. The nature of the earth is corrupted as it too longs to be made new. It too longs for a savior. Even the rocks cry out. There is no inherent righteousness in the natural earth, and thus no one can find righteousness within nature. When it comes to righteousness, true righteousness, which is a righteousness only from God, there is no human being that is righteous except Jesus. As St. Paul said to the Christians at Rome, there is no one righteous, no, not one. But you and I, we can't see God. We can't know God without being righteous. And so we are utterly dependent to be made righteous by another St. Paul continued to the Romans. He said, and this righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. God presented him as the atoning sacrifice through faith in his blood in order to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in his forbearance, he had passed over the sins committed beforehand. He did this to demonstrate his righteousness at the present time. So as to be just and to justify the one who has faith in Jesus. Where then, he asks, is the boasting? It is excluded. On what principle? On that of works. No, but on that of faith. For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. There is no better, are no better words that a preacher can preach than the words that inform that God makes righteous His people when they have faith in Jesus. And because such righteousness is so freely given and so freely received, the answer to the question about boasting is obvious. There is no room for boasting for everything that I have that will last forever has been given to me. Masks will pass away. Vaccines will no longer be needed. Six feet will only refer to our burial. But the righteousness we receive will be eternal. And this is where the lesson of to whom much is given, much is required. Here is where it is applied. We have been given righteousness by the grace of God, and it is for us to use that great amount of righteousness by grace. And be forgiving to one another with an abundance of graciousness toward one another. Jesus said that the unbelieving world will know we are Christians by our love for one another. And that love must include being gracious to one another, and especially now within the context of a pandemic. If you do not have grace for people who are Christian, who are living through a pandemic differently than you, you are not behaving as a Christian should, and you need to repent and you need to start loving. That is what living through a pandemic as a Christian looks like. We're about to take communion. We are going to gather around the same table with the same need for God's grace, but to receive that grace you must have it for one another as well. The time is now, the moment is here, to be gracious to one another, and to keep on being gracious to one another If you want to know God's will, His will for you and I is to be gracious to one another. Can I get an amen? Let us pray. Father, we come humbly, knowing that there's not much that we have done right through this pandemic, whether it's from within our hearts or whether it's plans that we've made. We confess that we do see through the glass dimly, and we are desperate to see you face to face. Father, what it is clear in your will, what we do see clearly, is how we are to love one another and be gracious to one another. May that message rule our hearts and this church. This we pray in Jesus' name.