In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. Amen. The prayer book epistle reading for Trinity Sunday is from Revelation chapter four. Verses 1 through 11, and I invite you to turn in your Bibles. You will be well served to follow along with me this morning. While studying the passage this week, I was tempted to teach about all of the symbolisms that are within, as I love the book of Revelation, because of the symbolism But to do so in depth, that I prefer will cause us to miss the primary point of the passage, a point That is good for us to hear and emphasize on a day we confess the doctrine and fundamental doctrine of Christianity, which is that we worship a God that is three in one. But let us dip our toes a little bit into the symbolisms presented here in order to get to the truth of Trinitarian worship. First, there is a door. Just as there was in chapter 3 a door, only Jesus is not knocking at this door in chapter 4 because this door is open. It is a contrast in that the door in chapter 3 is on earth and it is closed. And the door in heaven is open, reflecting the welcoming God is giving John and all who would read his vision. Next, there is a voice as a trumpet. Trumpets herald good news, as our own Dan Nevius displays. The voice tells John to come up, just as the Garden of Eden was elevated Just as God called Moses to come up to receive his commandments, just as Jerusalem was a city set on a hill, so God wants to communicate that when we meet with him, we are to come up. And this is why in our tradition we come up to receive Holy Communion. To come up is to go where God is. Next, the stones mentioned are the first and last, respectively, on the breastplate of the high priest. A rainbow is next, and it is complete, symbolizing that What was meant as a promise of God's mercy after the flood is now fully completed, showing that God has kept his covenant promises. The rainbow surrounds the throne just as the 24 elders do, and the number 24 brings together the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 apostles chosen by Jesus. So that the number represents all of God's people, old and new. Next, the elders are clothed in white robes. Not in ties or suits or casual wear because Jesus wants to hang out with his people White robes represent formality and purity. These men are around the highest of thrones, and they have been made pure by the blood of the one they worship. Which is why they wear white. Next are the flashes of lightning, identical to the flashes of light when God was on Mount Sinai. The seven spirits of God represent the ministry of the Holy Spirit, which is the fullness of God's activity. Next is the sea of glass, which is calm and smooth, looking like crystal. Because the nations are described as raging waters elsewhere in Scripture, we are to understand that Jesus has brought calm to the nations. He has brought peace. What is described next is similar to stories in mythology or characters out of a Tolkien novel There is a circle within the circle of the rainbow and the elders that is made of four living creatures. The eyes of these creatures are noted first. A creature covered with eyes obviously is responsible to see. Each of these creatures is responsible to see or to watch over all of God's creation. That there are four living creatures causes us to connect their duties with the entire world. The Bible in various places describes the earth as being four-cornered. It does not do so because the writer believes that the earth is flat. It is because the earth is to be understood as an altar for God. Just as the altar on which sacrificial worship was offered in the temple, that that table had four corners, so is the earth described. The earth is the Lord's. It is a place upon which God is to be offered praise and sacrifice. When there are mentioned four corners of the earth, or four winds, or four directions, or four rivers in Eden. Which are we are to understand each to be a reference to an altar on which God is to be honored Also, the four creatures are living, living as opposed to being creatures of stone or carvings of stone. The four living creatures also correspond to the points on a compass, and the earth as an altar upon which God is worshipped Their numberless eyes represent their watchfulness over every part of creation. And here is where we will take our time to examine the appearance of each creature. The first has an appearance like a lion, the second like an ox, the third like a man, and the fourth like a flying eagle. These distinguishing characteristics represent the four animate powers of creation. Animate powers of creation. The lion represents the beast of the field The ox represents the cattle or domesticated animals. Man represents himself as an intelligent creature. And the eagle represents birds of the air. Together they represent the powers of creation in their physical strength, daring courage, keen intellect, intuition, and freedom of movement with majestic flight. In summary, they represent creation in all of its fullness of its power and talents The number six, and then six wings, also ties into creation, for it was in six days that God created the heavens and the earth. The six wings thus indicate the fullness of creation in its development. Well, once we understand What each creature represents, we must then notice what they are doing. They are worshiping God. In fact, they never stop worshiping God. The words are repeated over and over again. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord, God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Verse 9 tells us that there is an antiphonal to this saying, which is a song sung in response. As the 24 elders fall down in response to this cry of holy, holy, holy, falling down before the one on the throne. Worshiping him forever and ever by laying down their crowns before him. Crowns, crowns that were given to them by the one who is on the throne. They lay those before him and respond, You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things. By your will they were created and have their being. As we imagine this scene in our minds, it's quite common To be in awe, while at the same time wondering how these beasts and these elders could worship day and night in the same way, in repetition. Verse 8 describes the worship as being done day and night and never ceasing. They say these words over and over again, and the elders respond to the words over and over again. Before we focus on the worship emphasis, I know it is necessary to address what many of you are thinking To worship in this manner described would be monotonous, and monotonous is boring. My first official ministry in a church was towards college students, and I remember a college girl with whom I was trying to share the Christian faith with. And she asked me, why would you want to go to heaven? And I'd never been asked that question directly, and it took me a moment to collect my thoughts. And I answered in two ways, and neither of the answers helped her at all. First, I said that it was better than going to hell. I certainly believe that is true, but the statement doesn't say a whole lot about heaven. Living in a sewer is better than living in hell, but I would not compare a sewer to heaven. I then said that in heaven we will worship God for eternity. This, as I said, did not strike her as a selling point, and we all can understand why. She did not know of God's mercy at that time and therefore was not moved by any conviction to worship God. Also, like most of us, she found that worship services in churches were not all that exciting. In my younger Christian days, I thought worship in church should be exciting, so I was involved with churches that clapped and danced and played loud music and shouted every now and then. What I came to experience from those worship scenes was pumped up excitement generated out of a modern spirit. That did not sustain my faith. And if I was not emotionally excited in worship, I thought something was wrong with me A problem with such worship is the point where you come down off of your self-generated emotional high and you lose the motivation to stay in a mindset of worship. I had to learn that by experience and more in-depth Bible study, that life is not a constant high, and our flesh reminds us of that continually. Liturgical worship like our own and happy clappy worship like I described are both limited by our flesh. As Paul said, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. We have a hard time imagining ourselves worshiping God day and night because we get bored. And our flesh cries out for something different, even if our worship only lasts an hour and a half every Sunday. A desire for something different is caused by a misunderstanding about heaven compared to our present earthly state. But the elders and beasts around the throne are able to worship continually because they are not bound or restricted by flesh that is weak and susceptible. That's our flesh Our flesh, having been born of Adam's race, is dying. That is part of the curse. Our time here is short. Resurrected flesh does not have the same concerns, and in fact, such flesh is able to fulfill what it was created to do when it worships continually. That may be a hard concept to grasp considering the dominance of our flesh in this life. But it can be proven when you consider what you are. But each person is created to be the purpose of each human life. And this is where we agree with the Presbyterians. The purpose is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. We are created for worship. In fact, I accept that we worship all of the time without either realizing it, realizing we are worshiping, or willing to admit that we are worshiping. When we put our desires before the law of God, we are worshiping our desires. When we put our personal will before the will of God, we worship our personal will. When our dreams are future, when it does not glorify God, we worship our dreams. Consider please that whatever we are choosing to prioritize in our lives has an essence of worship. You're worshiping with that choice, choice of our priority, and in our actions And it can be said that unregenerated people, people who are not Christians, worship their priorities also, only theirs is false worship. Christians, on the other hand, are to do all things in their individual lives as acts of worship. The infamous atheist Christian Hitch Christopher Hitchens tried to argue that there was nothing good a religious person could do. that an atheist also could do. The answer to his challenge is to find something that contradicted his claim, saying that, yes indeed, there is something that we Christians can do that that they cannot. And that answer is that we can do good for the glory of God. Or to put it in our context this morning, we can do good as an act of worship. Everything we do can give glory to God. And we are built, we are engineered for worship And those who remain faithful to the end of their days will be rewarded with eternity in a state of worship of the one true God. Not only are we created to worship God, but we are created to worship in a certain way. And here is where much of modern Christendom has failed. For the vision that John has of the exalted Savior being worshipped is a model for us. What John describes is a worship service of the risen and glorified Savior, Savior of mankind, a worship service in heaven. It is for us who are below heaven, beneath the sun, to duplicate such reverence by our actions and by our words while being on this side of the sun. I began by referring to the call for us to come up. And how we follow that call is when we receive Holy Communion. We also duplicate the white robes for clergy, symbolizing the clergy's duty before God. Today we make note of the words spoken around the throne as the elders and beasts Speak their roles responding. The beasts cry out, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The cry is Trinitarian. No cry is more appropriate on Trinity Sunday as to recognize the holiness of the Father, the holiness of the Son, the holiness of the Holy Ghost. The cry is heavenly as it contains words inspired by the presence of Almighty God. Because the words are heavenly, And thus inspired, the same words should be words spoken by us as we abide on earth. We should use the words of heavenly worship. As we do, we should humbly acknowledge that we are not starting the song, holy, holy, holy, and we are not alone when singing it. And that each time we sing such words, we are joining in the chorus that has already begun and continues forever and ever. I am concerned that it can be an arrogant act to ignore heavenly words of worship Found in the prophets, found in the Psalms, found in Revelation and other places, and to replace those words with contemporary expressions. Now that is not to say that contemporary or extemporaneous expressions are bad or inappropriate. I'm not saying that at all They can be helpful as long as they do not replace the heavenly words provided for us in Scripture. For example, I remain completely confused as to why modern churches Today, who claim Jesus as their Savior do not pray the Lord's Prayer. They do not pray the very words that Jesus told us to pray. The apostles coming to him, how shall we pray? Jesus answered, Pray this way, our Father who art in heaven. If Jesus said, Pray this way, that is the way we should pray. To acquiesce our preferences and personal expressions for the words of the heavenly creatures and elders around the throne is one way, just one way. We can lay our crowns down before the throne. After all, part of worship is surrender. We surrender ourselves unto God and say, Not my will, but thine be done. We surrender by asking the Lord what he would prefer rather than what we would prefer in our worship. The words of the beasts and elders speak of God's righteousness. He is holy, as each person of the Godhead is holy. The words speak of God's power. He is almighty. The words speak of his work of salvation. He is worthy. The words speak of his ultimate victory. He is to receive glory, honor, and power. The words speak of his creative and sustaining power. He created all things and by his will and in him each has their being. Such words should be the exact words, and such themes should be the same themes in our worship For they are inspired words and inspired themes, and thus our worship is to be inspired. But St. John's description, with that description, we are able to peek in on a heavenly service. What we see is the answer to why we exist. We exist to worship God, which is the one appropriate response his creation should have when in his presence. Worship, true worship, is wholehearted, awe-inspiring, and loving. This scene in the throne room of God establishes a foundation from which the rest of the visions of John flow. Every vision in Revelation from here to chapter 22 is related back to this scene here in heaven. And one final thought. I have been asked by several persons through the years: why does God insist on our worship Is it as if he has an ego to be stroked? Do such questions reveal how we tend to see God? We see him in terms of how we view mankind. This is how mankind would do it. It's to be stroked. God, by definition, needs no validation. As St. Anselm defined him, God is that by which nothing greater can be conceived. Being greater means you have no equal. No one can compare to him We worship God not because he needs it, but we need it. Because again, if we don't worship God who is true, We will worship anything else, and anything else is false. So join the chorus, brothers and sisters in Christ. Join the chorus. The service has already begun. We are a bit late, but still privileged to be a part of it. Sing the words, inspired by heaven, and fulfill your proper use. Amen. Let us pray. For this challenge, our Heavenly Father, we are grateful Humbled by it, really, understanding that our words should be heavenly, and that we have not started this, nor will we finish it, but we are simply a part of it. And may we all feel privileged to be so. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.