But if you think you can all the lab on the for the morning, then you just need to be real trees to the residents. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Please turn in your Bibles to Exodus 14 We read the first part of the chapter, but we will be covering the majority of what is written therein. In Hebrew, the body of water that is translated Red Sea Is Yom Suf. Yom Suf. It can be found twenty-three times in the Old Testament. And it can also be translated read see, depending on the context it is found. There was in the ancient Near East a large body of water next to the Red Sea, but it has since dried up. at the construction of the Suez Canal, and it was called the Reed Sea. In 1 Kings 9, verse 26 Yom Suf is there used to describe a body of water that is also known as the Gulf of Iliad. Which is the northern tip, as the Red Sea goes off at a fork, the northern east tip of the Red Sea There are basically two reasons for accepting the translation Reed Sea or to understand the Red Sea to be the most northern east tip of the Red Sea The first, if you want to, is to say that miracles that are described in the Bible are just merely metaphorical rather than historical. As they are reasonable scientific explanations why some things happen, and the Bible exaggerates a bit for dramatic effect. But we should recognize that such a conclusion undermines the inspiration of the Holy Scriptures and thus undermines the authority of the Bible. The second reason for accepting the translation to be Reed Sea rather than Red Sea, or to understand the location of the crossing of Israel across the Red Sea, the northern tip For the purpose of scholarship. The translation reads C is a legitimate term Of how these words are used in the Old Testament and the location of that northeastern tip of the Red Sea, the Gulf of Eliot, makes perfect sense Because after they would have crossed at that point, they would have gone straight up north into the promised land through the desert. The only problem I have with understanding the crossing to have occurred about the main body of the Red Sea, that main body of water. Is not the difficulty of the waters being held back because those bodies of water would have been very, very, very large. It is not the difficulty of making the land dry in such a short time. God can do all of that and so much more The problem is figuring out how so many people could have crossed such a large region, a large span, in one night. The speed they would have had to travel is too hard to imagine in any natural way of thinking So I am perfectly content to accept the Reed Sea reading or to understand the portion in which Israel crossed the Red Sea to be that northern tip of the Gulf of Iliad. None of those options changes the meaning of the miracle and the glory that is to be given to God for that miracle. The first thing we need to do when studying Exodus 14 is to stand in awe at what God did. God delivered a people in the millions from the bondage of slavery by convincing the slaveholders of those same people to let them go free and even help them to be successful on their journey. Consider how long it takes for you to get your family out the door on a Sunday morning. Multiply that by the millions. It is to stand in awe that God got these people going and got them across on dry land. And then God allows for the minds of the Egyptians to believe it is best for the people of Israel to leave their land until Israel has left their land. When the Egyptians finally come back to their selfish perspective, they then regret having let their slaves go, and they go after them. But God tells us that He did that. God did it. The text says that God put the resentment into the hearts of the Egyptians so that they would pursue Israel. their escaped slaves, to bring them back into captivity. God did it. He says himself that he did it because he again wanted the Egyptians to know that he was the one, true, only God. And when God does this to the hearts of the Egyptians, he then puts his people to the test. When they see the chariots of the Egyptians coming at them, they panic. And they're ready to blame Moses. But Moses isn't to blame. He isn't to blame for the predicament they now find themselves. God is to blame. And God wants to be blamed. He wants them to know he did this. And then there is this said, read with me in chapter fourteen, verse thirteen. 14 verse 13. And Moses said to the people, Do not be afraid, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will accomplish for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today you shall see no more. The Lord will fight for you, and you shall hold your peace. Here is salvation. Here is the salvation of the Lord. Stand still, he says. And see the salvation. Stand still. Don't move. Don't do anything. Because there is nothing you can do to save you. And that is what it is said when God saves. He tells people to stand still because there's nothing you can do to save yourself. The people in between the marching of this army and the sea before them, a body of water that they had no visible way of crossing. Behind them an army that is the biggest and baddest on the planet. And this picture so very well describes what it means for God to save Every one of us stands before a world that could drown us if we go there, and a demonic world that wants to feast on our souls. And God says, stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. By grace we are saved through faith. That not of our own works, lest anyone should boast. There is nothing to boast about when you stand still and watch another save you But that is the predicament of every person who does not know Jesus. If you need to know Jesus, then stand still. Allow God's work of salvation to save you. It has always been that simple. We are also in awe of God in the manner that he protected the Israelites from the Egyptians. We didn't read this part, but an angel of the Lord became a barrier between the Egyptians and these traveling Israelites. Commentators believed that the light represented favor, the light shone upon the Israelites, and darkness disfavor. Darkness covering over the Egyptians. And this difference in light kept them from seeing one another's camps so that Israel would not would not panic. We know we know that God can do that. He can brighten the sky and he can darken the sky. He can make the moon Covered over, or the sun covered over. He can make the moon stop its orbit or the sun stand still. God can do that as no man can And we are next to stand in awe how easy it was for Moses to part those waters and for the land to become dry. It only took a staff raised and a hand stretched out, and God did the rest. And this is an example of how God chooses men to do things with him. He could do it himself, but he doesn't want to. He wants to be our God and he wants us to be his people. He uses us to perform his sovereign will, and we are privileged to do it. Moses was privileged to lift up his staff and to stretch forth his hand. And God used those actions to part a massive body of water so that the water became like walls on both sides. And the wind blew, it says, and blew so that the ground that was once wet is now dry, so that they could walk safely on dry ground If we were given an opportunity to pick a miracle that happened in Scripture, you could go back in time and pick one that you'd like to watch. This would be a pretty good one to pick. It must have been amazing. But why is God doing it? Why all this drama? If an angel could hold back the Egyptians, why not just hold them back long enough so that Israel can make its way around the sea and back into the Promised Land? Well, I believe we can find out why in the New Testament. In his first letter to the Christians at Corinth, St. Paul explains At like how hard he trains in order to preach a clear gospel. And he has two goals. Two goals, he tells the Corinthians. He works to preach a clear gospel, an unhindered gospel, and he wants to be a partaker of the hope of the gospel himself. In the end, he does not want to be, he says, disqualified from the eternal reward And then in chapter 10, he described to the Corinthians a people who were, in the end, disqualified. Those who were disqualified were those who passed through the Red Sea on dry land. St. Paul says this of the Israelites. He says, all who were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Both the cloud and the sea, the cloud being a representation of God, and the sea being parted, were over these Israelites. And thus baptized them, which is to say, sanctified them, and thus marked them as God's people. The cloud and the sea parted were sacramental signs for the Israelites that God made them his people and making himself their God. And once again we have an example of how God baptizes people, not individuals. He baptizes families. This wasn't an individual experience. They didn't go one at a time through the Red Sea. That would be ridiculous. Instead, they went as families. Fathers carried children. Mothers carried infants. Siblings held hands as they walked through the water together and were baptized. And do we not read in the book of Acts that same thing occurring? Remember the jailer, the story of Paul and Silas. He had his whole family baptized that day. Families baptized, families saved. I hope we're able to see how sacramental our God is. Last week we had an emphasis on Jesus being our Passover, and Jesus using that Passover to instigate the peace of the Christian worship that is centered, the Lord's Supper. And next we have the sacrament of baptism and all of God's people being covered and marked by Him. God, beloved, loves the sacred. He himself is sacred. Which is to say he is holy. And he places an emphasis on the sacramental. And that tells us that he wants us to be holy, as he is holy, holy with him. And this is why children are owed baptism. For God wants covenant children to be made holy. This is why we need to consume the bread and wine regularly. For God uses the bread and wine to make us holy. He does. Don't ask me how he does it. And don't listen to a preacher who explains away what the bread and wine are not and what it cannot do. Don't listen to that. And don't listen to a preacher who insists on a changed substance that is not necessary for the elements to be a means of grace to us. Simply accept by way of the glorious mystery that the bread and wine contribute to our holiness. Believe that they do. And I'm going to take a sidestep here, away from the miracle of the passing through the Red Sea, to point out that what we do here What we do here in this sanctuary, what we do setting aside at Christian worship, what we do should be unique and thus unlike anything that we do the rest of the week. Christians should worship differently. Our worship should be wholly different, not like the world. This is the only place in our week where we hear such words as the body of our Lord Jesus Christ given to thee, and the blood of our Lord Jesus Christ shed for thee. The only time you hear it, hear. We should want to hear those words. We should be hungry for those words The world cannot provide such sustaining grace for you. Only the church can. Well let us go back to our regularly scheduled sermon already in progress. Well the last part of the miracle we will look at is the dry ground. As we have been taught before, dry ground and water are used in Holy Scripture to communicate two different types of people. We first read this in the account of creation, where God spoke and the waters gathered in one place and the dry ground gathered in another. God called the dry land earth and the waters he called the seas. It is then from the ground, the earth, that God brings forth vegetation and trees and plants, and then humanity. The ground then represents what God used to make man in his own image. The ground represents God's people. Thus, when sin in the world becomes so very corrupt, God covers mankind, the earth, with water in a great flood, making water a symbol of God's judgment. And a means of death. That image is picked up by the prophet Isaiah, who said this: Woe to the many nations that rage. They rage like a raging sea. Although peoples roar like the roar of surging water, when God rebukes them, they flee away, driven before the wind. The psalmist said of God, he stilled the roaring of the seas, the roaring of the waves, the turmoil of the nations. And what these verses confirm for us is that God, by parting the waters of the Red Sea, symbolized what He does for His people to realize salvation. He parts the nations. As he had planned to part all of the nations when the people came to occupy the promised land, but they failed. Having overcome the Egyptians, God is showing his people that there was no foe, no enemy, no other God who could stand before him. This is why when Jesus comes, he uses troubled, raging, and roaring water to symbolize the God of the Exodus, the God who parted the waters through Moses. That was Jesus. You remember the story in Mark's gospel? Mark tells us of Jesus' teaching. And then he tells his apostles to go on ahead of him in the boat, in the water. And there becomes wind and waves, blowing fiercely the winds, and the waves crashing in and on the boat. But here comes Jesus walking on the water. And when his disciples saw him, they became scared, frightened. The storm had obviously agitated them and they put them on edge and they thought Jesus was a ghost. And then Peter knows it's him, and Peter tries to walk on the water. But Peter failed because he put his eyes on the nations. He placed his eyes on the nations and he began to think. Jesus then both helped Peter into the boat and calmed the waters. And this was a miracle to be evidenced to the disciples, just as the parting of the Red Sea was to the Israelites, that God controls the nations. And by giving Israel dry ground to walk on, in the midst of this part of the parted nations. Jesus is symbolically showing how God's people are not only separate from the world, they are actually already separate from the world. Not to be separate, but are separate. Separate from the nations. Dry ground is symbolic of God's people. Dry ground is separate from the waters. Just as God considers his people separate from the nations, it is only for us to live as separate. Now of course we don't believe in being separate like the Amish do. We don't have to be physically separate to be separate. But as the dry ground, we are to be set and established. We don't move with each way the wind blows. Our God is objective, and he does not change. And so our ethics, our morals do not change. We don't follow what is popular because it's popular. We don't adjust our convictions because the people around us have changed theirs. And I know that as I preach this to you in this manner, the vast majority of people who would hear this would hate me for it. Believing that yes, you need to change with the times. But their hatred does not matter. It does not matter because the only way to get through these troubled nations and to get to our heavenly reward is to stay on the dry path. And that is what I'm going to do. Jesus said it this way, the way is broad and leads to destruction, and many travel on it. The way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it. The way to life is the way on land that is set and established. And so we say, help us, Lord Jesus, to stay on the dry land. Help us to not fear the nations. Help us to pass through. Let us pray.