In the name of the Father and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Is there a cross on your tree? I asked the same question sixteen years ago. And when I have visited parishioners' homes during the Christmas season, many have wanted to show me that they did indeed have a cross on their tree. But there are a number of you who are new with us, compelling me to ask again, is there a cross on your tree? Do inventory for a second. I'll give you a moment. Look to your wife, look to your spouse, see if there's She can guarantee that you have a cross on your tree or not. If you have a Christmas tree up in your home to help you celebrate the Christmas season, Is there a cross as part of your ornaments? Amidst all the sprinkling lights, these shiny ornaments, and maybe some tinsel, is there a cross? I realize that at Christmas time we are celebrating the birth of Jesus and not commemorating his death. Or are we? Let us consider what we are celebrating in order to capture the true nature of Christmas. The idea of baby Jesus is comfortable for everyone. Baby Jesus threatens no one. Jesus as a baby is meek and mild. As a baby, he is sweet and tame. Worshiping God in his humble estate is much easier for some people than worshiping him while he is naked upon a cross. We stress in this parish the importance of following the church calendar for the primary reason that it walks us through the redemptive story of God. Just as God instructed Israel to formulate its calendar year-round around God's redemptive acts that saved them from slavery in Egypt and provided them atonement for their sin. So too do Christians follow a calendar year-round where God's redemptive acts are shown to save us from the bondage of sin and eternal damnation. Israel's calendar, you remember, is highlighted by two primary holy days. The first is Yom Kippur, or the Day of Atonement. It was on the Day of Atonement that the high priest was to go into the temple and then into the Holy of Holies behind that grand curtain. And present a once-a-year sacrificial offering to the Lord for the sins of the entire nation. The other holy day is Passover On Passover, the Jewish people remember by way of a meal how God delivered Israel from Egyptian slavery. In between those two holy days are other days that remember how God preserved them in the desert for over forty years, providing for them daily bread and regular meat. And every generation of Israelites is warned by God to not forget what He has done to save them, and the holy days they are to commemorate are a means by which they can remember. The holy days remembered by Christians serve the same purpose. They help us not forget what God has done and through Jesus. We are reminded at Advent, the beginning of the Christian calendar, that God became man and dwelt among us, and that He's coming again. He came once, and He's coming again. At Christmas, we are reminded that when Jesus came the first time, he came to take on the human nature. It was what Christians called the incarnation, God becoming flesh. And we remember that when taking on the form of man, he did so for eternity, meaning that he didn't become a man and then went back to being God, but instead he became a man To identify with us forever. We are to be humbled by this act of humility that He chose to be like us. This is so very, very important to understand. After we celebrate his incarnation, we also remember what might be considered the smaller things, such as his circumcision and his dwelling in the temple at age of twelve. We then remember his baptism and his fasting in the desert for forty days. Then, of course, there is his passion, which included the institution of holy communion, his washing of feet, his arrest, his trial, suffering, and death. These solemn events are then brightened by the Easter Sunday celebration where we proclaim He has risen. He has risen indeed. The story does not stop there, of course, because we have to recall his ascension into heaven and the sending of the Holy Spirit. Each of these are important watermarks in the story of God redeeming his people The story of redemption is thus told within each calendar year, and that story is rehearsed by Christians each year until the Lord comes again, so that we do not forget Consider the words of Jesus in response to Pontius Pilate asking him if he were a king. Jesus said You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born. The cause he is referring to is all that his life and death and resurrection meant to the world. The question about a cross on your tree is to help us see that although we focus on God becoming man this time of year, we do not do so separately from the whole redemption story. We celebrate Christmas as part of the redemption story. And you and I need redemption. For redemption means to buy back. And you and I have been given over to sin and to the devil, be born in a sin covenant. We cannot help but sin because being of the human race means we want to do what we are told not to do, and we don't do what we are told to do. Thus, all of us have sinned. All of us need redemption. And the celebration of the birth of Jesus is to celebrate the story of how God redeems his people. By celebrating the life, the death, resurrection, ascension, and the coming again of Jesus. It's all included. You see, while we might focus on one thing this night, we do so in light of all that was to come. Every story, by definition of being a story, has a beginning, middle, and end One of my favorite holiday movies is Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. You remember Dell, played by John Candy, is a talker. Neil, played by Steve Martin, is finally fed up with Dell's talking. In a rant, Neil says to Dale and I cut this down. And by the way You know, when you're telling these little stories, here's a good idea. Have a voice. It makes it so much more interesting for the listener. How many times have you wanted to say that to someone in a conversation? Well, good stories have a point. Truth is, the beginning of the story does not have its fullest impact upon the listener until the end is known. The end grants greater understanding to the beginning. Consider the popular poem, Twas the Night Before Christmas. It starts as follows, you know it, 'Twas the night before Christmas when all through the house Not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse. The stockings were hung by the chimney with care in hopes that St. Nicholas would soon be there. The children were nestled while snug in their beds, while visions of sugar plums danced in their heads. And mama in her kerchief and I in my cap had just settled down our brains. Original, for a long winter's nap, when out of the lawn there arose such a clatter, I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter. Away to the window I flew like a flash, tore open the shutters, and flew up the sash. Do you know what comes next? These opening words make so much more sense as to why we should know the details of a couple going to bed when we know what comes next. The words are exciting and we have a heightened anticipation because we know what comes next. It is St. Nicholas, who is referred to previously, who had caused the clatter. In a similar way, the birth of Jesus has a greater effect upon our emotions, upon our faith, when we know what comes next. The story is heightened because we know the end. The death of Jesus, his crucifixion, gives us insight into why he was born into the human race, into a lowly stable into the town of Bethlehem, and how a star led men from afar to seek him. He was born into the human race because it was necessary for a perfect human being to die for the sins of the world. He was born into a lowly stable to contrast the modern men who anticipate what they anticipate regarding the birth of a king. He was born into Bethlehem because, like the lowly stable, Bethlehem was a lowly city. And Bethlehem was the city of David. And the Savior was to be born from the lineage of David, which both Mary and Joseph were from, the lineage of David. A star led men from afar to seek him as a sign that the whole universe celebrated the event and that the birth of Jesus was for the redemption of men from afar, as well as men who were near. Which meant he came for both Jews and Gentiles. You can see from these examples that the details of the Christmas story are better understood regarding their importance when we know the end of the story. And a major part of the end of the story is a cross. It might seem like bringing up the story of a cross at Christmas is like discussing world hunger at Thanksgiving. But I submit that amidst the sentimental ornaments and the modern symbols of overweight men wearing red, there should be a cross. In a unique and mysterious way, there is as much joy to be found in the cross as there is in the nativity. There are buttons worn this time of year and stickers placed on cars that say he was born to die. I wouldn't want to say more than that, but For Jesus was born to do everything that he did, everything. But the slogan summarizes an important truth. The manger and the cross are the same story. One is not valued without the other. On this night we remember God becoming man as a baby, born in a lowly stable. And we remember that he died to set men free from sin and death. Hence, it was truly a holy night. It was holy and is holy because God became man, and it is holy because he died to set men free. So make sure that there is a cross on your tree and make it empty. An empty cross. So that tells the end of the story. He is not there. He is risen. Amen.