The name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You would join me turning in your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 3. Picking up at verse eight. First Timothy three, picking up at verse eight. There are plenty of stories in the Bible that teach the dangers of pride and the positive effect of humility. It was pride that rose up within Eve when she believed she could be like God, and therefore she ate of the forbidden fruit. It was pride that was within Adam that moved him to blame God for his own disobedience because God gave Eve to Adam. It was pride that led Cain to be jealous of his brother Abel, jealous to the point of killing him. And it was pride that prevented him from telling God the truth when he was confronted with his evil deed. It was pride that moved the people to resist the presence of God in the world. Which led to the people's hearts being bent toward evil and that continually. It was pride after the flood that convinced the people they could build a tower that would keep them safe from another flood. And therefore they didn't need God. And all of that pride is just in the first eleven chapters of the book of Genesis. There is a great irony today in the fact that there are certain political groups who want to force moral change on Western society who use the word pride as a positive. But the reality is that pride is one's vice, a vice that ends in a bath in the likes of sulfuric acid. Because pride leads to destruction, the opposite is true about humility. There is a natural power in humility that even men with evil hearts cannot deny. I came I came upon the following story that highlights such a power. One day A sage came to a king for an interview. The sage had to wait for a long time because the king was very busy. Finally, the king said he could come in. When the sage entered the hall, the first thing he did was take off his hat and bow to the king. Immediately the king took off his crown and bowed to the sage The ministers and others who were around the king asked, What are you doing? He took off his hat because he is an ordinary man, but you are the king. Why should you have to take off your crown? The king said to his ministers, You fools, do you think I wish to remain inferior to an ordinary man? He is humble and modest. His humility is a pillow's virtue. He showed his respect to me. If I did not take off my crown, then I would be showing less humility than an ordinary man, and I would be defeated by him. If I am the king, I should be better than everybody in everything. That is why I took off my crown and bowed to him. Such is a recognition of the power, again, of humility. Now I have started with the dangers of pride and the power of humility. because of what is instructed in 1 Timothy chapter 3, starting at verse 8, regarding the office of a deacon. The word deacon simply means servant And as you are aware, being a servant requires a great deal of humility. As we look at these verses, let us again Be again mindful that the false teachers Timothy was having to confront were likely practicing the opposite of what is being required of priests and deacons. Verse 8. The word likewise harkens back to the previous verses on what is required of a priest. In fact, there are at least six similar requirements for deacons as there are for priests. To be reverent is to fear God in a reasonable manner Meaning that his fear is not so much that it scares him or freezes him, and it is enough to not want to offend God. A double-tongued man is one who speaks one thing and does another, or teaches one thing and believes the opposite. We could simply call him a liar. Being not given to wine is one of those duplicates from the previous list, and once again reminds us of the virtue of self-control. To not be greedy for money means that every single one of those prosperity preachers on your television screen are in violation and are plainly of the devil No matter what their words say, no matter their denials, they are Simonizers. Simonizers are named after a man in the book of Acts called Simon. Who wanted to buy the power of the Holy Spirit, but not be controlled by the Holy Spirit. Thus, a Simonizer is a person who only relates to God and the gospel in reference to money. Such men do not know God and will be eternally condemned. Verse 9 The mystery of the faith mentioned here is a reference to the gospel itself. In St. Peter's first letter, he refers to it as that which angels longed to look into. To describe it as such is identifying how it all looked before Jesus and his sufferings were revealed. First, you had the covenant promises to Abraham. Then you had the wandering of his family, the famine, the jailing of Joseph, then the elevating of Joseph. Then the enslavement of the whole people of Israel, then the deliverance of Israel, then the giving of the law and all of its sacrificial requirements, and then the dispersion, and then the prophets Where was God going with all that had happened? Such was a legitimate question. No one knew except the Trinitarian God how it would all come together. And now we know, for from the family of Abraham came Jesus, who was the promised seed spoken about to Eve. Now we know that the enslavement of Israel and the freedom given to them was a foreshadow, a foreshadow of how men would be free from sin. And the sacrifices. The sacrifices were a foreshadow of what Jesus would do for mankind. And the crowning of kings and the use of prophets Fill out the offices that Jesus would fulfill as he is revealed to be prophet, priest, and king. The mystery revealed. And the mystery is solved, but it must be protected The call to protect it must not be taken lightly. Consider how many mainline churches have not protected it and are now bankrupt of faith. Verse 10. I mentioned last week that the requirements of a priest should be the standard of living for all Christians. It is only that the priest must be examined to be assured that they are living such a life. That is said plainly here regarding deacons. They should be examined, they should be tested, they should be Tested and required to show they're living up to the standard. And I can offer a behind-the-scenes look at what such examinations can be like The questionnaire we require for the office of deacon is shorter than what is required for a presbyter, but certainly thorough enough. And in case you are not aware, our form of government requires a man to be first examined and ordained a deacon before he can even pursue being a priest. But the answers to the required questions to the required questions can reveal the heart of a man toward the ministry and the standard of education he has achieved. The results vary and sometimes very dramatically. I can assure you that no one gets a pass just because we need men. Again, we desire and require that they be good men. It is not possible to know if a man is blameless. Which means he is not given to patterns of sin. But such is why men are required to serve in the church. So that their lives can be seen and the process to even be examined includes a recommendation of two priests. And a recommendation from the vestry where the man serves, all to give evidence that a blameless life is being pursued. Verse eleven. Here, Paul is more specific regarding what is required of a minister's wife. Before, in the charge of a priest, the wife simply needed to be one in number. Here, there are specific behaviors practiced and avoided. Of the ones to practice, she is to be reverent, temperate, and faithful. Of the ones to avoid, she is not to slander. Which is to speak falsely of someone to damage their reputation. Now, regarding the wife of a minister, let me say that she is not a pastor in any way. Too many parishioners expect the wives of pastors to do counseling and to lead the ladies in prayer and to know biblical insights. It is important for pastors' wives that you know That it was their husband that was ordained and not her. And my wife didn't insist I tell you that. But there are plenty of moments where things were expected of her as if she was me and she is not. And secondly, it is true beyond doubt that a wife can make or break a man's ministry. If she is not reverent, others in the church will believe they too don't need to be reverent. If she is not temperate or faithful, others will believe they too don't need to be either of those things as well. And if she slanders, oh my, she can be the cause of division in the church And I might as well start working on my CDL again to go back to driving a school bus if my wife is a slanderer. Verse 12. We come back again to be a deacon, being a man with one wife and a man who rules his home well, which is to love his wife as Jesus loves the church. And it is to train up his children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. And it is to live his personal life as if they, his family, are the most important church he could ever pastor. I confess that when I started to pursue the ministry, I knew that because of my personal pride and my more direct personality That I would need a good woman who stood by me and that my children didn't resent me and were faithful to the church. I know how people reason. They may not like me or my style, but they are impressed that my wife stands by me. And because of it, they conclude that he can't be all that bad. And if my children respect me and are faithful in the church, parishioners can conclude that at the very least I can pastor my family. But training up children to believe and walk with Jesus is not only for the clergy to heed Every man can see his family as his own parish, in the sense that they need to see their father's faith in Jesus And the manner he loves their mother and how he loves them will affect their faith really for the rest of their days. The manner a man pastors his own family is his greatest testimony regarding his Christian faith. Men, you must take on those responsibilities for the church needs it and the world needs it. Verse 13 Here is described the effectiveness of a faithful life lived. A man who has a calling on his life to serve the church formally. and does it well, not only helps the Christians, but also the unbelieving world. Simply and honestly put, there are too few men in the church who live up to the standards required. And the church and the world need such men and such testimonies. We are not Our attention to to go next is back to the meaning of the word deacon, which again means servant. I remind you of how the office of a deacon came about. Recall in the book of Acts that shortly after 3,000 people were added to the Christian faith, and the Christians started gathering and sharing their wealth and goods with one another It naturally and understandably occurred that disagreements arose among them. Of course there were contentious moments. For these people were in no sense perfect, and all were immature in understanding how their new faith in Jesus as the Savior was to be expressed in their personal lives And in their gatherings with other believers. And when you are sharing everything with everyone, discrepancies cannot help but arise. And that is what happened. The Jews who had become Christian and the Greeks who had become Christian, they came from different cultures, and they had not yet been united with one another What happened was, when it was time to distribute the food being shared, the Greek Christians noticed that the Hebrew Christian widows were getting a greater share than the Greek Christian widows. Meanwhile, the apostles were busy sharing the gospel and teaching the people, and more people were being added to their body of believers every day. But the controversy was so great that the congregation bothered the apostles with it, but the apostles did not want to be interrupted. So they instructed the people to choose from among them men, men of good reputation, to help settle daily struggles. This pleased the people, and so they chose seven men, and hands were laid upon the men, and prayers were made by the apostles to consecrate them, what we call today ordaining. And the men, the seven men, were the first to be placed in the office of deacon. Thus, at the very heart of the office of deacon is service. A deacon, then, is a man who does not run away when there is service to perform, but instead runs to the need. And I remember Father Ricky when he was here telling me that he was taught in seminary that an ordained man, no matter his office, is still and always will be a deacon. That, of course, means that all ministers, whether he be ordained a priest or consecrated a bishop, is to have the heart of a servant. Deacons, priests, and bishops should line up right beside the men of his church and mulch the grounds, pick weeds, vacuum floors, paint walls. Well no, I ha I hate painting, so that's not gonna happen. Put away chairs and tables after fellowship, etc. , etc. All ministers should be men of service and more service. And to serve, I remind you, it takes humility. For a true servant, there should not be a task too meaningless. The servant, the humble one, never puts himself First, because his master said that the first shall be last, and the last shall be first. In the foreword of Simon Sinek's book titled Leaders Eat Last Lieutenant General George J. Flynn of the United States Marine Corps says the following, and I apologize to those of you who serve in other branches, for this is the second Sunday I've mentioned the Marine Corps. My fault. But this is what he says. When you are with Marines gathering to eat You will notice that the most junior are served first, and the most senior are served last. When you witness this act, you will also note that no order is given. Marines just do it. At the heart of this very simple action is the Marine Corps' approach to leadership. Marine leaders are expected to eat last because the true price of leadership is the willingness to place the needs of others above your own. Great leaders truly care about those they are privileged to lead and understand that the true cost of leadership privilege comes at the expense of self-interest. Such a description are biblical principles lived out. Of course, for the Christian The example set by the United States Marine Corps cannot be compared to the example in leadership that we know, for it is in Jesus himself. Who St. Paul said made himself of no reputation, but humbled himself to be formed in the image of man that he might serve man. There is no greater example of service and humility than Jesus the Christ. So the standard for ministry Even at the lower office of a deacon, is still very high. And still, the standard is for all men, especially for fathers. And the only way any man can be reverent, self-controlled, hold the faith, be found blameless, and rule his family well is to be humble and to serve. And as this section of Scripture ends, the end of verse 13, such living will lead to great boldness in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and merciful Father, we thank you for these standards. Help us not to shy away from them, even if we are not called to be a priest or a deacon, but simply called to be good men for your kingdom's sake. Especially for our fathers here. Help them to take up this mantle, to live it out by service, that their children might bless your name. It is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.