Thank you, Brother. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You be seated. Why so focused on death Why is the Bible so focused on death? Why just in the fifth chapter of the book of Genesis alone, filled with thoughts With comments, with announcements of death. Adam lived 930 years and he died. Seth lived 907 years and he died. Enosh lived 905 years and he died. Canaan lived 910 years and he died. Mahalal lived 895 years and he died. Jared lived 962 years and he died. Methuselah lived 969 years and he died. Lamech lived 777 years and he died. And then Lamech was the father of Noah. And Noah had to start the human race all over again because everyone, besides his family, died. And the Old Testament's obsession with death continues. Consider that the last chapter of Genesis focuses on the death of Joseph. The last chapter in Deuteronomy focuses on the death of Moses. The last chapter of Joshua focuses on the death of Joshua. The last chapter of the book of 1 Samuel focuses on the death of King Saul. The first few chapters of 1 Kings focuses on the death of King David. The last chapter in 1 Kings focuses on the death of Ahab. All such evidence proves that the Bible, especially the Old Testament, has an obsession with the subject of death. And who wants to talk about death? We need happy thoughts. We need PMAs. Do you know what a PMA is? If you don't, you should. When I was in high school, we were required to attend a leadership retreat That included all of the seniors in my high school. Now, I don't know how everyone can be a leader. Some have got to follow, right? I heard a chaplain, by the way, he was visiting McDonough School. He was from Princeton, and he said to the parents and the teachers at McDonough He said that everywhere he goes to private schools, he reads their slogans, and nine out of ten read that this school trains leaders And he asked a very common sense question. Who's training the followers? Someone needs to train the followers. And it's a good point. But back to my high school leadership camp, the speaker at the retreat told us that PMA stands for positive mental attitude. And that leader and that leaders need to have a positive mental attitude. And so this speaker, every time we got together for the plenary session He would yell out to the crowd, how is your PMA? And all of us were to stand up and wave our arms and say, boy, am I enthusiastic! Well after a few times of yelling such back at the speaker, my buddies and I with our high school humor thought we could jump up and every time he said, how's your PMA? we would say, Boy am I a spastick. Because well it was funny to us at the time The subject of death spoils your PMA. It spoils your positive mental attitude. The subject of death never leads to a good time. And that is why I believe so many Christians stay away from the Old Testament as far as any in-depth study. It has too much depth in it. Even when it wants to be positive and hopeful, the death is always lingering as a subject that cannot be escaped. So when we come to the New Testament with new hope, eternal hope, we expect that death will no longer be a focus. After all, Jesus said he came to bring life and life abundantly. And we are here this morning to talk about life, to talk about resurrected life. So no talk about death, right? Well, Jesus was not silent on death, as you know In fact, he spoke about it quite often. In Matthew's gospel, we hear Jesus say, We are going up to Jerusalem. And the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death, and will be handed over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. In Luke, Jesus was recorded to have said, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the elders, the chief priests, and the teachers of the law, and he must be killed. But note that these were not negative comments about death. They were not words of obsession about death. Jesus knew, and we are to know that death is absolutely necessary to lead to life, for life to begin again. And that is why I have chosen this morning to focus on a passage that might be a bit of a surprise to you Our focus this morning, this Easter morning, this morning of resurrection, is Psalm 22. And I encourage you, if you would, open your Bibles to Psalm 22. We're going to be walking through Psalm 22. And I want you to see what I saw in this psalm. Now, most people believe that this psalm is fit for Good Friday and not for Easter. But I am going to convince you otherwise. Psalm twenty-two right after Psalm twenty-one. If that helped. Now the first verse from Psalm 22 is what Jesus quotes when he was on the cross. It is a verse that I understood in my early Christian life to be describing God, the Father, turning away from the Son. Turning away from his son because he could not look upon Jesus who was carrying the weight of the sins of the world. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And that understanding of God turning away sounds emotionally moving and dramatic For God the Father loved his son, and thus it would shake the universe for him to have to turn away from his son. But I know now that such an interpretation is quite wrong. Jesus never ceased to be divine when he suffered death for our sins. His divine nature never departed from his human nature. He would not have been able to utter my God if the Father and the Holy Spirit had turned away from him. But if this is true, then the question is, what is the meaning of Jesus quoting verse 1 from Psalm 22 when he was on the cross? I believe, as do many, that when Jesus quotes the first verse here, he is identifying with the whole psalm. With the whole psalm, all verses of Psalm 22. And so we're gonna look at the whole song. I'm not gonna read it, so you're gonna have to read along as I as I converse The first two verses find Jesus fully identifying with the state of the human nature. It is fallen. It is lost and abandoned. And thus Jesus took on that very state himself. He felt it. He knew it in his soul on the cross. And this is how Jesus is called the man of sorrows, for there is no sorrow of humanity that he did not feel for himself. Next, to say that he was not heard in the day. That's very strange because Jesus was always heard by the Father. And in the night, Jesus was not silent. He continued to pray as he did in the garden, and he was heard. So here, Jesus again, identifying fully with fallen man. Who perceives, who perceives that God does not hear us? That the Father does not care when all the time he hears and all the time he cares. Verses 3 through 5 recognize that God is a God who hears, and the proof is the faithful fathers of old, who walked with God, who were heard and delivered by God. He heard Abraham. He heard Isaac. He heard Jacob. He heard Joseph. He heard Moses. He heard Joshua. Verses 6 through 8 were the reality of Jesus as he hung on that cross made from a tree. He was treated as a worm. Men certainly despised him. Men most certainly ridiculed him. And they did indeed say he trusted in the Lord, let the Lord rescue him. They thought themselves clever when saying this. They thought themselves so very clever as to be able to mock Jesus and the Father as well Verses 9 and 10 take Jesus back to the truth of who truly cared for him. The Father and Holy Spirit dwelled in him and cared for him from the womb. That too was the reality of Jesus, even while he hung on that tree. Present trials do not discount past blessings. The presence of the Heavenly Father, so close in his past, allows him faith to pray in his present condition, hanging on a tree. Verses 11 through 13, which was as if he was surrounded by beasts that were determined to devour him. Verses 14 and 15 express the internal condition of Jesus as he here poetically describes what he felt like on his insides. And how the torture had taken a toll upon him so that he could hardly speak Verses sixteen through eighteen are hauntingly descriptive. They are hauntingly prophetic. The people were as dogs as they surrounded him, for they waited for opportunities, their scraps, to insult and berate him. They pierced his hands with nails by nailing him to that cross. They didn't need to break his bones, for his breath was fleeting fast. They stared at him. They divided his garments and even cast lots for a costly robe that was mockingly placed upon him. Folks, this was written 900 years prior to the death of Jesus. Why would David write such words? How is this a song to be sung to God in worship as this Psalter is? What David did not know with the writing of this song, we do now with the reading of it There is no better song for worship, for these words describe a man of sorrows, worshiping by way of suffering and dying. How could you honor the Father more than that? Verses 19 through 21 are similar words to Jesus that Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. They are words of pleading and of a need for strength to endure the suffering he endured. The sword of men, the ravaging of dogs, and the devouring power of a lion's mouth are what all men fear. But note verse twenty-one again. Look at the last line at verse twenty-one. There we have a change. Something has happened. It is the last line. You have answered me. Beloved, this is Jesus on the other side. You have answered me. This is Jesus not being devoured, not suffering at the hands of men, not dead. This is Jesus alive, alive from the dead. Note the change in focus. The words no longer request help. They no longer describe a horrible situation. They are words that focus on the Lord. This is truly a resurrected man. It is a man that is on the other side of death. He has gone in and come out and now knows who is worthy to be praised. I will declare your name to my brethren. In the midst of the assembly, I will praise you. He will praise him because the God he worships did not leave his body in the grave. It is because the father did not abandon the innocent. It is because the father was pleased with the son and showed it by pulling him out of the grave. And next, Jesus calls for all who believe and who have hope in God to join him in praising the Father. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him, and fear him, all of you offspring of Israel. Did you hear that? All you offspring. That's us We are the offspring of Israel as we confess Jesus as the Son of God and that Jesus is raised from the dead. We are the ones who have been grafted into that living tree Here we are being called to join in the praising of the one true God who rescues the dead and gives them eternal life. Listen to what God did. Listen to why Jesus gives him praise and calls us to give him praise. He says, for he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. God the Father was not ashamed of the Son. He was not embarrassed by his son Not even when his son was cursed by taking on the guilt of the world, the father was always loving his son. He goes on, nor has he hidden his face from him, but when he cried to him, to him he heard. God the Father never forsook the Son. He was there in Jesus, reconciling the world to himself. Note that when Jesus identified fully with humanity at the beginning of this psalm, he said that God the Father did not hear him. After he is resurrected and he is identifying with resurrected humanity, he then proclaims that God the Father heard his cry. He heard every word. And then next is describe the powerful effect of the resurrection of Jesus. The poor shall be satisfied having no need unmet. Those who seek the Lord will find him and be given hearts that will live forever. And this effect is not just for Israel alone. It will include all the nations of the earth to the ends of the world. God by the resurrection of Jesus will make every language state his praises. He will make every ethnic family his family. Because of the resurrection, he will rule the nations, for he is alive, having defeated death itself. And the good news continues. It's not just for the poor, although they are the prized jewel of the Savior. The prosperous will not be shut out. Because of the resurrection, even the most wealthy and the most powerful will be humbled by this victory over the grave, and they too will come to repentance and a truth-saving faith. In Christ Jesus there is neither rich nor poor, for they are all children of the Most High. And then continue on in the Psalter, in the Psalm, then the dying, those who go down to the dust, they too will praise Him. Bowing, it says, can be a blessed thing when it's receiving forgiveness and mercy. The fact that men cannot be saved, cannot save their own soul, is at the heart of the gospel. There is no salvation outside of Christ. No politician, no political system, no clean air act, no rights, no teaching. No discovery, no armed forces, no cancer cure, no humanitarian relief, no goodwill can bring salvation for the souls of mankind other than Christ Jesus Hear that, this Easter, and believe it for your own salvation. The Psalm closes with hope regarding generations that follow after. The it the it is the gospel story, it is the miracle of the resurrection of Jesus. It will be recounted to the next generation. They will come and declare his righteousness to a A people who will be born. Here is my pastoral heart poured out to you, to each and every one of you What we celebrate today is ordained by God to be told to the generations that follow after. And you children who are here, you children who are the next generation, you are to tell it the miracle of the resurrection to your children. And you are instructed by God to tell your children to tell it to their children. And it is to continue until we are all resurrected. God has ordained that the hope of the gospel, the truth that Jesus died and rose from the dead, overcoming sin and offering forgiveness to all who believe in him. All of this is to be told to the generations that follow us. A belief in miracles has been lost in our society as we have been given over to scientism and rationalism. Many have abandoned the Christian faith because resurrections don't happen before their eyes Skepticism has turned to cynicism as it always does, and so stories of miracles are placed in the category of fairy tales. But miracles are what break us out of cynicism. Miracles give us hope that this life is not all that there is. And that we don't have to eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we're going to die. As it has been said, Christians don't believe, just believe in miracles. We depend upon them. And the miracle we most depend upon is that Jesus is no longer dead, he is alive. And because of the resurrection of Jesus, I believe the Nile turned to blood. Because of the resurrection of Jesus, I believed the Red Sea parted. Because of the resurrection, I believe the sun stood still. The axe head floated. The dead boy was given life. The blind received sight, the leper was healed, the lame could walk, and my sins, which are many, are forgiven because of the resurrection. Beloved, this day, this most happy day, the reason for our happiness is to be told to the next generation. And the next and the next. And you and I are to do the telling. We are to tell of a miracle. Jesus was dead and was resurrected from the dead Tell of this wonderful miracle to a child today. And tell that child to tell to his child. So are you ready for the question? How is your PMA? Because of the resurrection, boy am I enthusiastic. Let us pray.