In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. We're looking at our reading from the Gospel according to John this morning. Always good to open your Bible and read the words therein. I want you to take inventory of how many decisions you have made today already You decided to get out of bed. You decided to eat breakfast. Or not eat breakfast. He decided to wear that tie. Or no tie at all. Or that dress. Or not that dress, that skirt. Or not that skirt, but slacks. Women have it a lot tougher than men, to be sure. You decided to pick up after yourself after getting ready Or wait till you got home from worship. You decided to attend Sunday school, or not Because, well I don't know why you would not. And you decided to come to worship? I know, because you are here. If you are listening to this sermon for the first time over the internet, then you either could not attend worship this morning or you decided not to go, and again, I for a reason I would not understand. There are a lot of decisions and important ones at that, and I didn't mention the lesser decisions we make at the beginning of our day. And all the of this decision making is just this morning. Many, many more decisions will be made today and tomorrow and the next day. And all of them add up to a number that none of us want to spend time counting. And in all of these decisions made, I next ask you. To consider how much of your thought process in making that decision was about yourself How much of your decision making was based on what you thought was best for you In other words, how much of your decision making was motivated by selfishness? Note that I am not condemning you for being selfish. When I take inventory about my own decisions and force myself under the same scrutiny Well, I am undone. I have to conclude that I am selfish in my decision making most of the time And this is why our liturgy has us confessing sins of what we have done and what we have left undone, recognizing it's usually because of self. It is why we confess we have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts. I am aware that the selfishness I practice is so very common that I don't know all of the times that I am practicing it. And I confess that for your sake as well as my own. The subject of decision-making is pertinent to our passage from the Gospel of John As we are made privy to a discussion amongst the Sadducees and the Pharisees about how they were going to address what they considered the problem of Jesus. And Jesus does present a problem to anyone who does not believe. Jesus was a problem when he walked this earth, and he is a problem today to anyone who hears his name and has yet to decide to believe in him as the Messiah, the Son of God. That hangs in their consciences, you know, as it did some of us when we didn't know him or confess him. As we examine this exchange between the priests and the Pharisees, we must keep in mind that a miracle has just happened. Someone got raised from the dead. And it was a miracle of astounding proportions. And the miracle, hear this now, could be verified. There were witnesses. There were people that you could go and ask. You could go to them and ask, did you see Lazarus sick? And then did you see him dead? Did you see him buried in that tomb? Did you see him come out of that same tomb alive again at the command of Jesus of Nazareth? And they would say, yes, I saw every moment of it. They could go to a doctor who could verify the illness and the death and then the life, the life given again. Such was the same in John 9, when the blind man was healed and his blindness could be verified by his parents at the pool of Siloam. And the man who was blind and then could see could testify. Any one could ask him, and he could tell them, Jesus is the one who healed me. Such verifications are not like the healings we hear about that occurred in foreign lands somewhere else. We hear about a healing and nothing is verified. Jesus didn't just do things for the point of doing them. He did them as a testimony to himself. Jesus did it to prove his miracles were real, and thus he was really the Messiah. And yet, and that's a underlying, and yet, and yet, such matters not at all, such matters not at all to these men Who meet together to figure out what to do about the problem of Jesus. Forget about all of his miracles. Let's talk about what we need to do to get him out of the way. What causes such stubbornness? What causes such blindness to the truth? What causes such obstinence to be without hope? They are insisting they don't want to have hope. These men in their conversation, they're going to tell us what causes this. The chief priests and Pharisees were the principal members of the Sanhedrin, which was the religious body that was given just a little bit of clout by Rome. They were responsible to settle religious matters only because Rome didn't want to have to. The discussion begins with the confessing of the miracles of Jesus. and then expressing what their two options are as seen by them The first is to think that if they let Jesus alone and thus let him continue what he was doing, Which is to convince people that he was indeed the Messiah of Israel, that they had waited for for oh so many years. If they let him continue, all the people would go to his side. And we know that Jesus was convincing the crowds by what he said, by what he did, and what type of man he was. It is a natural part of creation. Something that God has embedded into creation That the most convincing of leaders are those who make logical sense, who live by high ethical standards, and those who empathize with those they lead. And Jesus did all of that, and certainly much more. So their train of thought continued, concluding that if Jesus convinces people in the manner he was doing, then the people would make him king after King David, in the line of King David. And thus this would cause Rome to bring in their armies and destroy their land That is what they mean by, quote, the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation. The Greek word translated here to be placed in the New King James Version as in take away our place is literally land, and thus many translators replaced temple. The temple for land, interpreting in their translation that the leaders are concerned that the temple would be taken away, destroyed. Now the fear of the Romans taking away their nation must refer to the independence they perceived that they had. And this is quite unfortunate for these religious leaders to think that they had any meaningful independence. They had settled, evidently, on the occupancy of Rome. They were not crying out to God for forgiveness and for deliverance as the prophets had done before them. These religious leaders were still in captivity and they did not know it. They were prisoners in the covenantal land God had promised them, and they were satisfied with their state of being. That tells us something, doesn't it? We could get satisfied with our state of being not realizing that we're in captivity The second option this impromptu council thought they had was articulated by Caiophys, who was the high priest at the time. John says he was high priest that year. Interestingly, that phrase is unique to John and his writing, and it is believed he is referring to that year being the year that Jesus died. The option, rudely put by Caiophus, was for one man to die, and the rest of them, the leaders and the nation, to be spared. There is, of course, great irony in this utterance by Caiophus. The first is that he was indeed the high priest And as the high priest, it was his responsibility to offer a sacrifice once a year, the atonement sacrifice, for the salvation, for the forgiveness of all of God's people. Caiophas thus was fulfilling his priestly duties by offering up Jesus, but he didn't realize he was offering him up for the sins of mankind. And thus the other part of the irony is Jesus was indeed being offered up for the sins of many, not so that other people won't get hurt by Rome. And John adds a very pastoral word in verse fifty-two. He includes us. He includes believers that will follow. He includes us today. Those who hear his gospel will know that Jesus did indeed die for them. Not just those who were alive at Jesus when Jesus was alive, but for all who would come after. Of course we know that the wisdom of Caiophas was the winning plan. They plotted to put Jesus to death. Of course they did. They put only two options before themselves. Which was ridiculous to begin with. There were plenty of more options, but they put only two before them, only two choices, and they chose the most evil one. Of course they did. I asked earlier what makes people so stubborn, so obstinate, so truly terrible. And we can answer such a question from the very words of the Sadducees and the Pharisees. Look with me again at verse 48. There the members of the Sanhedrin are reported to saying to one another that if Jesus isn't stopped, the Romans will come, take away both their land and their nation. And yet there's an unusual wording in the Greek, and scholars say it is a result that the emphasis falls especially on the pronoun our. As in our place and our nation. It occurs very frequently in the Greek, but first in this phrase. In other words, they fear that the Romans will take these things away from them personally. Not for the nation or all of us together, but for them as leaders personally. They are, in other words, less worried about the well-being of the nation and its people Than they are about their own positions of power and prestige. The second instance of this emphasis occurs in verse 50. And there John quotes the priest Caiophas as saying, It is expedient for us that one man should die for the whole people. Now what Kyophus was doing in case you did not catch it was making a naked appeal to their own self-interest. The emphasis again is on us. And the us are the Sadducees and the Pharisees. It was expedient for them. And he knows. He knows that the rest of them listening to him want to hold on to their privilege, to their rank, to their status, to the economic benefits. He knows they want it as bad as he does. And so he frames his option in those terms. He essentially says to them, Make the decision that is best for you. And of course, they did. They did not consider how many more lame people could walk if Jesus was still alive. They did not consider that more blind could see, that more dead could be raised, that more hungry could be fed. No No. This whole matter in their eyes was about them And so we have our answer as to why people are so obstinate to the truth. It is because of selfishness. It is because of self-love, which is plain hate toward others. But it is too easy, isn't it, to condemn these men for their selfishness. Yes, we must identify it, absolutely, and call it for what it is, absolutely. But they are not alone in their self-love. In a recent study done by the University of California researchers on recently published books in the United States and Britain. They show that the word get has increased significantly in our writings. And that is compared to the word give, which has significantly gone down. That subtle difference is evidence to psychologists that we have become a more self-absorbed, self-serving society. But of course, scientific studies are unnecessary. We only need to look at what entertains us to see a reflection of ourselves and what we see In movies is that we celebrate looking out for ourselves. We celebrate pursuing fame, pursuing power, pursuing money, all for self It is blatant today. No one apologizes for it because no one is ashamed of it. I say no one for dramatic effect, but it certainly does seem that that selfishness dominates our airways But we don't need studies or critique of what entertains us to know how self-absorbed, how selfish, how self-loving we are. We only need to look at ourselves. Amongst ethical theories, there is a category officially called egoism. It is a theory that proposes, argues, that it is perfectly ethical, meaning perfectly moral, for a person to think of themselves first when they are faced with a moral dilemma. The argument goes that if we all think about ourselves first and foremost, then we don't have to worry about one another. You take care of yours, I'll take care of mine. We will remain separate and responsible. And there are even different subcategories under egoism. Such as individual egoism, which states that all persons are morally responsible to think about themselves And if one does not put him or herself first, then he or her is being immoral. It is your moral duty to be selfish. Then there is personal egoism, and that says that every person is to think about his or her own best interests first and not be concerned about what everybody else is doing. And finally, there is universal egoism, and that says that we should all think about ourselves first when facing a moral dilemma. But If you do have a chance to do something for others, go ahead and do it as long as it will come back and help you later. As I said, this is an actual accepted ethical theory on how one should live his or her life. The critique I have with all forms of egoism is that it does not have to be a theory in order to be practiced. Egoism comes naturally to all of us. Those who perceive egoism to be a theory like that of utilitarianism or or Kantian ethics, they are kidding themselves. For all they have done is put a labels on behaviors that human beings do without thinking. To call this a theory seems to be motivated by wanting to justify selfish behavior. And I believe it is within every human being the knowledge that altruistic motivation is morally right and thus righteous. I believe it is within each of us to recognize that to put another person's needs in front of our own is a good thing to do. And thus, as Christians, when we hear Jesus say that we are to die to ourselves, when we hear him say that we are to pick up our own cross. When we hear him say, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. When we hear him say, That we are that a man who tries to save his life will lose it, and a man who loses his life will retain it. When we hear him say all of these things, we say to ourselves, of course, of course, that makes sense. We know as followers of Jesus Christ that to make decisions based on what is best for others and not ourselves is the righteous thing to do. When self-love is identified as immoral and something we ought not to do if we are followers of Jesus. It is hard for the modern mind to accept that because we are told that it is necessary to love ourselves in order to have good mental health. I recall my mother attending an Al-Anon meeting to learn how to cope with my father's alcoholism. And one of the first lessons she learned was how to love herself. She was told that when the Bible says, love your neighbor as yourself. It is to teach us that we must learn to love ourselves before we can ever start learning to love our neighbor. Well, that is poor biblical interpretation. The instruction to love our neighbor assumes we love ourselves. Like most everything else it does, the secular world misconstrued conclusions about mental health. For they contain only partial truth. It is true that no human being should hate his or herself. But the reason why we should not hate ourselves is not because we are worthy of self-love. It is because God made us. And God loves us, each and every one of us. God's purpose for us is the basis for why we should think positively about ourselves And God's love for us is the reason why we don't need to learn about how to self-love or think of ourselves first. The motivation behind the decision made by the Sadducees and Pharisees to murder Jesus was out of selfishness and self-love. It came naturally to them. But that decision, beloved, is to be in contrast to what Jesus was doing and the decision he was making at the same moment. We ought to remember that Jesus said that no one takes his life from him, but he lays it down according to his own will. He lays it down himself. So while these Sadducees and Pharisees were thinking they were making a choice to end the life of Jesus for their own sake. The truth was that their plans meant nothing because Jesus was doing it by his own will. And Jesus willed it because he put the needs of others before his own. Of course he did. And so Christians are to make decisions as Jesus did. We are to think of others before self. Of course we should. Amen.