In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are looking at Judges chapter 6. And I ask That you don't get discouraged or depressed about these stories in Judges. I recognize that the negative aspects of each story can dominate our imaginations. We read correctly this morning that Israel fell into sin again. In the introductory sermon of this series on judges, we spoke About a cycle being repeated many times in this book. We are not yet a third of the way through the book. And this is the fifth time that Israel has needed someone to deliver them from an enemy. And we need to remember that these are enemies God has used To punish his own people. I have not yet referred to us to what most commentators point out at the beginning of studying Judges. And that is that what's happening to them is what God promised would happen to them. In Deuteronomy chapter thirteen Specifically, we see the condition of Israel described as fulfilled in Judges The content of the chapter, Deuteronomy thirteen, can be summarized by saying that if anyone relative A stranger or a leader was to encourage them toward idol worship, they must resist and put to death the one responsible for trying to lead them astray. In Deuteronomy chapter 24, the Lord specifically warns Israel that if they break their covenant with him, he will cause them to be defeated by their enemies. The enemy will come at them in one direction, and they will flee in seven different directions. The alien who lives among them will rise above them. Higher and higher while they sink lower and lower. There should not then be any doubt That what we have read in Judges is a fulfillment of God's promises as found in the book of Deuteronomy. The good news is, and there is always good news with our God, the good news is that he has not abandoned or completely destroyed his people, which they deserved. He has fulfilled his covenant promise of punishment, but has always kept his purpose before him, which is to redeem his people. The story of Gideon is different than the other judges previous as we consider that there is more detail given about his life. Consider that Othnil was described in a paragraph. Ehud got a small chapter. Shandar got two sentences. And Deborah, Barak, and Jael shared two chapters, one being a poem, chapter five, that described what happened in chapter four. Gideon will cover three chapters, and these will describe great moments of triumph and sad moments of defeat. There are two practical lessons to be learned from the first part of Gideon's story. The first lesson applies to every part of the book of Judges. The people of God, having been chosen by God and physically marked by Him through circumcision, they become lost. Lost among the many pagan nations that surround them, they practically lose their identity. This loss of identity reminds me of a story I recently read that reveals what happens to us Some of us who know the Lord at a time and then get lost into the world A certain man, we will call him Bob, visited a garage sale. The sale was literally in a garage, and there was in the back, he noticed a motorcycle that was covered up He asked if it was for sale. The owner said it was, but suggested that it would probably be cheaper to buy a new bike than fix up one that had a seized-up motor Bob, however, saw potential. He offered $35, and it was his. He put it in his own garage, but it took him a while to get around to attempting to restore the bike. A few months after he bought it, he called the local Harley Davidson store to price the necessary parts. He was asked to give the serial number on the bike. After a long pause, the man returned, sounding somewhat nervous. He asked for Bob's complete address and promised that he would get back to him. It was now Bob who was nervous, wondering if the bike had been stolen. A few days later, he received a call from an executive from Harley Davidson. The executive asked for a favor. He wanted Bob to lift up the seat of the bike to see if anything was written underneath. Bob did, and he was told, and Bob did, and as he was found, an engraving underneath that read, The King. Bob informed the executive of the inscription, and after a long pause, the executive offered Bob $300,000 for the bike. The king. Who would that be? Elvis. Now for those of you who are younger, Elvis Presley is considered the king of Rockies. Now Bob was stunned and could only say he'd have to think about it. And the next day Bob got a call from Jay Leno, the previous late-night talk show host. Jay offered Bob $500,000 for the Harley. It was then that he was told that the bike belonged to the king of rock and roll, Elvis Presley. Now, the story I just told you is considered urban legend, although Harley Davidson does have a bike that was once owned by Elvis Presley. The story, whether somewhat true or not, has a lesson. The value in the bike was not in the way it looked, not in the way that it ran. Neither of these was important. The value was the fact that it had been owned by the king. And so it is with the people of God. Israel's value, our value as the people of God, is not in our works or our looks, but in who owns us. We have been marked in baptism by the King of Kings. And it is that marking, even though we get lost among the refuse of the world, that marking is what makes us valuable. And this leads us to the second lesson of this chapter. Because of Israel's sin, we read of them suffering under great oppression, greater oppression than was described previous. We are told that they are hiding amongst the rocks for fear and unable to protect their crops from vandalism. A prophet is first sent to remind Israel how they have sinned, their idol worship. And this is the gracious thing of God to do. It's a gracious act. It is no way part of God's judgment Prophetic words, even if they are spoken harshly, are gracious words. For they dislodge us from our caverns, they dislodge us from our crevices of sin that we hide into. When we don't want God to see us. Prophetic words may not be easy to hear, but the effect can be eternally freeing. Take a moment this week and ask the Lord to reveal what caverns, what crevices you have been hiding in, and allow the scriptures to free you. The prophet in verse 11 is the same angel in verse 12. The word of God came through the messenger to Gideon. Gideon is said in one verse to be hiding, and then in the next is said to be a man of valor. Such description of him being of valor is what God was going to make him. Gideon's description of Israel's situation has a lot of truth, but he nowhere accepts responsibility on behalf of the people. It is Israel that is responsible for where she finds herself, but Gideon is a part of Israel. It would be fair for God to come down hard on this omission, this lack of confession by Gideon, but once again, God reveals his patience and his kindness. He is planning to deliver Israel from their oppressors by means of a flawed man, like we talked about last week. A flawed man named Gideon. Gideon's response harkens us back to Moses, who also doubted his ability to lead God's people. It may also reveal a cowardice in Gideon, causing him to hide and to doubt that he could lead God's chosen people. And the sign that he looks for is granted, and it is quite magical. When an offering was consumed by fire, it was believed to have been accepted by the Lord. This sign is to tell Gideon he has found favor in God's eyes. By Gideon's reaction, we conclude that this moment was what they call a theophany, which is an appearance of God. God did not become incarnate, let's not make that mistake. He took the form of a man, as he does other places, to communicate to his people. This appearing form and others like it are precursors to, of course, God becoming man, truly man and dwelling among us in his Son Jesus. When the Lord gives Gideon his first responsibility as deliverer, it involves his own home. Gideon's family has been corrupted by false idols. Gideon is to break down the altar of false idols set up by his father and use the elements of the altar to offer a true sacrifice to the living God. He does this at night probably because of fear. His actions were not discovered by the men of the city until the next morning. When the men of the city demand justice, a justice ironically deserved to be pressed down upon them for their idol worship. Joash, the father of Gideon, comes to the defense of his son. And his logical defense is quite good, and it settles the matter for a time. And after this summary, two shorter lessons are in order. First lesson: judgment begins in the house of the Lord Gideon must take care of the sins of his own home before he is able to lead Israel out of the oppression they are under because of their idolatry. We must take the board out of our own eye before we take the speck out of our brothers. Second It is usual for God to take what has been used for evil, the altar for the idols, and make it useful for the good, the worship of the living God. He does that with matter, he does that with time, he does that with his people. It's it's God's way The primary message or lesson for us is entangled within this passage. It teaches us how to deal with being in the world While not being a product of the world. The issue of being in the world, but not of the world, I have no doubt, is a difficult one for all of us. We desire easy answers to such questions as: how many non-Christian friends should I have? What non-Christian organizations should I support? What size of home or style of car or type of clothing makes me like the world around me? What entertainment should be avoided or can be enjoyed and I not be entangled in the world? There are no easy answers to any of these questions, but Gideon's story is going to help us. Gideon is called of God when he is living in and like the world. In that scenario, he is called to separate himself. The separation must occur at first in the most difficult of relationships, the one with his parents. We are aware of the fifth commandment, and Israel certainly was then. Honoring father and mother is what the people of God do. It's what we do. It is honoring to God when we honor our father and our mother. This commandment, however, does not override the first two commandments. In fact, it's dependent on the first two commandments. The first commands God's people that they should have no other gods before him. If there are gods And those gods are made in the form of idols, and those idols are worshipped by our parents. Commandment five is forfeited until numbers one and two are corrected. This principle is simply stated in the book of Acts. We are to obey God rather than men. Gideon Must apply that principle here, for he cannot obey God unless he defies his father's idol worship. Many Christians struggle here, not knowing when it is appropriate to sever themselves from parental authority. The same dilemma occurs in a marriage when a wife who is called to submit to her husband is asked by her husband to do immoral acts or to stop even worshiping God. Neither option is plausible, forcing a wife to obey God rather than men. Jesus warned of this type of tension between family members when he asked rhetorically He said, Do you think I came to bring peace on earth? No. No, I tell you, but division. From now on there will be a Five and one family divided against each other, three against two and two against three. They will be divided father against son and son against father. mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law. We are assured by these words that the gospel of Jesus causes tension in relationships It can be concluded that if the gospel can cause division in familial relationships, it certainly causes division in non-familial relationships. The pull of the family, the pull that it that it can have on us is so very, very strong. And Jesus recognized this when he said in Luke 14, if anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, Wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life. He cannot be my disciple. I don't think there is a more dramatic statement made by Jesus regarding the cost of following him But if we are to view our actions and our words objectively, we would see how how too often we favor family over following Jesus. It is very easy to do, requiring Jesus to make such a bold statement. He made it because we need to hear it. Gideon is blessed by the Lord to receive the response he did from his father. His father comes to his defense, and as much as this brought joy to Gideon's heart, We must recognize that such a response was not guaranteed. Gideon, in following the Lord rather than those around him, Had to trust that God would meet him, that God would bless him. Going against the tide or going against the ways of the world, which may mean going against family That takes faith. You have to believe that God is going to bless you on the other side It is intriguing to psychoanalyze Israel at this time, for Gideon's words to the prophet indicate that He and the people as a whole understood themselves to be chosen of God, and yet at the same time they participated in idol worship. How could they justify that in their minds? This way of living and thinking We have seen in Christian history, as people continue in their Christian traditions and practices And yet, for all intents and purposes, they are living and relating to God like those in the world around them. The Christian Church has a similar history to Israel, and that it has a cycle of following the Lord for a time. only to drift back into philosophies and behaviors that are more akin to the world than the kingdom of God. It does not take long to identify how worldviews such as Darwinian evolution, Freudian psychology So-called sexual liberation, moral relativism, and so on have influenced Christian thinking alongside Scripture That these professing Christians do not see blatant contradictions in their thinking is disconcerting and even mind-numbing. It takes a great deal of faith, faith that only can come from God to separate oneself from the world and live as God has instructed. Gideon was given that faith and enabled to step away from his family's idolatry. It is only after he stepped away that he could see the contradiction in which he previously lived. He didn't see it until he stepped away. In our contemporary setting, we can see that it takes a great deal, a great deal of strength and faith and courage for a teenager to step away from his peers and follow the morality of Holy Scripture. He knows that by doing so he could be an outcast and socially persecuted But this he must do in faith, trusting that God is going to meet his social needs on the other side. Going the opposite way of the world takes courage, but it can be done. A parent must courageously instill discipline in her son Rather than place him on drugs as the doctors suggest, believing that God will instill discipline in his heart. A worker must trust that in standing up for honesty against a corrupt boss, that God will provide his daily bread when being fired is a possibility. When it comes to being in the world and not of the world, there is no merge lane. Many times you are going to go against traffic, and the only one going the right way will be you. It is hard to tell at times that we are going the right way. But as Jesus said, his road, the road to eternal life, is narrow, and few travel on it. So when you look to your left and you look to your right and there's nobody there, it's because there's few that travel on it. There are no promises given to us when we go against the world in favor of God that everything to enjoy in this life will be ours. Some preachers say we will prosper in this life while asking for your money, so that they can prosper, but that is the only motivation: your money The primary promise made to us for not being of the world is eternal life after death. As we take our individual and corporate stands against the ways of the world, we have to have faith that God will meet us on the other side. Let us pray.