In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 1 Picking up at verse 8, follow along with me if you would. Revelation chapter 1. Picking up at verse 8 Before John's vision, the last time anyone physically saw Jesus was Paul on the road to Damascus. And in that vision, it was a light and a voice. Before that, the last sighting of Jesus was of him ascending into heaven But looking very much like he looked on earth. What John sees of Jesus in the book of Revelation is quite different than how Jesus looked While walking amidst humanity. The question we can ask and answer is, why? Why does Jesus appear so different in this vision he gives to John? This will be answered in our study today. The introduction we started last week continues. And we hear Jesus describing himself in verse 8 as the Alpha and the Omega. We know such letters are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet, respectively. Thus, the meaning of the reference is repeated to be the first and last, which is an identity of Jesus not having a beginning and not having an end. In verse 9, John identifies himself again with an explanation of where he was when he received the vision he is about to describe. The island of Patmos is off the west coast of Turkey in the Mediterranean Sea. It was a place where political exiles were sent. Thus, John was placed in political exile as Christians were starting to be seen as a danger to the Paks Romana. In verse 10, we are told what day in the week the vision came to John. It was the Lord's day, which is the day of resurrection, which we know of as Sunday. And even rabbis began to call in the first century Sundays as the day for the Christians. John describes himself as being in the Spirit, which is referring to the Holy Spirit. He may have been in a trance, but the details of what it means to be in the Holy Spirit, those details are left to the imagination. Next, Jesus again refers to his eternal identity, and the instruction to write to the seven churches is repeated. with the addition of giving the names of the churches. First, Ephesus is addressed. It was an Asiatic metropolis and was nearest to the island of Patmos. Then the other churches on the west coast of Asia are listed, than those in the interior region. We are going to look at verses 12 through 16 together as they describe the exalted Jesus giving us one grand image. A voice causes John to turn and see, such as what we are attempting to do this very hour. We need to see Jesus as he is revealed here. The seven lampstands are similar to what the prophet Zechariah saw in his vision and those placed in the temple. But these seven lampstands seem not to be connected, but stand each on their own while Jesus is in the middle of them. That the image that John sees is like, he says, like the Son of Man, allows there to remain a mystery to this vision. We remember that the seven churches represent all churches because the number seven means completeness, and thus Jesus stands in the middle of all churches. He is dressed in a robe with a golden band around him. The dress is a combination of what a priest would wear to enter the Holy of Holies. And what a king would wear. Jesus then is appearing as a priest-king. His white hair symbolizes purity and a transfiguration as is fitting for his heavenly state. His eyes, like fire, show his purpose of looking upon both good and evil while consuming both. Turning evil to ashes and the good into purified gold. His feet are brass because he himself has been purified by his own suffering. The description also speaks to the beauty of his glowing feet that are firmly established in truth and in righteousness. His voice is like water, in that it rushes like great rivers, it cascades like great falls, and it roars like violent waves. The stars are explained in verse 20 to be the emblems of the angels of the seven churches. They are described as stars in his right hand. Perhaps appearing as a wreath or as a royal and star-adorned diadem in his hand. The two-edged of or double-edged sword coming out of his mouth is found elsewhere in Scripture. It is his word. The word of Jesus is the sword. And as the preacher to the Hebrews explains, it has the work of putting to death those who rebel against God. and the work of surgically healing those who fear God. In general, it is used to both judge and save, which is the same purpose or persona as the Holy Scriptures. Describing his countenance or what it was like to look upon him as looking upon the sun in its strength. Is using a descriptive that can be understood, and yet we humans cannot look upon the sun in its strength without damaging our sight. Thus, the countenance of Jesus could not be looked upon for long. John's response described in verse 19 is one that all of us would follow. The song so popular with evangelical Christians several years ago titled I Can Only Imagine. speculates as to what it would be like to stand before Jesus as the writer of the song wonders what he would physically do. Well, John has the answer. In response to John falling as a dead man, it is the exalted Jesus who serves to comfort and relieve John's fear. Which we should describe again as remarkable. For here is the exalted one bending low to place his right hand on John. Jesus once again provides the description of himself being the first and the last, only he adds here that he lives, but was at one time dead. This is a profound description and one that you can use to witness to heretical groups such as Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons. For both groups deny the divinity of Jesus. Here, Jesus makes it clear that he is God by describing himself as eternal while also describing himself as having died. Just ask a heretic, when did God die? And you have placed them in a position of doubt. Jesus next describes himself as having the keys of Hades, which is the dwelling of the dead, and he has the keys of death itself, which means he has authority over death. He is now the deciding factor on who lives and who dies and where they go after death and who will be given new life. What Jesus has revealed about himself in these verses, both in his physical appearance and by his words, is himself as judge. Jesus as judge is not often described or preached or taught in modern evangelical churches. We don't mind learning about baby Jesus, and many people would like him to stay a baby. We don't mind hearing of Jesus teaching in the temple as a youth, for he harms no one. We don't mind hearing about Jesus healing or forgiving or even dying. But Jesus as judge is not as pleasant as the rest of it. But here he is. Dressed and exalted and positioned and equipped to judge both the living and the dead Recall that Jesus warned of judgment several times in the Gospels. He warned us that we will be judged in the same manner we judge others. He warned that all persons will be required to give a justification for every empty word spoken. He warned that those who will not believe in him as Savior have already condemned themselves. He warned that those who ignore the needs of the least regarded in society will be sent away to everlasting punishment. And let us remember these following words from Jesus, where he is teaching his disciples what to expect from the unbelieving world around them. For if they persecuted him, they will surely persecute his followers. And then he says this to them so do not be afraid of them. For there is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, and nothing hidden that will not be made known. What I tell you in the dark, speak in the daylight. What is whispered in your ear, proclaim from the housetops. Do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Fear the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. And so let us identify plainly who it is that can send both the body and soul to hell. The answer, of course, is Jesus. I now must balance This emphasis of Jesus as judge, because it can be taken a bit too far. It is speculated by some scholars that the rise of Mariology Which is at the very least praying to Mary, mother of Jesus, and some worshiping her, that it was caused in part by the over-emphasis of Jesus as judge. Jesus, as judge, scared many in the Middle Ages, causing Mary to look more approachable. Paintings from the Middle Ages show Jesus as a large figure at the center of the scene with multiple people either around him or to his sides while he is announcing their eternal fate. Such are not the type of pictures presently made of Jesus. Such are not the type of pictures we would hang in our church today. Prayers to gentle Mary, who was thought then to intercede to Jesus directly, those are not made. Of course, we Protestants see such thinking as quite absurd, for it is Jesus who we want a personal relationship. It is Jesus who is our intercessor. For it was Jesus who said, Come unto me, all ye that are heavy laden, and find rest. That his yoke was easy, that his burden was light. But let us not leave our image of Jesus only as a teacher calling us to be relieved of our burdens. For what we have just read in Revelation and our imaging in our minds is a Jesus who reigns over all the kings of the earth and is ready and able to judge men for their deeds. In totality, what every Christian needs is an image of Jesus as a baby, for that speaks of the love of God along with his humility. And we need a Jesus who teaches with patience, and a Jesus who forgives prostitutes, and a Jesus who suffers and dies, and a Jesus who is resurrected and ascended And a Jesus who is judge. All of those images and understandings of Jesus we need For they keep us balanced in love with him versus adoring him versus fearing him And what our culture so desperately needs is a fear of God, which comes when you proclaim Jesus as judge. I shared in Bible study a few months ago that I agree with those who are warning That the sexual immorality that is being mainstreamed in our culture has an end goal. And that end goal is the sexualizing of our children. Such has been blatantly stated by some who are on the fringe of the culture, but something happened recently That was barely in the mainstream news that shows how pedophilia is working to become mainstream Balenciaga is a clothing brand in the fashion industry that I had not heard of prior to a conservative reporter. Who showed a Balenciaga ad of a little girl no more than five years old holding a teddy bear while wearing a bondage outfit? And that's right, I said a bondage outfit. And if that isn't bad enough, in front of the image of the little girl and her bondage outfit are a number of items Called paraphernalia that looks like it doesn't belong, but it clutters the floor or the table, whatever is in front of the little girl, and scattered In that material, you can find a file. You have to focus in. You can find a file with a court ruling on it. The document is a copy from the Supreme Court case called Ashcroft vs. Free Speech Coalition. A case that struck down a law against against child pornography. In more simple words, the case document said that child pornography could be protected under free speech laws. Not only had I not heard of Balenciaga clothing, but I had not heard of a court case in the United States that ordered in favor of child pornography. But you tell me if there is any other reason for the Balenciaga Company to have a little girl in a bondage outfit with a court document favoring child pornography in the ad. Any other reason other than the promoting and sexualizing of children. If you have wondered just how far down the sleaze hole people can go, here's an example. Thus, not only do we not protect children in the womb, we want to have sex with them if they make it out of the womb. My point in telling you about this perverted clothing company is to ask this one question. Do they not fear God? You will remember that question from the scriptures in the Gospel according to Luke and his account of Jesus hanging on the cross. With one criminal hanging on a similar cross to his left and another to his right, and one of them saying to Jesus, if you are the Christ, save yourself and us. Luke says that such was stated as blasphemy because the man didn't believe Jesus was the Christ, so he didn't believe Jesus could save them, and so instead he mocked him. And Luke says that the other man rebuked the first man and said, Do you not even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? Asking next for Jesus to remember him after death, Jesus made that saving promise that he would be with Jesus in paradise But let us focus on the question and ask. Ask it of the likes of owners and operators of Balenciaga and companies like it. Do you not even fear God? But let us not stop there. Let it be asked of your neighbor who scorns the religious. Do you not even fear God? Let it be asked of the adulterer who flaunts his unfaithfulness before his own children. Do you not even fear God? Let it be asked of the landlord who doesn't care for the apartments he rents but raises the price for rental on a whim. Do you not even fear God? Let it be asked of the politician who buys stocks related to legislation passed. Do you not even fear God? Let it be asked of the violent who stab and shoot his fellow man for anger, for extortion, for revenge. Do you not even fear God? Beloved, just as we love to see Jesus in a manger and read of him eating among sinners. And willing to touch and heal lepers, so too do we need to see Jesus highly exalted with eyes of fire. Fire that consumes sin and the sinner, and with a sword that can strike and disembowel. And that image provides the original question I asked. Why do we need to see Jesus in this exalted manner? Because it reveals him as judge and it tells us to fear him. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, as much as we acknowledge your mercy, we here today acknowledge that you are judge. Judge of the living and judge of the dead, the decider of our eternal fate. And with this we say, we fear you and we love you. And we thank you for that fear. In Jesus' name. Amen.