In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Please turn in your Bibles to First John chapter four. 1 John chapter 4. I want you to follow along in your Bibles this morning, especially at the beginning of the sermon. And I I I want you to know Listening to a preacher this week, he talked about the goal for a minister in a sermon is to get the people to look down. That sounds rather strange. What do you mean look down? What he means is you want to get the people to look down in their Bibles and read what is being preached. That you might know the Word of God, that it might be alive to you. And so I encourage you during this part of the sermon, look down. Let's see what God has written to us. We begin this morning by examining each verse of 1 John chapter 4. And we see in verse one that he is teaching us that behind every human teacher is a spirit. And behind each spirit is God Himself or the devil. Now, John doesn't mention the devil in this verse or in this section, but it is most certainly implied. And he will plainly speak it in chapter 5, verses 18 through 19. To test a human prophet, therefore, was in effect to test the Spirit By whom this so-called prophet spoke: of God or of the devil? Verse 2. Here there is an emphasis on two things. First, the necessity of confession The Apostle Paul said the salvation is procured by what we profess. Here, John says that the details of what we confess are vital to eternal life. And that leads us to the second emphasis. Which is to confess that Jesus was of the flesh. He was of human form. Verse 3. Here explains further about the thinking that was apparently proving attractive to some circles in this young Christian church. Years later, before the end of the first century, this thinking would be termed, given a term, docetism. This comes from the Greek, which means to seem or to appear The idea was taught in various forms, but the central thought was that Jesus only seemed or appeared to be a man. You see, not just the reality, but the idea that Jesus became a true human being with a physical body and a physical life that was actually repugnant to many in the first century. The reason for this It was a position that presented the physical or the material world, which included human flesh, to be inferior to that which was supposedly truly important, which is the spiritual world. In fact, it was believed that the physical world or the flesh, that was actually a source of mankind's trouble. It was believed that if the spirit could be free from the body, then it would no longer fail morally. Therefore, such teachers could not believe or not even imagine that God would make himself flesh. To these first century philosophers, God would not bother with the flesh, but would want to be free from the flesh and only be concerned about the spirit. Hear a lot of Gnosticism in that belief. Now John, as we read, will have nothing to do with that type of thinking. He uses a strong word for flesh to describe what Jesus coming from heaven came to be. We recognize that flesh is a term that highlights the physical nature of humanity. That's what it means. We're physical. Although there is a shade of influence of docetism today, it is not as prevalent as it was in the first century. But what is prevalent, beloved, what is prevalent today are false teachers. False teachers that you and I don't even know we're paying attention to. No, we don't call them false. In fact, they insist that they are the honest ones. They're disinterpreting the scientific facts. The Christians are not to be fooled. It will be my objective this morning to point to some false teachers. And to show from John's instructions here how we are to be careful not to have false teachers influence us, but to see them for what they are. John has the courage to call false teachers antichrists. By using such a label, John shows that there are many, many who stand against Christ in the world. In verse four, John claims that Christians have overcome Antichrist And the logic is obvious, for if the Spirit of Jesus overcame the devil, overcame the nature of sin, overcame the punishment of sin, which is death. How easy it is for his spirit, which is within Christians and in the church, to overcome false spirits, any false spirit. Stated more plainly, the spirit behind Christians overcomes the spirits behind any false teachers Now examining verse 5 and 6 together, we can summarize that there are two camps, and the two camps do not understand each other. The camp of God knows the voice of God, and to put it simply, the camp of the world does not. The camp of the world does not want to hear the voice of God, but instead loves falsehood, and the camp of God only wants to hear God's voice and thus wants to hear the truth. We have been examining John's letter in terms of a series of tests, and this set of verses would fall under the doctrinal test. Christians are to believe rightly about Jesus. And to believe rightly about Jesus is to believe that he was fully manned And to believe he was fully man is to believe that he lived and he died and lives again in human flesh. We have spoken on several occasions about the importance of knowing Jesus as fully man, fully of the human flesh. God created the physical world, and God called it good. The physical world is part of God's plan of redemption. For he says that although it is under the curse of man, the actual world cries out, the physical world cries out to be free and to praise God. Even the rocks would cry out God says that his plan is to make heaven and earth new. He also plans to make the bodies of Christians new, giving us bodies that will never see corruption. To do all of this, God must see the physical world as good, and he does. So instead of focusing on the importance of God redeeming the physical world or the importance of Jesus being fully human, I want our attention this morning to be more focused on the reality of false teachers. Why false teaching is so important to identify and then to avoid Consider the doctrine of docetism, that Jesus only appearing to be in the human flesh. Consider what it has distorted. Docetism has contributed to the denial of Jesus being a historical figure. We hear that a lot today. It has contributed to the belief that Jesus was never crucified. In fact, that's a belief of the Islam religion, that Jesus was a historical figure, but was never crucified. And of course, because Jesus was never crucified, he was never raised from the dead, because after all, what is not killed does not need to be raised from the dead. Docetism has also contributed to people claiming themselves to be Christian and yet denying the sacraments of baptism and the Lord's Supper. They do this because these are done in the flesh, and supposedly, supposedly, Christians are to concern themselves with only the Spirit. And so it's the baptism of the Spirit. And it's the communion in the spirit that is the most important. Such a listing of wrong thinking is only a sample of the damage that a false doctrine can do to the truth. Those of you who have sat in on my confirmation classes know that I have a powerful dislike For churches that use the slogan, we have no creed but Christ, sounds so pious. Such a statement shows no respect For the blood that has been shed by Christians over the centuries, because of what they have said they believe about Jesus, born of a virgin, being made man. These are statements that embrace that Jesus was a man, was a man in human flesh, just as the holy scriptures describe. To not confess what the church has always believed is to be set up to believe anything and everything except the truth. And what are some other beliefs that are not the truth? Consider with me the doctrine of evolution We can call it a doctrine, because like statements of the Christian faith, it consists of statements of belief. The doctrine of evolution has contributed, hear this, has contributed to accepting divorce in the West It has contributed to sexual promiscuity in our culture. It has contributed to the acceptance of the horror of abortion. It has contributed to the acceptance of euthanasia. And it has contributed to the moral relativism in general. And finally, it has contributed, even contributed, to the rise of Islam. Now that sounds all crazy, doesn't it? I suppose it's with in my responsibility to show you how these things relate. Now, mind you, I will do that, but this is just an example of how a wrong doctrine, where it can lead. Just an example, how a short statement of belief could have many great and terrible ramifications. Consider it. The evolution teaches that the survival of the species is the highest good. Survival is the highest good. Thus mankind has reason that monogamy is an unnecessary practice and is in fact an enemy of that highest good of evolution. Therefore, mankind can be more promiscuous and less responsible, leading to more frequent immoral sexual expressions of all types. And because we are thought to be merely products of the genetic world, if our genetic makeup has us be more attracted to the same sex or both sexes or a new sex, Then nature has to be obeyed. That's the law of evolution. All of these accepted beliefs show a close connection to divorce rates. And moral relativism. Regarding issues related to life and death Unwanted babies. The sick elderly are members of the unfit category And because evolution upholds the standard of survival of the fittest as the greatest good to achieve, then unwanted, unborn babies and the sick elderly persons have to die because they fit in the category of being unfit. They are not the fittest. Do you now see how one lie can have many great and terrible ramifications? I mention Islam, so I will bring it up. Evolution has led to the rise of Islam because mankind is a creature. That needs absolutes and needs to worship. When evolution rejects moral absolutes and claims no need for God, then those things have to be replaced. And Islam offers a replacement. This semester I once again put my philosophy students at the university into an ethical dilemma An ethical dilemma that requires of them to choose likely starvation or to participate in cannibalism. Even though, in this fictitious dilemma, even though they are to have a religious conviction against cannibalism, And even though, if when they were rescued, their cannibalism would be revealed And even though the victims they would have to eat also did not believe in the morality of cannibalism And even though after all of the arguments against cannibalism, and after upholding the virtue of dying with dignity, which is that they held on to their moral convictions The majority of the students chose cannibalism. And they do every semester, every year. And the answer to the why they choose cannibalism, it's simple. Survive, man. That's what I get. I just want to survive. For me, staying alive is what matters most. That is a product of a doctrine of evolution. When survival is all that matters to a human being, then such persons have nothing to die for. When the meaning of life is based on personal survival, anything goes and nothing else matters. This is why moral relativism is so rampant, and I am greatly concerned that Christians today accept moral relativism as truth. When it is anything but true. Someone tells us that morality is relative, and we shrug our shoulders in defeat, as if there's no challenge to such a statement. But there most certainly is a challenge, and challenges. I believe we better know those challenges to such a statement, or our culture is going to consume, our children is going to consume our grandmother. grandchildren and maybe even ourselves if we don't hurry up. I want to give you some challenges to this idea that moral relativism is truth. The first challenge against moral relativism is that every moral statement, every moral statement, has a truth value to it. A statement such as adultery is immoral. That has a truth value to it The statement that adultery is immoral is either true or it's false. And the truth value remains In that statement, regardless of who says the statement, regardless of where the statement is made or when the statement is made. And no, there is no such thing as moral for some people, but not moral for others. Notice that I did not say that I believe Or that I think or that I feel adultery is immoral. If I had used such personal references, then another person could say that it was immoral for me, but not for them. But I didn't use personal references. I said adultery is immoral. And that statement either has a true truth value or a false truth value. It can't have both and it can't have something else Now, a detractor might interrupt and argue that there have been statements about morality that have changed over the years in some cultures. And that is true, but it doesn't change my point. In fact, it strengthens my point. Take for example, such a controversial topic, take for example, man stealing. There was a time when even some Christians thought they were being moral by stealing people from a foreign land and enslaving them. They justified it as moral because the Bible speaks about in the law allowing slavery. But that is half a truth. The Bible allows for slavery when a person is in debt. If a person had a debt they could not pay, they could offer themselves as a slave until the debt was paid or until the year of Jubilee. Regarding man stealing, the Bible clearly and forthrightly forbids it. Thus, when people said slavery in America was moral or biblical, Well, the truth value of that statement was false. And it always was false. And it will always be false. Those who said it was moral were false. They were wrong. So again I say that adultery is immoral. And I say it because God does. And he is the authority source for me saying it. The second challenge to this moral relativism Is when people say that morality is obviously relative because it's different for different cultures. That is a lie. And it's too readily accepted among us. Oh, that's true. Yeah, you're right. No, they're not. You hear someone say something like, homosexuality has been accepted in some cultures like Greece in the days of Plato and unacceptable in others like Israel, therefore its relative. It's all based on preference. First of all, know your history And second of all, don't accept the logic that since it's been accepted by some cultures, then it's just based on personal preference. The truth is that morality is actually universal. Morality is universal. And being universal is evidence that there is a primary initial source for the universality of morality, and that primary source is God. The basic argument to prove there is a universal morality is to properly label what we call differences in morality. We need to call those differences moral opinions. And what we morally have in common should be called moral principles. For instance, a person could argue that suicide is honorable in some cultures and in others it is not. Which is true. In some cultures, women go go topless and it is acceptable. In other cultures, it is not. But those examples are examples of, hear this now, opinions about applying morality and not recognizing the moral principles that support opinions. Consider that every culture has moral principles such as honor, justice, and modesty. Every culture has those. No society prizes honor over dishonor, injustice over justice, or immodesty over modesty. Dr. Peter Craith makes this point in his book, The Best Things in Life, and he prefers to call what cultures have in common as principles. All cultures share the same principles with differing opinions about their applications. Dr. Crafe also argues that opinions about morality are actually the same in different cultures if we define opinions about how we feel about morality. The point is that we feel the same about such principles as justice and modesty. We feel that they are important. All cultures do. It is only the rules that we come up with to honor justice and to honor modesty. Those things differ I hope you see that the argument refuting relative morality is quite simple. It's easy to find when we stop accepting lies. So rather. We give up the fight before we even begin. Believing lies has consequences, and some of them very great. Also, what have we learned today? We learn that followers of Jesus Christ must believe truth. We learn that a modern lie to avoid is that a moral statement can be true for some and not for others. No, in fact, moral statements are either true or false and nothing else. And moral statements that God makes, the ones that God makes, those are the true ones And third, we learn that the different moral standards in different cultures is not proof of moral relativity. We learn this because moral standards are actually not different. They're the same We understood what is different is moral application, moral rules, but not morality itself. Folks, you and I know that our culture is dying around us. And the only salt that is there is the church. We need to stop giving up these arguments as if they're already lost. These lessons are to be used. We can stand up for truth and expose lies. These lessons are for the church to actually preserve the world, change it, maybe even save some people along the way. So let's do that. Let us pray.