In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Continue our series on the ramblings of a rector The title of this sermon, so that you know where I'm going, is Stop Following the Crowd. Three weeks ago, a woman appeared at the front door of this church knocking and looking to speak with someone. I was the only person in the building, so I went and opened the door. She appeared around my age. Although I really don't know what that looks like anymore, but she looks like my age. She wanted to speak to the pastor, and since I am the pastor, I spoke to her. We sat down in the vestibule and she began her complaint. She had been attending a local parish, but was upset at the priest Because he was speaking disparagingly about homosexuals. She said that although she knew the Bible speaks against sexual immorality, She wants everyone to be treated with respect and kindness. She continued on about all of her life experiences, dealing with all sorts of sexually confused people and she sees the good in them. After what felt like a good while of her doing all of the talking, she asked me what I thought I shared what the Bible teaches about sexual immorality and that we firmly stand on what the Bible teaches as we acknowledge all persons being made in the image of God. She responded with the same arguments and frustrations she began with, and then added comments about Israel and Hamas, about Russia and Ukraine. And her emotions were building and building. And I was able to stop her and ask if she watches a lot of news. She said, oh yes, I watch the news all of the time and from many different sources I then suggested that she stop watching the news for a time and get a different perspective on life. She she said that she could not do that because she cares too much about our country. And she reminded me of people I have watched. online who are picketing against the president or against some policy. And when a person asks them what specific policy They are protesting, they can't articulate it, and then they get mad at the people filming them and asking them questions. My point is that people get caught up in protests, movements, politics, for the simple reason that it is a popular thing to do. People become swayed regarding their outlook on life and how they view the future of their country based on what is said by the media. And most of you will know I consider the mainstream media the most dangerous influence upon our culture as it has been an effective tool in the hands of the devil for decades. The most vulnerable to the mainstream media in our culture are those who are elderly and those who live alone, which the woman who I spoke to fit both categories. And if you think I am mistaken, I encourage you to watch a mainstream media broadcast on television. And pay attention to the type of ads that pay for the programming and come to your own conclusion. Ads for fiber. Ads for adult diapers, ads for heartburn, arthritis medicine, all of them are common But of course, it isn't only the elderly and the alone who are susceptible to the media and its propaganda. Our young people love to be a fan of what everyone else seems to be a fan of. Now I am about to state What may be the most controversial thing I have ever stated behind this pulpit. But here it goes. I think Taylor Swift is not very talented. I even add Beyoncé to that statement. They don't sing well and they don't dance well, but the media height keeps them in the spotlight, and so they are multi-millionaires, and everyone knows their names The reason why I am pointing these things out is because the following of the mass media and the acceptance of things that are not true is how the devil wants us to think and then live What I'm calling us to do as Christians is to come out of such deception, such propaganda, such nonsense, and be free. Christians are to be free from the false, to be free from what is deceptive, and to be free from what is foolish. There are dramatic teachings in Holy Scripture that call Christians to be separate from the world, and thus to be different from the unbelieving world in which we live. One of those passages with part of our gospel reading today. It is found in the title Sermon of the Sermon on the Mount. During our Bible study on Wednesday, we have been looking at the parables of Jesus. And the last parable Jesus tells from his Sermon on the Mount is about a wise man building a house on a rock, not upon sand. Jesus says that in the parable that a person who hears his teachings and does not live by them is like a man who builds his house upon sand. In our study, we considered all that Jesus had taught up to that point, and it is quite a bit The following is not at all exhaustive, but I want you to recall some of what Jesus has taught just in a few chapters in Matthew's gospel. Followers of Jesus are to see people as blessed and blessed even though they're downtrodden and poor. We are to be glad we're persecuted. We are to be salt and light. Our righteousness is to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees. Don't hate. Don't lust. Keep marriage sacred. Keep your word. Let people take advantage of you for your witness of Christ. Love your enemies. Pray in this manner. Fast in private. Store treasures in heaven. Be a lamb. Don't serve riches. Don't worry. Don't condemn. Ask and keep on asking. And then he says, then he says, enter the narrow gate. All of what I have listed is to be a part of our lives. All of it is to guide our lives. And if such teachings do not guard our lives, we have built our lives on sand. We are the fool. And what I want us to focus upon today is that we are to enter the kingdom of God by way of the narrow gate. While others, while the unfaithful, the unbelieving, the deceived, walk through a wide gate that will eventually lead to their destruction, we are to walk through a narrow gate. And as a narrow gate, Jesus says it is a difficult way. And because it is difficult, there are few who find it, which is to say, few who choose to go through it. Comedian Nate Bargetsey once joked that the best time to be Christian was to live in the 1980s and the 1990s The joke is funny to us who were Christians in those decades because we thought being a Christian back then was cool. We thought Christianity was popular. That was when Christian bookstores were a popular trend. You could go to such stores and get a Bible on all sorts of translations and study Bibles, particularly geared towards teenagers or women or athletes or empty nesters You could buy cool Christian music that tried to sound like the secular music on the radio, but with Christian lyrics. Even rap with Christian lyrics. Truth be told, it never sounded as good as what was on the radio, but we lied to ourselves that it did. You could buy keychains that said, I love Jesus. Or John 3. 16, you could get bracelets that had WWJD on them. And that told everyone who inquired that you were willing to do what Jesus would do. It was such a great time to be a Christian until it wasn't. Jesus became a commodity to be sold. His teachings were being watered down. Christians were adjusting their faith to the culture. Christian leaders on television became an embarrassment. Beloved Christianity, following Jesus, living the Christian life, was never meant to be a fad. But that is what the devil wants to tell us. He works to make Jesus a fad. A fad to the point where it means nothing to say you are Christian. Because being a Christian means to enter the narrow gate and to go the difficult way, by its very nature, it can never be a fat. But why is it? By its nature, difficult. Why is it a difficult way to travel? Why is it a difficult way to live? Well, as I listed, the teachings of Jesus Consider how such a way of living goes against the manner other people are living their lives, and even goes against what each of us is naturally inclined to do. Personally, I am not meek by nature. I don't feel blessed when downtrodden, nor when I am persecuted. I more easily hate than I love. I more easily lust than I don't lust. I naturally worry. I naturally condemn. I want to store up treasures in this life. I more naturally hold a grudge than I do forgive. To do the opposite of all that I am naturally inclined to do is to go the difficult way. It is to enter through a narrow gate. And of course, it is not just the teachings from the Sermon on the Mount that we are expected to build our lives upon. Jesus says some provocative and seemingly impossible things elsewhere. He taught for his followers not to fear men with weapons, but fear only God, who can kill the body and condemn the soul. He said that his followers would be enemies within their own family members because of his teachings. And then he says that all who follow him must pick up their own cross. Then he added that whoever desired to save his life or her life will lose it, and must lose it for his sake to receive a heavenly reward. Such is not a broad road, beloved. To follow Jesus is the most difficult road a person can follow. Any preacher that does not tell you the same as a liar and a charlatan. And I don't care how good the preacher on your television makes you feel. He is a charlatan, and Jesus will say to him on judgment day, depart from me, for I never knew you. Another way the Bible teaches us to not be followers of men or of a culture is from Paul's letter to the Romans, where he says this. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is good and acceptable and the perfect will of God. These words begin Paul's final instruction to the Christians in Rome and thus reflect in a general manner of how Christians are to live their lives. For Christians to present their bodies as living sacrifices follows that same language Jesus used. Picking up your own cross is the same as offering yourself as a living sacrifice. That Paul calls it a reasonable service tells us that nothing less is expected. Nothing less. Again, the false teacher, the charlatan, will never use such language because it doesn't sell. It doesn't put people in the seats. It doesn't encourage people to tune in, and it most certainly doesn't fill the offering plate. But it is the truth. Christians are to be living sacrifices and nothing less. And then Paul follows his instruction with the call for Christians not to be conformed to this world. To be conformed to the world is to think like the world. And how does the world think, or how does our world, our 20th century world, think? Well, first it believes that every boy who cries wolf and every chicken little that says the sky is falling is telling the truth. Our world is motivated by fear, and the mass media knows it and exploits it. We who are Christian must not fear fear. Instead, we are to trust in the sovereign reign of our God, who made heaven and earth, and therefore nothing can occur without his divine will, which fits into his plan of salvation. His perfect love casts out the fear that tempts the hearts of Christians. The second way our present world thinks is that morality is evolving. Just as many believe the human species has evolved, so we think the same about morality. And much of our morality changes because our emotions change. Many of you, I know, have been tempted to change your stance on sexual immorality. Because a friend announced she was a homosexual. Or a relative announced that he would be living with his girlfriend And because you love such people, you don't want to emotionally detach yourself from them, you are tempted to change your opinion about sexual morality and what is acceptable. And it's not just sexual morality. I know of a minister who condemned acts of suicide, believing it such to be the ultimate statement against God's commandments. And then his son attempted to commit suicide, and his teachings changed. And suicide for him is now a forgivable sin. But the Bible knows of no such compromising. The Bible teaches standards of morality that do not change. They do not change with circumstances, or because of family members, or because of emotions Another way our modern world thinks is that if it is popular, it must be right and good. Many Christian churches have operated on such a premise for years. In the 1990s, many church growth models were based on what would more likely draw a large crowd. Every compromise, every decision regarding programs, worship styles was based on what would draw the biggest crowd. Anything and everything was justified in terms of outreach. If you could attach the word outreach to a program, that program was justified. Churches had weightlifting presentations, wrestling matches, light shows, rock bands, circus acts, all in the name of outreach. And yet, and yet Jesus said, where two or three are gathered, there I will be in the midst of them. Two or three is all it takes. As I shared in Sunday school a week ago, I am aware, very much aware, that what we do here and the way we do it will not draw a large crowd. But the crowd I hope to draw are people who want to honor the Lord Jesus Christ because they have been saved by him. They don't want to do what everyone else is doing. They don't want to sit at the cool kids' table at lunch. They only want to honor God, who is the only one deserving of our praise, our adulation, and our imitation. Our epistle reading describes a double-minded man being unstable in all his ways. Such is a warning to every Christian that an unstable life is a life that comes in and out of joy, it comes in and out of security and in and out of faith. It is the stable life that decides not to follow the crowd, but to confess one God, one faith, and one Savior, and to do so, no matter the cost. Let us pray. Gracious God, we thank you for the standard that you set. No compromise. To choose to go through the narrow gate, to choose to have a new mind. Holy Spirit, help us to do just that, that we might hear those precious words, well done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.