My hands have for you. In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. They are called PSAs. Stands for Public Service Announcements. And I hear them on the radio on a regular basis in my travels, as well as that they appear on television. And the ones I hear a lot promote adoption. One particular PSA on television shows a daughter lying in bed and she's obviously depressed, and there is a father sitting next to her in a chair trying to console her. It appears that she has lost her boyfriend. He struggles as to what to say until he comes up with an analogy. He tells her that dating is like the stock market. It has its ups, and then it has its downs, it has its ups, and then it has its downs He pauses, looking around as if trying to find something more to say. He finishes by saying so by low. He then gets up, looks at his watch, walks out of the room, and the daughter rolls her eyes. The scene ends with a voice over saying, you don't need to be perfect to be a perfect parent And the premise of the ads are effectual, although I don't know if it's improving anybody's interest in foster parenting This sermon is the third and last in the series of sermons I told you three weeks ago that I believed God was laying upon my heart. The first look at what to do with the sins of our fathers, as in the fathers of our heritage. As Christians and as the church, we have the answer to a culture who does not know what to do with the sins of our heritage. Because we know the gospel, we know how to forgive and to honor at the same time Next, we look at the need of each human being to be in right relationship with the Heavenly Father And we learned that the gospel is about Jesus placing us in right relationship with the Father, thus making us privileged to call him our Father. Today, we are looking at earthly fathers. Earthly fathers who are not perfect. That need to strive to be so. This series is on fatherhood. Last week, I told four stories that described reprehensible sins done by earthly fathers. I did so to acknowledge that such sins occur in the church and to show how the Heavenly Father gets the ultimate blame. Because we think he should have done something to stop such sins. We humans, you know, want it all. We want freedom of the will to be able to choose our behaviors, and yet we want God to thwart the will when chosen behaviors will harm us or harm others. But we can't have it both ways, for we are in a world where people suffer because of the sins of others and because of their own sin. That is the way of it. But God intervened into that world so that one man could suffer for the sins of many, so that the many could become sons of God. Amen. But I also told you those stories with the knowledge that most of us have had bad experiences with our earthly fathers. And some of those experiences are so bad, they remain having damaged us today. And for some, the damage is so great, they just seem to can't get over it. You still feel damaged by your earthly father. And what I'm about to say to those who feel that way is unpopular but necessary. Those of you who feel you can't get over the sins of your father. Don't die a victim. Don't die a victim. I have counseled men and women who can't get past the hurt done to them by their earthly father. Every problem of today goes back to the pain that they feel from the treatment they received from their earthly father. Their hurts of the past have turned into permanent bitterness. Unless such bitterness is relieved, unless they are delivered from the bitterness that they choose to pick up and make a part of their identity, they will go to the grave a victim. And victims who choose to remain victims only feel sorry for themselves. They feel sorry that they were victims of their father's failures. What they fail to see in their victimhood is that their father was a victim of his father's failures. As was his father's father. And all of us can trace the failures of our fathers back to Adam. But a believer in Jesus has been adopted as a son of the Heavenly Father. The fatherhood in our lives is not limited to earthly fathers. And our heavenly father is perfect He never fails us. He is not fickle. He certainly will never abuse. He is intimate. He is a friend who sticks closer than a brother, and he is the one who can deliver us from our bitterness. And so I repeat, don't die. A victim. And once we get beyond our earthly fathers having failed us, we can next look to the Bible as it teaches fathers how to be pleasing to the Lord. And the first biblical teaching fathers are given is to take responsibility. Fathers are to take responsibility, all responsibility in the family. By responsibility. I do not mean that a father is to micromanage the household, nor do I mean that the father is directly responsible for all that goes on in the household. By responsible, I am referring to bracing embracing the role as covenant head As covenant head of the home, each father is to take on the responsibility of the household, especially when that responsibility has overwhelmed his wife and his children. Now the principle of taking responsibility for a household is found in Genesis. You already know the story of the first couple sinning. But we are to notice that even though it was Eve who first sinned and then Adam, the description of their fall is that Adam sinned. In Adam, all mankind sinned. Thus Adam is given the responsibility of his household, even though Eve was to blame as well. That is what covenant heads do, and that is what covenant heads are to embrace, because it is not like the fathers have a choice. Fathers are responsible for their households even when the father doesn't want to accept the role of responsibility. I have counseled men who threw off my instruction that they take responsibility for the condition of their home. I've even had men argue back to me that God doesn't take responsibility for the fall of Adam and Eve, so why should he take responsibility for the sins of his wife and his children? I hope you can guess how I responded. The beauty of the gospel is that God did take responsibility for the household of Adam by Jesus becoming the new Adam. As the new Adam, Jesus was able to start a new household. And he took responsibility for that household by paying, by sacrificing for the sins of that household. Men have to love their wives, love their children, and that means taking responsibility for them. Covenant responsibility. Well what does that look like practically? Well practically a father takes responsibility when his son throws a rock through his neighbor's window. He takes responsibility in that he did not teach him well enough the importance of respecting other people's property. He still punishes his son while taking responsibility. When siblings fight and it gets quite heated and physical, a father takes responsibility He has not trained his children well enough to restrain their emotions and to love their brother and sister as they should. The children are still punished for fighting, but the father takes responsibility. When a husband and wife are not getting along, the father takes responsibility. He confesses his weakness in expressing his temper. He confesses his inability to forgive. He expresses that he has not loved his wife as Christ has loved the church. And when a father sins, when a father sins, he takes responsibility. He is to confess his sins to his children if his sins have harmed his children He's to confess his culpability when he has done things against them that he should not have done, or when he has not done things for them that he should have done. And that includes times when his children have witnessed his mistreatment of their mother. He needs to apologize and seek the forgiveness for his children for not loving his mother as he should, their mother as he should. And I prophetically state that many relationships can be healed today if a father would apologize to his children. Even if the children have grown and have their own households, many disorders and emotional disturbances and bitterness can be overcome. If children are able to hear from their father such words as, I am sorry for failing you and for hurting you, please forgive me. There is covenantal gospel power in such words. Believe it Well, next, a God-fearing father is to embrace and promote fruitfulness He is to love being a father, a grandfather, and a great-grandfather if he is allowed to live that long. After all, if the Heavenly Father is fruitful, so should the fathers who follow his lead be fruitful. Of course, God's first instruction to Adam was to be fruitful and multiply. God gave a similar instruction to all his covenant heads, to be fruitful. They were to be fruitful, which meant having many offspring, and not just themselves, but their children as well. Having a fruitful family is being a Christian. That has been lost in some Christian circles As couples speak about collecting earthly goods and affording college and having time to themselves. But such speaking is not biblical. Decision to have few children and be concerned about earthly goods is not included in the teachings of Jesus. Who told us not to worry about tomorrow, and that his followers were to seek first his kingdom and righteousness, and that all the earthly needs will be taken care of. Jesus said those things not being indifferent or in opposition to God's command to be fruitful, but in light of that command. But there is a catch to this. There is wisdom still to be shared. It is not a righteous virtue to have many children as if the number of those children itself has a righteous value. There are plenty of men and women who are capable of having many children. In the Christian covenant, there is a catch of having covenant fruitfulness. Which means that we are to have children who know the Lord. We are to have children that we can capably raise to love Jesus and to worship Him alone. As was stated to me many years ago, there is no virtue in populating hell. Christians shouldn't have a lot of kids just to have a lot of kids. There must be a determined and planned means to pass the faith along to the next generation, with no child missing out on covenant blessings. It is thus a part of a father's love of fruitfulness to raise his children, all of them, in and under the covenant of Jesus. Next, to raise children in and under the Christian covenant, a father must be a teacher. God's first instruction to Israel as a people, being under his covenant, was for fathers, fathers to diligently teach their sons about God's commandments. They were to talk of them when they sit in their house, when they walk by the way, when they lie down and when they rise up. They were to bind God's law on their hands and on their foreheads and on their doorposts and on their gates. So that God's law was a part of their identity and the identity of their children. Isaiah the prophet said to God, a father tells his sons about your faithfulness. A child's education is the responsibility of the father. Well, practically we know that fathers cannot spend the time needed to teach their children all that they need to know. But the father most certainly can assure that his children are being taught by those who have the time and the resources. And practically we can also say that a child should learn directly from his father, by hearing the reading of Holy Scripture, by catechism recitation. And by being an example as a learner himself. I have told my sons that a godly man is always reading a book. It may take him some time to finish a book, but he is always reading a book Next, to be a father that pleases the Heavenly Father. A father must be a good churchman. He must submit to his church fathers as he expects his wife and children to submit to his leadership. He is a good churchman who serves the local church where his gifts are best utilized and where he is working where no one else is willing to work. He is a good churchman who accepts the church discipline when needed, or who simply heeds the word of God as it is preached and taught by those ordained to lead. He is a good churchman who gives his tithes and his offerings so that the church can minister to all who are in the household of faith. He is a good churchman who encourages his family to do their part in the church, so that the body of Christ is using all of its body parts to maintain good health. Next, to be a father that pleases the Heavenly Father, a father must be a disciplinarian. He first must be disciplined in his own life. He cannot be given to vices that ruin his health or compromise his morals. But his own life is disciplined. The father then is better able to discipline his children, for they follow his example. And the Bible cannot be more clear about a father's role to discipline his children. If a rod is spared. Not used to discipline child, that a child becomes spoiled by his own impulses. With hearts bent toward evil and that continually, our children need to be disciplined so that they learn how to say no to their impulses, the desires of the flesh. To say no to a heart that wants to rebel against the Heavenly Father. As the writer of Proverbs warns Apply your heart to discipline and your ears to words of knowledge. Do not hold back discipline from the child. Although you strike him with the rod, he will not die. You shall strike him with the rod and rescue his soul. It was such a passage I had in the back of my mind when I first became a father, and still do today as a grandfather. It always hurt me to see my children give in to their fleshly impulses so easily. Someone need to help them be saved from that. If a father truly loves his children, he will work to rescue them from their fleshly impulses by disciplining them. Proverbs says the same. He who withholds his rod hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines him diligently. Beloved, that is the word of God to us. It is his holy word as he uses stark and dramatic language to get across to us how important it is to discipline our children. Next and finally, at least for our time this morning. A father that pleases the heavenly father loves his children. And his love is phileo, brotherly, and it is agape, heavenly. A father loves his children, meaning that he cares for them as they are. He values them unconditionally, and he will never give up on them or forsake them. The love of an earthly father provides security and peace to the soul of a child all of his or her days. Such a love is provided to a child like no one else can give. For a person to know that he or she is loved by his or her earthly father is a power Is a gift, is something that every child needs, and the most precious gift to receive. A father who takes responsibility for the family without love is of no use. A father who is fruitful, without love, leaves nothing of value behind. A father who teaches many wise things without love has wasted his knowledge. A father who is a good churchman but does not love is a dangerous witness to the gospel. A father who disciplines his children but does not love trains an army for the devil. A godly father is a loving father. I close with a charge to all of you who are not fathers. What fathers are called to be and to do by God is a great, great task, as you have heard. But it is much more difficult when men are expected to act like women and thus not be fathers. Wives, children, allow the father of your home to be the father God wants him to be. Mothers and mothers-in-law allow fathers to be fathers. Don't expect them to be like mothers. Don't expect them to be like you. Pray that you might control yourself in allowing fathers to be fathers. Allow the Holy Spirit to show you when you are trying to control a situation that actually needs a father. Now, perhaps more than ever before, perhaps more than ever before, in the history of Western civilization, we need fathers. We need our forefathers as we understand their sin and their virtue We need the Heavenly Father as the end goal is to be in right relationship with Him and thus call Him our Father. And we need godly fathers in our Christian homes to lead as God has called them to lead. And if this happens, By His grace, in our lifetime, if this happens, the church will indeed be a city set on a hill. Let us pray.