Oh, it's a little bit more than a little bit. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The leaders of the Soviet Union in Russia Recognize even before they came to power that the Russian Orthodox Church could not coexist with a socialist regime. The state could not share power or influence with the church, so the leaders of the church were to be persecuted and eliminated where possible. The state's form of accusations, trials, and punishments upon Orthodox Christians came to be called the Red Justice. Although few, some bishops and churchmen remained faithful to Christ even while facing death. The following is an account written by a modern-day bishop about a group of martyrs who died for Christ. At dawn on the 25th of April, 1922, the sentence of the just and impartial People's Court, that was written in sarcasm. was handed down. 18 men were to be executed by a firing squad. The rest were to be imprisoned for terms of various lengths The suggestion of the presiding judge was to appeal for more leniency But that was responded to by Archbishop Zayo Zertsky in an ardent speech, as the recommendation was rejected by all who were sentenced. Only a deep sigh was audible in the hall at the punishment of the sentence, the pronouncement of the sentence. Not a groan, not weeping. A great redemptive sacrifice was to be offered up for the sins of these Russian people, and the people dispersed in silence. Yet not to their homes, but to the square, where all night more and more awaited the fatal moment It was already light, the sun had already risen, when the heavy doors of the court opened, and those sentenced to death emerged onto the square surrounded by a forest of bayonets. They walked bareheaded, their arms crossed upon their breasts their eyes upraised to heaven, where the good Redeemer of the world awaited them, where all is forgiven, all is forgotten, where there are no sufferings, no evil. And a loud voice, an exultant hymn, poured forth from these soon-to-be martyrs. Christ is risen from the dead. Estatically the people responded to them crying, truly he is risen. They kissed their hands and the hems of their garments. The guards fended off the crowd with their rifle butts, yet they swelled in number, pressing against the soldiers. Mounted detachments appeared and pushed the people back with their horses. They beat them back with their rifle butts and whips, all to no avail. The ecstatic singing poured forth. The ecstatic people hurled themselves at the martyrs. A truck carrying soldiers of the Red Army forced its way into the crowd. They seized the convicted and literally threw them into the truck. The truck rumbled and sped off. Yet the joyous Christ is risen was long heard, was long audible in the clear air of the sunny spring morning. The red courts and show trials clearly revealed the astounding moral purity and religious struggle of the true believing Christians. and the loathsome baseness and treachery of all the renovationists. End of story Such a story is one of many that could be told of people who find strength in saying and in singing that Jesus is risen. The souls of Christians need to boldly proclaim what is true. Jesus is no longer dead. He is living. That point, the point that such a proclamation is able to stare down death, is made from a passage of scripture that most have trouble interpreting. I'll read it here from 1 Peter chapter 3. He said, For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous. To bring you to God. He was put to death in the body, but made alive in the spirit. After being made alive, he went and made proclamation to the imprisoned spirits To those who were disobedient long ago when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. This passage tends to give Christians trouble because there seems to be many questions that are left unanswered. Who are these spirits in prison? To what prison is he referring? Does this mean that people get a second chance after death The context of the passage is important. Peter is writing this first letter to the first persecuted Christians. Christians were being persecuted, and they are to identify when they are persecuted with Jesus, who was persecuted, even unto death, but of course overcoming death and conquering Jesus was put to death and as far as the world is concerned he is dead forever, having been executed as a criminal. Yet the church knew that on Easter Jesus came alive, not only in the human sphere, but in the spiritual realm as well. His body was raised, but not as Lazarus, who was who himself died again. Jesus was raised with an immortal body. This is why we can find stories of the immortal Christ doing things that he could not do before his death, such as appear and then disappear, enter into a locked room. But it was in the spiritual life, the spiritual realm, that Jesus went to these spirits in prison. We learn from the next verse that these spirits were those who were guilty of disobedience during the days of Noah. In Genesis, we are told that God looked down upon men and noted that their hearts were turned toward evil and that continually. We remember that. There was no one good, no one but Noah. Because of this, besides Noah's family, all who were alive on the earth died And we might want to conclude that the spirits referred to are the people who were drowned in that great flood. What complicates matters is that the word translated spirits used here is not used anywhere else to describe dead people. Humans who have died are elsewhere referred to as souls, not spirits. Another clue, interesting, on identifying these spirits is actually found in the Apocrypha, 1 Enoch. There the fallen angels are said to be kept in prison. Such angels are also described in the Epistle of Jude, verse 6, as having abandoned their homes, and in 2 Peter described as guilty of sin. It is quite possible then that the spirits referred to in 1 Peter are fallen angels. Their relation to the days of Noah is their involvement in tempting man towards evil. But what are we to make of Jesus preaching to them? Is he trying to convert them? The term for preach is normally used in the New Testament for just that, for claiming the gospel so others would believe, but it also means to announce, to state a truth. When we turn again to 1 Enoch, which is cited in Jude, we discover that Enoch proclaims to these spirits, these fallen angels, their doom. Not good news. They're doomed. We can conclude then that Jesus is doing the same and he is adding with clarity as to why they are doomed. They are doomed because he has overcome death. They are doomed because he is in the midst of rising from the dead, vanquishing sin and vanquishing death. Now this victory of Jesus over the spiritual world is proclaimed in several places throughout Scripture. I will only read a few. From 2 Corinthians chapter 2, Paul said, But thanks be to God, who always leads us as captives in Christ's triumphal presession and uses us to spread the aroma of the knowledge of him everywhere. That triumphal procession is what we are part of because of him. From Ephesians chapter 6, we are to put on the full armor so that we can stand against the devil's schemes. And then he tells us that our battle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of the dark world in the spiritual realm. And from Colossians 2, and having disarmed the powers and authorities where in the spiritual realm He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them by the cross. And finally, from Revelation 12, we read that a war broke out, not here, but in heaven. Michael and his angels fighting against the dragon and his angels. But the angels of the devil were not strong enough. And they were cast out. The great dragon hurled down that ancient serpent, the devil, who leads the whole world astray. He was hurled to the earth and his angels with him It is this victory described in these passages, the victory of Jesus over the grave, the resurrection of Jesus, that Jesus himself proclaimed to those spirits. It is that victory, that victory that we are to proclaim as well. We are to announce it. Jesus has risen. That is our announcement. And no, it does not satisfy the skeptic. But then again, what will? Saint Peter tells us to be ready to give reason for the hope that lies within us Our reason. Our reason. Our Lord is risen. He is risen indeed. If that was enough for Jesus to proclaim, then it is enough for us to proclaim. And it is for us to proclaim that the resurrection of Jesus marks his victory over the spiritual world. and the physical world, even if such is not yet fully realized. However Although the truth of the resurrection of Jesus is known to us, we know that there are skeptics who choose not to believe. And it is not because of the wisdom of men that an unbelieving heart is going to be changed. It is not an irrefutable argument that is going to cause contemporary atheists to give up their book deals and their late-night talk show appearances and for them to confess, oh, he really is Lord What will affect the atheist today, or anyone who considers themselves a skeptic of the resurrection, is a bold affirmation that Jesus is alive. When we announce it and believe it, we can cause doubt in the heart of doubters, or should I say, the Holy Spirit will cause doubt in the heart of unbelievers. The type of person that unnerves the doubter is a person who is bold and confident in what he believes. I believe that is why the modern atheists have had success and been influential. Their confidence alarms many. It even alarms Christians. Knowing this and with Jesus' example of announcing to the spirits in prison that he is alive, that he is victorious over death We too are to be bold and confident when we say that he is no longer dead, but risen. Beloved, we have not been given a spirit of timidity, but of boldness. We have every right and every duty to say boldly and announce triumphantly that Jesus is alive. But we must not stop at only proclaiming that Jesus is alive, that Jesus has risen. We must not stop there because the apostles didn't stop there. Certainly that was their primary message as recorded in the book of Acts. The main message to the Jews was that Jesus was crucified and made alive again and never to see corruption. But as the church grew and spread into the Gentile world, questions were being asked regarding what the resurrection of Jesus means for believers, besides the fact that Jesus himself is alive forevermore. It is saying quite a lot that Jesus is alive forevermore, and that is well, and that is good for him. And certainly it is good that my sins can be forgiven. Because his resurrection means that his sacrifice for my sins was accepted by the Father. But what about my resurrection? What about me seeing beyond the grave? Such a question was on the minds of the Corinthians, and St. Paul addressed it in his first letter, chapter 15. In that chapter, Paul spends the first part verifying the evidence that Jesus was raised from the dead by reciting the number of people who witnessed his resurrected body. He appeared to the women at the tomb. He then appeared to all of his apostles. He then appeared to James, his brother. And then Paul says he appeared to 500 people. And then finally, to Paul himself. The fact of the resurrection of Jesus meant that the dead can and do rise. And the fact that the dead can and do rise means that the followers of Jesus will also rise. That is why Paul refers to the resurrected Jesus as the first fruit of all that will rise. Those who will rise are believers in the Lord Jesus. Hence, what Christians are to proclaim is indeed the resurrection of Jesus and the resurrection of all who believe in the Lord Jesus. When you and I confess the Apostles' Creed that we believe in the resurrection of the body, We are not saying we believe in the resurrected body of Jesus because we have already said that Instead, saying we believe in the resurrection of the body means we believe in our body being resurrected, as well as the bodies of all who believe. The Nicene Creed, we say it more plainly, and I look for the resurrection of the dead. That's us. Whose resurrection, our resurrection, all who believe in Jesus' resurrection St. Paul finishes the chapter about resurrected bodies by describing what our new bodies will be like, focusing on the fact that they will be incorruptible. They will be immortal. And you and I say, What does that look like? And he doesn't answer. He simply ends on the note that death will have no more sting after the final resurrection and reward, new bodies. There have been others who have tried to imagine what our resurrected bodies will be like. Jesus, being the first, allows us some observations. He himself, he was himself. That is, he didn't change his body, but it did change. He was himself and that it was his body, but he was not recognizable initially to those who believed in him. He wore his scars, yet he was able to walk through buildings. He ate food, but nowhere are we told that he needed to. The theologian origin of the third century used such information to speculate what our bodies will be like being resurrected. In regards to our physical substance, we know that we are always in a stage of transition Origin didn't even know what we know today, which is that every atom and molecule in our bodies changes pretty much every seven years. We maintain a semblance of ourselves even though we are in a constant state of change. In our resurrection, there will be continuity of form to our bodies. But a discontinuity in matter and what we are made of. With this, we can say that the bodies we will be given will be like us, but a better us. Enti Wright says, what we are now is a is a shadow of our future self There will be a strength and beauty of the new bodies given that we have not known before. There is a real, glorious, astonishing you. A real and glorious astonishing you to be recreated at the resurrection. And we will be to one another what was good and right in our relationships. And perhaps, perhaps. Our scars, whether they be in our consciences or on our physical bodies Our scars might be there as a reminder of what was used in our lives to sanctify us, to make us holy, so that we could inherit eternal life. All of this is speculation, and yet the Heavenly Father gives us enough information so that we can speculate. So this Easter, I am calling on all of us to boldly proclaim that Jesus is alive, that he has risen from the dead. But I add that we should also proclaim that we believe that we too shall be raised, and that all who believe in Jesus' resurrection will be raised themselves. That there is a real, glorious, and astonishing physical reality that you and I are yet to experience. But that is what our souls cry out for. That is what our souls want. So let us cry, cry out with the martyrs. Christ has risen from the dead. Truly he has risen. And all of God's people said, Amen. Let us pray.