In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Maybe seated. It is my privilege and honor to welcome you into the house of the Lord on this glorious Easter Sunday. We especially welcome those who are part of the Secret Service. I once heard of a man who came up to the minister on Easter Sunday. And commented about how good it was to be in the army of the Lord. The pastor could not help but be bold and inquire of the man, saying If you are in the army of the Lord, how come I only see you on Christmas and Easter? Well, I'm in the Secret Service. Now I know that many of you here are visiting because of family, and we're glad to have you in the house of the Lord. I want to speak a little bit about Easter Sunday as I Many of you know grew up in the Roman Catholic Church, and although I attended Mass, C C D, and had my first confession and Holy Communion in the church, we eventually became Christmas and Easter attendees. And Easter was always a big deal We boys were given new blazers. I've got a picture. Blue, white buttons, got a little derby hat, sporting. Looked quite good. Girls given new dresses We always received baskets of goodies on Easter morning, followed by an egg hunt around the house. My parents would take money on the eggs and we would try to find them. For these reasons, the Easter holiday was a grand and glorious thing to experience as a young child. The holiday was also in stark contrast to the Friday previous. Being with my Roman Catholic grandparents on Good Friday, well that was a dark experience. The solemnity and the introspection. It's quite contrary to the gaiety of Easter Sunday. In fact, my grandmother treated all Fridays on the calendar as a solemn day. Beyond Roman Catholics, many Western Christians historically have approached Friday and Fridays in the same manner. The tradition of refusing red meat on Friday reflects the desire to remember that one Friday in history. When God's Son was placed on the cross as a sacrifice for the sins of the world This solemnity for every Friday has its merits for if we wish to celebrate the resurrection of our Lord every Sunday. Well, it seems appropriate to recognize the death of our Lord every Friday. Because our culture is no longer driven by religious convictions were more driven by economic concerns. The work week has been segmented and divided up according to the workplace. Monday now begins the week and is perceived as drudgery because we have to get back in the work mode Wednesday has been given new attention because of that humorous commercial. We now call it Hump Day. And the hope is that we might get over Hump Day, that we might get to Friday. Friday is understood as the end of the week and hence a day of celebration. Saturdays and Sundays are me time, from which we have to recover and start the week on Monday. Needless to say the biblical ideal of approaching the weak conflicts with our modern age It will be our attempt this morning to go back in time and in our minds so that we can better understand the weak days according to our redemption. From our gospel text, we receive an emotional description of how the women reacted when they came to see Jesus. In John chapter 19, prior to our reading, the events of Friday are described, and they were fast, and they were furious, and they were gut-wrenching. The man that these average men and women had put their hopes in for not only their happiness in this life, but for the life to come. That man had been arrested Beaten, ridiculed, and mocked. Most of the followers of Jesus did not see him After his arrest, it was not until that Friday came that they saw what the Sanhedrin had reduced him to. A common criminal. And no moment in their lives could have been more surreal than to watch helplessly as Jesus was placed in front of Pilate and then in front of a multitude who were given the power to release him or have him die. And when the crowd was swayed toward crying out for the death of Jesus, what could these lowly, average, non-influential followers, what could they do? Such days like that can haunt us. There are days when it seems as though we are the only sane person on the planet. We desperately seek for people who understand and see the situations in our lives the same way that we do, but there is no one. We feel alone. The insanity of seemingly everyone around us makes us feel as though we ourselves are going insane Can I be the only one that can see this? Or maybe I'm the only one that is blind There are some days when Christians can call them Fridays that can be haunting. There are certain days when we face the reality that we are powerless. We may wake up each day believing ourselves to have a handle on our lives. And those around us that we love a handle on their lives. But an event, an event can shake us so deeply that we recognize that we really had no control at all. In John chapter 19, the scripture says that the soldiers took charge of Jesus. Someone else took charge of Jesus? Who can take charge of the Son of God? And yet take charge is what they did. They made him carry his cross to the place of his designated death. They placed a mocking sign above him, they nailed him to the post, and then they stuck it in place. They stripped him naked and then gambled for his clothes. During all this, there was nothing. Nothing any man opposed to this treatment could have done to stop it. All of us can fall into the trap of believing we actually control our individual lives. One day our future is sad, and the next we find we have no job. One day our home is established, and the next we find that the government or the bank is taking it away. We feel in tip-top shape one day, and the next the doctor tells us that we are desperately ill. These are but a few examples of moments when we come to realize that we have no control, at least not the control that we thought we had. These moments are like a certain Friday. Then there are days, and these are the worst days, when you simply want to die. And I'm not speaking about those days where we suffer from a cold. And by we I mean men like myself who act like when they're dead, when they're sick, they are dead. The actual days you want to die happen when you lose hope. Depression is a nasty experience for anyone to go through. Consider when Jesus died on that cross, what hope did his followers have? When you lose hope The purpose for continuing just another moment in a day can vanish. The hope of the disciples of Jesus for that fateful day, that hope was taken from them. And their hope for tomorrow was taken from them. And their hope for yesterday was taken from them. Vanished when their Savior breathed his last. And this happened on Friday. And it did not get any better Well they took Jesus down and hurriedly buried him in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea because the Sabbath was approaching. The spiritual dark world, well that was they they they were having a part. Satan was dancing on the rooftops. He was mocking the host of heaven. He ruled the world. It was Friday. The Friday was beautiful to him. Darkness covered the face of the earth. It was Friday. Satan had stolen who, even stolen faith from the hearts of men. It was Friday, and the day belonged to hell. The scripture does not speak of Saturday. It was obviously a quiet day after the death of Christ. The Jewish people according to custom and law, they could do nothing regarding the body of Jesus. They had to let him by. As far as his followers were concerned, Saturday was no different than Friday. Worship in the synagogue, painful, joyless. But the future of the followers of Jesus every day, from the rest of their lives, was going to be the same as Friday. How true it is that the difficult flights that men find themselves in seem unending An ending while you're in the midst of them, an ending because there is no hope after them. From the small same things such as financial debt, To the more significant tragedies such as a debilitating illness, it is hard to see beyond the moment. A new day dawning does not seem possible. When the first day of the week came, as described by Saint John. It could not have come sooner for the women who were closest to Jesus. John said, while it was still dark, Mary of Magdala, she was the first to go to the tomb. Now her mission was simple. She was going to complete the anointing of Jesus' dead body that it might be fully prepared for burial. For this woman, on that Sunday morning, it was still Friday. Nothing had changed. No flicker of hope was present. No doubt the images of her dead Savior burned in her mind. Yet when she arrived at the tomb where the body of Jesus was placed, a still small voice whispered Whispered from the evidence of the rolled away stone, whispered, it's no longer Friday. The voice was not audible, of course, but the evidence, it stated it clearly. The hangover from Friday was obviously great because Mary didn't hear the small voice For her, the glass was half empty. Friday had stolen her optimism. She continued to think in her heart and in her mind, it's still Friday. She ran as fast as she could to one of the disciples she knew would do something, Peter. She ran to Peter and told him that someone had taken the body of Jesus out of the tomb. And now that still small voice was whispering to Peter, It's no longer Friday. Peter was a man whom desperately needed to hear this news. His Friday began, we know, on Thursday, when Jesus was arrested. That night he denied the Savior three times. From then on, Peter was in the background of the disciples. He was ashamed and he was shamed publicly. For him, Friday was tragic on another level. He had denied knowing Jesus, and now Jesus was dead. Dead along with his hopes for reconciliation. Unlike Mary, Peter heard the voice, and a glimmer of hope stirred within him. He and another disciple, whom we believe was John, ran to the tomb. When they arrived, the voice was louder. It is no longer Friday. Each of them saw the burial close as evidence that this was a new day. The strips that were around the body were just lying there as if the body had been removed and the strips just simply collapsed. The burial cloth placed around his head was neatly folded, like a good Jewish boy would do. Placed to the side. Someone had tidied up before they left. The voice now spoke even louder. It is no longer fine. The Gospels make it clear that Peter and John did not grasp all that they had witnessed. They still did not understand that Jesus had risen from the dead. They did not know, they did know, excuse me, one thing. They did know one thing. It was indeed no longer Friday. The scene next shifts back to Mary. She still has no hope. And while she is weeping outside the tomb, two angels, one sitting at the head and the other at the feet where Jesus' body once lay Ask her, why are you crying? What is implied to Mary by the angels is to look. Take a look, Mary. She was to see the evidence for herself. Jesus was not there. It was no longer Friday. There was no longer a reason to mourn. And Mary justifies her tears by describing the treachery of someone having stolen the body of Jesus. At her words, she turns around and Jesus is standing before her. Unfortunately, Mary's eyes are blinded by her tears. The evidence around her is confusing, so much so that she does not see that hope is alive. It is no longer Friday. We cannot be so busy feeling sorrowful not to understand how glorious a day it is. It is no longer Friday. Because it is a new day, we can see things for what they really are. The empty tomb means hope has returned with a vengeance. And such hope is to be applied to this light and to the next. The folded burial clothes mean that the sorrow I experience on Friday is but a passing moment. And the sun s o N has come up to never go down again. It is no longer Friday, which means that all of us can be as Mary Magdalene and go back to loved ones and say, I have seen the Lord It is no longer Friday. Sunday has come. Because it is no longer Friday, Christians are not to live as if it is Friday. I challenge you to consider what cataclysmic events, what painful news, what poverty, what illness can occur on Friday that cannot be overcome by Sunday. Church, regardless of what Friday has brought you, regardless of what Friday has brought you, you must understand, getting the tears out of your eyes, that it is no longer Friday. Sunday has come. And because you now live in Sunday, you must put all your Fridays behind. From our first reading this morning, we received the instructions from Paul to the Colossians. Since then you have been raised with Christ. We must stop here to comment that if it is Sunday, that means Christ has risen. And it also means if it's Sunday that you have risen. Death shall no longer have dominion over you. Death and all of its pretenders shall no longer sting your soul. We continue from Paul. Set your heart on things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. And here we are reminded that the only place that will grant us the ultimate healing, the ultimate joy, the ultimate peace is the presence of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things, for you have died and your life is hidden now with Christ in God. Church this morning, the words of the apostle cry out to us that it is no longer Friday. Even though we are in the midst of events that remind us of Friday, Sunday has come. Your life is now hidden with Christ and God. Rejoice. And again I say rejoice. Church, this is the day we are to put on our dancing shoes. The devil danced and body owned the world. And now he knows what the truth is. He who wants to dance because he thought he ruled the world now has to watch God's people dance because Sunday has come. On that one Friday in history, the devil mocked the hosts of heaven. And now it is Sunday. And by our praise to the one who has overcome death, we mock the demons. The demons who shiver behind the gates of hell, knowing that the church will prevail against it. It is no longer Friday. Sunday has come, and it's time to celebrate. And all of God's people said. Let us pray.