In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Every Easter Scott Hollenbeck will shake my hand and he says today It's a day Christians can gloat. Unless we're sure about that. I have a number of embarrassments to reveal to you. Embarrassment number one. The Egyptians had a story of a god named Osiris that is so similar to the story of Jesus. That it can be said that Christians borrowed from that story. Osiris and Jesus were identical in a number of important ways. According to Christian critics, Osiris was called Lord of Lords, King of Kings, God of Gods, Resurrection and Life, Good Shepherd, Eternity and Everlastingness. And the God who made men and women to be born again. Osiris' birth was allegedly announced by three wise men known as the stars on the belt of Orion. Osias had a star in the east, Sirius, that signified his birth, and his followers enjoyed a Eucharist ceremony of sorts in which his flesh was eaten in the form of communion cakes of wheat. Skeptics also claim Osiris taught much of the same material as Jesus. The claim is that many teachings are identically the same, word for word. Osiris was allegedly killed and resurrected, providing hope that every believer might also be resurrected into eternal life. These similarities, when offered in succession, cannot by chance, be by chance, and thus they are embarrassing to Christians. We look like a bunch of copycats. Embarrassment number two. Christianity as a religion is based on the claim that Jesus rose from the dead. Even the Apostle Paul reasoned that if Jesus did not rise from the dead, then what every Christian has said or done for their faith in Jesus has been in vain. But Jesus could not have risen from the dead, because such would be the greatest of miracles, and philosophers have proven that miracles cannot happen. Simply stated, a miracle is a violation of mathematical, immutable, and eternal laws. Consider within the very exposition itself A miracle is a contradiction in terms. A law cannot at the same time be immutable and then violated. To acknowledge that miracles cannot take place is to live in a fantasy that is occupied by people who are an embarrassment. Embarrassment number three. Jesus was not sinless, but was obviously cursed by God because No sinless man would be found guilty of offending the state or his own religious authorities, and no guiltless man is going to be put to death on a Roman cross. The Roman cross was created to put to death the most vile of criminals and the cruelest and least humane manners, and all who witnessed such killings were horrified by the spectacle of such judgments. In short, bad things happen to bad people, and good things happen to good people. The crucifixion of Jesus was a bad thing. Embarrassment number four. Christianity is based on a conspiracy. And it is a conspiracy that is pretty easy to imagine and pretty easy to pull off. Jesus was indeed crucified. Jesus was placed in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. And the guards were placed at the tomb after the tomb was enclosed, but they were temple guards, they were not Roman guards. Temple guards were not disciplined. Temple guards would have easily slept on the job, especially on the second night If the apostles were able to roll the stone to cover the tomb, they were certainly capable of rolling it back to open the tomb. They could have easily stolen the body of Jesus. and then started spreading the rumor that he had risen from the dead, starting with, say, five hundred people, and then continued to add that following until a public day of celebration, the day of Pentecost where they could make a bold public claim and add to their new church, their new religion, 3,000 people. They did it for power, they did it for prestige, they did it for money. And the money argument is easy because once they got those 3,000 converts, those new converts starting to give the apostles money, and supposedly it was to be shared. But if the apostles would conspire to hide the body of Jesus, they could easily pretend to share the money given to them and keep it for themselves. It was all the ruse, and it is embarrassing to have ever believed it. Scandals are embarrassing. When a particular parish or ministry has a scandal, it can lead to doors closing and men being shamed and names and reputations being destroyed. One of the more popular apologists for Christianity around the world was named Rabbi Zacharias, and his ministry organization by the same name was exposed a couple of years ago and thus fell under scandal. After Ravi died, accusations of sexual perversions were made and an investigation was done, and it was discovered that his practice perversions and cover-ups occurred in multiple places and countries with multiple victims. As a result, his once thriving ministry issued a public apology and subsequently announced that they would undergo a name change and remove all material related to Zacharias. The Christian and Missionary Alliance denomination posthumously revoked his ordination after conducting their own investigation. Again, scandals are embarrassing. And strangely enough, St. Paul admits to the people at Corinth that Christianity, a religion, is based on scandal. St. Paul said we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block, and that word stumbling block in the Greek is scandalon, where we get our word scandal, and to the Greeks foolishness. So when is the embarrassment of Christianity going to be enough to quit this Christian gig and simply eat, drink, and be merry the rest of our days? And here is where I abort my ruse. I am not embarrassed in the least about the Christian faith, and you anticipated as much. But arguments I put forth as embarrassing are indeed believed by many. For instance, I have heard comedian and talk show host Bill Maher make the argument That the story of Jesus is a myth, and that it was based on the myth of the Egyptian god Osiris. And I can picture young men staying up late. Smoking their wlackie tobacke and drinking their Harl Seltzers and watching Bill Maher's show And believing every word that comes out of his mouth, including how Jesus never existed, and Christianity was simply a copy of some Egyptian god. And the same young men swearing off Christian heritage of their family and of their country. So let us look at the facts The facts are the names used for Jesus were not used for Osiris. Names used for Osiris were Lord of all. Good being, Lord of the underworld, Lord King of eternity, ruler of the dead, Lord of the West, etc. And those same titles were used for other Egyptian deities as well. Instead, we know Jesus as the Son of Man, the Son of God, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. Scholars also say that while the belt of Orion is connected to Osiris, the three stars are in no place connected to the three wise men of the Bible, and plus the Bible never says there were three wise men, it just says there were three gifts. The claim that Osiris instituted a communion-like meal for his followers has no scholarly evidence. The claim that much of Osiris' teachings were the same as those of Jesus has no scholarly evidence. The claim that Osiris was killed and later resurrected, that's a complex story. The actual story is that Osiris was murdered and his body was dismembered and scattered. Later, his body pieces were recovered and rejoined, and he was rejuvenated. Osiris then journeyed to the underworld where he became Lord of the Dead. That is hardly what we gather to celebrate today. The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus is wholly unique. May God deliver our culture from people who get their theology, their knowledge of God, from comedians who merely repeat poor and unfounded arguments So that they can quickly dismiss what actually scares them. The second embarrassment claim was regarding the impossibility of miracles. 18th century philosopher David Hume is considered the father of this argument. It basically says that there are laws set in place in nature that all humans have experienced. And that those laws are unalterable, and we know this also by human experience. The law of gravity, for example, has been experienced by all humans, and no one can alter it. One of the problems with such an argument is the claim that all humans have the same experiences. First, That is impossible to say, for it is impossible to confirm, because of how spread out the human race is and how long the human race has existed. Obviously, the human experience of the apostles was that they saw Jesus dead, they saw him buried, and then they saw him alive three days later. And we add to that all the other miracles they witnessed Jesus do, and then experiencing being miracle workers themselves after the Holy Spirit fell upon them. Also, there is a serious flaw in the definition Hume gives of a miracle. He states that such is a breaking of unalterable laws of nature. But that definition isn't sufficient. Theologian Thomas Aquinas from the 13th century defined a miracle as an event beyond the powers of natural order. Such a way of looking at the world is similar to C. S. Lewis in his series The Lion, Witch, and the Wardrobe, when he describes the resurrection of Aslan. He calls it a magic deeper still. Which is what beyond the powers of natural order is. The third point of embarrassment I pointed to was That how Jesus was treated and punished was deserved, because only bad people are treated in such a manner That sounds like a deeply and obviously flawed argument, but consider how quickly and easily we come to such a conclusion. We hear of someone contracting a disease or getting into an accident, and we wonder quietly what they did to deserve such a judgment by God. As if God passes his judgment in this life by way of disease and accident. And if you don't admit that you are tempted to think in such a manner, then you don't understand the book of Job. For in Job, we are forced to deal with the very real and mysterious question of why bad things happen to good people. Jesus, of course, was innocent, but when taking on the sins of the world, he became a person worthy of death. By bearing the burden of sin and death, he was becoming like us so that we could become like him. In a quirky and mysterious sense, Jesus got what he deserved because he got what we deserved. And besides, innocent people are wrongly judged and condemned by the state on a repeated basis. The fourth point of embarrassment I pointed to was the possibility of disciples conspiring together to make up the story of the resurrection of Jesus. Those who make this accusation and are convinced of the plausibility, interestingly accept the historicity of Jesus without question. And even accept the way in which Jesus died and was buried. And this leads me to address the historicity of Jesus. It has become popular with the dismiss crowd, and I the dismiss crowd are those who accept unsubstantiated arguments and dismiss the gospel altogether. But it became popular to say that Jesus never actually existed. And to say such is usually related to Osiris comparisons or other myth comparisons. To say Jesus never existed is to speak like a fool. Scholars who do not believe Jesus to be God, who do not believe in miracles, do not question whether a man from Galilee Named Jesus existed, had a small following, and was killed by the Romans on a cross. But back to the conspiracy theory. Consider what would have had to happen in order for the apostles and other followers of Jesus to make a plan of action and then execute it to create the largest religion In the world and continues to convert followers today. They would have had to create the story of the resurrection of Jesus and the purpose of that resurrection. That would have been done before the death of Jesus, and that's contrary to what the gospel says, because the disciples are said to not even understand the resurrection of Jesus. Because they did not know what was going on in terms of Jesus rising from the dead, they could not know the purpose of Jesus rising from the dead. Jesus needed to rise from the dead because death needed to be vanquished, and God's eternal kingdom needed to be established as opposed to a kingdom on this earth. And I know the counter-argument is to say that since the apostles wrote the gospels, they merely put that in later, that they didn't understand the resurrection. And that's fair enough. But such is a very humble way to tell a false story. And it is necessary to rebut by asking why none of their contemporaries refuted their version. Also, the conspiracy theory doesn't include temple guards but Roman guards. And the tomb is sealed by a Roman insignia To imagine that the guards fell asleep, enabling the apostles to steal the body of Jesus would mean that they either outwitted or physically overwhelmed the Roman guards and broken the seal. Such were crimes against the state punished by death. Not to mention that the guards would have been put to death for their failure to guard the body. None of that happened. With the apostles unable to steal the body of Jesus, that fact alone brings down the whole conspiracy theory, not to mention the inability of the apostles to face their fears, to be organized, and to keep their stories straight. And there truly was no incentive monetarily or otherwise to conspire together. In fact, the Apostle Paul makes it his duty to collect money for the church at Jerusalem from other churches outside the city because the Christians there have become so impoverished Because of the prejudice against them in that city. No apostle became wealthy for following Jesus, and all of them sacrificed their lives to follow him. Beloved, there are many arguments against the resurrection of Jesus, and I guarantee you, guarantee you that there are solid and well-researched answers to all of them. All of them I quoted earlier that Paul admitted the scandal that is the gospel. Here is the verse in its entirety. For the Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, scandal. And to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called, both Jew and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. To say Jesus rose again is part of that stumbling block, that scandal, and is to be embraced as a scandal as opposed to being embarrassed. Don't run from it. It is scandalous to say God became man. It is scandalous that the God man Jesus died because it is saying God died. It is scandalous to say a man on a cross died and was buried, but came alive again to live and reign forevermore, because that doesn't happen. But it did happen. If you are an unbeliever, I want you to admit that you don't believe because the story can't be true, because it can, and it is. But you must admit that there is another reason why you choose not to believe. And if you confess that reason to God. And are sincere about knowing him, he will show himself to you by way of his son. I looked up how to overcome embarrassment One way is to reach out for support. If you're feeling like you can't cope with your embarrassment on your own, do not be afraid to reach out for help. Another way is to comfort yourself, as you would expect a parent or a friend to do. Don't be hard on yourself. Be kind. Another way is to practice deep breathing. Deep breathing helps us relax. After an embarrassing moment, sometimes we need it just to take a moment with a few deep breaths. Another way is to journal. Counter the negative thoughts that are living in your head after an embarrassing moment by writing them down. Another way is to give yourself a pep talk and create helpful statements to yourself. Well, you could all do all that. Or believe that Jesus is risen, is risen indeed, and embrace the scandal, a scandal that will be for eternity. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father We are given all the confidence in the world that what we say is true, that your son Jesus has risen, that he has risen indeed. There is no argument that can go against that statement of fact. And so we face it with excitement of our own resurrection, with appreciation for the great victory you've had over death. But we pray for those who do not believe. May whatever impedes them be removed, so that they too can rejoice that you are risen, risen indeed. Amen.