Amen. Maybe seated. We are continuing our study from Exodus. We will do well to turn to Exodus 18 and focus on passages that were read from the lect from the lectern this morning. You notice that most of us have who like sports have our teams. We speak about them as if they are us. A few years ago, when the Ravens won the Super Bowl, Ravens fans said, we won! We beat the 49ers. The true fans, those who by definition are fanatics, live or die emotionally on each play. And thus on a Sunday afternoon, we are up and down with each snap of the ball. During those summer weekdays, we are up and down emotionally with every pitch. Interestingly, psychologists have come up with theories as to why people get so crazy about their teens. Reason number one The need for belonging. Just like humans need food and shelter, there is a natural need to be in community. And our teams provide community. Number two, establishing identity. One of the extremely important parts of being a human being is to have personal identity And projecting that identity to others. The Ravens or Steelers or whatever team provides identity. Reaping the benefits. Number three. Right after your favorite team wins, your self-esteem goes higher and males actually get males get a boost in testosterone. Number four, fighting loneliness. People who have a sense of belonging to a community usually feel less lonely than others And so the Orioles help us feel less lonely. Number five, unexpected rewards and addictions. When a reward is unexpected, people get more hooked to whatever they are doing, making the playoffs as an unexpected reward. And then number six, tribal wars. Long ago, the psychologists say, tribes used to fight each other, and the winning tribe reaped all the benefits. As humans, we become more civilized, and thus our ancient desires have shifted a bit into a different form. Thus we no longer hate the Philistines, we hate the Steelers, right? I don't really care, Larry, by the way. Number seven, distraction. Life is full of problems and tough times. People who cheer for sports teams get so immersed into their experience that they manage to forget about their problems for a little while. Well if we take this list of observations and apply it to our particular religious denomination We can see some of the same. We can become like fans that defend the honor of their team. By defending the particular way that we practice our faith, believing that we do it better than others. We defend how we interpret the scripture as if we are holding up the number one sign so that others will know that we are the number one denomination. For example, I've had a discussion, or many discussions, with the likes of Presbyterians who, when defending their two-office system of Presbyter, Elder, and Deacon I have been told that, well, our way is biblical. And that was supposed to end the discussion, one of those drop the mic moments. They were number one. Their team, their denomination is biblical, and mine is not. The natural question to ask is what do the scriptures say about church government? Or what does it mean to say that a church government is biblical? We are recognizing all Saints Day, Sunday, today, and thus I thought it would be good for us to discover how the saints of old have understood how God structured his church. and to see the benefits of a particular structured government based on a biblical interpretation The Episcopal tradition argues that the office of bishop goes back to the Exodus of Israel and is derived directly from Exodus chapter 18. Which is where we find ourselves in our study in the book of Exodus. In Exodus 18, we meet up again with Jethro, the father-in-law to Moses. We are told in Exodus chapter 3, verse 1, that Jethro was a priest of Midian. This means that his priesthood did not come from Aaron, and it could not have, because that was just being established. If Jethro was a pagan priest, as some have insisted, we must question what a pagan priest is doing in advising the leader of God's people, Moses. And further, we should ask, why does Moses record a pagan priest offering a sacrifice to the one true God? And to further the problem, why do the elders of Israel, including Aaron, the head of the priests, eat the meat offered to God by a pagan priest? The only way, the only way to make any sense of it is to conclude that Jethro was not a pagan priest, but instead a priest in the line of Melchizedek. As such, he would be in the line of Christ, who we are told in the book of Hebrews, that Jesus is a priest in the order of Melchizedek. Thus, the actions of Jethro and his advice to Moses are significant in teaching us today how God structures the leadership of his people. And remember this. We are a people of both the Old and New Testaments. Both of them inform our faith. The first thing Jethro does, as mentioned, is lead the nation of Israel in a worship service, which ends in a sacramental meal. Then he restructures the leadership of God's people. Now turn there if you would in your Bibles 2, chapter 18. Starting at verse 13. And I want to summarize that whole section, verse 13 through 27, to notice what Jethro does. He wisely structures the leadership of God's people to rulers of groups, rulers of groups of thousands. Of groups of hundreds, of groups of fifty, and even groups of ten. And this system is both representative and hierarchical Each ruler represents the ruler above him to the people he is to care for. As we will see, the early Christian church. Took this model as the definitive model for church government to cover both the Old and New Testaments. This was the model that the apostles followed when they made their decisions concerning hierarchy. We can say this definitively because of what Clement of Rome wrote as a second-generation church leader. With the words similar to those of Jethro and Exodus 18, Calamenth wrote the following about church government. All are not generals, nor commanders of a thousand, nor of a hundred, nor of fifty, but each in his own rank. Clement went on to explain how the apostles arrived at establishing a threefold office of government. He said, quote, the apostles received the gospel for us from the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus the Christ was sent from God. Thus Christ is from God and the apostles from Christ. In both instances, the order of procedure depends on God's will. And so the apostles, after having received their orders and being fully convinced by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, And assured by God's word, went out in the confidence of the Holy Spirit to preach the good news. They preached in country and city and appointed their first converts. After testifying to them by the Spirit to be the bishops and deacons of future believers And is it any wonder that those Christians whom God had entrusted with such a duty should have appointed the officers mentioned For blessed Moses too, who was a faithful servant in all God's house, recorded in the sacred books All the orders given to him and the rest of the prophets followed in his train of testifying of his legislation. End quote I hope you caught the significance of Clement's testimony, for he described the apostles as they established the ministry of the church. That ministry established, they were conscientious of the structure Moses instituted at the advice of Jethro. It was a representative and hierarchical government that he instituted and the church instituted. And this is how it developed in the early church, as it naturally would. Just like Moses when the church was newly formed. And located in Jerusalem, the apostles oversaw everything just like Moses oversaw everything. But when the church grew numerically and geographically It became impossible for the apostles to be able to lead all aspects of the church. We then see a natural change in Acts chapter 6. Where it was necessary to choose men to oversee the ministry inside the church, ministry toward the weaker. So that, remember, in Acts 6, so that the Apostles could focus on the work of the ministry of the Word of God We believe that this was the newly formed office of the Dioconate, which our patron St. Stephen's was prominent. The Apostle Paul continued the practice of ordaining men for the ministry by laying on of hands, as recorded in Acts 14. There the Apostle Paul needed to move on to other regions to preach the gospel. And thus he left behind him men ordained, elders, presbyters, to take over the teaching and the preaching and to distribute the sacraments that he had already established. From the very beginning, Saint Paul personally laid his hands on men whom he ordained to be presbyters as described in 1 Timothy 4. Consider what the laying on of hands was. It was the symbol of transferring the apostolic authority and blessing upon men deemed suitable to lead the church. And when church growth was at a strong pace, Paul, and this is important, Paul then gives Timothy and Titus the authority to ordain. So that the increase of leadership would match the increase of disciples. Our own Bishop Cheney, one of the first bishops of the Reformed Episcopal Church, pointed out that Timothy and Titus were given authority that no other presbyters were given. Even giving Timothy the authority to forbid certain the preaching of certain doctrines, which most certainly is Or at least was the first authority owned by the apostles. And next Cheney points out Paul instructs Timothy on what is required of an elder and a deacon. And he makes the point that Timothy would only need such instruction if Timothy himself was involved in choosing presbyters and deacons. Next is a quote from Cheney. It seems almost impossible to avoid the conclusion that these two early ministers of Christ, Timothy and Titus. were entrusted by apostolic hands with precisely the duties and responsibilities that are now pertained to the office of bishop. The conclusion then is that certain men were given authority to have oversight of the church, which focused on admitting men to the ministry and protecting right doctrine. However, and this is important also, the giving of authority to men who would follow the apostles was not a blank check. There was a limit in that the apostles were the final authority on what is to be considered, accepted, and believed to be the Word of God. After the apostles passed from this life to the next, there were no new letters or new revelations regarding what the church would see to be the Word of God. John Scott, well-respected Anglican and evangelical theologian, said the following. The apostles of Jesus Christ were unique. Unique in their experience of the Jesus of history. Unique In their sight of the risen Lord, unique in their commission by Christ's authority, and unique in their inspiration by Christ's Spirit. We may not exalt our opinions over theirs or claim our authority is as great as theirs. For their opinions and authority are Christ's. If we would bow to his authority, we therefore must bow to theirs. End quote And such a thought has been the historic understanding of the Church in the West, in the East, among Catholics, Orthodox, and Protestants. At least it was until the liberals have started influencing the mainline churches, and literally all hell has broken loose. After the apostles went to be with the Lord, there became a natural division of responsibility within the church. To the diakonate was delegated the ministry of humble service as described in Acts 6 and as demonstrated by the life of Christ. The responsibility of presbyters became the proclamation of apostolic truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ, through the ministry of Word and Sacrament. And to the episcopate was delegated the preservation of apostolic doctrine by ordination and pastor oversight. Our own Bishop Cummins, founding bishop of the REC, explained it as follows, quote, For a time the apostles were the sole office bearers in the church. The necessities of the church gave rise to the establishment of the diaconate. The diaconate was an office established by the apostles. Those elected to fill this office were set apart to their work by laying on of hands of the apostles The Presbyterate, or office of Presbyter, is of undisputed apostolic origin, and arose also out of the necessities of the church The apostles were compelled to provide church communities with officers to instruct, to guide, to rule, and to watch over them. And Cummins continued in order to explain the relationship a bishop is to have with the presbyters of the church. Quote, the episcopate is found in the New Testament as an office exercised by one who was himself a fellow presbyter. Commissioned or set apart for the exercise of such powers as were rendered necessary by the exigencies of the Church, and for the promotion of general oversight and superintendence. The office of bishop is best summarized to be first among equals. The account of Moses being advised by his father-in-law Jethro regarding how to structure his government oversight for the sake of ministering best To the people God could have viewed as mere historical. God could have just made it something to do then, as opposed to now, and nothing more. But then again, why would Moses record it? We can assume many events occurred in the days of Israel being led by Moses that were not recorded in the book of Exodus. They weren't to be considered by us. They didn't matter. They were not as important as the manner in which leadership was structured. And so when we say that our episcopal form of government is biblical, we do not mean that our witness to the fact is only from the New Testament. But also from the Old Testament and from the practice of the first and second century church as they understood the Old Testament principle to be applied in the New Testament context. Why I believe this is most relevant for us today is because of how crucial it is for Christians to come together. And to be trusting of the ordained leadership God has chosen. And by trusting, I do not mean being led blindly, or giving ourselves over to leadership that is hypocritical or abusive. I simply mean that just as God chooses leaders over nations, So too does he choose leaders over Christians, his church. And we are to trust that such leaders are for our good. Until they prove unworthy of their office. And beloved, these are evil days. Mark it as so We are living in a dry and thirsty land. We are living in days of upheaval, days of confusion. Days where evil is indeed called good, and good is indeed called evil The church therefore needs to be one. It needs to be united so that we can hold one another up as the secular world tries to beat us into submission. And an important way for us to be one, to be united, is to be able to aid one another in the trust that the leadership God has chosen for us is what is best for us. It is what we need. And I anticipate what some of you are thinking. You may think, boy, is that a self-promoting sermon or what? And I can only say no. We came upon Exodus 18, honestly. It is a historical account from which I am giving a modern application. And it is a necessary application as we are living in a culture that takes ungodly pride in throwing off leadership. In disrespecting those who have been placed by God in positions of authority, there is a reason why independent churches have multiplied in the United States We don't like when we don't like, when we don't like our religious leaders, well, we promote another one and start another church. Or promote ourselves and start another church. But that would not have worked in the days of Moses. And let us be honest, it doesn't work very well today. Oh, there are churches that are independent, having thrown off previous leadership, and some other churches that are growing and large, but I would say ineffectual. Certainly ineffectual in changing the culture in which we live. The smallness of our own denomination teaches us how difficult it is to make a difference when nobody knows your name. But the days are here, beloved, that require the people of God to come together for the sake of maintaining our own faith, for the sake of preserving the gospel. For the sake of the kingdom of God being established on earth as it is in heaven. The days are evil, beloved. So let us follow those God has chosen to lead us. Just this past council, Thursday. The presiding bishop of the Reformed Episcopal Church, Bishop Groth, gave a charge to all churches in the Reformed Episcopal Church. He pointed us to the general council that will be held in Dallas, Texas on June 14th through the 16th. And he asked us to do these four things. He said, for each parish, to number one, pray for God to work in the hearts of pastors to be good shepherds. Number two, to pray for the Lord to remove spiritual impediments in our individual lives and in the life of the church. Number three, to pray to God that each parish might help lead at least one new convert to Christ. Number four, to pray that all of God's people would have openness of hearts and minds to facilitate the transformation to holiness. Of course, these are good things to pray always. But our church leader told us to pray this way until the meeting in Dallas. This particular way. And so that's what we will do. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father. We pray, dear Lord, that you would work in the hearts of the pastors who lead your children, your people. Father, may their hearts be turned to you And may they in turn love your people. We pray, O Lord, for the removal of spiritual impediments. Sins in our individual lives and sins in the life of the church, each local parish, each denomination. May we confront it, repent of it, and be done away with it. We pray, dear Lord, that our parish might see one, two, three converts to Christ from now until June. That your kingdom might grow and your children might come home. And we pray that all of God's people would be open, their hearts and minds open. To facilitate a transformation in their individual lives and in the lives of your church to holiness, to be like Jesus. These things we pray in Jesus' name and all of God's people said. Amen.