Just last week A conservative Roman Catholic philosopher was scheduled to speak at Middlebury College in Vermont. But the event was canceled because the speaker was labeled a billiberal activist to be homophobic, racist, xenophobic, and misogynistic. The speech was to be about the dangers of totalitarianism within a democracy. And the irony is that totalitarianism defined is a system of government that allows the state to dictate to its subjects on issues such as what speeches can and cannot be given in public. These liberal activists were acting like a totalitarian state without admitting it. And don't worry, this is not a political sermon. I use the example of liberal activists to point to a fundamental flaw in their worldview Such people so easily point out the sins of others, even when said sins are not present, while ignoring their own sins, while also denying that they are sinners by nature. The people who consider themselves woke quickly, eminently, and self-righteously condemn the sins of their moderns and their patriarchs, even their matriarchs. Like Kate Smith singing God Bless America. If you haven't heard about that, you should look it up. It is at best ignorant In summary, people are condemned for their sins, past and present, while accusers remain blind to their own pathologies and narcissistic ways. This blindness to not owning one's sin leads us into examining the events in Genesis chapter 38. Now before we get there, um just a reading of that I'm sure was just un uncomfortable I remember a professor in seminary who told the story of uh him gathering around his children to read the Bible and they got to Genesis thirty-eight and he began reading and his wife said, Stop, stop, stop! And he says, Why? And she said, I don't want them to hear this. And he said, It's in the Bible. And she said, Well, I wish it wasn't But we have a family in Genesis 38 and individuals who are not aware of their sinfulness until that sin catches them. And when it does When it does, God is gracious to enable confession, to understand guilt, and to enable restoration. Judah at the beginning, leaving his family and going down from the higher country of Hebron to the foothills Is probably an indication that there has been some spiritual disintegration of Jacob's family. There was no longer a sense of importance of being God's chosen covenant people. There was no transcendent value holding the family together at this time. And let us be mindful that these events in this chapter overlap the events of the following chapters where Joseph is living out his life in Egypt. And some have wondered again why this chapter is in the book. If if Genesis were to end at chapter 37 and you and I were to speculate what happened after that, we would likely guess that Joseph is the man chosen from which Christ would come. That Joseph is so much like Christ in in many ways of his actions of his life that we would be assured that Jesus would come from him. But no. No indeed. Judah is the man. Judah is the one from whom Christ will come, as we will see. We learn next that Judah married a Canaanite, and we remember the great lengths that Abraham and Isaac went to so that their sons would not marry such women. Because of this marriage, we can conclude that again the family has lost its spiritual identity. The manner in which this marriage is described is literally Judah saw and took. Judah saw and took. The New King James is very soft in its translation. This this action suggests what we see Eve do. Eve, when she saw the fruit, saw and took. Shechem, when he saw Dinah, saw and took The death of Judah's firstborn son reveals an ancient custom of ancient Near East marriages. But this custom, Tamara's first by this custom, Tamara's first child, although was would be conceived by Onan, would legally have been born to the oldest brother who died, who was Ur. Heirs would bear his name and receive his property. Thus, what Onan was to do was a sacred obligation. This was a way for protecting widows in the ancient Near East. The Old Testament law to come later would enforce this very tradition. Now, because the law reveals the custom to be godly, Onan's sin was a serious one. He enjoyed Tamar sexually, but refused to honor the custom that was expected of him. And this is very much like modern behavior of many men of the West today Who take advantage of the promiscuity of women while wanting nothing to do with the repercussions of their adultery. To God, the sin was worthy of Onan's death. And so that is what the Lord did. And God does that. He takes lives at his will. And although we grieve and wish it were not so, we all have to submit. Now the wording of verse 11 gives us insight that Tamar did not have. Judah made a promise that he had no plans of keeping. He actually believes that Tamar is the problem or cause of his son's death. She was labeled in his heart a cursed woman. Judah again, very much like modern man here, he does not see the connection between sexual immorality and the evil that is within his sons. And from this we can examine ourselves. Let us not be fooled by failing to see that when sexual promiscuity became mainstream in our culture, in terms of acceptable behavior That the dominoes fell, as we have now accepted abortion in order to keep our sexual freedom, just as we have accepted no-fault divorce pornography, incest, and any other perversion humanity can come up with Tamara's actions next reveal that she knew enough of Judah's character to believe that he would consort with prostitutes. And she knew that Judah, despite his assurances, would never make provisions for her. She knew his character, and so she knew what That she would have been lied to, and that the obligation that Judah owed her meant nothing to him. Tamar herself was consumed with her right as a matriarch. Judah's admission in verse 26 will indicate just that. Whatever the justice of her means, her effort to secure was hers by right, and it was to her credit. She is, despite our doubts about what she did, she's actually the heroine in this story. The only one who seemed to care about the Covenant family and it continuing on Now realize that sex with a prostitute was sinful. Sex with a daughter-in-law was a crime punishable by death. The fact that there was characteristically a lot of wine drinking in the sheep shearing time may explain why Judah did not recognize Tamar's disguise. Tamar's hard bargaining, together with Judah's lust, resulted in him giving things that would have unmistakably belonged to him. as each item had a seal and each seal was unique to its owner. When tomorrow's actions are revealed, an extreme penalty, burning to death, is announced by Judah. Now remember that she was still betrothed to his younger son Shelah. Her crime then was adultery, and the extreme punishment by Judah was his hypocrisy. Thankfully, when all is revealed, Judah cannot escape his hypocrisy, and it is what he does by confessing where our focus needs to be this morning. As I started to explain at first reading, it is difficult to see how chapter 38 fits within the entire narrative of Genesis. What will become clear later is how these characters and these events are fundamental to our understanding of the entire history of Joseph and Judah. Again, what is surprising to most is that the real hero in this story is not Joseph. It's Judah. The very Judah who is described in such a despicable manner, in despicable terms, in this chapter. It is Judah at the end of Genesis that the great promise is made. It will be from Judah that will come the seed of a woman that will crush the serpent's head. From Judah Will come the Messiah, through whom all the nations will be blessed. Now, the Pharisaical, legalistic, self-righteous side of some of us Could not see Judah being a hero at any time. When we take inventory of his life, we identify a man motivated by lust Greed, pride, envy, and contempt. His lust led him to sleep with a woman he did not identify, who would later be revealed to be his daughter-in-law Although a member of the only covenant family God had chosen at that time, he showed his contempt of said covenant by going down and living amidst the Canaanites obviously not caring how they could lead him to idol worship. This slide toward a worldly abyss began when he envied his father's love for his brother. When he allowed that envy to turn him to plotting murder, selling his brother into slavery and pretending to his father that his brother was dead had no emotional effect upon him Other than hardening his heart. That Judah's son would be so wicked that God took their lives when they were young shows the effect his sin had on the entire family. A man like Judah can live in such a manner only for so long before his conscience is seared and silenced. Only selfish interest remained to guide Judah. So no, he does not seem like a possible hero in this story, and certainly not a hero that would be used to bring forth the Son of God. We spend time describing Judah and how despicable a man he was, because of how it will all end. And where it started to turn around. We see at the beginning the turn in verse 26. Look at that verse again. Where Judah's acknowledgement of his sin and the justice of Tamar's cause and even of her actions were to be interpreted as if she had no other alternative. He says, she has been more righteous than I. That confession is actually different in the Hebrew. Hebrew scholars agree that it should be read not as a simple comparison, but as what is called a comparison of exclusion. in which the subject alone possesses the quality of the adjective. In other words, Judah did not say, She has been more righteous than I, but rather said, She is righteous, not I. A comparison. She is righteous and not I. A contrast. This means that Judah made no claim of righteousness at all. He was not asserting merely that she was more righteous than he, but that she has been righteous while he has not been. And this I trust you can see is a far better thing for a man to say who had behaved the way Judah had behaved. Remember in Proverbs chapter 28, verse 13, we read, He who conceals his sins does not prosper. But whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy. Such wisdom was finally understood by Judah. And we know that the Lord must have revealed it to him because the direction Judah was going showed no indication that he was softening toward righteousness. And we can be assured that his confession included repentance, for we read in verse 26 that he did not sleep with Tamar again. Though he had done so before, though the ice had been broken as it were, though we have found Judas so thoroughly a sensual man A man with a little regard for the sacred honor of the family, or for his responsibilities to preserve honor To preserve purity. Though we might well have expected Judah to do something to tomorrow just like Onan did, Judah did nothing of the kind. The Lord was at work in his heart. His conscience had been awakened. His behavior now troubled him. He stood self-condemned on account of what he had done. Finally he could live as he had before. I'm sorry, finally he could not live as he had before, because sin had become sin to him. And that, as would be the case for so many multitudes of others, was the beginning of something new in this man. When sin became sinful to him, when he began to reckon with his moral failure, his need for the forgiveness of God, when he got there, his life changed. He had been a moral failure for long years, but he never admitted it or reckoned with the fact until now. And so what we find here, in what is called the most sordid chapter in the Bible, what we find is the grace of God. The grace of God abounding where sin had abounded, and God's grace beginning to cover a multitude of sins. That Jesus Christ himself is in this physical line through Joseph and Mary, through this disgusting incest. is as grand a picture of God's grace overcoming man's sin, as grand as can be imagined. Now what can possibly come of lives like these? Of history like this What could possibly come of cruelty, infidelity, hardness of heart, sexual promiscuity, even incest, and in general plain stupidity? What can come of all of that? Well, the grace of God, by the blood of Jesus Christ, and heaven itself can come of that. What we have in Genesis 38 is the person of Judah, a picture of Judah, of what we all are without the grace of God. All of us, whatever our sins, however polite, however little, however sins we have that people do not take notice of. No one took notice of Judah's sins either in that corrupt day until the Lord Himself brought them to light. But no matter our sins, ugly as they are, the rest of the Bible tells us what God's grace can make of us. But for it to be so, for it to be so, there must be an honest admission of our sins and a serious reckoning which says, no excuses, no one else to blame. We know that God is responsible for the confession and repentance of Judah because He tells us that only He can turn the heart of a sinner. Only God can give the gift of faith. Only God can create a righteous sense of guilt that demands confession and repentance. Unfortunately, for some of us, a sense of guilt is a scary thing to experience, let alone embrace. When someone wants to talk serious to us, you know, we need to talk. We turn into our childhood selves as we were trying to prepare for that talk with mom and dad when they called us up. Every possible sin recently committed or sin hidden in the past is reviewed in our minds with the question: which sin has now been revealed to them and what excuse is now best? But godly men and women learn that it is best to fear God more than to fear the feelings of guilt before men. The Quaker leader, George Fox, was so bold as to say that he thanked God more for his sins than his righteous works. Puritan preacher John Bunyan said the same thing, only more directly. He said, the guilt of sin did help me much. Of course, Puritans are known to have been gluttons for punishment. But if we were to examine our lives more closely I wonder if we could see how much having sins revealed has changed us and changed us for the good Mark the times when you embraced the guilt and shame of your wrongdoing, even if it was only revealed to yourself. The freedom found in times of confession and repentance cannot be compared to the fear and pain of ignoring hidden sins. Would not Judah say that his sin revealed was the most life-changing moment that he had yet experienced? His revealed sin and his guilt, when faced with it, and his need to confess and repent, it meant his salvation. Judah's sin being revealed as a child of the covenant of God teaches us that the people of God have more than one born-again experience. We can compare Judah to the many of us who were baptized as children and who have grown up to know the Lord and in the church, but have never had a born-again experience. Until we come to see our sins, whether they be petty and small or loud and obvious, and we realize That we too are undone. We too are undone The guilt can be difficult, but it is quite necessary to face what is true and what needs to be done in response. The faith given to us to confess said sin and repent from it gives us a feeling of being made new, of being born again. And later in life, when a habit has become addicting, or an emotion has become controlling, or an attitude has darkened the heart, and God shows it to us so much so that we can't escape the truth. We are called to embrace it. Embrace the guilt, confess the sin, repent, and be born again again. We all have those times, and we all need those times. Consider the type of people I described at the beginning of this sermon. They are too busy embracing the guilt of others, so they do not see their own sin and their own guilt. And so their sin and their guilt remain. For the Christian, embracing the guilt of our sins leads to a freedom from sin that the woke among us do not have. An awareness of our own sin is something our culture has lost, but the church cannot Part of what it means to be salt of the earth is to know our guilt and to be a people who confess and repent. May that be true of us. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for this story as sordid as it is. And we thank you for the truth that embracing our true guilt also brings to us true freedom. Father, help us remain a people who do not fear our guilt, but fear, but fear disappointing you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.