In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. One of the characteristics Bobby Lynn and I tried to instill in our children was the embracing of that of being peculiar. By peculiar I don't mean socially awkward. I mean peculiar in the sense of standing out because they did not follow the crowd in terms of what was popular Or what was expected. I wanted them to get used to being thought of and treated as different or odd because as Christians living in a secular world If we are being faithful to the Holy Scriptures in our day-to-day living, we are going to stand out. We are going to be seen as being different. When you don't join the mob think, people will notice and they will pass judgment. When you don't curse or gossip or slander or complain People will notice, and they may even accuse you of being arrogant. When you bow your head in public to pray before each meal, people will notice And they will murmur about your piety. When you simply obey your parents, people will notice and think that you are some type of suck-up. When you don't smoke weed, don't do drugs, don't get drunk, don't commit adultery, people will notice and conclude you are either under the thumb of your parents dying to get away from them, or you are self-righteous and will soon, like the rest of us, be a hypocrite. That is what my children faced when they attended a secular school, and I wanted them to be prepared for it. I prepared them by telling them how different Christians are to be. And how people will notice and by standing out in the manners I just described, they could be a witness to the truth of Jesus Christ without saying a word. By my children embracing being peculiar, they were able to park with pride a rusted $300 pickup. Next to the Mercedes, Luxes, and Jaguars that their school parking lot was filled with. They were able to with humor drive a to school a twenty-five-year-old Cadillac that drove like a boat and wouldn't go in reverse. They were able to laugh at their peers who had asked what they thought were trapping questions such as, what would your dad do if you told him you were gay? They were able to say yes when peers would ask, hey, if I die not believing in Jesus, am I going to hell? Yes. When you know you are different and expect for others to treat you differently, it keeps reality before you and it helps you stay different. Mind you, yes, there is a danger in being different because people can be different for the sake of being different. But Christians are different because of our nature. We are awake. We are no longer dead in our trespasses and sins, but are instead awake. To the life giving Holy Spirit to be able to know God, to love God and to love our fellow man We have God in us, animating our spiritual selves while those who do not believe remain crippled and yes, dead in sin. My premises are that if we are different by our nature, and that we are to embrace being different Leading to the conclusion that our worship of God should be different as well. This is the last in this series of sermons on Christian corporate worship. And here I am espousing a very simple point, which is that our worship should embrace being peculiar. Being different. The logic from the opposite view, I am espousing, goes something like the following. Christians need to corporate worship with God. Many Christians do not attend church services to corporately worship God. Many Christians don't attend because church services are boring The answer is to then make church services more exciting. The church services are more exciting when the people are entertained. No one knows entertainment better than the secular world, so the church should replicate what the secular world does, only make it Christian by adding Christian words with a secular style Fundamentally, the logic of this approach to corporate worship is not flawed. Worship as entertainment can and does draw a crowd. The problem with this type of reasoning and worship is not the logic applied, but the question it fails to address which is whether or not God is pleased with worship that is focused on entertaining. We know that God would not be pleased by worship that is entertaining if it contained the pornographic or the barbarous. But what about circus-type stunts or having special effects? Such things don't break any of God's commandments, do they? What some people are not questioning is whether such questions should be asked. The point is not whether God would allow circus stunts and special effects in a Christian corporate worship service. It is instead to determine whether or not what is being done in a Christian corporate worship service, whether it is heavenly relevant We have established that God does indeed, does indeed reject certain types of worship We have concluded that our worship of God must include obeying Him and loving Him and our fellow man. We have learned that God has given us an order of worship in Exodus 24, which is the very first time Israel worshiped as a people. And we have seen how our Anglican traditions follow that given order. And what I want to accomplish again with this sermon is for all of us young and old to embrace what it means to worship God as a peculiar people. Let us look where Christians are described as peculiar. This is from our epistle reading from 1 Peter. The Apostle Peter has exhorted Christians to lead lives that are morally separate from the unbelieving world. Christians are told to put aside malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander, for all are sins of their former lives and sins of the people around them. What they are to replace such sins with is the Word of God. To further implore Christians to live a different kind of life, Peter uses several metaphors such as Christians being as babies longing for pure milk, or hungry so as to want to taste the kindness of the Lord. And because Jesus is the cornerstone, he is to be approached by us as a living stone, that although rejected by men, he is precious before God. And as Jesus is a living stone, so too are Christians to see themselves as stones who are being used by God to build a spiritual house in order to offer up spiritual sacrifices. To Jesus. Jesus as the cornerstone of all that is built up is either the rock upon which all earthly and heavenly lives is built upon or are built upon, or a rock upon which all who do not believe stumble or crash into. And after mentioning those who do not believe and therefore stumble and crash upon the eternal rock of Jesus St. Peter wants to get back to the reason why Christians are to live separate moral lives away from the unbelievers around them. He gets there by identifying them as a chosen people. According to St. Peter, Christians are to identify themselves with Israel, for he quotes here Exodus 19 verse 5. Where God called Israel out of bondage in Egypt to be his very own people, they are chosen by God. And just as God chose Abraham and credited Abraham's faith as righteousness, in the same manner God has chosen an entire people to be his very own. It is God's choice and no one else's. Christians are next called a royal priesthood. As royals, Christians belong to one king. As priests, Christians have been washed clean of sin and are able to stand before God as clean and are able to hear God speak. that are able to serve him as his representatives. Christians are next called a holy nation. The term holy is to be consecrated or set aside, to be used by God for his glory. The term nation reminds us that Christians are not believers separate from other believers, but are instead an entire people who must love one another to continue. As God's people. We are chosen. We are part of a royal priesthood. We are holy and a nation only Only if we are a body and not mere individuals. Christians are next and finally called a peculiar people. That word peculiar does come from the King James Version translation The word or phrase literally in the Greek means a people of special reservation. It is a very personal word. It describes what God owns and what God personally takes care of. He will not share us with anything else. We are his And what are Christians to do with this unique identification, St. Peter gives us? The why question? The why question needs to be answered. What is the point of being chosen, royal, priestly, a holy nation of peculiar people? The answer is in the next phrase in the text. He says, to declare the praises of God. That's the why. To proclaim the excellencies of him who called you to worship God. So if Christians are chosen, royal, priestly, a holy nation, a peculiar people, it follows that the worship of Christians should reflect who they are To put it another way, Christian corporate worship should reflect the people God has made us to be. It should reflect that we are chosen, royal, priestly, a holy nation, and peculiar. To put it another way, Christian worship shouldn't reflect who we are not. We are not unbelievers, and therefore our corporate worship shouldn't look like we are unbelievers. A glaring flaw of the Christian Church for at least the last three decades, probably more. has been an inability to differentiate between Christian corporate worship and outreach And outreach. Modern Christian churches have made times of Christian corporate worship a time of outreach to justify worship styles in terms of recharching, professing Christians, and sharing the gospel of Jesus with unbelievers. They have done so because they understand the purpose of the church is to grow its membership. It is to evangelize. And while evangelism is a responsibility of the church, it is not the why, it is not the purpose of the church. I say again, the purpose of the church, the end goal of the chosen people of God is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. It is to worship God. Christians from every tradition, East or West, should have no problem whatsoever with Christian bands playing music that sounds like secular music, only with words devoted to Christ. when it is played and used as outreach to unbelievers who might like such music. Christians from every tradition should not have a problem with a pastor wearing a cordless microphone and blue jeans and an untouched shirt with his talking points when it's in the context of outreach. There are indeed unbelievers who are more apt to attend gatherings of people who play rock music and who speak in a casual manner and who entertain. It seems to work. But when such settings are called Christian corporate worship, The Bible does not know of such worship, and the church historic does not know of such worship, and those are the only sources of authority that can teach us the proper Christian corporate worship what it should be. Let us consider the words Saint Peter has chosen for God's people in worship Being chosen means that we are going to have a security in our salvation and a trust in God that an unbeliever is not going to have. Being chosen means we are able to celebrate that our salvation is not determined by our ability to keep promises, but by But it's determined by God's ability to keep promises, and wouldn't you rather have it that way Being a royal priesthood means that we are going to take our corporate worship seriously by behaving in a proportionate manner to our status. A royal does not behave like a pauper because the privilege demands more. The priesthood with its privileges calls for dignity to be shown and seriousness to be maintained. As St. Paul has said when addressing Christian corporate worship, Let all things be done decently and in order. As a peculiar people We are going to have verbiage that we only use when we gather together. This is one of the reasons why we use the old text for our book of common prayer. Those who prefer a modern language version have put forth the purpose that no one today uses the language used in those old prayer books. The fact is, no one used said language when the prayer books were first written, for no one used it as a common vernacular. The formal language of the prayer book was chosen because it reflected corporate worship as a unique time for God's people to gather. And it communicated the formality the church believed was needed for those unique times. Admittedly, some of the words are quite archaic to us, and some of them can sound strange and even funny. Do you hear the word succor and chuckle because of the way it sounds and wonder what it precisely means? It means to give assistance or to aid someone. How about dissemble nor cloak? Don't use that very often. Dissemble means to hide true motives. Cloak is to cover rather than reveal. How about absolution and remission? Absolution is a declaration of God's forgiveness, and remission is a canceling of debt owed. How about inestimable? It means too great to calculate What about the use of thou so often when reading the Ten Commandments? To be sure, Thou is an archaic form of the more simple word you. But when it is used in the context of God's founding document for his covenant with his people, and is expected to be followed without excuse, Thou is most appropriate. What about the word oblation? It refers to the thing that is being offered to God. And the mouthful word propitiation. What does that mean? The word propitiation is a mouthful word. And yet there is not another word in the English language that can express that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself to appease his own wrath. Yes, there are certain words that we use in our Christian corporate worship that unbelievers have a hard time understanding, as do Christians who are not a part of our tradition. The hope is that an unbeliever who worships with us will at least know that our attention, as we gather here, is upon God. And if they are seeking God, and our attention is upon God, then they will find him, for we shall be pointing to him. I recall an advertisement in a local newspaper several years ago. This is a while ago. where a church was starting up and they were meeting at the local freedom hall, just as this parish did many years ago The advertisement showed a cartoon drawing of a church setting where a man was asleep in a pew. Had little Z coming out, you know. And the caption read something like, If this is what you think church is, Come visit us where you will never know you are in church. Any reasonable person Could respond that there is no purpose of going to church if you don't know you're in church Obviously, I am taking the position that when Christians worship, they should know they are attending church Because what we do here is altogether different than what we do at other times and in other places each day of each week. What we do here reflects that we have been chosen and made royal priests and made a holy nation and are a peculiar people. And I began this series warning that if we do not pass on the justifications of why we worship in the manner that we worship, The manner will be lost and replaced by the practical. And what is and will be practical will be less and less meaningful. A parishioner last week sent me a link that provided the following quote that I believe summarizes the burden that God has laid upon my soul. The quote is from the Reverend Dr. Kerr Markwort, Kerr Markwort, a Lutheran theologian who has since passed on. He said the following. Quote, if the liturgy is boring to children, it is usually because the parents do not find it interesting either If children saw adults treating the Sunday service as the most important activity of their lives, they would respect it too. and would never dream of treating it as a pop event to be tinkered with by every Tom, Dick, and Harry. A church which has won the conscientious loyalty of parents, particularly fathers, will have the devotion of their children too. But a church which abjectly capitulates to the whims and tastes of adolescents will have and deserve neither. In this series, I have strived to gain the conscientious loyalty of parents so that you would pass on the principles of corporate Christian worship to the next generation. So that a standard can be maintained that is received by God because it is heavenly relevant I will continue to do so by various means provided to me. But what I have put forth in these series of sermons is the best I have. Let what is true be established in the hearts of God's people, and let what is manufactured burn with the chaff. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, to you we give thanks for the revelations in your word. that show the manner that you receive that is heavenly relevant when your people gather to worship. Help us to embrace them evermore. And to trust that as they honor you, that we are changed to be like you, for that is what we desire. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.