All my God is all In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, covering verse 1 through 13 Quick story, back in 2006, Bobby Lynn and I were picking up our oldest son Jared from a recruiting trip to Westchester University. One of the events before leaving campus was the head coach speaking to the parents of the recruits. As the coach spoke, he talked about toughness and hard work, overcoming the odds and the value of winning. When he was finished, I said to Bobby Lynn, I want to play for this guy. I was inspired, I was emotionally and physically motivated, I wanted to strap on the gear and play again That's what a good coach does. He motivates his players to go beyond themselves. When I was coaching the Crusaders, for those of you who don't know what that is, it was a football program that I helped start. consisted of either homeschool students or Christian school students that didn't have a football team. And I soon noticed that something was missing in these boys that first year They were afraid. They lacked courage. They were afraid, most of them, to hit another player or to be hit by another player. It could be seen in them being unwilling to run their hardest down the field and to tackle an opponent. In tackling drills, they would turn and received the blow on the side of their bodies rather than the forefront of their forehead and squared shoulders At first I didn't know what to do. I was very confused. You see, in the Jorgensen household, tackling was a fundamental skill of survival. I played tackle football in the house and in the yard with my boys hundreds of times, and I thought every Christian father did that. To overcome this fear in these young men, I had to come up with some inspired coach speech myself. And so I told the players of the story of Hugh Latimer and Nicholas Ridley, a story I repeated to you several sermons ago. A part of that story of martyrdom during the reign of Bloody Mary was when they were on their way to be burned at the stake for believing and preaching the gospel. Latimer told Ridley, quote, play the man, Master Ridley, and we shall this day light such a candle by God's grace in England as I trust shall never be put out. The first part of that statement, play the man. That was earlier said to the martyr named Polycarp A second century Christian bishop who, when he was faced with his own martyrdom, heard that phrase by the Holy Spirit, telling him to face his martyrdom by playing the man. And that phrase, play the man, has biblical connotations and is actually used in the King James Version when Joab and his brother Abishai In the book of 2 Samuel, when they are surrounded by Syrians and Ammonites, Joab says to his brother, Be of good courage, let us play the man for our people. The meaning then was to be a man of courage, facing fear head on Now, when we take our understanding of the man and place Jesus in that picture who embraced being called the Son of Man, We can see that we are to play the man means to us that we are to imitate Jesus when we face our fears, when we face adversity. So after I explained this to my players, the phrase became a rallying cry when I would see them give in to fear. I would yell to them, play the man! Our team huddles would be broken with that chant, play the man on three, one, two, three, play the man. All was done so that young men would learn to be courageous men. And I have hoped and prayed that the phrase play the man reminds them to this day and to the rest of their days what it means to live fearlessly for Christ. All of this to say what the Hebrew preacher is doing in the beginning of chapter 12 is a follow-up to what he did in chapter 11, where he set before us people of faith to be imitated. And we learned that we too can have faith just as those listed had faith. We can live too by faith And we can live by faith in every life situation, regardless of our personal failings, regardless of our personal struggles. In verse 1 of chapter 12, what we are seeing is an encouragement to do just that This verse, chapter 12, verse 1, is both poetic and inspiring. It allows us to view saints around us, seeing us, watching us, and saying, we did it. Now you do it. Live by faith. The cheering is not only for us to have faith all the way to heaven, but to have faith to overcome sin. Sin that is repeated and thus sin that pulls us down into discouragement. This says to us that we not only can have faith all the way to heaven But we can also overcome sins, sins that once we thought were always going to be a part of us. And finally the verse reminds us That we are not in a marathon. I'm sorry, that we are in a marathon, not in a sprint. Therefore, we need endurance in order to finish well. Verse 2 is a most helpful reminder that Jesus is responsible for the faith that we have and that he started it and he finishes it. And we say, thanks be to God. Thanks be to God that our salvation is not dependent solely on us, but is dependent upon what Jesus did and continues to do for us. What is to be motivation for us is to continue in faith while suffering in this life. And that our motivation comes from Jesus, who endured the cross of shame, doing it so that joy could come after. Doing it so that after the cross, after the shame, there is joy forevermore. And that is what we are to do as well. Verses 3 and 4 make the point of verse 2 more plainly, as we who suffer physically, or maybe we suffer socially by the scoffing of others. must not become weary from the scoffing, but realize that Jesus suffered so much more, even to the point of bloodshed. Jesus did it for our sins, and as our example we are to do it also for our sins, that we would be willing to resist sin to the point of bloodshed Verses 5 through 8 put suffering into perspective and are in line with what we read from the great preacher Charles Spurgeon. You remember last week Recall that for Spurgeon, it was important for him to understand that his afflictions, all of them, all of them, as coming from God. For he saw how much his faith had been strengthened because of those afflictions. And here the preacher gives us the perspective of seeing our sufferings as from God. For God is our Father and we are his sons. Although I have stated the following Before I recognize the need to address it here again, the idea of sonship, referring to both genders. And by the way, I take a detour off of my detour, to note that the idea that there are more than two genders is absolutely and positively absurd. And evidence that our culture has gone off the rails and is no more a culture but a tabloid magazine giving attention only to the salacious and the absurd. But I digress. Back to our original detour. All females are to understand themselves as sons in the kingdom of God. And that it is used as an identity as sons, pointing to the fact that God makes all of his children inheritors of his kingdom. And because sons, according to the law, were inheritors, he refers to all of us, male and female, as his sons, inheritors. Remember that in Christ there is neither male nor female when it comes to eternal salvation. So both male and female are to see themselves as inheritors, sons. In the verses we are examining here, the idea of us being sons is in the context Of God our Father, and it does refer to us as inheritors, but also in the fact that he's rebuking us for sin. And as a father of five sons, I certainly understand why the title sons goes beyond being inheritors. I know for certain that I did not chasten my one daughter near as much as I chastened all of my five sons. I recognize that my simple or my sample is small when it comes to raising daughters, but I also know how much foolishness is wrapped up in the heart of a young boy Boys repeat the same sins over and over, expecting a different outcome each time. Boys let their flesh lead them time and again And personally, I saw it was my responsibility before God to spank their foolishness out of them so that they learn to say no to their impulses. If I did not chasten them as the book of Proverbs warns, I would have been leaving them to themselves, to their own discipline, which was no discipline. And according to Proverbs, such a parenting of leaving a child to himself is actually child abuse. Now I know the world, the devil, says differently, child abuse to the world, and the devil is staking a child. But what does God say? From Proverbs 29. The rod of reproof gives wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. As Christians, we are to trust the Word of God as a double-edged sword. We must resist a lost and dying world that tells us that a child is innocent at heart. And that a child is good at heart when we know, whether born to a Christian home or a non-Christian home, the child is under the curse of Adam. The child needs a savior The child needs Jesus to give it a new heart. Some parents use timeouts to discipline a child. The timeouts can be leaving a child to himself. For it is not chastening the child so that the child is humbled and therefore teachable. Oftentimes parents give their children timeouts because they just want peace and quiet in the home. But disturbing the peace can be part of a lesson for a child. One of the charted punishable offenses in our home was a child taking peace out of the home. It was a spakeable offense to disturb the peace of the home. So that when a child did so by Starting a fight with a brother, hurting a brother, taking from a brother. We would chasten and then require the guilty party to apologize to everyone for disturbing the peace of the home. Leaving a child to himself does not teach the child anything about taking responsibility for one's actions and the results of those actions. From Proverbs 13. Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him Notice that word diligent. Discipline takes diligence. All parents have witnessed foolishness in their child and are aware that when they witness this, there is a choice to be made. When said foolishness is witnessed, you can either ignore it and again leave the child to himself Or you can address the foolishness, getting up out of your comfortable chair and discipline the child. But that discipline takes energy. For it to be done properly, you need to bring the child under control, then teach the child why his behavior is wrong. And then just discipline the child to bring him back under your authority, and then follow through with proper apologies and then praying with the child. All of that takes diligence. And let us be honest, that it is much easier to ignore the behavior of a child or freak out as if the world is coming to an end. And freaking out teaches the child that you yourself have self-control issues. From Proverbs 23. Do not withhold discipline from a child. If you strike him with a rod, he will not die. If you strike him with a rod, you will save his soul from Sha'ol. Now this lesson is to help us see that disciplining a child has spiritual and then eternal implications. It helps us step back and see that discipline is not just in the moment. It's not just for the moment. It is for eternity. And consider this, parents, what you do not help your child learn when he or she is young, God will have to teach when he or she is older, and those lessons are much harder. Because we are both body and spirit, bodily discipline has spiritual ramifications. And it works both ways. When bodily discipline is abusive, the spirit of a child is broken and damaged. When bodily discipline is done properly, which is teaching and praying, while disciplining, a child's spirit is strengthened and matured Remember that these words come from God, who practices the same principles, not allowing his children to stay in their sin, but instead he chastens them. Those he loves, he chastens. He's working to save their souls, our souls, from eternal death. Going down to verse 8. The truth of verse 8 is the other side of the chastening Which points out that a person not being chastened is not a legitimate son of God and therefore left to his own outcome. We may look to persons who lead non-chastened lives and be tempted to be jealous of them. But we are jealous only if we do not see that chastening is a loving act of God. Verses 9 through 13 explain what I have been trying to do, which is to compare earthly parenting to the parenting of our Heavenly Father. And so we go back. Let us go back and look at each of those proverbs that we applied to earthly parenting and see through how God the Father parents us. Again, from Proverbs 29, the rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. God does not leave us Christians to ourselves. When He does leave humanity to itself, we destroy ourselves. Men exchange their passions for other men and women for other women when we are left to ourselves. Human beings left to themselves become like devils, and that devils devour each other. I saw a headline this past week of a quote from a Hollywood producer. He claims this, quote, humanity is an expletive disaster, an expletive disaster, end quote. The Bible agrees. And humanity does bring shame to God as our creator. And yet he so loved us that he sent his son. And we who follow his son believe him to be the Savior and God, and are not left to ourselves, but we are chastened. And when we receive such chastening, we are given wisdom. And hope for eternity. Again from Proverbs 13. Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him. God does not hate us. And so God does not spare the rod upon us as needed. And God is diligent at disciplining us. He is not lazy like we are lazy. He does not grow tired or weary so that he would ever overlook a transgression that we need to confess, that we need to turn away from The simple saying that God loves us so much that he will not let us stay the way we are is true. And we are to be thankful for it and motivated by it so that we see the purpose of his chastening and we desire to grow in grace from it. Again from Proverbs twenty-three. Do not withhold discipline from a child. If you strike him with a rod, he will not die. If you strike him with a rod, you will save his soul from Shaol. The chastening of God is truly and ultimately about receiving a heavenly reward. The preacher to the Hebrews has said as much, and so as this proverb presents it, withholding the rod is to withhold heaven, and God will not do that to us. He wants us to receive our heavenly reward. And to do so, we are to receive his chastening as it is truly for our eternal good Now I anticipate that as you've heard my words and we've walked through these verses, that you're wondering what parts of your lives God is chastening you in, even now. And as I believe Spurgeon, his words have been hanging in my heart and mind this week, to believe that every struggle in our lives is from God. Knowing that he wants to mold us and make us better than we are, certainly. But for the sake of heaven, knowing that, well, that gives me greater faith. Not thinking the devil's to blame, not thinking someone else is to blame, but understanding whatever we're struggling in, it's God's chastening hand. And he's using it to make us like him. That's a gift to understand. I started by saying that the phrase play the man is used to motivate us to have courage to practice faith. We can end by recognizing that to properly receive the chastening of God, we must also play the man. We must play the man for receiving chastisement effectively. We must have courage that whatever God uses to chasten us, it is necessary. And we are to receive it by faith. And so we say, let us play the man. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we thank you for these encouraging words to have the confidence that what we go through That what we suffer in is from you. And that you are using it to make us like your son. Increase our faith all the more to know that whatever we are in, you are there with us. You are our Father, and you are guiding us and chastening to make us again like your Son Increase our faith all the more we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.