In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated I do warn you that I was told from social media that moving the clocks backwards one hour means that each preach preacher gets to preach an extra hour. So get comfortable. I don't know why anybody would want to do that. I wouldn't want to hear myself that long, that's for sure. We are in 1 Timothy chapter 4. Working through verses one through five. First Timothy four verses one through five One of the great mysteries of the human condition is our ability and our choosing to step out of relationships. The most difficult of broken relationships, of course, occurs within the nuclear family. All of us well know how damaging a broken marriage can be, especially when it is not amicable For those who are outside looking in, it appears that the husband woke up one day and said to his wife, I don't love you anymore. I want a divorce. From that point on, their friends have to choose sides. Their extended families are no longer a part of one another's lives because invitation to gatherings cease. And of course, the spiritual and emotional damage divorces can have on children of the once happy couple can stay within their psyche for the rest of their lives. And then there are friendship breakups that can be baffling. A person who was at one time a very important part of your life. Say you attended church together, you shared meals together, you talked politics over a drink, your families played together, and then one day they are gone They don't return emails, they don't return texts, they won't answer your phone calls, they start going to a different church, they don't talk to you, not even greeting you as your paths cross And you are never told why. You're given no chance to apologize if an apology is needed. The friendship is just over. But the worst breakup that can happen, even though the marital breakup causes a great deal of lasting pain, the worst breakup is when a person chooses to no longer believe in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And it is the worst because it has eternal consequences. We ended last week with the emphasis on being confident about objective truths, and we were challenged to hold on to the essential truths of what the Bible teaches about Jesus. At the end of the chapter 3, we have what is close, close to being a creed. And the creeds we confess serve the purpose of helping us remain faithful to essential truths. In verse 1 of chapter 4, we are told that the Holy Spirit has warned that in latter times people will depart from the faith. Jesus warned of the same as did many prophets in the Old Testament. And I want us to note that just after Paul speaks about a future time, he then pivots and goes into the present tense. For what was going on in Ephesus was happening at the present tense when Paul was writing this letter. It was one of the main reasons for him writing this letter. People were then leaving the faith by way of heeding, which is listening to and believing, doctrines of demons. The word heed, the word heed also implies that these people were listening and believing lies and speaking lies and knowing what they were doing The phrase having their conscience seared with a hot iron is a metaphorical way to say that they were doing what they were doing, they were doing on purpose. They knew what they were doing. They knew it was going against the once stated faith that they had in Jesus. And now they were choosing to repeat falsehoods from the devil And that's quite a choice to make, and one that appears to offer no way back. If you have ever wondered Why people make such choices. I wonder if it is similar to why people drop out of other people's lives so suddenly. One theory is that there are certain personalities that make friendships with certain people because of what those certain people can do for them. Todd meets Hank. Todd finds out that Hank works for McCormick. Todd has always wanted to work for McCormick, and so he befriends Hank. Their families even spend time together and like each other. And then Hank helps Todd get a job at the Cormic. And soon after, texts are ignored, the phone calls are not returned, and Todd is on to the next friendship that will help him get his kids into the school that they want. And we ask, what happened to sincerity and loyalty? So with that scenario in mind You can imagine people who come to Christ Jesus and choose to confess him as Savior because of what they think they can get from him. What we know we can get is unfettered love, forgiveness and hope, but we may be thinking we can get a wife, a better job, a position of influence, etc. And when those reasons and other reasons why they became a Christian do not come to reality, that's a reason now to drop the faith. No longer speak the language, become angry at God because they thank God reniged on promises, promises he never gave to begin with. And so, what were these doctrines and lies these apostates were believing and speaking within the church? You remember Timothy was pastoring the church at Ephesus. Well, according to verse 3. They were forbidding marriage and teaching the Christians to stay away from certain foods. Now it is natural for us to think that such doctrines are odd and maybe a little weird We don't know the reason behind such doctrines because Paul doesn't give such reasons. And I appreciate that he does it because that would make it seem like these apostates and their doctrines were worth engaging and debating. When they were not. And so Paul ignores the reason for such doctrines, but we can do a little digging, being quite removed from those days. So the falsehood that was being propagated by the false teachers in Ephesus was one that was common and even reoccurring in the Greco-Roman world of that day. The Greco-Roman world was susceptible to finding asceticism as an attractive lifestyle. And it was asceticism in regards to marriage and food that was particularly attractive Now, asceticism is the severe self-discipline of denying yourself of something pleasurable. The Greco-Roman world was particularly susceptible to that thought that the spiritual part of man was what counted. Where his true goodness and greatness was to be found. And the physical part of man, and what is more the physical, then what is more physical than food and sex. Was what was hurting the spiritual part of man. And this way of thinking would soon after plague the Christian church. With some false teachers even denying that Jesus could have ever taken on human flesh. It is also interesting that there were also Jews who thought in a similar manner. The Essenes of Quran, for example, thought abstinence from marriage and a strict regulation of the diet was the way to greater holiness. as well as did Christian monks some years later. But why would ascetics choose marriage and food? Why would they choose marriage and food? Plainly put, both include the most basic desires of our flesh. In marriage, couples are free to engage in physical intimacy, and sex is a strong desire for many people since mankind was created. It is such a strong desire that men break up their own marriage over wanting to have sex with another woman. It is such a strong desire that pornography is a billion-dollar industry. Sex is such a strong desire that some expose themselves to all sorts of diseases for a brief moment of pleasure. And then there is food. For many people, food is the most difficult of vices. People are either thinking about it while craving it or thinking about it while abstaining from it. We all have to face the reality that those numbers on our scale aren't getting any higher because of a grandeur problem. And so sex and food are where we can be our weakest when it comes to our flesh. Paul goes on to give an argument regarding why marriage and some foods should not be avoided. It is because God created them, and He created them to be used for the good by us. We remember, of course, that the Jewish faith consisted of certain foods being forbidden We have all heard about certain shellfish being forbidden and pork being forbidden and others. The reason for some foods being forbidden could be the dangers of those foods But the main purpose was certainly, certainly, for the Jewish people to see themselves as separated unto God, and thus they could not do what the other tribes around them were freely doing. They were to be a people set aside. This is clearly seen when God uses their dietary laws to reveal his plan to include the Gentile world into his covenant under Jesus. That was the whole purpose of Peter being given a dream in the book of Acts, if you remember, where God places a clean, unclean animals before Peter in a dream on a sheet. And tells Peter to get up and eat. When Peter refuses, because he will not eat what is unclean, God tells Peter to not call unclean what God has now called clean. That dream told Peter that not only was there no longer unclean food, but there was also no longer unclean people. And that Peter was to go to the house of the Gentile Cornelius and tell him about Jesus and the gospel. And when he did, Cornelius' whole household was baptized, both by the Holy Spirit and in water. And such is a wonderful story, indeed. And so all that God created to be food is good for us. And we are to eat of it freely, with thanksgiving, he says. And you should always give thanks for every meal. For we are believers who know the truth, Paul says at the end of verse 3. But what is the truth? What is the truth that we know? We know that Jesus became flesh and dwelt with men. We know that Jesus had that flesh torn and nailed and speared We know the very same flesh was placed in a grave, and we know that very same flesh rose from the dead and was seen by over 500 witnesses. And we know that flesh ascended into heaven. And we know that flesh will one day return to this world, splitting the eastern sky. Such flesh is good flesh, because God made it, just as He did all flesh of all men and beasts. And so verses four and five repeat the point of how we are to receive all that God has made for us as good. And to do so being Christians by sanctifying it with God's word and with prayer. That is, of course, exactly what we do at Holy Communion. But there is more being said in this verse, in these verses. Those who are teaching doctrines to avoid marriage and certain foods are choosing to go specifically and directly against God. They are making up their own system of righteousness While denying what God has said and done as creator and sustainer of the world. Such deceptive teaching is truly of the devil, for it is in direct rebellion against God. So there are two points I want to leave you with from this sermon. My first point is to expound on the point I just made. That these false teachers, shunning marriage and refusing certain foods, were making up their own system of righteousness While denying what God has said and done as creator and sustainer of the world. Again, such deceptive teaching is truly of the devil. For it is in direct rebellion against God. It is a form of self-righteousness And self-righteousness was and is a real and serious problem. See, I believe that within every human being is a desire to be righteous. Of course, the desire is stronger in some than it is in others, but it is within us all because we are made in God's image, and God is righteous. So we all want to be righteous to some degree, but we are not truly righteous. We are fallen. We're not righteous as God is righteous. And so we settle for being self-righteous in order to fulfill that righteous desire. And self-righteousness can be very deceptive Because you think you are honoring God by what you do and do not do. You think your life is more pleasing to God if you don't smoke, drink, or chew or go with those who do And I'm not telling you to smoke or drink. I am telling you that you are not only not pleasing God by abstaining. You are practicing works of supererrogation, which are rightfully condemned in the 39 Articles of Religion, right as stated in your Book of Common Prayer. And the word supererogation is a fancy way of describing works that go beyond what is necessary. For what is necessary for Christians is to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, to confess your sins, to have faith in his blood, and have hope for eternity. It is not abstaining from anything, and it is most certainly not looking down on anyone. Illnesses in this decade have reminded us how quickly we can be self righteous. When a person concludes she is more righteous than her fellow shoppers because she wears a mask to the store, she is being self-righteous. When a man yells at another man because he is not keeping a six feet distance like he is, he is being self-righteous. When you believe the manner you vote reveals your higher moral standards, you are being self-righteous. Beloved, the only righteousness we have is the righteousness of Jesus. The second point I want you to leave with Is the same point made several times in the book of Ecclesiastes? And you heard it repeated over and over this past spring and summer when I preached through that book. That point is that God wants us to enjoy what He has given for us to enjoy. First, God wants us to enjoy marriage. Celibacy is meant for very, very few people. The command to Adam and Eve to be fruitful and multiply still applies to all of God's people and will apply until Jesus returns. And within marriage and having children, God wants us to enjoy sexual intimacy with our spouse. A celibate marriage is more difficult than a celibate single life. God would not have made sexual intimacy so enjoyable if he did not want his people to enjoy it. And if you don't enjoy sexual intimacy within your marriage, then you're not doing it right. You need more practice. When we read the Ten Commandments, we more readily focus on what we cannot do. However, although most are written in the negative, they also include the positive. The negatives are the fence that shows us the borders we're not to cross. But we are more than free to run around and enjoy the fence inside. Sexual intimacy within a marriage is to have fun within the fence. To commit adultery is to go outside the fence. So stay within the fence and enjoy. Secondly, still under point two, is to enjoy food. Of course, the Bible is not encouraging us to over-indulge in food and drink. That is the sin of gluttony, and it is condemned along with other sins of the flesh. But enjoying good food is not a sin. And God wants us to enjoy good food You don't need to settle for that sirloin stake, because a humble Christian would choose such. Choose the filet. And sear it nicely, medium rare is the best, with lots of butter. And when you drink your wine at that state dinner, you don't need to settle for Sutter Home Merlot year 2023 Instead, choose La Flore des Baudour, La Lande de Pomerol, year 2018 It is well balanced and juicy. The 2018 vintage offers flavors of fleshly blackberry, raspberry, and blueberry, enhanced with a touch of licorice, dark chocolate, and ripe almond. Only fifty-five dollars a bottle. And enjoy it all with prayers and thanksgivings. G. K. Chesterton said the following. You say grace before meetles. All right. But I say grace before the concert and the opera, and grace before the play and pantomime, and grace before I open a book. And grace before painting, swimming, fencing, boxing, walking, playing, dancing, and grace before I dip the pen in ink. Sounds like a lifestyle of prayer and gratefulness. Sounds like a lifestyle to emulate. Beloved, what God has given us is good. So reject the false teachers and cling to what is good. And it is good because God has given it to you to enjoy. Amen.