In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Turn to your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 3. Beginning at verse thirteen, and as the reading guided us, we'll be going through chapter four or into chapter four A couple of weeks ago, I attended the showing of the film Is Genesis History? Is Genesis history? I tended it with Mr. Mark Hammett, Mr. Dan Nevius, Mr. Josh Devers, and Mr. Larry Cavra. And I can summarize for all of us that we came away inspired, encouraged I'm much more curious regarding science and creationism than we were going in. One of the premises that the scientists operate from in the film is how the effect of the flood, as described in Genesis chapters 6 through 8, how that is understated. And this allows the scientists to operate from the theory that the sudden rise and fall of great waters That effect would have had an enormous and profound effect upon geological structures. And this theory answers more questions than does the theory of these geological structures forming over a long period. The theory of a sudden rise and sudden drop. Matthews Psalm 104. Which states to God, You laid the foundation of the earth so that it should not be moved forever. You covered it with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder, they hastened away. They went up over the mountains. They went down into the valleys to the place that you founded for them. Now, contemplating the result of underestimating the effect of the flood and its receding waters Caused contemplation of the many things we likely underestimate in regards to God's redemption of mankind. The effect of the flood is one underestimation. And the effect of the suffering of Jesus, I believe, is another. We likely contemplate the suffering of Jesus only in light of his sacrifice. Yes, he suffered, but his death is more important in our focus. And then we leave the suffering behind. But the suffering of Jesus is everlasting. Not everlasting in terms of that it continues. For as scriptures clearly teach, Jesus died once for all. Instead, the sufferings of Jesus are everlasting in terms of what they accomplished. And in terms of how his followers, you and I, are to join ourselves to his sufferings. And before I open up that spot, I want you to walk with me through 1 Peter chapter 3 and into chapter 4. We start at verse 13, and here Peter has admonished Christians up to this point. that they are to be missionaries of the gospel in all aspects of their living, but primarily focusing on relationships that Christians have First with governing authorities, then inside the home, and then inside the church Verse 13 asks the rhetorical question that recognizes that our testimony regarding our faith, if lived out as Peter instructs, This will lessen the possibility of Christians being falsely accused of doing evil. Of course, there will always be those who will try to detour and persecute Christians, but Peter's point still stands. If you live a dutiful life, the detractors will be less But if and when there are detractors in a Christian's life that cause us to suffer Peter says we are then to consider ourselves blessed because we are suffering for the sake of righteousness. The quote from Isaiah is to remind us that God's people, down through the ages of his story of redemption have faced the same persecutions for righteousness' sake, and they persevered. Thus the conclusion. Therefore, do not be troubled by what you face in this life. Pretty simple. The next instruction is for each Christian to be ready when detractors arise in our lives and persecutions come. We are to be ready. We have to be ready with an explanation or a defense as to why we remain a people of hope even while being persecuted. Each of us then is responsible to be able to explain the faith that we have in Jesus It does not have to be an airtight defense. It does not need to be prepared for all philosophical questions that counter what we say we believe. But it must be true, as we must trust, that the Holy Spirit will take care of the rest Did not Jesus say that when his disciples would be dragged before the magistrates, that they need not worry but to say for the Holy Spirit would give them the words that they need in that hour. They need not worry, but they need to be ready. We need to be ready. Verse 17 deserves a question. The question is, why is it better to suffer for doing good than for doing evil? The answer When a Christian suffers for doing good, he suffers as Jesus did. When we suffer for doing evil, we suffer as the pagans. Thus we carry no witness with us at all. Next is an emphatic statement that Jesus suffered once and for all, which includes for all people of all time. And this goes against any doctrine that would have Jesus needing to be sacrificed repeatedly on an altar of holy communion. Jesus as the pure sacrifice was sufficient for all time and for all sins committed and yet to be committed. Again, here is a place where we can say we underestimate the sacrificial offering of Jesus. It was sufficient and more. And this leads to one of the more interesting and debatable pairs of passages in all of the New Testament, verses 19 and 20. What in the world is going on here? Verse 19 and 20 allude to a place That Jesus went after his death and apparently before his resurrection, where he was able to preach the truth Regarding who he was and what was about to be accomplished by him rising from the dead. He preached to an audience made up of sinners. Who apparently were part of the problem that caused God to flood the earth during the days of Noah. After reading for years about these verses, I have settled on the following. The audience Peter alludes to here are the sons of God, named in the book of Genesis, chapter 6. These are said to have corrupted the women on earth, bringing forth generations of men who loved evil and turned away from God. The larger debate over whether these sons of God were men or angels has caused a great deal of angst, especially when people interpret them to be angels. I'm not going to get into that. I'm not even going to guess. The important linchpin as to what Peter is referring to Has to be from the book of Enoch. You say, hey, I know my books of the Bible. That's not in the Bible. And you would be correct. The Book of Enoch is a part of the Apocrypha, which most of Protestant Bibles do not have. In the book of Enoch, it describes Enoch. You remember him from Genesis? He was and was no more, for God took him, is what the scriptures say. In the book of Enoch, it is said that Enoch went and preached the truth to the same sons of God who were in Hades or the dwelling of the dead. Peter knew that these Jewish converts coming to Christ, being in the past Jewish, knew the book of Enoch. They knew the story of Enoch. And so it appears that Peter is addressing them and proving to them who knew the story that Jesus was superior to Enoch. He was superior to Enoch in that he not only preached to the dead as Enoch did, but then he overcame death itself, as Enoch did not. That is the most sensible reading of these two verses I have come across. But Peter doesn't dwell on that point, and so we're not going to dwell on that point. Instead, Peter moves on to the flood. And how the flood is an anti-type or an opposite type of our baptism. As all of the people of the world were judged by the death of the flood waters, the baptism of Christians is the opposite, as we are forgiven and given life because of the baptismal waters. And Peter adds a reference to the removal of guilt and not the removal of flesh. And this might be linking circumcision again to baptism. Circumcision removes flesh, whereas baptism removes guilt. And this next leads Peter to combine both Jesus as superior to Enoch in his resurrection and ascension. as well as to our blessed fortune of being raised with Jesus in our baptism. Peter is mixing a lot of metaphors and analogies together. And he's keeping us Christians on our mental toes. Well, in chapter 4, Peter comes back to the subject of Christians suffering in this life. With the comparison that Christians, when they suffer, are to suffer as Jesus did, for his suffering resulted in righteousness, which includes the overcoming of the lusts of the flesh. Overcoming the lust of the flesh is what Christians are predestined to do, for men had spent many days prior to their conversion pursuing the sins of the flesh. Whereas such sins are now to be overcome. In the meantime, those who still pursue pleasures of the flesh will wonder why these Christians have turned away, why they are no longer joining in. They, in their jealousy, will speak evil of Christians who have turned away from their flesh. But in the end, those who speak evil will be judged by the Christians who live righteously. Chapter 4, verse 6 brings us back to the understanding of Jesus being greater than Enoch. As it explains that the dead, such as were preached first by Enoch and then by Jesus, will be judged by men who chose to walk by the Spirit and not by the flesh. Those who mock Christians for living righteously will be judged by the same men and women they mock. That is the end of our reading. And as a side note, after giving an overview of these verses, I contemplate how preachers are criticized for being all over the place in sermons. Well, Peter seems to be in a lot of places at once in this section of Scripture. And so we dig out the main point. The main point from all of these passages of scripture is that there is a great deal of testimony. Witness, power, hope, justice, and Christ's likeness. All of that is available for those who suffer for righteousness' sake. And that point takes us back to my first point, which is that we underestimate the power of the suffering of Jesus. This underestimating of the suffering of Jesus has by God's providence Come before us from this first letter of St. Peter, comes before us today near the release of the movie The Shack. Based on a best-selling novel from ten years ago by the same title. I don't normally address Christian novels or movies and sermons But here I am mentioning two in one sermon. I address the movie The Shack because I am aware how well the sentiments of that story mesh with modern Christian sentiments. Sentiments that I prophetically proclaim steer modern Christians away from Orthodox Christianity. For those who don't read my blog, the following is a quick setting of the story found in the shack. The story tries to show how God, the Christian God, can help a distraught and spiritually bankrupt father, his name being Mac. How they can help Mac work through the pain and find something redeeming from the horrible death of his younger daughter. His younger daughter was abducted, tortured, and killed by a serial killer as a result of the father needing to leave his young daughter alone at a campsite in order to save one of his sons from drowning. Quite a difficult scenario After four years, the father is summoned back to the shack where his daughter suffered at the hands of this serial killer. At the shack, God supposedly appears to Mack in various personal forms. In order to help him deal with not only the hellish death of his daughter, but also the abuse that Mac suffered by his own father. In the Shak, God is described as appearing as a papa or father figure, Tumak. by the personae of an overweight black woman. In other scenes, God is described as appearing as Jesus, who has the personae of a Middle Eastern male carpenter. In other scenes, God, the Holy Spirit, is described as appearing with the persona of an Asian woman named Sarayu. Any Christian with minimal exposure to Christian church history can identify that the movie commits the heresy of modalism. Modalism presents God as three different modes or visions of the Godhead as opposed to being three distinct persons, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. But I have tried to identify an even more serious problem with how God is presented in this story, the Shack. And this serious problem dominates Western Christianity in our day. The problem is identifying our personal suffering in this life. As something that God needs to adapt to for our individual purposes. This is in contrast to the purpose of the suffering of Jesus and how our suffering in this life Is to be adapted to the suffering of Jesus and not his suffering adapted to us And who is to blame for this understanding that God needs to adapt to our suffering? We can start by blaming the health and wealth preachers as they present Jesus as some sort of vending machine. You put an offering into the slot, you pray a prayer that might be something like A5, and soon enough, Jesus, the bending machine, drops down an answered prayer that could be anything from a healing. To a new cause. And the end lesson is that God's redemptive work is about you as an individual. We could blame the modern Christian worship churches who have decided that the best form of evangelism is to market Jesus as something cool. Something that represents modernity or postmodernity or millennialism, whatever category the greatest number of consumers occupy And in this marketing strategy, Jesus and the Christian faith is like the world, but not the world. Jesus has songs that are like the top 40, but they have Christian words. The church has sermons, but with a Tony Robbins approach. So that your business runs better, your marriages are more streamlined, and you know how to meditate through a stressful day. All of it is focused on the goal of serving the individual as a consumer. The end lesson is that God's story of redemption is all about you as an individual. And we could blame the liberal churches that have a form of godliness but deny its power Such churches have redefined God by denouncing past revelations of himself and instead wanting God to be known as a God who cares. What makes you different is what God loves about you and that he is accepting of you even when your uniqueness goes against his holy law The law of God be damned, they say. The denominations of this liberal persuasion feel that the individual must feel comfortable in his individualism. And that's what matters. The end lesson is that God's story of redemption is all about you, the individual. We could even blame the conservative Christians, for although they believe God's law and all of Scripture to be God's word, and thus necessary to believe, in all of its revelation. They merely stand by in a neutral gear, not saying anything that would challenge the false teachings of all these other groups who call themselves Christians. They allow so-called Christians to conclude that God's story of redemption is about the individual. Of course, blaming someone else never accomplishes anything. The first blame was Adam blaming Eve, and that didn't help. Instead, what we can learn and use from Peter's teaching about suffering is that as we suffer in this life, We are to more fully identify with Jesus and his suffering. As we suffer for righteousness, we are becoming more and more like him. He doesn't need to further adapt to us because of our suffering. His adaptation was more than an adaptation. It was an incarnation. And that was for eternity as he is now and forever human like us. And that reality then calls us to be conformed to be like him. If we embrace suffering as a vehicle or a means by which we become more and more like Him, then our suffering will never be in vain. If we suffer only to expect God to accommodate to our situation, we remain the same, and our suffering is an empty endeavor. As the false and lying spirit of the age tells you that in your suffering Jesus adapts to identify with you. The Holy Spirit tells us that in your suffering, you are to adapt, to identify with Jesus. Jesus has already identified with us in everything. It is now for us to identify with Him. So that as we do, our identity is more and more like him and less and less of ourselves. A man who saves his life will lose it. But a man who loses his life will save it in the end. Let us pray.