And of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Before I get into the topic this morning, I hope to get a couple of amens from you. Considering the events that occurred in Charlottesville yesterday It should be heard from this pulpit and believed by everyone who confesses Jesus as Savior and Lord. That racism is abhorrent to the gospel. Amen. Let it also be said But the only hope for the hearts of men not to be racist, not to think of themselves as better than another made in God's image. The only answer is the gospel. Amen. Last week, excuse me, we looked at the fifth foundation stone for our summer series. From Hebrews chapter 6. And I'm recognizing a parallelism for today from that which was discussed last week We talked about the fifth foundation stone being the resurrection of our bodies. And now we come upon the sixth and final foundation stone. Which is what our bodies are resurrected to do, which is at first to go through eternal judgment. Eternal judgment is the sixth foundation stone. Eternal judgment is the decision time for all of mankind, all of man who ever lived. It is a time in which Jesus gathers all human beings together and then separates them He will separate humanity as the Bible describes, which is like separating the sheep from the goats or the wheat from the tares. The sheep or wheat will be rewarded with heaven, and the goats or tares will be condemned to eternal punishment. Excuse me. This is going to be a rough one. The uh Farside comic strip was one of my favorites, and I am sorry that its creator, Gary Larson, stopped writing them. But I remembered two of them while preparing this sermon. The two were about hell The first depicts a large man with devil horns, all dressed in a red robe, holding a pitchfork to the back of a man, average height, average weight. When the man is standing facing two doors, the devil creature says to the man, come on, come on, it's either one or the other. And the door on the left reads, Damned if you do, and the door on the right reads, Damned if you don't The second comic is a depiction of a number of people waiting in line to be checked into hell. The caption reads, Nerds in Hell. And a character in a comic is a nerdy-looking guy turning around to the guy behind him and asking, is it hot enough for ya? Well, I didn't expect much of a laugh on that. These descriptions are obviously meant to be physically viewed. But the second one always makes me chuckle because I know guys like that. And I know guys who will say nerdy things in awkward moments. But the point of these examples is that for an unbelieving world, hell is not a real place. Instead, it is a concept to make fun of, or to laugh at, or to treat in a glib manner, as an extension of how all Christian beliefs are treated by the unbelieving world. And Christians can get sucked into treating such a place in a glib manner Now I'm not suggesting that we shouldn't laugh at jokes and comic strips and poke fun that poke fun of hell when the subject is objectively funny God gives Christians freedom, and part of that freedom is to laugh, to laugh at those things that are genuinely comical But hell as a place in the end is a very serious reality. But even as a reality, respectable people don't like the subject of hell at all. As they struggle to connect their knowledge of God's love and the idea that there is a place made. So that the devil and his angels and all sinners can be tortured there forever The great Christian writer and thinker C. S. Lewis said the following about hell from his book, The Problem of Pain. Quote, there is no doctrine which I would more willingly remove from Christianity than this, if it lay in my power But it has the full support of Scripture, and especially of the Lord's own words. It has always been held by Christendom, and it has the support of reason. End quote Lewis, like most of us, would prefer that sinners be annihilated and thus no longer have an existence instead of eternal torture. But such is simply not possible. Consider how could a human being made in God's image no longer have an existence? The spirit of every human being has an everlasting quality that cannot be extinguished And we know this because we have memories of one another, and those memories are where our spirits meet with other people's spirits, even those no longer with us. And besides, as Lewis points out, Scripture is very clear about the existence of hell. In Scripture, Jesus speaks extensively about the place of hell. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 28, Jesus spoke of the body and soul being destroyed in hell. In Matthew thirteen, Jesus describes the end judgment of angels, gathering up all who practice lawlessness and throwing them into the fire, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In Mark 9, Jesus uses the following phrase to describe hell. He uses the phrase three times. He says, it is a place where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched. And then in Matthew 25, where Jesus is describing that separation of the sheep and the goats, he plainly states that the goats will go the way of eternal punishment. And then, of course, the book of Revelation also clearly defines hell as a place of eternal punishment. In Revelation chapter 20, we read that Satan, the Antichrist, false prophets, and all people who followed them will be cast into the lake of fire. Where they will be tormented night, day and night, forever and ever. Hell, beloved, is real And it is indeed serious. But what gets people to hell? C. S. Lewis said, quote, there are only two kinds of people in the end. Those who say to God, Thy will be done. And those to whom God says, Thy will be done. It is a clever way to understand the judgment of God, but it is not accurate. It communicates that people in hell have a choice. Remember the story of Jesus told of Lazarus. Lazarus and the rich ruler. The rich man was in hell, but he didn't want to be in hell. But his life on earth determined that hell would be his eternal home. So people who go to hell don't truly get what they want. After all, they have believed lies all of their lives They have been led astray by those lies. Those lies have tricked them into thinking that they didn't have to answer to anyone in the end. And only in the end will the truth have to be accepted. And what is so interesting now about the parable of the sheep and the goats is how Jesus describes the identity of the sheep and the goats. That it is determined by what they did and did not do in this life. It would seem that such a determining factor would be the opposite Of what the gospel means. The gospel, after all, is what Jesus died for our sins We're just to say that he died for what we failed to do in obeying his law. And what we did do in breaking his law. The gospel says we are forgiven and saved from hell by the works of Jesus, not by our own. But the parable of the sheep and the goats compares the sheep caring for the least of humanity in this life, while the goats cared not at all for the least of humanity. And the difference between the sheep and the goats then is what they did in this life and didn't do in this life. So how does this parable match up with the gospel? Well it matches up cleanly when the context of the parable of the sheep and the goats is taken within the concept of the gospel in its entirety. God's people, the sheep, having been forgiven and made God's children. Behave as God's children by caring for the least of humanity, just as Jesus did. The actions of the sheep reveal that they are sheep, and the actions of the ghosts reveal that they are goats. Within the parable, we learn that good works are not what saves anyone, but the sheep did not even know that they were doing good works that pleased God. They did not know because they didn't do it to earn God's favor. It was what was natural to them. Good works of caring for the least of humanity is not something God's people tout about, but what they naturally do. Now another type of person that is destined for hell are perhaps the scariest for the Christian. For they are people who confess some type of faith in Jesus, but in truth, it's no saving faith at all. Be reminded these words from Jesus. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. And notice again how the works of a person matches his or her faith or non-faith. And people who use the name of Jesus as a prop for personal gain are prime examples of people whom Jesus will say, I never knew you. Now I started with the topic of hell in reference to eternal judgment because I wanted to finish with the good stuff. But note, please, a bad habit that we can have when we mention eternal judgment. We only think of condemnation in hell. Eternal judgment, hell. Perhaps it is actually a good sign that we do so, because we readily know our personal guilt. But the mention of eternal judgment for the Christian is to conjure up A fear of hell and a hope of heaven. Heaven promised. When I was searching For a call in my life, just out of college, I started working for the church that we were attending as an outreach minister to college students. I think I wanted to be an ordained minister, but I was not yet confident that I should be. The pastor thought I had necessary gifts, so he hired me to work with college students. Well, after a particular service where the minister gave a stirring sermon that demanded an altar call, those of you who have baptistic backgrounds know what that is. People are asked to come forward and be prayed for to receive Jesus as their Savior or to confess sin. Well, a particular female college student that I had not yet met walked down the aisle and knelt for prayer. I followed her and I knelt next to her and I asked her what she would like prayer for. She said that she didn't know And so I thought I'd take advantage of this exchange, and I asked her, Do you want to go to heaven? And her response, her faithful facial expression, I can clearly see in my mind. She pinched her eyebrows together and she said, why would I want to go to heaven? I had never had anybody ask that question to me before. And I thought the answer was self-explanatory, but in truth the only answer I had was better than going to hell. Having read the Bible through a few times since then, I can now answer the question better. Heaven will be a glorious feast for our senses, as we will witness the glory of God in the eyes of the resurrected Jesus. And there will be streets of gold, and our dwelling place will be a city built with costly stones and crystal clear jasper. Our dwelling homes will be places fit for sons and daughters of the Most High God. And in heaven we will know it also for what it does not have. As there will be no tears, and no reason for tears, for there will be no pain, no sorrow. All will be done away with. They will be done away with because sin and death will be thrown into that lake of fire, along with the devil and his angels. Now for that young woman, I suppose the latter part of my description of her needing there to be no more guilt. Would have been a good answer for young people struggle with a great deal of sin. To know that in heaven sin is vanquished And that all pain that sin causes is thrown out, that certainly is a great appeal to a guilty conscience. Yes, heaven will be a wonderful place for the reasons already stated and certainly more. But heaven is a problem in our culture in the same manner that hell is a problem. Heaven is treated in our culture as glibly as hell is treated. There are too many jokes and comics about heaven, Saint Peter at the gate asking different questions and different doors with different rooms with different groups in heaven And well, it's all there to distract us from treating heaven as a real place that will fulfill all the promises of Holy Scripture. And then there is the depiction of heaven in the book of Revelation. Remember at the beginning of that book, it depicts heaven in a manner that does not appeal to modern man. It describes angels chanting holy, holy, holy over and over again It describes elders of the faith surrounding the throne of Jesus, bowing down, throwing down their crowns, bowing down, throwing down their crowns. And in fact, for some it all sounds quite boring Some Christians fear that heaven is going to be like a church service over and over again. And most people barely make it through a church service and are quite glad that you only have to come here once a week. And even though some don't attend but once a week, they get excited to go on vacation because they think they can take a vacation from attending church. And even when they attend church services, they get so bored of the singing and of the praying they don't sing much anymore and their mind wanders when we pray. With such an attitude towards church services, they multiply it a hundred times and conclude that that's what heaven's going to be like. And if so, well, maybe hell will have better parties. After all, hell is where most rock and roll musicians are going, thus they'll probably have better parties And if you're offended about rock and roll, I'll really care. Um And if you think I'm exaggerating about this type of thinking, consider why many evangelical churches have chosen to present to the congregation a rock concert In substitute for corporate singing. Such churches fear boring people Some even have light shows along with their rock concert and pastors in jeans so that the congregation or audience won't be bored. Where such church leaders fail when they work to not bore their audience is to understand that boredom is a product of sin. Where there is sin, there is death. And death is the only enemy, is only an enemy when time is a factor. And the Bible teaches us that when heaven is populated with God's people, death will be vanquished. Time is no more necessary. And thus no possibility for boredom. To capitulate to boredom, then is to capitulate to sin. And thus another great quality of liturgical worship is that it calls the believer to resist the temptations of the flesh that lead to boredom. As it calls God's people to serve in a manner with which God is pleased, rather than the audience being pleased. But I digress just a little. Just like we ask how people get to hell, we must also ask how people get to heaven. And you know the answer, but it is always worth repeating. By the grace of God, through Jesus the Savior, is how people get to heaven. But what about the good works of the sheep? Again, those good works are what the sheep do automatically do because their sins have been forgiven and Jesus has set them free On the day of judgment, when all of mankind have reformed bodies and are placed before God. Every knee is going to bow in acknowledgement and honor of Jesus being the Savior and King of the world. Some knees will bow willingly and humbly, while the rest will be forced. Many are called, but few are chosen. Many will be forced to bow, while few will bow automatically. On the day of judgment, justice, eternal justice, will be heard and served. Should that scare you? Well, only if you don't know Jesus as Savior and Lord. And yes, the Holy Spirit uses fright to get us right. To get us right, to meet our Maker. But it need not scare us if Jesus is our Savior and our lives are lived according to him as our Savior. And so there you have it. The sixth foundation stone is laid. What did the writer of Hebrews say? Let us lay these six foundation stones that we might go on to perfection. Let us pray. Gracious and merciful Lord, we thank you for judgment day. For the hope that it gives us as Christians, as believers in your Son. Father, may we always check our lives to be sure we line up with the sheep Line up with the wheat. And Father, may that day come, and may you be glorified forever and ever. Amen.