In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated Turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 5, beginning at verse 5. That is where we will be landing this morning. But I begin by giving away a counseling secret that I had practiced. of every one of my premarital counseling sessions, the first one, what I do is I turn to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5, starting at verse 22. It reads, Wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For husbands For the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ So let wives be to their own husbands in everything. Such a passage collides so violently against the culture we now have. So that I need to emphasize how radical and necessary it is for Christian wives to embrace such a passage. Submitting to a husband in the same manner a woman is to submit to God is difficult indeed. To acknowledge the husband is the head or leader of the wife is also difficult, not just because it is hard for any personality to release their autonomy to another, but because the culture around us would call a woman who accepts this position to be a fool. And finally, the standard is made clearer for the woman's submission in that she is to be subject to her husband in all things. Just as the church is subject to Christ in all things. I then challenge the future wife to reject the modern culture that condemns words like submission and simply accept what the scriptures say. As you can imagine, the counseling sessions start off a little tense I then move on to verse 25, where husbands are instructed to love their wives. With that, I say something like: so the husband doesn't have to submit, right? And they both shoot me a confused look, not knowing where I am going. I then point out that I should have started reading at verse 20 21, excuse me, 21, where Paul says, submitting to one another in the fear of God. The point I make is the same I make here, looking at 1 Peter 5. All Christians submit. We first submit to God, and then to the authorities over us, and yes, even within the home. A husband submits. As well as a wife, he simply submits in a different manner, such as being willing to sacrifice his life for his wife, because that is how Christ loved his church. Our reading from 1 Peter instructs Christians to all be in submission to one another. It comes at the back portion of the passage which starts with the instruction for young people to submit to their elders. Why that instruction is given to young people specifically is easy to answer. As one commentator suggested, the generation gap didn't begin in the first century. Some young people, having just been free of their parents' rules, don't want new parents, whether it be a boss, a teacher, or a church elder. But in referencing the need for young people to submit to those elders, Peter is moved to remind all Christians that we are to submit and specifically to one another. And in order to submit to one another, we have to clothe ourselves, he says, with humility. Now cloth the clothing metaphor is helpful because clothes are something that we choose to put on Unless you are an infant, you know how to dress yourself, and therefore you are responsible for what you wear because you choose to wear it. Humility is something Christians are to choose to wear. And why? Why put on humility? Well, he just said that we are to submit to one another. And humility enables us to do so. But in case we need further motivation, he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. To resist is to oppose, which is to go against what is going the opposite way. To be proud, then is to oppose God. To be proud is also to think you are better than others. What every one of us needs is God's grace. To be given grace is to be acted upon by God's mercy. To be humble is to think, to accept a lowly position before another human being. Now, beloved, you do not want to go against God. We talked about wrestling with God a few weeks ago, and that is something different than going against God. As stated, going against God is going the opposite way and thus the wrong way. Whereas wrestling with God is staying in the fight in order to receive that greater blessing Going against God is to strive toward perdition. As sinners, we must choose to be humble in order to receive the grace that we need. With the word therefore, he starts verse 6, meaning that because God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble, and you don't want to be against God Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God that He may exalt you in due time. The instruction starts off with us making a choice We are in control of humbling ourselves, and that simply means taking the low position when such is possible. We do so recognizing that the hand of God, or the simple use of his finger and thumb Can crush our bodies to dust and cast us to hell with justice served The hope at the end of the verse is the saving hope, for it tells us that God does indeed want to exalt us in his time, not our own. This is the opposite of our personal pride, which wants to be exalted now. And God's due time, maybe, maybe, not in this life. But when we are resurrected and the eternal heaven is our home, the need to cast our cares upon a God who ultimately cares for us is because of the fear we might have When we think about all that could be done to us when we take the position of humility. People try to take advantage of the humble Yes, they do. They try to fool or deceive or plainly lie to the humble and expect the humble to take it. Yes, they do. So, so in the midst of our fears of being injured physically, socially, economically, and in other ways, when we take the position of humility We are to cast our cares upon God with the faith that He cares for us, and that means He will take care of us even when people take advantage of our humility. This is where we must see a connection between the Sermon on the Mount given by Jesus, as you know, recorded in Matthew chapters 5 through 7. See the connection between that sermon and these words of St. Peter two weeks ago I read Leo Tolstoy's book titled What I Believe, also titled A Confession Tolstoy was not a Christian most of his life, even though he was raised in a Christian culture. He came to embrace the teachings of Jesus later in life, and some critics called it a midlife crisis. Tolstoy focused his understanding of Christianity on a literal interpretation of the teachings of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount. Which meant that when Jesus said, do not resist evil, that he meant it in every scenario. Our modern translations add person in order for the passage to read, do not resist an evil person. But the actual text can read, do not resist the evil. But regardless of the translation, in order to follow Christ, you are not to resist the evil being done to you or the evil person that is doing the evil. And such an interpretation is still a very, very high standard that Christians don't want to accept as an interpretation because of how radical it is. I have always interpreted those words of Jesus to be in the context of my Christian witness. For example, when I am sharing. Preaching or teaching the good news of Jesus Christ, and someone wants to persecute me by slapping me on the cheek, that is when I can turn and offer him the other. When I am being a Christian witness and am being treated harshly because I am a Christian and a piece of clothing is asked of me, I am to give two pieces of clothing. This is in contrast to an insistence where I am simply walking down a public street and I'm picked out by some ruffians to be bullied. and stolen from, not because I am a Christian, for they don't know what I believe, but simply because I look like their next victim. In such a scenario I have thought that I have every right to fight back. But Tolstoy doesn't see the teachings of Christ as I've just described. He sees that Jesus is saying that all forms of violence are evil. For violence and such is never God-honoring and is always sinful. Now, I am not a pacifist, and Tolstoy hasn't convinced me to be one. But, but, I am challenged to take the standards Jesus put before us in a more serious and straightforward manner. Consider how many nations that claim some Christian heritage went to war in the 20th century. And no, they didn't go to war in the name of Jesus, as some poor historians and critics have claimed. But they did go to war justifying their aggression. with the words of Jesus, or at least with the interpretation of the words of Jesus by their national church It is quite a challenge to imagine a world where Christians sacrificed their individual lives, the lives of their loved ones, and those in their Christian fellowship For the purpose of being witnesses to the ways of Christ Jesus and caring about that only. What if we did give what was asked of us, even when it is unjust? Or actually love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. How many of us actually do that? As you have heard from this pulpit over the years, I can claim some bravado with my willingness to say what God's word says and accept the criticism and persecution that may come. And I know Paul's warning that for any man to think he stand, take heed lest he fall, meaning that where you think you are strong, you may actually be weak. Thus I am aware that I can be weak, but I am determined to speak the truth, come what may, and yet I have had to ask myself These past weeks, after reading Tolstoy, do I have enough courage to love and pray for my enemies? For those who would rather I be dead because of the words I preach. What Jesus preached in the Sermon on the Mount was truly, truly radical. And not radical in the sense of taking to the streets and working to cause political change. But radical in turning individuals inside out. Jesus tore down the internal practices of everyday persons and said that we were not to hate. That we were to make our promises based on our character, to keep our vows, especially those in marriage, to remain sexually pure. And to allow others to mistreat us and bless those who curse you, and to do it all knowing that every human being is no less than you are in value, no matter their behavior, their actions, or their beliefs. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus was pointing to the norms of his culture and uprooting them for the purpose of higher, holier standards. In the simplest of interpretations, Jesus was saying in that sermon, you know how you like to be liked by your neighbor? No more. Expect and embrace being persecuted by him. You know how you like being part of the crowd? And going along to get along, no more. You are to be the salt of the earth. And let your light shine so that people see clearly that you are different because you follow Jesus Christ. You know, you think only the true truly religious can be righteous. No more. Your own righteousness must exceed the most religious person that you know You know how you have enemies, you hold grudges, you say mean things, and choose not to be reconciled to one another. No more. You are not to hate in your heart. You are not to speak unkind words. You are not to worship God. Even pray to Him until you are in good fellowship with your fellow man. You know how you lust for sexual pleasure? No more. You are to guide your eyes continually You know how you are flippant with your vows, even your marriage vows? No more. You are to keep your word and especially those promised to your spouse. You know how you hate your enemies just like everyone else does? No more. You are to love your enemy. Pray for their forgiveness and give them what they ask of you. But who does these things? Who who lives like that? Some of you will remember this story, but I tell it again. Because it exemplifies the times in which we live, what must be and what must must be done about it. When I taught philosophy at the university, I assigned students an ethical dilemma that had them stranded on a mountain in a winter storm because their plane had crashed. They are with a religious group that believed the Bible as holy and true. But the group was stranded for many days without food And some who survived suggested that the rest of them eat those who had perished in the crash. The simple question to answer was Do you eat those who have perished in order to survive, even though you believe that the Bible is holy and true, and the Bible clearly speaks against cannibalism? Now, the scenario I came up with doesn't go into how the Bible condemns cannibalism. Cannibalism in the Bible is usually associated with idol worship or desperate people under the curse of God But again, the scenario is an ethical dilemma, it's not a Bible lesson. And I would say eighty percent of the students said that they would eat the perished passengers and the justification was their own personal survival because their primary moral objective they believed should be their own personal survival. When their answers were defended, I would try to counter argue to expose the weaknesses and their position. I remember one student, I tried to corner, reminding him that in the scenario, he is a religious person. He believes what the Bible says is true. So how can he justify going against his faith? He countered that he could cannibalize the dead passengers and ask God for forgiveness later. That was an argument repeated by many. I countered that his personal faith won't allow such because he doesn't want to offend God. And what he countered back is what stuck with me He said, I don't know anyone who takes their religious faith that seriously He got me. I had no counter. I was undone. And I am guessing that he was speaking accurately. He probably didn't know anyone who takes their Christian faith seriously enough to sacrifice for it, to obey its principles, and to defend its creeds. The tough question is, do the people that know you know someone who takes their Christian faith seriously? In the gospel reading, Jesus begins the lost chapter. There is first the lost sheep. Then there is the lost coin, and then the lost sons. It is a chapter of motivation Jesus wants us to know what God does for us and how much he wants to do it for us. God finds us and he celebrates our being found. He does so because we are as dumb as sheep who wander, making ourselves vulnerable to the devil and to our own temptations. But God searches for us and finds us to save us from the devil and from ourselves. God does that when he doesn't have to. And we in turn are to love him for it and follow him, which is living as he desires us to live. We are to live seriously for him. And that begins with being humble before him. And that leads to submitting and walking honestly with God. It is true that you are going to fail to live up to the instructions of Jesus even in that Sermon on the Mount. But there is to be no quitting. There is confession again and repentance again and a commitment to overcome again and again and again. And that is repeated until you cross the river of death into the hands of God. Where we only want him to say, well done. So put on humility and let's be serious about it. Let us pray. A gracious God, we recognize these standards to be out of our reach without you, Holy Spirit, empowering us, strengthening us. And helping us to be obedient to you in all things. And so we confess our sins again this day, and we receive Your symbols of forgiveness. May we once again strive to live out as you have commanded, to honor you for finding us. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.