In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Although we are a liturgical church, it is nice when things surprise you. I have never done a responsorial reading where one was reading from the NIV and the rest were reading from the New King James. But it made it interesting. As you can tell from our readings this morning, the sermon is not coming from the book of Exodus. I hope that this sermon will help you in the days to come, especially in light of the election. We're not going to be speaking specifically about the election, but I trust you will see how this ties in. A big thank you to the vestry for helping me to attend a conference two weeks ago that spurred me on and allowed me to formulate some clearer thinking. From my personal study and from the lectures of others. Clearer thinking has burdened me to share with you What I believe all of us need to understand considering the day in which we live. The basis of this sermon is from the readings that you heard. Romans chapter 12, 1 and 2, and 2 Corinthians chapter 10 verses 4 through 6 We are told there to be transformed by the renewing of our minds, and for us to critique the thoughts that we are exposed to. And to examine them in light of the Word of God, which is how we bring every thought into captivity. How shall we then live is a series of lectures given by the now deceased Francis Schaefer back in the 1970s. It is a video series that you can now find on the internet, and it is quite dated in terms of the pictures shown, but not dated in terms of its message. The series is based on a simple premise that history flows in the direction of how we think. And how we think determines how we act. Unfortunately, many, many people Do not critique how their culture thinks or how they think themselves. Many people fail to understand themselves in terms of their actions. For they don't recognize what they have believed, what they have thought, what worldview they have accepted, and how such beliefs, thoughts, and views determine their present behavior. Let us first consider the Roman Empire. Governmentally, the Roman Empire was based on an elitist Roman Republic. But it could not sustain itself because its gods were lifeless, and the message, and the masses became envious of the elite. This led to the rise of dictatorships that would hold the empire together by force. But more was needed, and so the famous poet Virgil presented then Emperor Augustus Caesar as a God himself, and thus worthy to be honored and obeyed. We know from our Bibles that the Christian era began during the reign of Augustus Caesar, and within a short time after the death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus, persecution of Christians began. First by the Jews and then the Romans. And Christians were persecuted by the Romans not because they worshipped Jesus. But because they rejected the Roman culture with its false idols and the worship of the state Thus, what the first century Christians recognized was how the Romans thought The Romans thought that the state itself was to be preserved and preserved at all costs This is how the Romans accepted dictatorships. It was why they made their emperors gods It was why they persecuted the Christians. Because Christians, having rejected the Roman culture, were a threat to the stability of the Roman state. But the Roman Empire could not sustain itself based upon false gods and immoral leaders who looked nothing like the type of God to be obeyed Without an absolute morality, the empire declined into decadence until it no longer cared about the family unit, no longer cared for having and raising children. And no longer cared to defend its borders. There is an obvious pattern in the history of man That has societies attempting to build themselves up in order to sustain themselves. They created infrastructures that allowed the citizens to feed and clothe themselves while defending themselves from enemies for and domestic, and then when they became successful, after a while they then turned into themselves And this is after all what Martin Luther called sin, turning into oneself. And when they turned into themselves, the result was the pursuing of pleasure for the sake of pleasure only. And when this happens to a society as a whole, the basis for the society existing is no longer at the foundation, and the society starts to crack. But this pattern repeats itself when there are no absolutes upon which a society built itself. On the other hand, the proclamation of there being one God and believing upon that one God for truth and for hope allows for a society to exist For reasons that go beyond the citizens and go beyond the society. Such a foundation is sustainable Because each generation points to what is greater than the individual and greater than the society, which can help prevent a people turning in to themselves. And so where are we? Is our American society built upon the belief in the one true God? Or have we turned into ourselves becoming obsessed with pleasure for pleasure's sake? If you conclude with me that we have become obsessed with pleasure for the sake of pleasure. You wonder, like me, how we got here and how we got here so fast. Yes, we could point to the likes of Madeline Murray O'Hare. and her successful campaign to remove prayer from public schools. But it can be logically argued that Miss O'Hare and her campaign against public prayer was a symptom of our eroding society and not the root of the problem. After listening to a lecture by historian Dr. Alan Carlson last week He talked about the involvement of the Roman Catholic Church and Evangelical Protestantism scholars. questioning the Christian faith as the sole arbiter of religious truth all the way back to the nineteen forties. One can see how the enemies of faith have been more successful within the church than without. We can also see that the church has been not just passive, not just on the sidelines, while the Christian faith becomes less and less influential in America. But the church has had a voice in voting for its own demise. It is a demise that has been led by false teachers with their multiple degrees and seminary chairmanships. Who were given leadership of the church, given leadership of the church by the very men ordained to the task of leading God's people. And they went back, these ordained men, back and cowered in their studies, bishop and pastors acquiescing leadership to seminary professors. That is a generalization, but an accurate one as I see it. And so with the church not being salt and light and the world as it was commissioned to be, We've allowed secularists, the pagans, the socialists, the evolutionists The celebrities, the pseudo media outlets. We've allowed them to take the place as our priests They are our priests as they tell us who to worship, how to worship, and like the false gods of the Old Testament, they first want us to offer up our children. If you, like many of us, have felt as though our culture has been taken over by false priests rather quickly. Consider that social media and pseudo-media have played a major role. News gets out quickly, and if it is not news in favor of the ruling party, then news that distracts follows. And what is presented as news is more opinion, is more slant, is more hypocrisy than what was supposed to be news. Our culture has been placed on a toboggan slide to the abyss because all unjust, immoral, and hypocritical behavior is justified or excused. Within the subject of philosophical ethics, there is a theory That is very much embraced by certain candidates and politicians, and it needs to be identified by us and then reviewed The theory is called act utilitarianism or act consequentialism Act-utilitarianism is a theory that originated within the 18th century by a philosopher named Jeremy Bentham. He put forth the thesis that true happiness is when good has been achieved to affect the most people. Thus, utilitarianism as a theory is the search for the greater good, which is good for the most people. Bentham used his theory for uplifting the poor, but modern politicians have used it to their greater good. Act utilitarianism is more than being concerned about the greater good. It is a theory that adds the prefix act. To argue that the actions of a leader in terms of morality does not matter, but only that what the leader does is for the sake of the greater good And so for an old Soviet Union leader, it would mean that the government is morally right to take a farmer's land with no compensation In order to build an airstrip, not caring how long the land has been owned by the farmer's family, but only caring that all is being done for the greater good Politicians today who embrace act utilitarianism get to justify themselves and their supporters around them justify them. And that it doesn't matter if you lie under oath. It doesn't matter if you destroy evidence. It doesn't matter if you lie to the public. It doesn't matter because you are doing it for The greater good. You see, you and I sit in awe as we watch or read a candidate or public office holder lie. And obfuscate the truth and then lie about the lying. And we say to ourselves and to one another, how can that person do that? What has happened to that person's conscience? And the answer is act utilitarianism. They can do it because they have convinced themselves that what they stand for, what they fight for, what they say are their policies, those are the greater good. And because they are fighting for what they believe is the greater good, it doesn't matter how they get there, as long as they get there, and ethics be damned And they actually believe, because all candidates, all candidates have such large egos, they believe that they themselves are the embodiment of the greater good. So whatever he or she decides is ex officio the greater good. The main critique of an act utilitarian position is that it is impossible to know what will eventually turn out to be for the greater good. No one can predict the future. The politicians don't want us to know that or come to that conclusion. A Christian critique is that God's moral law is not trivial A breaking of his law by lying and stealing is a breaking of his covenant, and such a breaking demands appeasement. And the only sufficient appeasement is Christ Jesus, because only the only greater good we can be sure about is Jesus. Another way of thinking that has brought our culture to the point we are in our history is Gnosticism. The first lecturer at the conference I attended two weeks ago was Dr. Robert George, who is a lecturer and McCormick professor of Jewish Prudence At Princeton University. Dr. George's thesis argued that the roots of the heresy of Gnosticism go so very deep into our culture. That the result is the sexual and gender perversions we are now experiencing and having forced before our eyes. I have preached against Gnosticism before from this pulpit, but I have done so in terms of the Christian church. As I have explained that Gnosticism rejects the physical world as unimportant and instead embraces the physical world as important, I mean excuse me, the spiritual world as important. And it believes that when it comes to humanity, what man does in the physical world is not important. It's only the spiritual. And Christianity rejects such a teaching because Jesus was made flesh, God called his creation good And Jesus is still flesh, and when he returns, he will make us whole again, both flesh and spirit. And so humanity is not spirit over flesh, but only hold when we are both flesh and spirit. But this neo-Gnosticism of today approaches the understanding of the body and spirit a little differently. What the Neonostics believe is that a person's identity, a person's true self, is his or her spirit. And a person's spirit is expressed by his or her emotions. The body, they say, is only a tool or a a conduit by which human beings can express their true self, their emotions, their feelings This then allows a person to use his or her body in any manner desired or in any manner that a person who owns that body feels like doing. As Dr. George explained, the body being only a tool or a conduit for how a person feels in the moment can have the plumbing moved around and used for different purposes than what was biologically intended, they can do this because the spirit, the emotions, the feelings of the persons want it that way. And again, the true person is believed to be the emotions. Thus, those who have bought into neo-Gnostic ways of thinking, well, they can't understand Why we become repulsed when a man wants to lie with another man or a woman with another woman or with several partners. They don't perceive where we are coming from when we see it as perverse and mentally unhealthy that a man would want to have surgery so that he can look like a woman, or a woman would want to have surgery to look like a man. And we most certainly get confused when a man wants to be given the anatomy of a woman only so that he can lie with women? And they can't imagine why we would make a big deal about people being able to choose what public bathroom they use according to how they feel on a particular day. Because for them, it is how they feel that is important rather than the current state of their plumbing As you can see, the neo-Gnostic thought allows for any type of morality, especially sexual immorality, to be practiced. Because all is based on how a person feels, because how a person feels is who he or she is. And who are you? Who am I to tell another person how they should feel or tell them who they are? And thus Dr. George labels the age in which we live the age of feeling, because feelings are the authority. When you combine the two philosophies together, the age of feeling, combining it with act utilitarianism And the result is a culture that excuses every immoral, unethical behavior based on the pursuit of the greater good, and the greater good being defined as whatever feels good to each and every individual. Therefore, any dissenting opinion that teaches, preaches, professes an absolute standard for morality. And a need to fear God before the day of judgment, those persons are labeled and categorized as enemies of the greater good and enemies of people's happiness. Now the answer to all of this wrong thinking by some within Christendom has just been plain heresy. And they have had their torches put out, and we cannot reach them. The answer by others is to bend their standards Because they don't want to appear to be an enemy of the greater good or to appear to be an enemy of people's happiness. But those responses are not the response of Holy Scripture As St. Paul instructs, we are to bring every thought into captivity, which means that every manner of thinking is to be evaluated by the standard of Holy Scripture and is to be controlled in a manner that the thinking does not dictate our behavior. And so act utilitarianism is evaluated and seen to fall short of the objective truths of Holy Scripture, which are contained and confessed in our creeds. We can dismiss act utilitarianism because it does not recognize the greater good to be the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and the greater good being the kingdom of God. The next thought we must bring into captivity is the spirit of personal happiness that is based on personal feelings. In the age of feelings, Christians must stand firm on the objective truths of the gospel, who Jesus is, what Jesus did, and what he is now doing. Our faith, our belief cannot be based on how we feel in the moment. What is historically and theologically true in the person of Jesus Christ Those who base their belief system on feelings, they will eventually turn inward, and as they do, only hopelessness or the pursuit of pleasure for the sake of pleasure or both will take place. My prophecy is that Christians will eventually be looked to as people to listen to. People to heed, people that have an answer to the confusion that continues to spiral our culture down to the abyss. Christians will be the light of the world and salt of the world as they are commanded to be by the Lord Jesus. That is the hope. That is the hope, but only if we take every thought into captivity, and only if our minds are renewed and transformed by the truth, and not by the prevailing spirits of the secular, godless culture. And the article that I sent to the congregation email list a few weeks ago, it was titled, What Today's Christians can learn from Antiquity about Living in a Pagan World. The author makes the point that when the Roman Empire was cracking and men were pursuing pleasures, over caring for their families And as a result, women were being abused, children were neglected, and the family unit was facing extinction. It was the Christian church that came to the rescue. The Christian Church was looked to as a safe haven for women and as a people of faith that encouraged childbirth and the raising of children. The Christian church also offered the populace something to die for, which means they gave them something to live for. Something greater than themselves. And this can happen again May not happen in my lifetime, but it can happen again. And for it to happen, Christians need to hold on. Christians must not compromise. Christians must be Christ to the world, because we are not believers only for ourselves. We are believers for the kingdom of God to come. Amen? Amen. So when you wake up, Wednesday, November 9th. Hold on. Jesus is still coming. Let us pray.