In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I've told a similar story to this in different venues. We are in Ezra chapter 9, a very difficult section of scripture, and as such, the topic will not be easy to digest. But I begin with this story. My second year of teaching Western philosophy to college students, we were in the section on ethics. And I was hearing papers about an ethical dilemma that I had placed before them. The students were to imagine themselves as part of a hiking trip. made up of religious people, of whom they were one of the party. And one of the beliefs of this group was they confessed that cannibalism was sin. That belief came into play because the hiking trip became a disaster when a snow blizzard overcame the hikers And after several days of being stranded, they ran out of food and found no wild game about them, and some in their party had died. The ethical dilemma was if the remaining hikers should choose to eat Those who had died in order to remain alive as long as there was a possibility of being rescued. Every answer given out of the first five students who presented, every answer justified why they would choose cannibalism over death. Not one of the students' answers considered the religious objection that I placed in a scenario. Upon hearing the fifth response in favor of cannibalism, I once again pointed out that the presenter was ignoring. the religious convictions placed in the dilemma, and I followed up with the challenge as to why this religious conviction was being ignored. The response I received unnerved me even to today. The female student presenting at the time stated that she did not include religious conviction against cannibalism because she had never met anyone who was that serious about their religion. What I ask you is an appropriate response to such a statement. I could only thank ouch on behalf of the church and Lord Jesus have mercy on us all. The narrative from Ezra 9 is the reference that I have been using These past few weeks when I have said that Ezra's responsibility was to come back to Jerusalem And to beautify the temple, and then to beautify the people of Israel The beauty of the temple was provided by hard work and by the returning of furnishings that were stolen by Nebuchadnezzar, and these were made of fine wood and overlaid with gold. To beautify the people of God, prevalent sin amongst the people had to be identified, confessed. repented of, and then proper obedience restored. The problem was that the prevalent sin was not simple And proper restoration and obedience meant great personal pain and heartache. And with these considerations, this is what the appropriate concern was and the question that needed to be asked. Was there anyone in Jerusalem that was that serious about their religion? Asked another way, did anyone in Israel have a true faith in God? Now, we can answer that by saying at least Ezra did. Anyone else remained to be seen. But let us hear again what God had said regarding the issues of this sin that Israel had committed. The first statement comes from Leviticus chapter 18, verse 3, all the way back after the Exodus. God said this. You must not do as they do in Egypt, where you used to live, and you must not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you. Do not follow their practices. And what were these practices? Well, Leviticus 20 has a list as to what the worshipers of false idols were doing and what Israel was not to be doing. To worship false idols, there were requirements. Those requirements were the offering of children for sacrifice. It was the turning to spiritists as mediums. It was the practice of the fiality. It was the practice of incest in all of its various perverted arrangements. It was because of such abominable sins that God abhorred the nations that surrounded Israel and forbid them. Forbid them from making covenants with any nation, or making a covenant from one family to another. Which meant that they could not intermarry with these nations. Such is what God clearly said in more than one place. and in more than one context, and therefore this issue was without equivocation. And yet Israel disobeyed. And it was the nations around them that helped lead them to a state of perpetual disobedience. Disobedience that led them to become a vassal state of Babylon, and then a nation in captivity, and then a nation under slavery, under Persian rule. That's where we find Israel in Ezra. Thus the sin that started the people of God down the road to exile, down the road to slavery, was being repeated. by those who had returned from exile, a people who were supposed to be free again As stated, God had been clear about his prohibition for his people to intermarry with people of the land of Canaan. The explicit general reason for this prohibition was that the people of Canaan had been prostituting themselves to false gods. and have been doing so for generations. And they had had every intention of leading God's people into the same The people of Abraham's race, they wanted to be like them, worshiping false idols. It may be helpful to note that Ezra himself did not personally raise this issue Actually, Ezra was simply teaching the Bible. And the sin of the people became so evident. That the people needed to confess it, from the Levites to the average man. God's law had been exposed and exposed the sin. And anyone who heard it had a conscience that was found guilty and needed to acknowledge their sin. And because of the day and age in which we live, it is necessary to point out, necessary, That God's law of banning Jews from intermarrying with the people who were of the land of Canaan, that law was not racist. Was not. After all, Moses married a Midianite. Boaz of the line of David married Ruth, who was a Moabite. Both Moses' wife and Boaz's wife put their trust in the God of their husbands, and that made them a part of the covenant. It made them a part of God's people. The actual problem was the detestable practices of the people of Canaan, as was listed earlier And the very possible reality that the men intermarrying with such women, with such practices, would draw themselves into such practices. The person of King Solomon had always been the most prominent example to the Jews of a man being led into false worship by foreign wives. Verse two of chapter nine gives us the evidence as to what God sees as most important. when it comes to intermarrying with people who worship false gods. The confession of the people states that they had intermarried and thus mixed Mixed the holy seed with the people of the land. The holy seed. The holy seed was the promised Messiah. Now this mixture was in no way a concern, again, for a mixture of race. As pointed out, Ruth was of a different race, but she ended up being of the lineage of Jesus. As was Rahab, of a different race, and she was of the lineage of Jesus, who was the holy seed. So the dangerous mixture of the holy seed promised to crush that serpent's head in the covenant found in the book of Genesis. The danger was the mixture of false gods, not different races. Next, we have the intercessory prayer offered by Ezra after the people confessed their sin. And this prayer provides a type of Jesus who intercedes for you and I. He intercedes regarding all of the manners that we have mixed ourselves with that which is unholy. There are no excuses made in Ezra's prayer as is Jesus' prayer for us. There are no easy ways out of the situation. These Jews had brought it on themselves, and the response is going to be painful. There most certainly was no option to continue the practice of intermarrying that was begun, and we find a rhetorical question offered in verse 14. God had not delivered justice upon them as their sin deserved, and to continue such a practice would only ask for that judgment. But for Ezra, the sin of the people, and as I said, both clergy and laity alike. The sin is a testimony for him against the entire nation of Israel down through the ages. In verse 7, he rehearses the guilt of the days of their forefathers, who were guilty of delivering the entire nation into the hands of foreign kings. In verse 9, Ezra rehearses the once enslaved state of the people of God in Persia, and how God did not forsake them, but took them out of bondage and extended his mercy, reviving them. And as they returned to Jerusalem to restore what had been broken down, they knew not to give their daughters and sons away to foreign people. Foreign people who worshiped false gods. But no matter how clear the instructions were, the people were guilty. Of every walk, of every status, of every tribe, they were guilty of intermarrying foreign people, and thus bringing the camp of Israel, bringing into their camp foreign gods. Who were not gods at all, but deaf and dumb idols and evil spirits that worship the devil himself. And I ask if we are all alike when we think about what to do next. Are we all alike in terms of where our minds and hearts go when we hear of such sin and then wonder how it should be rectified? Who among us today can agree that such intermarrying is wrong? As wrong as can be, and yet And yet we imagine that the best thing that can be done to help the situation is to forgive the wrongdoers. encouraged their foreign spouses to worship the God of Israel and to continue as they had been doing to enable the families to stay together. After all, we so easily conclude that the keeping together of each family unit is the most important principle of all If that is how you and I are thinking, is it not fair to challenge said principle regarding from where such thinking comes from? Where in the Bible can this justification be found? Family together first, no matter what. Where does God say in any variety of ways that keeping the family unit together is the most important principle to follow? There is no place that God teaches such a principle. Even though when he Makes honoring thy father and thy mother one of the top ten priorities Yet that commandment cannot stand alone. That commandment makes sense only if the first commandment is followed, which is that there is but one true God and no other gods before him. Only then, only then can we say to honor thy father and mother, because we know the one true God. Remember these words of Jesus. You can get that all way. Remember these words of Jesus. If anyone comes to me and does not hate Father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, such a person cannot be my disciple Do not these words apply to the sin of Israel in the days of Ezra? If you say that they do not, then you need to tell me what they mean. If you're convinced they do not, then we need to have you write a dissertation and explain it so that it can be shared with all Christians. So that we don't have to feel bad about broken families that are broken because of the sin of intermarrying, intermarrying with unbelievers. And Christians loving family members first before loving Jesus. We all need to hear that dissertation. But no such dissertation has been written because the sin of the people of Ezra's day is obvious. And the meaning of Jesus' words regarding loving him first, that meaning is plain. The real problem, the actual issue, the ultimate dilemma is caused by our emotions. For it is what the breaking up of a family does to our emotions that causes us to look for another alternative instead of the obvious Of breaking God's law and the plain spoken words of Jesus. It can only be imagined how many souls have been compromised into the hands of the devil. By the emotions of a mother who insisted that it was perfectly acceptable for her daughter baptized into the covenant of Christ, having professed a faith in Jesus, it's okay for her to be married to an unbeliever for the simple reason that she fell in love. And the father not wanting to have an argument with his wife allows the mother to give her final blessing And the years pass on, and the grandchildren are a result, and none is baptized. None are raised to hear their father pray to God. None are raised to confess Jesus as Lord and Savior. Secular school is followed by more secular school, and the grandchildren are in and of the world, and the idol of the flesh is the God obeyed first and most often. In the end, that family, that faith in Jesus Christ dies with grandma and grandpa, all because the daughter fell in love with an unbeliever, and no one would deny her of said love. How many souls have been lost, families made dysfunctional, and extended families in a continuous state of bereavement because parents have blessed sinful marriages? And church authorities have looked the other way, not wanting to cause problems that would hurt their bottom line. Because we cannot answer such questions with actual numbers does not mean we cannot guess that the number is grotesque. And to the shame of many Christian families and many local churches. Behind such circumstances is the evil spirit That calls Christians and non-Christians alike to worship the false idol of earthly happiness. Of course, the idol is no happiness at all. It is a moment happiness. It is a fleeting happiness. It is mere pleasure of the flesh masquerading as happiness. And all the while, true happiness, happiness that consists of peace with God and peace with our fellow man, is nowhere among those bowing to earthly happiness. Happiness that even the ancient philosophers knew to be otherworldly is not pursued or considered because the lie has been believed. Which is that personal and immediate pleasure is the best that this world can give. That is a lie. Next week we will learn what to do when caught in a lie. It is enough for us today to ponder and deepen the truth that such happiness in this world is a lie. Religious faith amongst the people of Israel in Ezra's day was a faith of indifference. Faith of indifference doesn't believe that having faith in God really matters. And the evidence today, well that seems pretty obvious. After all, Christians today get shot by crazy people, just like Muslims do and people of no faith do. But I am called to show you why such is also a lie. The Jewish people were to have the same faith as their father Abraham. And Christians are to have the same faith as Father Abraham as well. And that faith that Abraham saw beyond his day And beyond immediate happiness, and his faith saw to the day of Jesus. Abraham saw his day and was glad. We are to see the days of Jesus ahead also, and be glad. We are to see the days of Jesus as a people serious about their Christian faith, not pursuing happiness for the sake of immediate gratification in this life. A six-pack of beer can do that. What Christians are to pursue is eternal happiness. Which is peace with God, and that is doing his will and being as he wills. I hope you heard our call-up for today. Our call-ak, our prayer for today, this Sunday before Advent, asks God to stir us up. Stir us up. And that means to wake us up. Which means to give us a living faith, which is a faith that we are serious about. By God's grace, may more college students be able to testify that there are Christians who are serious about their faith. Let us pray