In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you to turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11. We're picking up at verse 6. of that chapter. And we actually read through verse 16 for our epistle reading, but we will be going all the way through the chapter this morning. So Hebrews chapter 11, 6 through 40 And as you turn there, I just want to give a word of admonishment. I know, as I said, a number of families are on vacation and some of you come back and so on. I just want to encourage you, admonish you That we do not, as Christians, take vacations from the Lord's Day. I have heard of people who go to church on a regular basis and then go away on vacation and don't go to church. I think that's that's such a tragedy and it's it's great to be as we are traveling, to be in the house of God, wherever that is, and to worship with God's people. So encourage you to do that. I I was encouraged this morning our son Jared and his wife Katie are in Ireland. They are uh there with uh Katie's family enjoying their uh homeland And he sent me a text today of an Anglican church that they attended, and it encouraged my heart that they were in church on the Lord's day. Hebrews chapter 11, starting at verse 6. As a child, I remember looking for Romals. I suppose that losing my biological father early in life was a big factor in wanting role models But I didn't choose just one person I wanted to be like. I chose several. I developed, for instance, a love for the game of football because my grandpa Jorgensen loved to watch it I tried to dress myself with popular clothing and shoes because my older sisters would tell me what the older kids in school were wearing. When I was 13 years old, I recall observing closely how a very popular 16-year-old walked and talked. as he was very popular with the ladies, and I wanted to be popular with the ladies. When God snatched me out of my slew of despond and set me on dry ground with a saving faith in him I've started to look for role models in the Christian faith. I found many, and I am grateful for most of them as they helped me be helped me become a better Christian man. Ultimately, ultimately, that is the purpose of people being listed here in chapter 11 to the Hebrews. Their faith, the way they enacted faith, is a role model for us. Last week we heard of the importance of faith to maintain our place in the kingdom of God so that we might receive that ultimate hope which is heaven. Today we look at the rest of the examples of people of faith after Enoch. And the example of Enoch must be seen as playing a role in the example of Abraham, a man of faith. But first, we are to notice that faith is given a more complete definition in verse 6. Now recall in verse 1 of chapter 11, we heard that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. In verse 6, that definition is added to by the statement that to please God, a Christian must believe that God is, which is to say that he exists. And even more, he exists as the great I am, and as the I am, he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. The rewarder part refers back to what we hope for, which ultimately is forgiveness of sins and then heaven. The diligently seeking him communicates, and hear this, there is personal responsibility when it comes to faith. We have a responsibility. We understood last week that faith is a gift. It is a gift of saving faith. It is a gift of sanctifying faith. But like any other gift, it must be utilized. It must be applied to life situations. Faith given must be enacted by every believer for it to be effective faith, useful faith. That looks like or is practiced by diligently seeking God. Faith enacted is seeking God, and seeking God means calling upon Him, working to know His Word, and applying His Word to our lives. And so that we know what it means to have faith and what it means to diligently seek God, next we are given some more examples of people who lived by faith. The first up, Noah. We know the story of Noah. He was told it was to rain before he knew what rain was. He was told of a flood before any part of the earth had ever flooded. He was told of God's judgment upon the people of the earth, and he believed it. to the point of building a boat so big that it would hold hundreds, maybe thousands of animals of the earth But Noah had a character flop. He was a drinker of alcohol and became drunk to the embarrassment of his sons. Next is Abraham. We read about him this morning. Abraham, who enacted faith in a number of ways. He left his home to follow an earthly path that he had not known before. He believed the promised land would be his before he saw it, and even when he never owned it He believed he would have children, although his advanced age and Sarah's advanced age said differently. He believed he would have many, many descendants, even before he had one. And in verse 16, in verse 16 we learn what Genesis does not tell us Abraham had faith regarding a heavenly reward, which connects him to Enoch For he would have known of a man who pleased God, and that God took that man, allowing Abraham to have faith in a place that is beyond this world. This allowed Abraham to have faith, to offer his only son as a sacrifice for If he went through with it, he believed that God had the ability to resurrect the dead. There seems to be no man until Moses who had faith as Abraham But Abraham was a coward at times. Abraham put the fidelity of his wife in danger twice Abraham publicly offended God twice, and still he was a man of faith. Isaac is listed next, for he had faith in God when he blessed Jacob as the chosen descendant of Abraham. And yet Isaac sinned in the same manner his father did. Jacob is next, as he blessed each of his sons to carry on the promises of God. And yet Jacob, Jacob was a coward and a deceiver. Next was Joseph. Who had faith while imprisoned and while being a slave with the hope of returning to the promised land, even if it was in the form of his own bones. And next, by faith, the parents of Moses raised him with confidence that their son's life would be spared. And that faith became the faith of Moses after he chose to suffer rather than receive the benefits of being a part of the Pharaoh's court. He did this with a faith in the Holy Savior, the preacher tells us. He identified with the coming Christ, both in his suffering and in his hope. By faith, Moses obeyed the practice of the first Passover. By faith, he led Israel up to and through the Red Sea as he watched the army of Pharaoh drown. And yet Moses, Moses, even Moses had moments of doubt, of fear, and even anger toward God. By faith, Joshua led Israel around Jericho seven times, and by faith the people shouted, and at their shout the walls of the city came down, and it was due in part to Rahab. Who gave the spies the knowledge they needed? But Rahab, she was a harlot, a prostitute, an adulterer. Next are the names of some judges who had faith in God, and this hurried listing of them is a hint again that this was not a letter, this was a sermon. Gideon had faith in God as a victor, even though he had to have his concerns verified in really truly demanding ways. Barak was a man of faith in battle, but he was also a man who feared to lead. Samson was a man of faith in God's vengeance, but was also a man of unbridled lust. Jesta is next, for he was a great warrior who had faith in God against great odds, but he was a fool. A fool in promising to sacrifice what he first saw when he returned to war, and what met him was his own daughter. Then there is David and Samuel who have whole books dedicated to their lives in faith, lives in faith, even though Samuel was a very poor father. And David was also a poor father, an adulterer, and a murderer. The one who stopped the mouth of lions is surely Daniel. The ones who quenched fire, escaped the sword, became strong from weakness, turned armies away while bringing the dead back to life. These are likely descriptions of Elijah and Elisha. The remaining ones who suffered are likely the numerous prophets whom God raised up to speak the truth, even though the people would not hear them and even worked, strived to silence them. And even the greatest of these prophets like Elijah and Elisha, even they had times of doubt and of frustration and physical weaknesses. I have balanced all of these who are named in this hall of faith listing I have balanced it with their character flaws because I want to convince you that it was not, and hear this now, it was not their moral character, it was not their mental state that prevented them from enacting faith. Also among this list are landowners and slaves married women and harlots, kings and farmers. So social standing makes no difference when it comes to enacting faith in God. Character flaws, egregious sins, are no factor when it comes to having the substance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. And it is for all of us who hear my voice to take these examples of faith in all of their situations and in all of their personalities. And in all of their personal struggles, and to know that what each experience what we each experience and and what we each have at our disposal with our own personalities and our own struggles is that we too, we too can enact faith in God in all of our life situations. And this is this is where I must linger. Because it is important for each of us who say we believe. That we take responsibility to enact the faith we have been given in all of our life circumstances. I feel like I need to convince you of that. I wonder if you can name this next man I describe. While most preachers and teachers speak of his dramatic conversion to believe the gospel Even after his conversion, he doubted that he had saving faith. He had many disputes with both his friends and enemies. Many of which divided his friendships. When it came to siding politically with the poor versus the rich, he sided with the rich. When he mocked his fellow Christian ministers for their varied theological perspectives, he did so with vulgar language. In his old age, he is described as being cantankerous, while he struggled with depression and anxiety, which caused him to wonder if God was displeased with him Do you know his name yet? Who am I describing? I am describing Martin Luther. The great reformer, who brought the heart of the gospel back to the church. He was the man Who had faith to stand up to false teachers and false doctrines that took people away from the gospel. His ministry over the years abound with blessings But he struggled with faith up to the end of his days. You see, even the greatest of faithful men struggle with faith I wonder if you can name this next woman described. She is known as one of the most giving human beings that has ever lived. She cared for the least of these, as Jesus called them. And yet after her death Some personal letters were found that showed a very different woman than everyone thought she was. She frequently wrote of loneliness. Of not hearing God, of personal hypocrisy, and doubts of her own faith Here is one example. She wrote, quote, darkness is such that I really do not see, either with my mind nor with my reason. The place of God in my soul. It is blank. There is no God in me. When the pain of longing is so great, I just long and long for God. The torture and pain I can't explain. In another letter she confessed that That she needed prayer because certain moments heaven meant nothing to her. Do you have her name? She is best known as Mother Teresa. How can a woman experience and then endure the depth of human suffering while doubting her own beliefs, beliefs that moved her in the first place to care for the least among us? Her faith may have wavered, but her compassion never did. Again, I wonder if you can name this next man. who is considered one of the greatest preachers of the gospel. In one sermon he said, quote, I think when a man says, I never doubt, it is quite time for us to doubt him. It is quite time for us to begin to say, ah, poor soul. I am afraid you are not on that road at all. For if you were, you would see so many things in yourself and so much glory in Christ, more than you deserve. That you would be so much ashamed of yourself. End quote. In another sermon, he explained that even the strongest of believers may face seasons of depression. Being stripped of joy by faith, wounded. He said, quote, the strong are not always vigorous, the wise not always ready. The brave not always courageous, the joyous not always happy. The man who preached these words was Charles Spurgeon. who was called the Prince of Preachers. Spurgeon preached in London, England, in the middle of the nineteenth century to several thousand parishioners each Sunday, and his sermons were being printed and sent around the world. But Spurgeon did not preach about struggling faith in the midst of trials from the outside looking in. He experienced struggles firsthand. He experienced it in personal relationships when toward the end of his life he went through what is called the downgrade controversy. Which is when Christian ministers were downgrading or compromising essential Christian doctrine for what they thought was popular. Anybody do that today? Because of the direction of this Baptist Union, Spurgeon withdrew himself from the union, and that sparked betrayal of many of his closest friends, including 80 alumni from his own pastor's college. And the deepest dagger was when his own brother voted publicly to censor him. Spurgeon also wrestled with deep depression. Some depression was brought on by life circumstances, such as during a worship service at Surrey Hall. There were 12,000 people gathered to hear him preach, and 10,000 outside in the garden trying to get in. And shortly after the service got underway, some cruel men shouted, fire, and panic ensued. The result was seven people dead and 28 hospitalized with serious injuries. That haunted him the rest of his life. Depression was also a result of Spurgeon's many physical illnesses. He suffered with gout that caused him multiple occasions of great pain and weeks being laid up in bed suffering. He also suffered from Bright's disease, which was a chronic inflammation of the kidneys, and that too caused him great pain. Spurgeon wrote to several friends doubting words, questioning whether he could go on living because the pain was so great. And what is striking about Spurgeon is that with all of his suffering in body and spirit, while being aware of his weakness of faith When he would come out of his lingering times of suffering, he would look back with much thankfulness. At one time he wrote, It would be a very sharp and trying experience to me to think that I have an affliction which God never sent me That the bitter cup was never filled by his hand, that my trials were never measured out by him, nor sent to me by his arrangement of their weight and quantity. To see his affliction as coming from God is a trust in God that very few have. It does not match with any of our definitions of God being loving, but Spurgeon saw it as the opposite. In another place, he said this: I am afraid that all of the grace that I have got of my comfortable and easy times and happy hours might almost lie on a penny. But the good that I have received from my sorrows and pains and griefs is altogether incalculable. Affliction is the best bit of furniture in my house. It is the best book in a minister's library. And let us say together, wow, to such faith, especially faith that comes from suffering. Beloved, what I have tried to get at is what I believe the preacher to the Hebrews is striving for. He wants us to see that faith A living and applicable faith in God is available to all of us. It has been given to us by God and then placed before us as our responsibility to enact in our lives. Which means in the moments of our lives that are most difficult, we can believe That God will deliver us, even when the devil whispers to believe the opposite, even when circumstances around us scream for us to disbelieve. We are to see that the past sins of a man or a woman does not dictate how faith in God can lead us forward. Our applied faith in God does not need to be thwarted by our social or economic status. Even an awareness of the weaknesses of our character, to apply faith, will not stop faith from being victorious And the end victory for all of us, for the saints of the Old Testament, for the saints of the new, is all the same. It is to go to a place that Jesus has prepared for us. So let us go there, by grace, through faith. Let us pray. Our Father, we do thank you for the gift of faith, and we embrace the responsibility for each of us to live in it, to enact it, to practice it. even in life's most difficult circumstances. Holy Spirit, we welcome your leading, guide us, strengthen us. May we hold on to that faith all our days. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.