The name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to Matthew chapter 7. We're looking at our gospel reading, starting at verse 15. The Sermon on the Mount in St. Matthew's Gospel, as you know, begins in chapter 5 with what are called the beatitudes, and it ends in chapter 7. The first part describes what it means to follow Jesus. It is the Christian life. And the second part, which was our gospel reading in part, Is set is a set of warnings for not following Jesus or not following Jesus properly In verse 13 of chapter 7, Jesus describes the way of following him as narrow, as in it is a narrow gate that gets you on the right path. He then describes the way as difficult. And because it is difficult, few people find the end. These passages in our liturgical readings for these Sundays in Trinity have fit so very well with our study of John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. And I so wish more of you could have joined us for this summer for Sunday school, but I certainly understand that that can be difficult. But you will have to oblige me with another reference to the story. This one is of Christian and now his companion, hopeful. As they make their way to the celestial city, which is heaven, and on the path, they climb the direct of the mountains. I have interpreted the delectable mountains to be symbolic of an elder Christian who has walked with the Lord many years and is therefore able to receive some reprieve by being blessed by the mountains. And getting a closer glimpse of the celestial city. There were four shepherds on the delectable mountains. that first made sure that Christian and hopeful had come through the right way, and then proceeded to help them prepare for the latter part of their journey while also giving them warnings in the following manner. This is a quote. Then I saw in my dream that the shepherds led them to another place where there was a door in the side of a hill. They opened the door and bid the pilgrims to look in. Peering in, they saw that it was very dark and smoky. They also thought that they heard a rumbling noise of fire and a cry of some who were tormented, and that they smelled the scent of brimstone. What does this mean? Christian inquired. The shepherds told them, this is a byway to hell, a way That hypocrites go, namely such as sell their birthright with Esau, and such as sell their master with Judas, and such as blaspheme the gospel with Alexander. And such as lie and deceive with Ananias and his wife Sapphira. Then hopeful questioned the shepherds I perceived that all of these once had a reputation as being pilgrims, just as we do, had they not? Shepherds, yes, and some held to it for a long time, too. Hopeful. How far they went on a on on in pilgrimage, yet notwithstanding they were thus miserably cast away. shepherds, some not as far as these mountains, and some went further. Then the pilgrims said to each un to each other, We had need to cry to the strong one for strength Shepherds, yes. And you will also have need to use that strength when you have it Bunyan there captures the need for fear, a healthy fear of God and his judgment, so that we do not stray from the narrow way. Now mind you, there is a fear that is unhealthy and dangerous, as it is a fear of man and a fear of death, and such fear slows us, even freezes us, so that we are no good to anyone. But the perfect love of God casts out such fear and allows us for a right fear, which is a fear of God alone. Keeping that right fear helps a pilgrim to stay on the narrow way even toward the end of the journey. And going back to Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, Jesus continues by warning his followers of false prophets. As if referring to the way to heaven as narrow and that few travel on it, it is now, we come to find out, that there are false prophets on the way. These false prophets don't look like false prophets, but the opposite. They are gentle and mild as sheep, but are in fact wolves who want to devour true sheep. Jesus next tells us that there is a way to tell who are wolves in sheep's clothing. You will know them, he says, by their fruit. Fruit in the Bible refers to the deeds of men. And thus the warning is to note the hypocrisy of these so-called prophets. The principle is an easy one. Good trees produce good fruit. Bad trees produce bad fruit Bad trees cannot produce good fruit, and good trees cannot produce bad fruit. These truths are then followed by a warning of judgment. And all who plant orchards know that bad trees must be uprooted and burned in order not to corrupt the remaining trees. The word therefore in verse 20 ends this portion of Jesus' teachings, but in our book of common prayer, the authors decide to continue one passage more, verse 21. Verse 21, with the spine-tingling reality that there will be people who will stand before God on judgment day and think confidently that they were pilgrims on the narrow road. And revealed this confidence by referring to Jesus as Lord. But in truth, they were lawless and will be judged as such. As you know, St. Paul addressed many false prophets, many false teachers in the first century. Those false teachers consisted of men who said things such as, the resurrection has already taken place. Another said that Christian Gentiles must obey the Jewish ritual laws. Another said that Jesus was just a man and not God. And others said that Jesus didn't come in the flesh, but only appeared to come in the flesh. Those are then. What about now? What false teachings of our day do we hear? Some are the same and have been labeled Gnostic. The word Gnostic comes from the Greek word gnosis, which simply means knowledge. But the Gnostic teachers meant special knowledge Which was a knowledge of the Spirit being superior over the flesh. And therefore, any truth is only known in the Spirit. Such teachings, I hope you see, collide head-on with Christian truth. For God created the world and said it is good. And Jesus came in the flesh and remains in the flesh for eternity. And God Himself made the promise that the earth, the physical world, will be made new. With the incarnation, God becoming flesh, and with the promise of a new heaven and a new earth, God reveals that he cares for the physical world as much as he cares for the spiritual world. And for eternity he will live with his people in those worlds as one reality. Unfortunately The Gnostic understanding remains among us, especially amidst the evangelicals who do well to want to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with others but who fail to see the value and beauty of the physical world. Whereas Christians of old would carefully plan out their buildings so that they communicated Christian truths in many different ways, such as stained glass windows. with Christian symbols and saints, as well as carvings on the walls of wood and stone, and sanctuaries built in a cruciform shape so that if you look down upon it from on high, you would see the shape of the cross. Such planning is rare if not abandoned completely by modern evangelicals. For Western evangelicals, buildings are for practical use only. This results in what some have called a sancta catha gymatorium, which are multiple purpose rooms where you can play a basketball game and then move some chairs around and hold a worship service by and then follow by moving the same chairs around and bringing tables in and share a potluck meal Such practices fail to see the beauty of the physical world while only focusing on the spiritual. For those of you who are not inclined to care much about how buildings are designed or how beauty is to be used or how the physical world can be sacred I submit to you that if you were to see me break for lunch and leave my study and plop in front of the Holy Communion table and place a bag lunch on it and crack open a Coke can on it. Even you would conclude that such was an inappropriate action. It is that sensitivity that I am appealing to. Other false teachings of our day can be found primarily in the mainline churches who still call themselves Christian But who no longer insist that Jesus is the only way to heaven and teach that the ethical teachings of the Bible are no longer applicable. What is frustrating about such denominations is that they still call themselves Christians while completely abandoning what the Bible identifies as Christian and what most of history has called Christian. It was hoped that such leaders who abandoned the basic tenets of Christianity would simply start another religion instead of corrupting the one they are within. But alas. But let us examine how these denominations went rogue, and in particular what happened to the Episcopal Church in America. There were multiple reasons why the Episcopal Church is no longer Orthodox Christian, but we will only look at one of those reasons. In 1976, after many years of rumblings, the Episcopal Church voted to ordain women into the priesthood. Even though the Bible, historical practice of the church, and reason were against it. But how did they get there One origin for the change was how they interpreted the Bible. A prominent passage on the subject of women's ordination is from 1 Timothy 2, verse 12 and following. It reads Paul says, I do not permit a woman to teach or have authority over a man, but to be in silence. For Adam was formed first and then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into transgression. The instruction is straightforward enough, and the church historically interpreted the instruction for its plain and obvious meaning. For Paul uses scripture, the reference to the creation of mankind and the fall of mankind. That is the base of his decision not to allow women to have authority in the church. Add this to Paul's instruction to the Corinthians not to allow a woman to speak out in the church, and Jesus calling only men, an Old Testament priest only being men And the desire for God to be relatable as our Father, and such is enough to conclude that only men should serve as priests. And on a side note, be careful what you wish for. For a woman to want to do as men do in callings such as priests. The duties can come with great burdens and greater judgment before God. As we prepare to call a new bishop. I have worked close enough to Bishop Gillen as president of the Standing Committee, allowing me to see the great responsibilities and great difficulties That come with the calling of a bishop. And I have concluded that it is not a position anyone should think of as a promotion. As far as the painful work and needed commitment, it can be seen as a demotion But back to our examination of what went wrong regarding women's ordination in the Episcopal Church in America Episcopal scholars started listening to the teachings of those who worked in the field of what is called biblical criticism. Biblical criticism was created to examine the Bible through modern scholarship means. It attempts to place the Bible in modern literary literary categories and then break it down with a modern understanding of the world. For example, biblical criticism starts with the premise that miracles do not occur. With that premise, they then toss out any mention of a miracle as being non-historical, placing such stories in the category of fantasy or fiction or both. It was philosopher David Hume who convinced the educated world that miracles are impossible because causality cannot be experienced. While never addressing that the very definition of a miracle is to overcome the impossible and be without Addressing the issue of experience. So biblical criticism as a discipline looks at Paul's instruction that women should not lead in the church. and forces its own interpretation by reading into the text what is not there. They say that Paul himself was misogynistic And therefore had prejudice against women, and that disqualifies him to comment about the subject. Next, they say that women were not allowed access to the same education as men, and therefore they could later rise to lead the church when that education was available. Next, they say that other texts seem to show women as leaders in certain churches, such as Priscilla and Aquila explaining together to Apollo. What he lacked in understanding about Jesus. All of it together was cause to change the polity of the church while also changing the authority of Holy Scripture. Beloved, there is a reason why idioms such as, if a camel is allowed to get its nose inside of a tent, it will be impossible to prevent the rest of it from entering. It is similar to the Western saying, if you give them an inch, they will take a mile. Such thinking is said to be fallacious because it doesn't always come true. But it came true in the Episcopal Church. Once such passages of Scripture were allowed to be dismissed because the motive of the instruction or the character of the author could be questioned Then any teaching or instruction could be called into question and eventually dismissed. Beloved, the very same method of interpreting the Bible, what is called hermeneutics, That was used to ordain women was also used later to accept immoral sexual behavior practiced by priests and also practiced by bishops The camel got fully into the tent. I realize I have taken you on a higher level of thinking journey, so allow me to simplify the point about false prophets that Jesus warns about. They do as the devil did in the Garden of Eden. They simply ask us to question if God really said what the Bible says he said. To Eve the devil said, Has God indeed said you shall not eat of every tree of the garden? This was followed with a bold-faced contradiction saying, You shall not surely die. The devil continues the same tactic today. With such questions, the devil repeatedly succeeds in getting people to doubt what God has said. Clearly said, and to accept an alternative that is false and leads to the false prophets and those who follow them to be cut down and burned. But we are told to look for the fruit of these false prophets. Since the nineteen seventies, false prophets in the Episcopal Church have taught publicly that Jesus was not divine, that he was not raised from the dead, and that the God of the Old Testament was guilty of bloodlust. And no ecclesiastical condemnation of such teachings has come forth with no conviction of betraying their ordination vows. The Episcopal Church had a peak membership in the 1950s of 3. 3 million people. They now number half as many, and that tally was taken in 2019 before the pandemic. Another survey shows that from 2009 to 2019, the Episcopal Church averaged just over 5,000 people in attendance on a given Sunday, while dropping nearly 3% every year through that decade. And the average age of an Episcopalian is 69 years old. Six years ago. It was reported that one of the largest congregations in the Episcopal Church consisted of 300 Muslim men who met for prayer in the Church of the Epiphany in Washington, D. C. , every Friday. And no, they were not praying to Jesus. If you want to see fruit, there is your fruit. We pray in the call it for this week to have hurtful things put away from us. Hurtful things include false teachings. Beloved, we have been gifted to have the Bible given to us by God through his church, just as he promised, to guide his church into all truth. We have been gifted with traditional interpretation of the same scriptures for almost 2,000 years. That is why many of us will not put up with false prophets and teachers who say that they have something new. No, they do not, and they have never mastered what is old. Let us master the old so we can quickly identify the fruit of those who are false This next analogy is older, but it still works. Before the technological advances we have today, federal agents in the United States were trained to spot counterfeit money. Not by examining the counterfeit bills, but by examining what a real bill was. The theory was: if you know a real bill well, a counterfeit will be obvious We can apply the same to our Christian faith. When you know well what the scriptures say, you will more easily identify a false prophet. And young people, young people, the church needs more men who care about this. It needs more men who want to know the scriptures and teach the scriptures and to identify those who are teaching falsely. Few answer such a calling, but such a calling has great reward. Let us pray. Our most merciful Father, we thank you for the warning of our Savior, your Son. We pray that we would be diligent followers of Him, noting the false prophets. And not allowing them to speak and mislead your people. And for anyone, dear Lord, who would Feel the calling to pursue the ministry that they might stand for the truth against these false teachers. May you move upon them, Holy Spirit. Encourage them to seek, and they will find. This we pray in Jesus name. Amen