In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. For those of you near my age You will remember the sitcom from the 1970s, All in the Family. Every now and again I will run across clips of that show, and I still find it very funny, especially the character of Archie Bunker. Who is the center of the show? And who displays a great deal of wisdom and insight from modern fathers on this Father's Day. It did not take me long to find quotes from the show about some very pertinent topics regarding marriage. Archie said The only thing that holds a marriage together is the husband being big enough to step back and see where the wife is wrong. And this a woman should cleave into her husband. Right here in this house is where Edith cleavage belongs. On parenting, Edith, Archie's wife, says, Maybe we should take the stroller back and exchange it for a bassinet. Archie responds Don't be ridiculous, Edith. The kid can't learn to play one of them until he's 13 On religion and his grandson's faith, he says, raise him a Lutheran if you want, raise him a Norman with seven wives, a holy roller, or a seventh-day adventurer. On creation, he says, the Bible, if you read it, you'd know. It's right there in the beginning, there in the book of Genesis. And on God's providence he says, God don't make no mistakes. That's how he got to be God. And finally, on the unity of faith, he says, God made us all one true religion, Edit, which he named after his son Christian, or Christ for short. It is characters like Archie Bunker that make us feel better about ourselves as we realize that we may not know what we are doing as husbands. And or fathers, but there are a few people who are worse than we. Celebrating fatherhood as we do on this day is a bit complicated Because of the undeniable reality that earthly fathers can leave scars on the psyche of their children. If a father is neglectful, immoral, abusive, or simply absent, the negative psychological effect upon children can be immeasurable. I have heard many times, as no doubt many of you have, just how hard it is for people who had a bad father to overcome those negative emotions when trying to relate to God as father. The negativity they have about the role of father is automatically transferred to God as Father, and that is a relationship they think they cannot have. The work we must do for such people is to reverse the roles. We are to define the image of Father in general By our Heavenly Father instead of our Earthly Father, and thus how we relate to the Heavenly Father goes back to how we again deal with our earthly father and overcome the negative experiences we have with our earthly father. It was surprising to me that God is referred to as Father in the Old Testament only ten times. He is described first as Father in relation to him being the creator of heaven and earth, and thus he is the father of all that exists. He is also described as father in that he provided for his people as he helped, fed, and aided Israel, and called Israel his son. And then there is the fascinating passage that is often overlooked in terms of God being father. Isaiah 9, verse 6 contains a prophetic description of the coming Messiah, who is a child born to us. A son given to us who will have the government on his shoulders and who will be called wonderful counselor, almighty God, everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. How often do preachers and teachers of the Bible expand on Jesus being known as the everlasting Father? Of course, we are not to confuse the person of the Heavenly Father with the person of Jesus the Son, as the Athanasian Creed reminds us. But we should always think of the son in relation to the father, and the father in relation to the son. After all, there is no father without the son, and no son without the father. The unity of the Father and the Son is described in the words of Jesus regarding his own actions. He said that he did nothing but what he saw the Father having him do. And we remember St. Paul's words, that the Father was in Jesus, reconciling the world to himself. And may I add, although this is not our focus, that within these verses and others like them, there is a clear revelation of the Trinity without using the word Trinity. As we come to the New Testament, the relational title Father takes on an exalted and primary title. It is evident that we who are God's people are to think of God Almighty as our Father. Jesus teaches this to us by describing first how we pray. We are to pray in secret, he says, to our Father. We are to recite a script that begins with our Father who art in heaven. And when we seek forgiveness, we are to seek it from the Father through the Son. When we think of our daily needs, Such as food and clothing, we are to know God as Father, a Father who will provide When we are motivated to serve in God's kingdom, we are to be motivated by the love of God as our Father. And going back to the Lord's Prayer, we should be struck by the privilege we have to call God our Father. After all, we are a race that was afar off. Under the covenant of Adam, we abandoned God as our father and placed man as the author of life, as the Lord of the future. Consider, every time a man tries to clone himself, he is trying to be his own father. Every time a child is ripped from the womb, man is trying to be his own father Every time public prayer is squelched, or a manger scene is removed, or a display of the Ten Commandments is taken down, Or a law is passed to mainstream sexual immorality, man is trying to be his own father And such behaviors would be our own if God had not revealed Himself to be our Father I remind you of St. Paul's words to the Ephesians as he describes our relationship to God. He said In love, he, God, predestined us to be adopted as sons, his sons, through Jesus Christ. in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. The emphasis on the role of God's love in our adoption communicates that God is not a reluctant stepfather. Who only adopted us because he thought our mom was pretty? No. God's love came first, and then came the act of his adoption. He desires to call us his sons and daughters, and he desires us to call him Father, our Father, to be precise. I pause on that phrase once more for us to notice that it is a word that begins with a plural possessive. God is our Father. And as we say that together, we acknowledge that each of us is a child of God. That makes us siblings. It makes us family. Which is one of the more prominent metaphors used in the Bible to describe the church. And as St. John's first letter explains, because we are God's family, we must love one another. As an older preacher, friend of mine used to say, you have to love me if you want to get to heaven. We will have to unwrap that point on another day. Although we are adopted, we have full privileges just as we would if we were blood. And we are blood, actually. Jesus made it so. Because of the blood of Jesus covering us, we are called children of God. And not just children, but heirs. We are all of us, male and female alike, all of us like the firstborn Son, because of the Heavenly Father Because of the Heavenly Father's only Son, Jesus, we are heirs of his eternal kingdom, and we say, thanks be to God. Having accepted our adoption and being made heirs, we need to be challenged to better relate to God as Father. I remember lamenting with my brother-in-law several years ago when our children, of course, were younger. How frustrated we both were with our children, especially our sons, he had four, I have five, who would not come to us before or while they were having trouble. Instead of afterward, when nothing could be done but pick up the pieces. His style and gifts of parenting were different than mine But between us, you would think that one of us would be fathering well enough so that our children would confide in us more readily. But alas. And I bring this up not to lament, but to confess that what I wanted of my children, what I wanted them to do freely, come to us when they were in need. I myself have a difficult time doing with our Heavenly Father. I do not go to Him easily and readily when I am struggling. I can live in denial with the best of them. I can convince myself that I am holding, that I'm not holding a grudge. I have forgiven them. When I really have, I can convince myself that I'm winning the fight over my flesh when I'm actually losing it I can convince myself that I have the situation under control when I do not. And I can see the Heavenly Father shaking his head as I lament about the apprehensions and blindness of my own children, when in fact they are my own apprehensions and my own blindness. Beloved the Heavenly Father wants us to come to Him The context of our gospel reading is a focus on prayer, which is us coming to God. The primary lesson is that we should be repeatedly seeking God for our needs and without hesitation. The second lesson is the reason why we can seek God for our needs. It is because God is a loving Father. And for us to know how much God loves, Jesus compares him to earthly fathers. Earthly fathers are who are of a right mind Would never refuse a child of their own who asks for bread and instead be so unkind as to offer a stone or a serpent. To be sure, there are earthly fathers who are addicts or mentally ill and failed to provide for their children. But Jesus is describing an average earthly father who sees it as his duty to provide for his children. Such men, Jesus says, are evil. That seems strange to us initially, for Jesus to call men who provide for their children evil. But Jesus isn't referring to their actions of providing as evil. He is instead describing the nature of men. He is reminding his disciples that mankind is evil by fallen nature and by practice. Preachers like myself have been accused of being too negative because while I mention man's favor with God, I also remind us of man's sinfulness. Some like to hear good only without a caveat that refers to the bad. I respond by noting that in the case, in this case, these are the words of Jesus. He is giving the caveat and doing so using harsher words than I have ever used. And let us be honest, when examining the words of Jesus, he is no wimp. When he calls Peter Satan, and a begging woman a dog, and men in general evil. He is being brutally honest, and he expects us to take it because it's the truth And the harsh truth makes the grace and love he bestows upon us who are evil all the more amazing. By referring to men as evil, Jesus is contrasting that truth with the amazing love of God as Father. He wants to be our father, not just in title, but in true relationship He wants us to ask of him. He wants us to trust him. He wants to be our guide, our protector, our caretaker. He wants us to say Abba. The title Abba is an intimate reference to God as Father. We know that Jesus and his disciples read And wrote in Hebrew, especially in the synagogue, but in everyday speech and in their preaching, they spoke Aramaic. In Biblical Hebrew, Ab A B means father, but in Aramaic, Abba is father, and it was derived from baby talk. As the rabbis said, a small child learns to say Abba, which we can translate daddy, and ima for mommy. In the pre-Christian era, the usage of the word Abba was broadened so that the use of the word was no longer restricted to just children. The idea of it only meaning daddy actually receded. And the word acquired a warm and familiar ring, which would more align with saying My dear Father. And we are to know that nowhere in the entire devotional literature of ancient Jerusalem Is Abba a way of addressing God? And yet the teaching of Jesus and the practice of Jesus made saying Abba for Christians the norm. We can call God my dear father because Jesus has enabled us to have such a relationship. Finally, as God is our Father, and we are His children, we are to be imitators of Him. This seems to come naturally to children to follow the example of their fathers, and it's expressed in a little poem titled Little Eyes Upon You. It goes, it begins as follows. There are little eyes upon you, and they're watching day and night. There are little ears that quickly take in every word you say. There are little hands all eager to do anything you do, and a little boy who's dreaming of the day, he will be like you. It goes on to remind fathers just how important they are in the molding of the lives of their children by imitation. It is, of course, a good thing for us to be imitators of the Heavenly Father, but as we get older, we appear less inclined to do so. Because of our perceived personal maturity and our awareness of our own autonomy, we are easily tempted to do as we please. Even mature Christians find it easier to choose their own way. But imitating God the Father is the best for us. And a manner of imitation that is lacking today, especially on the heels of COVID-19, is presence. Our God is a God of presence. It is His attribute. It is His will. Regarding his attribute, we know him to be omnipresent. He is everywhere to the point that we can go to the depths of Hades and to the highest of the heavens, and God is there. And then there is his presence by his will. He chooses to dwell with men. He chooses to be uniquely present when his people gather. His unique presence when we gather makes our time of worship more sacred. It makes the breaking of bread and the drinking of wine all the more intimate and effectual towards our salvation. His unique presence means the devil has no place to sit among us because when we invoke the name of Jesus, he must flee. I am glad and grateful that we are able to stream our services online. And I have benefited by the services being streamed as Bobby Lynn and I have participated in the few Sundays we have been absent these last two years. But there is nothing that can replace being physically present with the body of Christ Taking the same postures together, reciting the same words together, and taking the bread and the wine together. A way to imitate God as our Father is to be present when his people gather. Hopefully, most of you will remember a series of sermons I did about God being our Father. It was during a time of social unrest when our civil fathers were being maligned. A primary point I made is what I close with today. Evangelical Christians talk about the importance of Jesus being the individual savior of each person in order for such persons to be saved. That is all well and good, but it must not stop there. For Jesus Jesus himself wants to be our Savior so that, dot, dot, dot, so that we would have God as our Father. That was the end goal of Jesus, and that should be our end goal as well. Look to God the Father. Place your needs and your care in his hands Follow his example, and you will be whole. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for that privilege to call you our Father. We ask your mercies upon us as we have failed to put our whole trust in you and to believe that you want to hear our prayers and meet our needs. May we be humble children, always looking to you for what is needed, always trusting in you for your guidance, always trusting in you for your care. This we ask and pray in Jesus' name. Amen.