In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. From our epistle reading, Saint Peter said The end of all things is at hand. That is quite a phrase, and one that provokes a picture in my mind. Of a man dressed in faded white rags holding a sign that says something similar like, the end is near. I don't know where such men come from or what their logic is. They must expect their message to accomplish something. But the most common response of passers-by is with a shrug of the shoulders. The context in which St. Peter says It is just says the same, is just after he warned against living after our lusts. Living according to what our fleshly desires desires is quite easy to do. We see the piece of chocolate cake. We like the taste of chocolate cake. We like the feeling of a full stomach, and so we eat the piece of chocolate cake. Not too much argument goes on within us. We see, we like, we partake. The flesh wants it, and so we go get it. What is realized later in life is that the more the flesh governs us, the less we listen to the Spirit of God And the result is being less godly until there is no restraint within us, only lust. We eat too much, we drink too much, We allow sexual pleasure to rule us, we allow our emotions to govern us, so much so that our identity is more aligned with the world than it is with the Christian gospel. But by the grace of God, lust will have the victory. And so Peter wants Christians to consider that the end of all things is near. It is to be a motivation for us. When we think upon the end of time, when we will stand before God and give an account of our lives. It is quite daunting and even frightful. Such consideration is to scare us straight. It is to change the course of our lives so that we desire to live godly and righteously as opposed to living according to our lusts. To emphasize his point, Peter tells us to be serious and watchful. Serious, we know, at least we know it when life forces us to be serious But the world only wants us to laugh. And laughing is great when something is actually and naturally funny. But the devil wants us to laugh at the holy. At the sacred, at the profound. The more we laugh at such things, the less holy, the less sacred, the less profound they become. With such topics holy, sacred, and profound, we should always be serious. To be watchful is to be aware of the temptations of the devil and to be prepared for them. Being prepared allows us to fight against such temptations and to be victorious over them. You know where you are weak. You may not be tempted to eat the piece of chocolate cake, but the gossip you have been told may be your tripping wire. You may not be tempted by sexual images, but holding in bitterness, well, that comes natural to you. Whatever your weakness, you are to be watchful against them so that the devil doesn't have the upper hand. And why? Because the end of all things is near. But it isn't. Peter wrote this nearly 2,000 years ago. In St. Peter's second letter, he realizes this conundrum. And so he tells the church, with the Lord, one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. And this teaches the church that Christians are to live in another tension. The tension is that we are to live as if Jesus is going to return and judge the world at any moment. And we are to live as if it may be a while for that any moment to take place. Be ready, be patient. Such attention is to change how we live, because otherwise we might become lazy in our expectation or impatient in our waiting. An impatience that could lead to unbelief. Such tension is similar to what was addressed at our Wednesday Bible study a few weeks ago. If you tune in on Facebook or Zoom or attend in person, you will find our Bible study quite lively when our own Bob Weinright tries to stump the pastor. My mother-in-law joins us online from time to time, and she was curious several months ago to know who this Bob guy is. For example, when praying prayers from the family prayer section in our Book of Common Prayer, we pray these words. Imprint upon our hearts such a dread of thy judgments and such a great sense of thy goodness to us as may make us both afraid and ashamed to offend thee. And above all, keep in our minds a lively remembrance of that great day in which we must give a strict account of our thoughts Words and actions to him whom thou hast appointed the judge of the quick and the dead, thy son Jesus Christ, our Lord. After praying this prayer, Bob asked the pastor something like, You say we are saved by grace through faith. And that such grace covers our sins, and yet we are praying to keep our minds in our minds that we will be judged for what we say and do. So which is it? The pastor's answer is both. We are to live in the tension That we are saved by grace through faith, and that we will have to give an account in the last day for our thoughts, our words, and our actions. The tension of realizing both is absolutely necessary. It is necessary on one hand That we are saved by grace through faith, because our thoughts, words, and actions in our past are enough to condemn us, let alone what we will do in the future. On the other hand, knowing that we will give an account for our thoughts, words, and actions restrains us from the evil we are capable of doing. I have been reading the Gulag Archipelago, which is the testimony of Alexander Solsenitsyn And his first-hand account of the injustices of the Soviet Russia and their communist system What is verified in his account is how evil the human spirit can be. We underestimate ourselves, beloved, on how devilish human beings can be without the restraint of the Holy Spirit And it is remarkable to me, to all of us, I think, that anyone, anyone would consider socialism to be a rational form of government Because wherever it has been instituted, it has resulted in crimes against humanity that are tragic at best, if not originating from the very pit of hell. The following is a description of Sultan Easton's of his polit of the political prisoners who were average Russian citizens. Who were treated how they were treated even before being convicted during the reign of Stalin. This is a long quote, but well worth it. Quote The overcrowding of the cells not only took the place of the tightly confined solitary box, but also assumed the character of a first-class torture in itself. One that was particularly useful because it continued for whole days and weeks with no effort on the part of interrogators. The prisoners tortured the prisoners. The jailers pushed so many prisoners into the cell that not everyone had a piece of floor. Some were sitting on others' feet. And people walked on people and couldn't even move about at all. Thus, in the Kishnav Cells for preliminary detention in 1945, they pushed 18 prisoners into a cell designed for the solitary confinement of one person. In Lub Enst in nineteen thirty-seven it was fifteen, and in nineteen thirty-eight Raz Munich found 140 prisoners in a standard cell built for 25 With toilets so overburdened that prisoners were taken to the toilet only once a day, sometimes at night. And the same thing was true of the outdoor walk as well. It was Razmunik who in the Lubnik Yaka reception kennel calculated that for weeks at a time there were three persons for each square yard of floor space Just as an experiment, tried to fit three people into such a space. But this, too, is no miracle In the Vladimir Internal Prison in 1948, 30 people had to stand in a cell 10 feet by 10 feet in size In this kennel there was neither ventilation nor a window, and the prisoners' body heat and breathing raised the temperature to 104 to 113 Fahrenheit. And everyone sat there in undershorts with their winter clothes piled beneath them. Their naked bodies were pressed against one another, and they got eczema from one another's sweat They sat like that for weeks at a time and were given neither fresh air nor water, except for gruel and tea in the morning. And if at the same time the latrine bucket replaced all other types of toilet, or if on the one hand there was no latrine bucket for use between trips to an outside toilet, As was the case in several Siberian prisons. And if four people ate from one bowl, sitting on each other's knees, And if someone was hauled out for interrogation, and then someone else was pushed in, beaten up, sleepless and broken, and if the appearance of such broken men was more persuasive than any threats on the part of the interrogators, and if by then death and any camp whatever seemed easier to a prisoner who had been left unsummoned for months Than his tormented current situation. Perhaps this really did replace the theoretical ideal of isolation and solitary. He goes on. Abegamov himself could beat in nineteen forty-eight, yes, Minister of State Secretary Abinikov himself did not by any means spurn such menial labor. He was not averse to taking a rubber truncheon in his hands every once in a while, and his deputy Ryuman was even more willing. He did this at Sukhunabka in the General's Interrogation Office. The office had Imitation walnut paneling on the walls, silk portiers at the windows and doors, and a great Persian carpet on the floor In order not to spoil all this beauty, a dirty runner bespattered with blood was rolled out on top of the carpet when a prisoner was being beaten. When Ryuman was doing the beating, he was assisted not by some ordinary guard, but by a colonel. And so, said Rayuman politely, stroking his rubber truncheon, which was four centimeters an inch and a half thick You have survived trial by sleepless with honor, Alexander Dogan had cleverly managed to last month without sleep by sleeping while standing up. So now we will try the club. Prisoners can take more than two or three sessions of this. Let down your trousers and lie down on the runner. The colonel sat down on the prisoner's back. Alexander Golgan was going to count the blows. He didn't yet know how m how about a blow from a rubber truncheon on the sciatic nerve when the buttocks have disappeared as a consequence of prolonged starvation. The effect is not felt in the place where the blow is delivered. It explodes inside the head. After the first blow, the victim was mad with pain and broke his nails on the carpet. Ryumin beat away, trying to hit accurately. The colonel pressed down on Alexander Dolgan's torso. This was just the right sort of work for three big shoulder broad stars. assisting the all-powerful Rayuman. After the beating, the prisoner could not walk and, of course, was not carried. They just drug him out along the floor. What was left of his buttocks was soon so swollen that he could not button his trousers, and yet there were practically no scars. The descriptions in the book of suffering and torture go on and on. It is a difficult book to read because of the evil practice by persons not much different than you and me. The point of me reading this to you is that in order for the consciences of both the leaders of the Communist Party in Russia and those who carried out their orders, To be able to carry out the evil and injustices they practice, it was necessary for them to rid themselves of any consideration that they would ever be held accountable before God. The following is from a Wikipedia page on Communist Russia. Quote, Under the doctrine of state atheism in the Soviet Union, There was a government-sponsored program of conversion to atheism conducted by communists. The communist government targeted religions based on state interests. And while most organized religions were never outlawed, religious property was confiscated, believers were harassed, and religion was ridiculed while atheism was propagated in schools. And we ask why. Why be so concerned about religion in general and especially Christianity, which was at one time the state religion? It was because Christianity provided a fear of God rather than a fear of the state, and such a fear of God would have convicted those who carried out those crimes against humanity. If they were to ever consider that they needed to answer to God for their actions. A lack of fear of God and his judgment is on display in our country. As we see people protest for the right to abort babies even up to the moment of birth. And as a side note, I have to question whether a young man would have done the horrors that he did this last week if he had the fear of God within him. For those who are in favor of abortion to the moment of birth, the logic is evidently and absurdly geographical. As if a child is not a human being at one moment because it's in the womb, and it is a human being at the next moment because it is outside of the womb. But there is more. There are some, not many right now, but some some people who propose that Mothers should be able to kill their children even after birth, even after a few months, because it is still her right to choose And if you wonder how such thinking could be considered or even spoken, it is because people do not understand that the end is near. Which means that they will be held accountable by God for all that they have said and done. We will all be judged by God for what we say and do in this life. That was the point I began with. You may have thought I have gone down some rabbit hole from these examples and forgot what text I was preaching from All that I have spoken was for the point of how evil we human beings can be without the fear of God in us, without understanding that the end is near. I remember being dumbstruck a few years ago while watching a documentary on the experiments that were performed on United States citizens For the study of eugenics in the early 20th century, I was horrified That there were political and social leaders who were abdicating and performing medical experiments on the poor and disabled while also supporting forcible sterilization on the same. I submit that the only possible way a culture can allow such actions and attitudes towards the most vulnerable among us Is by ridding ourselves of any fear of God and any fear of his judgment. Beloved, this is where scientism has gotten us. Scientism not is not science. Scientism upholds all science, moral or immoral, as an idol to be bowed down to And scientism makes no room for any fear of God. But it isn't only scientism or communism that behaves as if the end is not near. It is believism as well. Believism is the distorted practice and teaching of solafide, or faith alone. It is the understanding that a person merely needs to say he or she believes in Jesus, and that that belief is the determining factor for his or her salvation. Believism denies that a person's behavior, his actions, his lifestyle needs to match up with what he says he believes. But we all know that life doesn't play out that way if we are honest with ourselves. I have no argument to convince anyone that I love my wife if I am being unfaithful to her. No one should believe me. Just the same, I cannot say I believe in Jesus while not praying to him, not praising him, not following his life of holiness. And not aligning myself with his teaching, and not adoring his bride, the church, with my presence and support. And I certainly won't align my life with the teachings of Jesus if I don't believe I will have to give a strict account for my thoughts, words, and deeds. In the Book of Ecclesiastes, King Solomon wrote, quote, because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed speedily, The heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil. In other words, I have no understanding of judgment before me. So I am not restricted. I can do what I want. Such a teaching is at the same root of what I have been describing to you this morning. On the last day, all sins will be judged, and the sins of all Christians will be forgiven. All sins will be judged, will be revealed, held accountable for, and all sins of Christians will be forgiven. It's both. And we need it to be both, lest we go on sinning with no fear of judgment, while taking for granted the great mercy God has granted us. Shall we go on sinning that grace may abound? St. Paul asked with the answer: May it never be. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, we thank you for these words of St. Peter. The end of all things is near. May that be in our consciences as we go through this life, in every moment of our lives, that we truly might have a fear of you that is healthy, that leads to holiness. That leads to your bride, the church, being pure. And Father, as you keep that before us, help us also to keep before us the mercy and the grace you bestow upon us. So richly and so greatly that we have every hope that we will be forgiven in the end. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.