In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We are continuing our look at Acts. We are in Acts chapter 20. Before we get there, I'd like to Read to you some excerpts from a news story that appeared in a March Edition of a Miami newspaper. Quote Pastor Mark Gardner Left his church members out in the dark. Last Wednesday, he filed an injunction and locked the doors of the church. To shut out longtime outspoken members and board members who had ousted the pastor under evening skies on an empty lot across the street. Suddenly, members discovered the property they were standing on was no longer theirs. The pastor sold it. To members, that was Gardner's last straw. They fired the controversial, defiant pastor who has come under fire for allegedly running up hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt from loans and other expenses without the approval or knowledge of church members. They used flashlights to read financial documents and sign statements before unanimously voting to terminate the pastor, hoping to end a nasty battle to put away Gardner. The pastor defied a suspension and continued preaching after leaders of the Florida State Association of the Church of God, an organization to which the North Side belongs temporarily stripped Gardner of his duties after he failed to give account for his personal and financial affairs at the church. He didn't want to give up or be honest, said Janelle Masek, a member of fifty-one years who is considered the church's matriarch. It's not fair to the majority of the church that this continue. Gardner's injunction against the members cast a dark shadow on the meeting. Leaders said a police officer called them hours before the meeting to inform them of the order which was taken out that day. Members were told if they held the meeting of the on church grounds, they would be arrested for trespassing The church building was closed and locked up to keep out outspoken members who f filed a petition seeking to remove Gardner. At the meeting, members, some of them in their 70s and 80s, were forced to stand in the dark as they signed public statements listing personal loans they said Gardner borrowed from them to pay his personal bills Members hope the statement will help them take legal action against the alleged losses. They also seek to force Gardner to turn over documents that may explain the status of the church's financial condition. Oh, what a sad way to end a church relationship with a pastor. But that is a different church, right? A different denomination, even, right? Well A few years back, after a number of frustrated parishioners left a particular Reformed Episcopal Church that will remain nameless And after several years of the pastor of the said church, spending more time in Washington, D. C. than he did his parish ministry. And all the while speaking against the recurring changes in the Reformed Episcopal Church, the pastor resigned without warning. Before he left, however, he replaced the old REC prayer books with the new ones, the ones that we use today, without explanation or warning to the congregation. Then he was gone, and the congregation's identity was unknown, and his future unclear. Each of these instances is an example of pastors leaving their posts poorly. So very, very poorly. And they show what can happen when separation in an ungodly manner takes place. In our reading today from Acts chapter 20, we have an example of a godly manner Of a pastor saying goodbye to his church as Paul bid goodbye to the church at Ephesus Remember last week that Paul was traveling to Jerusalem, and in the midst of this traveling, he has this encounter. The clear details of his travels are given in verses 13 through 16, you will note. And then we have verse 17, and it might appear a bit confusing. It says that he was to sail past Ephesus. That was his plan. But then he ends up meeting with the leaders at Ephesus. And so we find that it is described that he is meeting with the elders of the church together at Malitas And it was there that he was giving them instructions on how to say goodbye to the church and how they are to lead the church after his departure. In verses 18 through 21, there is a summary testimony of what St. Paul practiced amongst the Church at Ephesus while he witnessed to them the gospel. The manner that Paul lived among men, the serving in humility that he practiced. The suffering in reputation, and the physical fear that he suffered because of Jewish persecution, and how he gave them all that he had to give Holding back nothing of importance. All of this was evidence to them of his sincerity in preaching the gospel. And sincerity. Sincerity is so, so very, very important when it comes to sharing the gospel. Consider an extreme example of a man holding in one hand the gospel and in the other hand a ronco-begomatic. And he tries to sell one along with the other. The effect is the receiver being distracted by the other. And such distraction speaks of an apparent ulterior motive of selling the gospel. The seller seems to want to make money in the same manner he wants to share the gospel, distracting attention from the gospel This is more blatant when an evangelist, so-called, wants to sell something like a prayer cloth. With the promise of praying for your salvation, or the salvation of someone you love, or perhaps healing. That prayer cloth can be bought for a price Thus it is the same as simonizing, which is described in Acts chapter 8. Simonizing the belief that God's blessings can be bought and sold. Such offerers, we are to be wise as serpents, knowing that it is money for the prayer cloth that the evangelist desires, not actually to pray for your needs. By sharing his sincerity, Paul is exposing his conscience. It is a conscience that all ministers of the gospel must have. Must have. Or it is promised that they will be judged more harshly because they are entrusted by God to teach the truth. What St. Paul is sincere about is the good news of Jesus Christ, which we call the gospel. Look at verse 21. In verse 21, he describes it, that gospel, as repentance towards God and faith toward the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, how wonderfully simple. Repentance toward God and faith toward the Lord Jesus Christ. Repentance toward God, because it is against God, only that we can sin. Remember from David's Psalm 51. And faith toward the Lord Jesus Christ, because He is the only one that can provide forgiveness. Repentance and faith. Oh, how wonderfully simple. It is faith in the atoning work of Jesus, it is faith in his holy words, it is faith in the efficacy of all. All that he has done that saves us from sin and shame. Oh, how wonderfully simple This sincerity toward the ministry of the gospel by St. Paul is further explained in verse 24 after he describes the suffering the Holy Spirit promised that he would endure. I read that to you now. He says, None of these move me, nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish the race with joy and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus. To testify to the gospel of the grace of God. And this he is describing that in the end it is all worth it. In the end, it will all be worth the suffering. In the end, testifying to the grace of God will be worth it. It will all be worked. Can I get an Amen? St. Paul uses the descriptive of a race to describe his journey in this world just as he did, you remember, in his letter to the Corinthian church. Where he further describes that he buffets his body so that he might run that race as best as possible, buffering his body. He then says that such a race is done with joy. And to that I say, oh my! Racing is hard. Bucketing one's body is hard. He just described past humility and trials along with future chains and tribulations. He knows he's going to be jailed. He knows he's going to go through future tribulations. And he dare uses the word joy. Because of Paul's circumstances, such joy cannot be underlined, highlighted, cannot be happy, clappy outward expressions. It has to be inward and untouched by the circumstances of life in this world. This is Christian joy. Christian joy is a joy that lies deep in the heart as something permanent Something that establishes a person in the heavens and thus helps them walk the trials and tribulations in this life. It is a joy that the world cannot touch. It is the joy of salvation that knows nothing can separate us from the love of God. It is in a place where God continues to make us new. It is in the heart, the very place of our essence. The honest heart is shared in verse twenty-five, and that is one a heart as a father to his children. As a father, he must be strong by stating the truth of the matter, even though that truth is hard to face. Even if hearts ache, it is best to be strong against such heartache, so that that heartache does not overwhelm us. They will not see him in this life again. That is hard. But it needs to be said. It needs to be confronted. Like death that needs to be confronted. It needs to be confronted because it is a reality And Paul needed to be clear with them about what the future held and what he had done to show his sincerity. His words are what every minister should strive to be able to say. And I would add, every parent should strive to be able to say to his or her children. He first says that he was innocent of the blood of all men. That does not mean that he is not guilty of any physical confrontations with men. He's referring to being like a watchman. Responsible to warn of coming danger. He stayed awake and did the job of warning all men that would hear him about the judgment of God and the grace offered through Jesus Christ. What men then did with what he told them, the truth, he was no longer responsible for. There is great freedom in such a work. Some pastors, slash leaders, slash parents Will spend much of their days trying to have people like them, speak highly of them. Or some just want to keep their jobs. Or some just want to have friends. But such an approach is not the work of a watchman. How St. Paul is not guilty of the blood of men was explained in verse 26, where he refers to preaching the whole council of God. The whole council of God. And this, I bid to you, is where the modern church is failing, failing God and failing us Christians. Mega church pastors are focused on the positives of the gospel only. Prosperity preachers on television are focused on earthly wealth primarily. But ministers who are innocent of the blood of all men preach and teach all that the Bible has to say. All of it. Such includes positive, such includes prosperity, along with, along with suffering, persecution Warnings of eternal judgment and inevitable death. The whole council of God Gives the correct understanding of God so that people can be truly saved. Saved from sin and the second death. And I say truly saved, because if a person hears the positives only, or the prosperity primarily, they will not be moved away from the sins of greed. The sins of the pride, sins of self-glorification, which are blatant sins of our day The next essential content of a godly farewell is a commission to shepherd the church He says to the elders, Shepherd this church. The shepherding St. Paul describes here is one of protection of the sheep. Because, he reminds the church, there are savage wolves that seek to destroy the sheep, seek to destroy God's people, you and me. And they are not wolves only, but savage wolves. They want blood. Their intent is the death of sheep, your spiritual death. And they come not only from without, but from within. Of course, we know that Judas was from within. We know that Simon was from within Aries. Those of you who remember your church history was from within. Nestorius was from within. Sibelius was from within. Now, did you know that Frederick Nietzsche was from within? Having been baptized in the faith, and having a grandfather and an uncle who were pastors in the Lutheran Church? Did you know Karl Marx was from within, having been baptized in the triune name of God at the age of six? Charles Darwin was from within, even beginning to pursue a pastoral calling when he entered Cambridge. These men and others have either tried to corrupt the faith like Arius and Astorius, or tried to tear it down, like Nietzsche and Marx. The warning provided to the church by Paul is akin to the message Jesus had to the seven churches in the book of Revelation, and that message was to hold on. To hold on. To protect against savage wolves and to hold on takes a great deal of effort and fortitude. When I was preparing for the ministry in seminary, and in my early years as a pastor, I could be characterized as but Has been called a thunder puppy. Thunder puppies are people who get excited and aggressive about convictions to the point of looking like a puppy Who growls like he is big and strong and can take all comers like he is a big dog We think of such puppies as cute as they raise their upper lip at bigger dogs and growl with their high-pitched growls. And they are cute. But Thunder Puppy pastors are not cute. When in seminary, a requirement for graduation was to be interviewed by a number of professors. They would put forth to you ethical dilemmas that will occur in the pastoral ministry, and they require you then to verbally, before them, give a defense of the decisions you would make regarding all the things that you had learned in your three years. at seminary excuse me. My answers to each of the scenarios that were presented to me were quick. Decisive and way, way too confident. I remember one professor responding to me with a compliment that my answers were thorough. but warning me that my confidence would be a detriment in my ministry. And he was right. Of course he was right. Early in my ministry, I treated problems like they were recipes. You have the problem, and then you take this verse, and then you take this verse. And then you add this wisdom, and you add this wisdom, and you put it in the oven, set the timer, and be it all comes out solved. Through much wrestling, humility, and more humility. I have been transformed to see parish problems and people problems much much differently. And the primary difference is how much work it takes. It takes a great deal of effort and fortitude to not compromise the truth, but to compromise your pride, your understanding, your subjective perspective. And your willingness to meet people in troubles as they are, not as you want them to be. The diligence that it takes to remain faithful and to fight off the enemy from within and from without is great. So great it is difficult to overstate. But the necessity of such diligence is found in the number of churches that lie on the side of the road to the celestial city. The following excerpts are from a farewell address that I recently heard. These statements were given under the heading Reflections and Encouragement. Quote There are a number of things which the Lord has at least been trying to teach me. Lessons which might prove to be of benefit of each of us. The first of those lessons is simply this: that keeping Christ central and the proclamation of his gospel paramount is the essence of what we are called to do and be as a people. A second and related lesson is this: submission to the ultimate authority of the Holy Scriptures, of the Old and New Testaments As the Word of God written, both in precept and in practice, is the rudder that maintains the ark of the church on a steady course. And prevents it from foundering on some reef of cultural relativism, pseudoscience, or some fashionable philosophy visual These farewell words are from our former presiding bishop, Leonard Riches. And there are words the Apostle Paul is proud of. There are words that our Lord Jesus Christ is proud of. Their words I would like to leave behind if I am ever given the opportunity to say a farewell. The reaction of the elders of Ephesus to these farewell words of St. Paul is emotionally touching and emotionally moving. They wept, they hugged him, they kissed him, they were emotionally invested in him as their spiritual father. And his departing was painful, emotionally painful for them, as it should have been. Mature faith and mature spirituality allows for such emotional expressions because those who are mature in faith and mature in spirituality are not focused on the minor issues of life. You know, a minister can be tempted to complain to God about the people he serves, about the minor issues. They don't listen. They can be a petty. They don't listen. I said that twice. I shouldn't say any more. And I am aware that people can complain about the minister or ministers But upon examination of those complaints, if none of them are about the gospel, if none of them are about the authority of the Word of God, then from a minister's viewpoint, And from what St. Paul describes to us in his words to the elders at Ephesus, there is nothing to complain about, but much to be grateful for I lead a people who believe the gospel of Jesus Christ and want to hear his word proclaimed, preached, and taught. Nothing could be better. In summary then, St. Paul's farewell to the church at Ephesus shows us what is most important for the church. It is the gospel, and it is the Word of God. And it always will be. Amen and Amen. Let us pray