In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. The following are actual bumper stickers. I kid you not. Bumper stickers. Quote, if Jesus had a gun He would still be alive today. End quote. Along that same thing see theme, another bumper sticker is a picture of a cross Where the post is made out of bullets, and the crossbeam is made out of pistols. I don't know what that means. Next, it says, Jesus is my co-pilot, and we are cruising for chicks. And this try Jesus. If you don't like him, Satan will always take you back. And then this clever outreach Jesus loves the hell out of you. And back to the gun theme. Stuff to do. Pray, check box, vote, check box, buy more ammo, checkbox. Now what is curious to me about these stickers and many others like them is what the persons were thinking when they wrote those stickers and what the persons were thinking who placed them on their cars. Do people actually conclude that if Jesus was fully armed, that he would not have died on the cross? And by the way, he is alive today. Considering the bullet and pistol cross, are guns the type of cross that people actually want to die for? And the holiness of Jesus to be treated with such disdain that it has to be included in a joke about cruising for chicks. Finally, I wonder if people actually believe that a person is going to be converted because of their clever turn of the word hell. What is most curious about such bumper stickers is what people are thinking when they consider God. A concern is that they think of him as trite, as silly, as thuggish, as violent, as being like them in their sinfulness. And I've been wondering, can a parallel be drawn between what a culture upholds as enviable and what it thinks to be a God? Is there a correlation between what people uphold as praiseworthy and what type of God they want to follow? If there is a parallel, if there is a correlation, then what does our culture think to be a god? What type of god do they want to follow? Well, according to some of these bumper stickers just read, violence is something to uphold, something to emulate. There are some, a great many it seems, because of the mass media always giving them a prominent place. There are some who practice violence when they don't get their way. They take to the streets and demand justice, justice as they define it, and power as they describe it, and therefore serve a God of violence and of power. And power and fear go hand in hand. So these people violently strive for power while attempting to strike fear in anyone who opposes them. The violent take it by force, Jesus said. He said it in the context of how John the Baptist was received, how he was treated. He was killed by violence to quiet his message. And that is what carnal minds, minds of the flesh, think of doing first. They think of violence. They plan violence and they carry out violence. And such violence is not sequestered within liberal gatherings or socialist gatherings only. Religious men have tried to procure their way of thinking and living and believing by violence. There were Jews during the days of Jesus who wanted to take it by force. And there were Christians after the days of Jesus who thought the same. And we are all aware of the Muslims today who think and practice the same. But regardless of how the violent take it by force The kingdom of God is not established by physical force. The birth of Jesus in a stable in Bethlehem makes that point emphatically. On the last two Christian Sabbaths, I have been explaining the manners in which God has been quiet in history and at times how he hides It is most appropriate then and necessary that we understand this morning where God can be found. After all, we know that he does not want to stay quiet or hide so that no one can hear him and no one can find him. We have confessed that he wants to be heard and he wants to be found, but on his terms and his time. And he wants us to listen for him and search for him. Remember, that is the first teachings of Jesus to his disciples. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. But where do we look? Where do you start? Well before I answer that question, let it be known that God does not hide so that he makes it difficult to be found. God hiding is very much like playing Huckle Buckle Beanstalk. Anybody here play Hucklebuckle Beanstalk? Just my family. Our granddaughter Shera loves Hucklebuckle Beanstalk. Hucklebuckle Beanstalk is a hide and seek game, only it is not people who hide, it is an object, usually somewhat small. The game begins by the seekers either closing their eyes or going and being sequestered in a room while the object is hidden by the person responsible. Now a necessary rule is that the object hidden has to have a portion of it visible, so that those who begin looking for the object cannot or not to remove anything within the room or touch anything in the room, but merely look for the item When a person sees the object hidden in sight, he or she calmly goes to a chair or a couch and after sitting down declares Huckle Buckle Beanstalk. An important strategy in the game is not to give away to the other players where you were when you saw the object in question. That is because the last person that sees it is out of the competition. So each player that views the object must sit down and declare Huckle Buckle Beanstalk. Until there is but one person standing. And I use that as a simple explanation to how God hides. He hides so that he actually can be seen. You just need to look. And so let's look for him. Where do we start? Where to start is to know that God leaves behind a pattern, a way in which he hides places where he can be found in history. And so it is for us to go back and find the pattern. And so let us start at the garden. A good place to start. Where was God in the garden? Well, Genesis tells us that God walked in the Garden of Eden in the cool of the day. Now while while some have wondered what time of day that would have been, or what does that mean for the climate in the Garden of Eden It is better for us to focus on the fact that God was in the Garden of Eden at all That the creator of all would choose to be walking amidst the garden, the garden that housed Adam and Eve, should be amazing grace to us. And thus should give us the clue that God chooses to dwell amongst humanity. Us. That pattern will most certainly be repeated. The next major clue about where God would be is his choosing of Abram, who we later know as Abraham. Abram was a shepherd, and shepherds were of low estate. Abraham wasn't necessarily a poor man, he was not yet a rich man, but God chose him. Abram also had faith in what God told him. Faith necessitates a teachable spirit and a trust that is beyond a person's senses And we know that that faith of Abraham was put to the ultimate test by the offering of his only son. And God stopped that sacrifice because God was still dwelling amidst humanity, and God is found amidst faith. He is found amidst a people of faith. When Abraham's, or Abram's name was changed to Abraham, Sarai's to Sarah God was placing himself within their name. The Yah was with them. In them. The next place of we prominently find God is in the life of Moses. Consider that Moses was with God was with Moses when Moses was a baby. Even as a condemned baby, God was with Moses. Even as a passionate killer, God was with Moses. When God makes himself known to Moses, he does so in the form of, we know, a burning bush. Not a burning wildfire, forest fire, mind you, not even a burning tree. But a bush. What does that tell us about where God can be found? Have you noticed any patterns yet? Consider this clue. When the authority of and leadership of Moses was questioned, questioned by those closest to him, his brother and sister. God said of Moses, now the man Moses was very humble, more than any man who was on the face of the earth. With that, let us continue our search and follow Israel into the promised land, led by Joshua, very similar to Moses in leadership. But who or what was Israel? What had they done that made them a people that could frighten nations and conquer lands? The answer is they were nothing. They had not contributed to the world in terms of new resources, better weaponry, better tools. They had no knowledge of better strategies for war. They most certainly did not have better fighting skills to overrun tribes. And they didn't have a greater population than their enemies either. They were nothing Nothing unless God was everything for them. And when that was true, they could not be stopped. And the land was easily theirs. Well after failing to obey all that God had commanded them to take possession of the promised land, God, and again watch this pattern, God continued to dwell with Israel Through the leadership of a woman, because no man would take responsibility. It was after Deborah, forty years later, that they had to be rescued again from a foreign enemy, the Midianites God chose Gideon, whose name was Jerubabal, which indicates that his parents were idol worshippers. Gideon was chosen while being a frightened and timid man. And God insisted that Gideon lead only a few 300 into battle instead of a large army. Again, are you noticing the pattern? There are repeatedly a few people that God chooses to be with. The characters of the individuals are mixed. But what is common is that they are all either starting off humble or God makes them humble. Even Samson was humble in the end. Our search for God continues next in the person of David. David was always the one God was after. King Saul was merely an example of who God did not want to be with, which is a man of pride and a man of excuses. When we meet David, we learn that he is a shepherd. A shepherd like Moses when God found him. A shepherd like Abram when God found him. Interesting, the profession of shepherding was not a well-thought-of position. In the ancient Near East, shepherding was as low as tax collecting and dung sweeping There were a few reasons for this. First, the wealthy owned land. The wealthy farmed land, while the poor were nomads owning no land. Thus, herders were poor nomads. Second, herds, such as sheep and goats and bulls, destroyed the land by grazing. Such land could not be cultivated and therefore cost landowners money when they were not utilized. And finally, the Egyptians, well, they viewed sheep herding As a lowest state, because to them sheep were worthless food and they did not use them for sacrifice. And so God chose men who practiced shepherding. Men who were looked down upon by the cultures around them. And Jesus would later identify as a shepherd. Interesting. That God chose David and stayed with David, even through David's egregious days of sinning Again, that continues a pattern that God has set. Even when Israel is led by a series of kings who were false worshipers of their various idols. God stays with Israel. Then even after the people of Israel are taken into exile because of their repeated and blatant disobedience to God and his laws, God stays true to them. And brings them back to the promised land. And we know next what happens. That's why we're here today. God is then found in a lowly stable, coming in the form of a servant, taking on human flesh. And revealing himself as Jesus, the Son of God, the Messiah, God incarnate. So what patterns are consistent? What have we found? Where does God dwell? We can say that God dwells among men. His choice is to be in the midst of humanity. We saw this in the Garden of Eden, and God gives no explanation other than He loves. And so He consistently dwells with men. Consider how easily you and I give up on people. Especially people we think they don't want us in their presence, so we save faith, we save hurt emotions But God stays with humanity. He persistently dwells among us. Second, we can say that God dwells among sinners. When the King James Bible states that God is no respecter of men, we are to interpret it that God does not take into account our outward appearances, our social standings, our personal talents. He does not show favoritism to anyone because of who they are personally. Or what they can do outwardly. He treats all people the same because all sinners and thus all people need his grace. When the psalmist asks the rhetorical question, What is man that thou art mindful of him? It is implied that God is not required to be mindful of humanity. It is not God's duty to save humanity, because humanity has turned away from God. But God dwells among humanity, despite the nature of humanity. God dwells amid sinners, and aren't we grateful? We are to recall that the one of the greatest scandals of the presence of Jesus on earth is that he ate with sinners. He allowed prostitutes to touch him. He cared for those in society that had been abandoned because society determined that the lame The blind, the leprous, the poor, and the sick, they were all cursed of God, either because of their own sin or the sins of their fathers. The self-righteous repeatedly failed to understand that when Jesus was among them, it was the same as being among the abandoned. Because all persons since Adam and Eve have sinned, all are sinners before God. Third, we can say that God is found amidst the humble. You know, one of the most beautiful passages in all of Holy Scripture is found in Philippians chapter 2. Where Paul pens a poetic description of Jesus regarding, not regarding, equality with God, a thing to be grasped. But made himself of no reputation by becoming a man. As God is humble, so does he dwell with people who are humble Remember these words of the prophet Isaiah. For thus says the high and lofty one, who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell on a high and holy place. And also with the contrite and lowly spirit. A contrite and lowly spirit is a humble man or woman. He or she knows that God owes nothing to them, but they owe everything to him. Amidst such people, God chooses to place himself The psalmist says it this way, Psalm 113, for though the Lord is exalted, yet he regards the lowly. The lowly are those who are self-aware of their sinfulness and their need for a Savior. God wants to be with them. I ask us now to contrast where God chooses to dwell, where he chooses to be found. Against our culture and what it upholds as praiseworthy and deserving of imitation. Our culture upholds the proud, the violent, the loud, and the self-righteous. And yet God cannot be found among them. They don't believe they need God, and thus they are left to their devices. And their devices result in injustices that they claim are just Their devices lead them to judge God and to judge his saints. Their devices lead ultimately to destroying themselves. And that is what happens when God is not found amongst humanity. Like demons, humans turn on themselves and become their worst enemy. As the prophet Isaiah warns, seek God while he may be found. And he may be found because he chooses to be. Where is God? Again, let us start with where he has been. One of those places is in a stable lying in a manger. Let us go there. Let us pray.