In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I very much appreciate effective life hacks. In case you don't know what a life hack is, it is a way of doing something in life that everyone does, only doing it in a way that makes life easier. It lessens hassles. One life hack I love and practice is taking a picture of your parking spot when parking in a multi-level parking garage. Another hack I love and necessary I practice is speaking out loud what I am doing with my keys or passport or plane ticket, which I tend to lose a lot. I say to myself, I am putting my keys in the front pouch of my briefcase. And it works. It makes it easier to remember where I put my keys. So life hacks are great, but sermons should not be about life hacks. And I very much dislike what are called how-to sermons such as how to have a better marriage or how to have a better make a better living or whatever a preacher wants to put at the end of the phrase how to That is not what preaching is to be about. Preachers are to put forth the Word of God and help God's people apply His Word to their lives. Faith does not come by hearing the latest life coach guru. Faith comes by hearing, hearing the word of God. What I am concerned about is that what I am preaching to you today may sound like a life hack. It may sound like a how-to. But it is from the Word of God. And it is a principle of life that God has placed in the world He created, and it is for us to know it and to use it as God intended. So let's get into it. A couple, a couple sat before their pastor desperate to improve their marriage. Because they had begun to live separate lives as they slept in different rooms. They ate their meals alone. They didn't vacation together. They didn't even watch television together And when they did come together, they could only bicker with one another. The pastor asked them, when was the last time they were intimate together? It had been so long, neither one of them could remember. And principle of life missing in their marriage was first the flesh and then the spirit. A young woman sat before her pastor desperate to get out of a rut. She had a part-time job that didn't make enough money for her to move out of her parents' home She spent most waking hours while at home on social media. Her phone had almost become a part of her body. She was obsessed with what her friends were doing and what she was not doing. Her rut was caused by not understanding the principle, first the flesh and then the spirit I have counseled people using the message of first the flesh and then the spirit, but I have never preached on it. I was watching a British television show that had a character who was a policeman Who was required to see a counselor after being shot while on duty? When he sat down, he noticed a bowl of tennis balls and asked about them. The counselor told him they are to lessen stress, for the patient squeezes the ball to lessen their anxiety He picked up a ball, squeezed it, and found it to work. It was then that I realized that even the secular world can identify a principle God has placed in his creation. First the flesh and then the spirit. In Genesis chapter 2, we find the principle of first the flesh and then the spirit when God created Adam. Genesis 2, verse 7 describes God creating Adam out of the dust, meaning that his body, his flesh, was first created And after God was finished with the flesh, he then breathed life into Adam. And the Bible consistently uses breath of God to describe God's spirit. Thus we have the first example, the first principle of first the flesh, and then the spirit. We also find the principle of first the flesh and then the spirit in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians chapter 15. where Paul is arguing for the essential doctrine of bodily resurrection. And I want you to recall the content of 1 Corinthians chapter 15, for it is a glorious chapter. And it summarizes the essentials of the gospel that we cherish and necessarily believe to have a hope of salvation. Paul begins that chapter by saying that he came to the people of Corinth with just one mission, which was to preach the gospel. He did not come for money, he did not come for fame. He came because God commissioned him to preach the gospel to the Gentiles. And then Paul rehearses what he preached to them. He preached that Jesus died for their sins according to the scriptures. He preached that Jesus was then buried and then rose again the third day, according to the scriptures, for proof of that resurrection. He preached of Jesus being seen first by Peter, and then by the twelve apostles, and then by some five hundred other witnesses, with a great part of those witnesses still being alive. When Paul preached to the Corinthians. The challenge there is that if anyone doubted the resurrection, they could talk to those witnesses and hear their testimonies. Paul then gives his own testimony of seeing Jesus as Jesus revealed himself to Paul on that road to Damascus. Although being called to preach to the Gentiles, Paul considered himself the least of the apostles. Next in the letter, in that chapter, Paul challenges the Corinthians that if Jesus is indeed raised from the dead, why are some in their midst saying there is no resurrection? What most scholars believe from the evidence is that there were teachers who were saying that Jesus may have been raised from the dead, but his followers will not be raised. Paul argues back that it is either all or none. If none will be raised, then Jesus was not raised. If that it then follows that if Jesus is not raised, then what Paul has preached to them is empty and done in vain. Paul further concludes that if Jesus is not raised, then all of us are still in our sins and thus condemned by those sins, making us have no hope. Without hope and still preaching the gospel would then mean that all who call themselves Christians are to be pitied over all other people. Paul's logic through this argument is sound, making it all the more embarrassing that there are Christian churches today, and thus pastors today, who call themselves Christians Who claim in their pulpits that the resurrection of Jesus did not happen in bodily form because, in their logic, miracles can't occur But these churches and these pastors worship God because of the metaphor, they say, of the resurrection of Jesus. And that metaphor means we can find hope in a metaphor. I advise that if you ever visit a church that teaches in like manner, get up and walk out. If you hear a teacher on a media platform say something similar, turn the station. If you pick up an article and read such teaching, put it down. It is heresy, and thus it is of the devil. It is a lie. Because Paul knows the denial of the resurrection is of the devil, He next describes how Jesus is the first fruits of all who have fallen asleep who have faith in God. Jesus became a man so that he could die and rise again to life to overcome the curse of the first man, Adam, the one who brought sin into the world. The life, death, and resurrection of Jesus put the world back in the order God intended, so that mankind can have authority over the devil and eventually authority even over death. This is what it means for all things, which includes death, to be placed under the feet of Jesus, meaning that he has authority over all. Paul then goes back to his argument regarding what a waste of time, what a waste of suffering he and other Christians endure if there is no resurrection. In fact, the motto of eating and drinking today, for tomorrow we die, would make sense if there is no resurrection. Live it up. Indulge the flesh. Why not? If there is no hope after this life, and with this life being so fleeting, why not find some pleasure before you become dust again? Such thinking makes sense. But Paul says next: do not be deceived. Evil company corrupts good habits. The type of thinking that leads you to pursue pleasure over righteousness is of the devil. Paul says next, awake, awake to righteousness and do not sin. And next comes the questions regarding exactly how this resurrection of our bodies will take place. How does it work? Paul answers by describing the new bodies that will replace the old bodies. Paul calls such bodies celestial bodies, which are bodies fit for heaven. He then comes to the principle I have referred to earlier. The principle follows the rule of first one thing and then another. Our bodies, our bodies were made from dust and thus limited And yet they will be raised in incorruption, meaning they cannot return to dust. He says, what was sown in weakness will be raised in power. And the example is Adam. Adam was made from dust, which is flesh. But the last Adam, who is Jesus, became a life-giving spirit. And then the passage I have been leading up to, I will read it in full. 1 Corinthians 15, beginning at verse 46. Paul says, however, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, and then afterward the spiritual. The first man was of the earth, made of dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust. And as is the heavenly man, so also are those who are heavenly. And as we have been born in the image of man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly man. The stated hope that Paul teaches is that believers will receive bodies that bear the image of Jesus, who is the heavenly man. And this is based on the principle in verse 46. The spiritual is not first, but the natural, the natural being our flesh. It is then the principle of first the flesh and then the spirit. This is foundational of our heavenly hope and our earthly living. So let us apply this principle of first the flesh and then the spirit to our given dilemmas. We had a young girl in a rut Who was primarily concerned about her friends posting on social media instead of being a faithful Christian and a productive citizen? The first way to apply the principle is for her to orderly structure her life so that when she regularly accomplishes a physical task, her spirit will be revived and she will want to accomplish more. In Dr. Jordan Peterson's book, Twelve Rules for Life, he recognizes this same principle by counseling people to make their bed every morning. The next step turns into keeping your bedroom in order, and then your house, and then your workplace, and soon you are living an orderly and productive, and for the Christian, a faithful life. First the flesh and then the spirit. The principle also applies to parenting The parent must train their child to be disciplined in the flesh. That is why purposeful parenting is so important. Because when the child is trained and thus gifted with self-control of the flesh He or she then has a spirit that follows, wanting to please the parent and eventually eventually wanting to please God. The principle of first the flesh and then the spirit is ingrained in us, and we don't know it. But I would wager that each of us can recall an incident. where we can identify that principle working within us. For example, one of my sheds goes from orderly to messy to orderly to messy in a predictable cycle. And I know, I know that if I start to pick up just one item and store it properly, my psyche, my spirit is going to see the results and I'm going to want to store something else properly. And do it again and again until the whole shed is orderly again. Such is how God made us But let's go back to our first example of a couple who are acting as roommates and not husband and wife. They don't want to be around each other. They don't even like each other, let alone love each other. And likely, one of the reasons their relationship has become what it is is the lack of intimacy. And by intimacy, I am not thinking only in terms of sexuality, but in terms of hugs, pecs, hand-holding And there may have been something that happened in their marriage that caused the physical separation, but a necessary way back To being husband and wife is to return to physical touch with the hope that the hurt that was the cause can then be addressed. First the flesh and then the spirit. There is a comic strip. It's been around for a while. It's not really comic, it's very serious, but it tells the story of this principle. It tells the story of a husband who is at the dinner table, and he tells his wife that he has fallen in love with another woman and he wants a divorce. She tells him that she has been waiting for their current conversation for a while as she has noticed him distancing himself from her and from their only son. She asked for two things from him before they officially divorced. She asked for him to wait until their son finished his school year, which was in a month. And in that month, that he would carry his wife to their bedroom each night until the month was done. The husband agreed. At first, it was awkward for both the husband and the wife, for he had not carried her since their honeymoon. And as you can imagine, the young son was overjoyed to see his parents doing what he thought was playing with one another. As the days went on, the carrying got less awkward, and the wife even found herself burying her head into her husband's chest. Well she did. He looked down and admired her beauty, admired her character, and this led to him appreciating her love. A few days before the month was over, the husband called his mistress and told her that they must end their relationship because he had fallen back in love with his wife. Now, in some renditions of the story, the husband returns home with flowers only to find his wife was dead, having died of a cancer never disclosed to him. But I don't like that ending. So we will say that the husband came home with flowers and asked his wife's forgiveness. while restating his vow to be her husband until death do they part. That makes us feel better. And regardless of the ending, the principle is effectual. First the flesh And then the Spirit. As I began this sermon, I state again that sermons should not be about life hacks or how-to's. But this principle is too good not to point out and proclaim it to you in order to help the Christian overcome besetting sins and broken relationships. A child doesn't want to pray. Have him kneel. Friends don't want to forgive. Have them hug. A person doesn't believe in the resurrection, look upon his pierced hands. First the flesh, and then the spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Well God, we're grateful for this principle. It's not hiding from us. It's a part of our everyday life. It's also a part of the kingdom that you created and the hope of the resurrection. May we use it to glorify you and to love one another. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.