Pero la bebida en la mente no la voy a llegar a tu ir, como no me agradezco nada, tu querido ir, señor. Name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The title of this sermon is Calamity in Texas. So you know where we're going this morning. We're going to be looking at Luke chapter 13, our gospel reading as well. The body count From the flood in Texas was not near complete, and the primary victims known on July 4th were young girls from a Christian camp. When the following was posted on social media, quote, may all visitors, children, non-MAGA voters, and pets be safe and dry. Kerr County MAGA voted to gut FEMA. They deny climate change. May they get what they voted for. Bless their hearts. Kerr County in Texas was the primary area hit by the flooding that took now well over 100 lives, including many girls attending Camp Mystic. The person who posted the condemnation of her political enemies was not just a physician, but a female pediatrician. And I read the quote again. May all visitors, children, non-MAGA voters, and pets be safe and dry. Kerr County, MAGA voted to gut FEMA. They deny climate change. May they get what they voted for. Bless their hearts. The following are other social media posts from the general public. From someone who goes by Samurai Barbie, quote, cry harder, Texas deserves it. From someone who goes by just some guy, quote, it's not awful. It's what Texas deserves And from someone who goes by Judea, quote, Texas deserves every flood, God has spoken, and it, it is God, hates Texas. There's more, much more, but these are enough examples to make the some to make some points. We can first notice That too many tragedies include natur including natural disasters have become politicized. Whatever the tragedy, it is a politician's fault, and the fault of all those who voted that politician into office. The second thing to notice is how these comments have a type of justice standard they have adopted. They believe in a form of justice and they believe in their righteousness, and so whoever disagrees with their politics and suffers is suffering because they are on the wrong side of a political issue. The third thing we notice is how falsely brave and self-righteous such anonymous comments are. This understanding of poetic justice and universal karma is not only noted by those on the liberal side of the politics or of the faith, but on the conservative side as well. Public comments were made about divine justice when fires burned in Malibu, a place where many Hollywood elites lived, and that was less than a year ago. Back in the 1980s, many Christians believed that the spread of AIDS was God's judgment on homosexuals. Individually Each of us has been tempted to question God when events in our lives don't go well, or when we get ill, or when we get injured. We are tempted to ask God what we did to deserve our present suffering. It seems ingrained in us that when something bad happens, it is because we have done something wrong Again, the desire to identify a cause and effect within any tragedy appears innate in each of us. We hear of a man committing heinous murders, and we want to identify what his past was like so that we can conclude what brought him to behave in such an evil manner. We hear of a woman engaging in immoral behavior, and we begin with the assumption that something drove her to behave in the way she did. What is likely the purpose of our desire to identify a cause in every tragedy is that we want to be able to control our future. And so we think that if we can avoid the causes of others, we can also avoid tragedies of others When it comes to natural disasters, we have another variable to understand, one much more mysterious than the human psyche. We appear to have the mind of God, for we make the automatic assumption that He is directly responsible for controlling all weather patterns and all seismic activity. If a devastating earthquake occurs, as it has in places like Haiti, where there was much devastation devastation, Christians can conclude that Such was the result of the people rejecting the gospel and embracing superstitions associated with witchcraft, which are also associated, of course, with the devil. If an earthquake, fire, and flood occur in places like Japan, we can conjecture that it was brought on by the nation's aggression during World War II. Or we can conclude that it is a punishment for its continued embrace of Buddhist tradition rather than responding to the missionaries who brought them the gospel. It could also be for the nation's trade imbalance with the United States, but I have not heard anyone project that theory yet To think that God in his sovereign plan is enacting vengeance on individuals and groups of people who do wrong against him in order to balance some type of cosmic scale. Is wrong-headed and shows no true understanding of the gospel. If there is a cosmic scale, it was violently tipped when Adam brought sin into the world. The gospel tells us that God isn't looking for mankind to balance it, for mankind can do nothing to appease him. And anyways, God does not want the scale balanced. He wants it fully tipped to the side of righteousness. And the only way that was going to happen is if his son Jesus became the perfect sacrifice to pay for the sins of the world, which we know he did. And that is why we are here this morning. If you anticipate that my attempt this morning is to answer the ultimate question Of why bad things happen to good people, I'm sorry to say I will disappoint you. The easiest answer to such a dilemma is to point out that when Adam brought sin into the world, he brought in a curse not just upon himself. and his offspring, but upon all of creation. When God says to Adam that the ground will bring forth thorns and thistles as a result of his sin, he is saying That all of creation, including vegetation, would be cursed. Because the ground is cursed Weather patterns are not safe and are unpredictable, no matter how many satellite systems a television news station owns. Because the ground is cursed, all forms of beds of water can overflow or dry up. Undesired rays fall in some areas and do not fall in other areas. Because the ground is cursed, winds can blow as a gentle breeze or Category 5 hurricane. Because the ground is cursed, the earth underneath is unsettled and moves without warning, causing devastation to anything that rests upon it. Because the earth is cursed. Because the earth is cursed if a if the people didn't cry out with Hosanna's Jesus said the rocks would do so, because even the rocks want to be redeemed. So why do bad things happen even to good people? They could simply answer, it is because of the sin of Adam and the curse that followed. But that would not be answering what we are truly asking. What we are truly asking is why bad things don't happen to all of us if Adam is to blame. We want to know why earthquakes, fires and floods seem to have selected places and selected times. We want to know if there is a specific purpose to everything that happens. And if there is, what is it? We especially want to know the specific purposes for the things that happen to us. And such questions, beloved, are not questions any minister can answer. What we can provide, however, is the wisdom that is given in somewhat obscure conversation. Jesus has A obscure, somewhat obscure conversation with strangers at the beginning of Luke chapter 13 I say it is obscure because it is between Jesus and those Luke says were present at the season. Those present are not given a name. The phrase season does not refer to a particular religious celebration, but a general reference to a nondescript time of year And the story referred to by the nondescript people during this nondescript time is one that is specifically recorded, not specifically recorded, excuse me, not specifically recorded elsewhere. The Jewish historian Josephus does record stories of Jews being murdered by Roman soldiers during Jewish festivals, so the events alluded to were not uncommon. We can imagine that there were men from Galilee who were merely accused of a crime against the Roman state, and as they were worshiping and offering sacrifices, were killed by the sword of the Roman soldiers. And the result was their blood mixing with the blood offered in worship. Those questioning Jesus were assuming at least two things First, Jewish Galileans are not as righteous as Jews from Jerusalem. Second People who suffer such horrible deaths must be guilty of something heinous to make them deserve their own fate. From Jesus' response in verse 2, we are able to note that the questioners did assume that the Galileans were worse sinners because of the manner they were killed. It is natural to wonder if these questioners knew that Jesus grew up in Galilee. If they did not, their question is comical, and if they did, their question is quite bold, for they are Taking a swipe at the righteousness of Jesus. And Jesus' response was a rhetorical question They did suppose the murdered Galileans were greater sinners because they understood the world to work in such a manner that worse sinners receive worse punishment in this life. Jesus doesn't directly refute their thinking, but only redirects. Redirects what they need to be most concerned about. Unless they repent. Unless they repent, they too will perish in the same manner. In what manner is that? Does Jesus mean that unless people repent, they will die by the sword or in some violent manner? Before we answer that, we need to listen to Jesus more. Jesus next mentions another historical catastrophe that is also not recorded elsewhere, but was obviously known by his listeners, likely making it a recent event. Apparently a tower was being built near the city's water supply, and when it was at a good height, it collapsed, killing 18 people. Jesus' rhetorical question about the victims being worse sinners implies that they were average citizens, simply average workers. The tragedy allowed for everyone to conclude that they could have easily been victim to the same event, for there was nothing about the dead that separated them from those who survived. These types of seemingly random tragedies wake all of us up from our daily doldrums. And the news media knows this. That is why they lead with stories that scare as much of the populace as they can. They want us all to think that we need to watch their news so that what happened to others won't happen to us. What Jesus wants us to understand and accept is that there is nothing you can do to prevent such tragedies from happening. Regardless of how safe you think you are, there are certain things in life that you and I simply have no control over. We try to build buildings so that they can withstand category five hurricanes or 10. 0 earthquakes. And we see what forces of nature can do in response. But beloved, we cannot build the Tower of Babel. You remember That the inhabitants of the earth responded after the great flood by building a tower that they thought would protect them from another flood. And God thwarted their plans. God did not allow it. He didn't allow it then, and he would not allow it ever. If we think that we we can do it for ourselves to prevent tragedy. We may have to learn the hard way that we are not our own defender. Jesus' teaching gives us at least one vital piece of wisdom. It is a wisdom that unites every catastrophe, every violent ending to another person. It is the wisdom that each tragedy tells us that we need to repent Or we too will find our life ending in a similar manner. But notice, please, that Jesus is not saying that every person who does not repent will find his or her life end tragically. When he says, you will all likewise perish, he is describing two things. First, that the unrepentant will perish in a manner that catches them unprepared to meet God. And second, that they will perish a second time, which will be their eternal punishment. The message in each example that Jesus gives remains the same. Repent now. The parable that follows must be dissected in detail at another time, but its main message, its main message, is the same as Jesus' previous lesson. Only this lesson is directed specifically at the Jews. They were given time to produce fruit. Jesus had been publicly in their midst for three years. After three years of having the Messiah with them, they did not bear fruit. Although the owner of the fig tree ordered the tree to be cut down, the keeper of the vineyard, Jesus. Pled on behalf of the fig tree that it be given one more year. Beloved God is slow to anger. Jesus desires the salvation of his people. God takes no enjoyment out of punishing the wicked. But fruitlessness cannot go on forever. The only means by which a man or woman can bear fruit is if he or she repents. Repentance. It sounds so very negative. It is a word that does not provide comfortable emotions. It does not sound like a happy word. The need to re for repentance means that we have done something wrong, terribly wrong, so wrong that we need to change direction, complete change. We have to do the opposite of what we are guilty of doing. Repentance assumes guilt, and guilt is in no way a happy word. And yet, and yet a result of repentance is a new beginning. Repentance provides a clean slate. Repentance is a means to remove guilt. Repentance places us on the road to eternal life. Perhaps repentance is a happy word, after all. From the examples Jesus uses To emphasize our need for every man, woman, and child to repent, we can see that part of our repentance should include our judgment of God. We judge God when we say that disasters caused by nature are unjust. We judge God when we think that tragedy should befall certain persons and should not befall other certain persons. The irony of such judgment is that our sense of justice actually comes from God. Without Him teaching us what it is to be just, our sense of justice would be distorted. And yet we easily judge God when we do not think a catastrophe played out the way it should have. We think we could have done better We are confident our way would have been more just. And from that type of thinking evermore, we must repent. When all is thought through, when all is considered, we must come to some basic conclusions about human suffering. We cannot possibly know God's sovereign plan. We cannot see the past working with the present toward the future, which contains God's plan of salvation. We cannot know how God is working in all dimensions of existence, so that all suffering is good in the end, for all that love him are called according to his purpose. The only true justice is enacted and defined by God Himself. In summary, I don't know what the people in Kerr County, Texas have done to deserve the suffering they have gone through and are going through. I can't unequivocally know what the people of Haiti or Japan were guilty of. I don't know what the people of New Orleans did. I don't know specifically what the people who worked in the World Trade Center towers did, or what the firemen did who worked to save them only to be buried under rubble. Can we say that God is trying to speak in a dramatic way to a city or a nation that suffers through a disaster? Absolutely. What he specifically is saying, only those who suffer can truly say. What he is saying to every person, everywhere, out of every disaster, is the need to repent. And he is ready and willing to forgive. And all of God's people said. Amen. Let us pray. Father, we are grateful that we can find comfort in your holy word. Jesus, we thank you for teaching us, for helping us see things through your eyes. And see what is necessary, what is most important. Not this life, not this life, but the life to come. Father, we all pray for those who are still suffering so mightily from this great loss in Texas. We ask, dear Lord, that you would be their comfort, that you would be their strength, and Father, bring them to repentance. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.