In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We are actually covering the narrative of Genesis 6 through 8. So if you want to follow along In case you haven't noticed, I have been preaching through Genesis using an interpretative technique titled typology. Bible interpreters can be placed into four camps, or at least I place them in four camps. The first camp interprets the Bible, failing to connect the stories and the themes. And thus the Bible is like a set of fables to them. The second camp connects the Old Testament stories together, and so as far as they can be understood, they're just by themselves Failing to connect the Old Testament to the New Testament, treating them as truly two separate books and thus two separate covenants. The third can't connects the biblical stories of the Old and the New Testament together to make a chain The chain links allow us to see the connection between the promised seed in Genesis to the child born of a virgin in Bethlehem. The chain links convince us that the covenant of Abraham is the covenant of Christ, and that they are both by faith. Such an understanding of the whole of Scripture is glorious to behold, and well blessed is a people to receive such teaching. I used to be in the third camp until now. Now I am part of a fourth camp. The fourth camp does more than connect the stories of Scripture as in one chain. Holy Scripture, as far as I can understand it, is more like a male shirt. We normally think of the word mail in terms of what we receive in our mailboxes. The word mail, however, originally meant chain. It was used to refer to delivering letters because the letter was a sort of chain that connected people. A mail or chain shirt comes from medieval armor that was worn by knights and others to protect them from harm of a swiped sword I believe the Word of God is more like a male shirt because it is a series of chain links. connecting in more than one direction to form a protection, a protection against falsehood. Typology, like a male shirt, connects many different biblical stories, themes, and theological truths so that the fullness of Scripture can be understood and applied without contradiction. Now, a criticism of typology is that it appears to ignore or discredit the historical truths. of particular biblical characters, places, and events. For some, the perspective treats the biblical stories again as mere fables But this is refuted by pointing out that typology not only does not ignore historical truths, but actually expounds upon them. Cain and Abel are perfect examples. Cain and Abel were real men. They were the first two sons born to Adam and Eve. Cain truly, actually, and with malice killed Abel. All information told as facts in Scripture regarding the two brothers, we can accept as truth. And yet there is more to the story. We learned that Cain was a man of the flesh, Abel a man of the spirit. From Adam comes flesh and spirit, and the two are opposed to one another, just as the New Testament says. Where the typology of Cain and Abel has its appeal is that we know the same is true with each of us, within us. The flesh and the spirit are at odds. Where the Spirit is willing, the flesh is weak. Although we know what is right to do, we fail to do it. We find both the fruit of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit coming out of us. The battle raged between the brothers helps us understand what is going on inside us. The birth of Seth and the line of the Spirit continues to give us hope that in the end the Spirit will win out. The New Testament uses typology as an example, is the typology of Noah, and the flood being as our baptism. But before we get there, I wish to show you the many typologies in the story of Noah. First, we examine the increase of sin that brings about the flood. The multiplying of men automatically results in the multiplying of sin. Church leaders don't often consider the reality that the more members you have in your church, the more sin is multiplied in your midst. That should not dissuade the church from evangelism, but only make the point that with more people come more problems And this increase in sin includes the multiplying of those in the line of Cain and those in the line of Seth, flesh and spirit. Daughters of men are described here in Genesis to represent the affections of men. Our affections are not our emotions, although our emotions add to our affections. Affections are those things we long for to provide us deep satisfaction. These affections, these daughters of men, well, they are attractive So attractive that they get the attention of the sons of God. There is great debate as to who the sons of God are, and I am not going to spend my time debating it. I will simply side with those who understand them to be angels or heavenly creatures Thus, we have affections seducing spirits, and the results in the narrative are giants. These giants are both large physical beings, and they are earth-borne thoughts which are full of crime and violence. They are colossus sinners who epitomize how depraved and destructive the flesh can be when it is enlarged. The confusion as to the identity of the sons of God and their interaction with the daughters of men reflects the confusion brought about by the mixture of the flesh and the spirit. Such a mixture is warned against in the law of Moses as the Israelites were commanded not to intermarry with pagan nations. It is also warned about in the New Testament when the Apostle Paul tells those Corinthian Christians not to be unequally yoked. To be unequally yoked is to be married to someone who is pulling in life in a different direction than faith in God would take him. To not intermix with unbelievers is also warned against as Christians are told that friendship with the world, you know it, hostility toward God. The result of faith's intermarrying and friendships with the worldly ideas and philosophies is Colossus sin, both in mind and action. It is colossus because it mixes together truth with lies. It allows foxes to sleep with hens and wolves to sleep with lambs. When such syncretism occurs, there is never an instance where those of the Spirit raise up toward godliness, those of the flesh. It's always the other way around Like King Solomon marrying women who worship idols, men born of the Spirit are brought down, brought low when they intermix with people of the flesh. And because these people had tasted the heavenly gift and then departed from it, as the writer to the Hebrews tells us, it would have been better that they had never known the truth. God has no choice but to destroy humanity. The sin is too large. And yet, thankfully, there is another type in this story. A man named Noah finds grace in the eyes of the Lord. With Noah, God would start the generations of man over again. Noah is a man of the spirit. He is in the line of Seth. Noah is one man, the only man among all other men that is considered righteous. His loneliness among men is a precursor and shadow of another man to come, who will also be alone among men in his righteousness. And yet by him all who would be saved are saved. Noah is also like the man to come in that he is to work with wood. He is a carpenter of swords, as God instructs him to build a boat. The wood that he is to cut down and reform will be fashioned into a work of faith. that is a vehicle of safety for those who cling to it as a symbol of judgment to those who mock it. As the ark was made up of many beams, so is the cross made of beams, and it too delivers Christians from the world. Another way that Noah is a new Adam is the way that he recovers man's power over the beasts. It is not for mere practicality that God brings in each species of beast two by two so that their kind can be saved. It is also to demonstrate that the salvation of mankind includes restoration. God is saving man and restoring him to the Garden of Eden, where beasts and men dwell in peace. God's chosen means by which he would save mankind consisted of both destruction and preservation. We also know it as death and resurrection. God chose to flood the earth, killing all of mankind except the household of Noah The rest of the earth that is living, the vegetation, the animals, are also killed, except those who are led into the ark. So just as the sin of Adam affected all of creation, so does the colossus sin of mankind in Noah's day. The result of sin is still death. Now for some, it is tempting to question why God would choose a flood. Again, I remind you that it is not for us to ask why, but for us to accept what is or what was. From a typological view, the purpose of the flood is first to judge the sin of mankind And then to point to the salvation men will find by being baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. It is the Apostle Peter who draws a direct relationship from the salvation Christians have in the sacrament of baptism to the flood in Noah's day. Eight souls were saved through the water. Those eight souls were souls of Noah's family. Peter uses that historical fact to refer to Christian baptism. Christian baptism saves because it symbolizes man being dead in his sin. Christian baptism saves because it is a profession in the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Christian baptism saves because it is done in the name of the Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. We established a distinction between the land and water when we discussed creation in chapter one. Remember that the water represents the pagan nations, and the land represents the people of God, his chosen people. It is appropriate then for the water to overrun mankind, for all men but Noah became men of the flesh. To be saved in this life, Noah is not taken out like Enoch, but is assigned by God to endure the flood. And yet he does more than endure. We are to notice that the Lord shuts in the occupants of the ark. That means that their souls are secure. Those within could not get out, and that was a good thing. Thus being shut in, they are prisoners, but listen, prisoners of hope. Their salvation is secured, and so it is with all of those who are in the covenant with the living God. Their salvation cannot be taken from them. He has locked his people down so that they cannot be lost, even when they foolishly want to stray. And second, we notice that the Ark is a home. It is a house for Noah, his family, and the animals chosen by God. As such, it is like the church. For it is within the church that God's people are saved from a world that is drowning. And if you paid any attention to the hearings these past weeks, you know the world is drowning. The word for church you remember is eklesia, meaning the called out ones Moses and his family were called out from among all other men. Christians are called out from among all other men as well, and the church building is where they gather To be saved, it was necessary that they stayed in the ark. They most assuredly became tired of one another. No doubt they were tempted to be fearful, frustrated, anxious. That is what occurs when people go through a trial together. Surely the odor within the ark was difficult to bear on the certain days with animals present? Sometimes the church is like the ark. It's not a very pleasant place to be. But the church, like the ark, is God's chosen vessel to save his people. As I described during my sermons on Christian worship, you will remember that the pews have traditionally been aligned like those in this sanctuary, not because it is the most practical way to hear a sermon or to sing together, but to replicate a galley in a ship. Early Christian architects wanted the building and its furnishings to communicate a theological truth And so the pews were placed in a position that would remind us that we are servants on the same ship. And to get where we all want to go, that beautiful heavenly shore, we must row together. And the third thing we notice is that the ark is said to have gone through the flood. This is such an important point. The New King James Version says that the ark moved about the face of the waters. It went through the rolling waves. It was tossed and tilted. Water crashed upon its sides, and still it remained on top of the waters. The point to be made here is that God's people are not saved from trials, tribulations, death, and judgment, but through them. And I will say it again, we are saved through them. There is no place for name it, claim it theology in the midst of a flood. There is no prosperity doctrine that is going to save a man from a time of trial. All who have been baptized into the Christian faith must understand that part of that sacrament includes being baptized into Christ's death. Noah and his family were baptized through the flood. Within the flood was death, and within them was fear of death. That's what it is to go through. Every one of the three thousand that were baptized on the day of Pentecost after Peter preached and told them to repent and be baptized to be saved. Every one of them was soon to discover that once you are marked by Christ, you will go through trials and tribulations. It's inevitable. As a Christian, the world hates you. The devil will unceasingly tempt you. And God, yes, will test you. And with all of that going on, we struggle within ourselves not to walk into our own temptation. In one sense, I thought this week, it is odd that we celebrate a baptism. For when an adult or a child is baptized, it assures a life of trials and tribulations. Temptations and testing will assuredly follow It is not an easy road we set for our children that we set for new believers. Yet all of us who have been baptized are on that same road. And it's narrow. And few travel on it. We are on the same road because we believe. We have faith that in getting through the trial, death, and judgment, there is a reward too wonderful to describe. For Noah, his family, and the cargo within the Ark, the reward was dry land. The land is first felt rather than seen as the ark runs aground, but land is not detected by sight. It is like the apostles who saw an empty grave and they weren't sure what it meant. They felt something. There was evidence of hope, but their eyes had not yet detected a rising. For Noah and family, it was in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, that land was seen. Just as in the days of creation, when land rose up from the water, so it did again. It is a resurrection. or a precursor to a more glorious one when the Son of God will rise from the land Thus, the appearance of land reminds us that we are not only baptized into Jesus' death, but also into his resurrection. That is why we believers choose the narrow road. That is why we remain on that road through trials, tribulations, death, and judgment, at the other end is our resurrection, our eternal life. When land was spotted by Noah, chapter 8, verse 6, records that he opened the window of the ark. What a great metaphor for what God has done for all who have been baptized in his name. He lets us see land when he opens a window. He gives us glimpses into heaven when he opens a window. He lets us see the byproduct of resurrection even before we experience it ourselves. Consider. Have you ever had hearty fellowship with family or Christian friends when the stories are full of life and the room is filled with laughter? That is an open window. If you have ever felt the love of another human being to where you swear it is unconditional and honest. That is a window opened. When you stop and look at God's created work around you, and a sense of awe and wonder floods your soul, that is an open window. When you are at peace with all people that you know, and your conscience is clear, and you lay your head down at night in peace, that is a window opened. The flood was the greatest judgment God placed upon the earth, upon humanity. It took away life from man and beasts. And yet in the midst of such great judgment is an open window that gives promises of a better day, a day of resurrection. This narrative in Genesis is not complete until we add what is seen on the throne room of the exalted Jesus as it is described in the book of Revelation. There you remember Jesus sits with a sea of glass before him and a rainbow that is a full circle. The sea that raged and destroyed is now calm and serves as a reflector in heaven. It reflects heaven. The promises of God are so true and thus fulfilled that the rainbow itself is complete. That is the end of the story of Noah and the flood, and we anxiously await that end. Until then, we need to keep some windows open. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth that is set herein in this narrative. Noah, his family, the flood, judgment, and here, yes, resurrection. Bless our minds, dear Lord, that we might believe even more to see how you planned it all along. You have always planned our salvation. May we embrace it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.