May the words of my mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength. And our Redeemer, in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Foundation. Foundation. What is to be laid to enable a structure to be built up and remain sturdy? Foundation. The element of an architectural structure which connects it to the ground and transfers loads from the structure to the ground. Foundation A skin-colored makeup applied to the face to create an even uniform color to the complexion to cover flaws. Which definition do we need for our second foundation stone? I suppose either the first two will suffice. And what is to be built on the foundation stones that ought to be laid in the life of every Christian? The preacher to the Hebrews says that the end goal we are to build toward in our lives is perfection. And perfection is holiness. And holiness is a state of being sinless. And the state of being sinless is our heavenly reward Laying these foundation stones, then, is a part of our journey to the celestial city, heaven. This is the second installment of our summer series of sermons based on Hebrews chapter 6, verses 1 through 3. There you recall we are given six foundation stones that are to be already established in a Christian's life. And if they are not already established, then they need to be immediately. The challenge for this preacher is coming up with something that is new or interesting to be said about the foundation stone of faith I tend to think that it needs to be something new or something interesting so that it will stay with us. But sometimes nothing new needs to be said because what has already been said is worth repeating. Faith. We read it in our epistle lesson. Faith is best defined in the book of Hebrews to be the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of that which is not seen The substance of faith is the ground or the base upon which we rest our hope. It is the reason for our hope. It is to be the confidence of our hope. Thus, faith is not something that abides on its own But it has to be attached to something greater than itself. And in the case of a Christian, Faith is grounded in the person of Jesus of Nazareth. It is the person of Jesus upon which our faith is grounded. Jesus is who gives us confidence in what we hope for And the hope consists of things that we have not experienced, but only desire to experience. And it is faith that makes those things real to us before we experience them. The early church fathers used the promise of our resurrection. Jesus raised and we are to be raised, and they said that we have faith in our resurrection, even though we have not, of course, experienced it as of yet. But faith allows our resurrection to be a reality. To us, even before we die. Faith The evidence of things not seen. Evidence is demonstration. The demonstration of things not seen Evidence is convincing proof. Convincing proof of what The answer is things not seen. Faith is convincing proof of things not seen. And what are things not seen? Well, the the spiritual world is not seen, not seen by the human eye Christians have convictions that the spiritual world exists, and that means, yes, there are angels, and yes, there are devils They are real, and there is a heavenly realm, and that God is spirit, and that the Holy Spirit is as real as the Son and as the Father. All of it is unseen, and yet we are to be convinced of its being real, just as everything else in life we experience as being real. In um in my teaching I use a sleight-of-hand trick to help my students understand that although we depend a great deal upon our senses to understand the world in which we live That does not mean that our senses are always reliable. I put a substance, sometimes a coin, in this case just a Top of a pen in my hand and I take my other hand and people watch the other hand, right, and it makes it look like you're picking that thing up and you didn't It's the easiest slide of hand trick there is, once practiced. It looks like the objects transferred to this hand when in secret it was actually dropped into the other hand. And it's supposed to make you realize that what you think you see actually didn't happen. And what happened was actually hidden from your eyes. And that's very much like the spiritual world. We do not see what is actually before us. Unless we see it by faith. Understanding that there's a world out there going on that we cannot see, that we do not know so much about But think about that there are other things that we do not see. We do not see love, for example. And I know we see expressions of love, a good hug, a good kiss. We see examples of love, of people doing service to another. But we do not see the substance of love as if it is a physical being. And we do not see forgiveness. We do not see sins being tossed physically as far as the East is from the West. We do not see actual blood washing away the debt of sin. But love and forgiveness are as real as any other reality that we you and I can know. And yet, love and forgiveness are only real to those who know Jesus, who love Jesus. For it is only knowing Jesus as Savior that a person can know true love, not the love they sing about on the radio. But the true love of God, an actual forgiveness, eternal forgiveness. And so faith is the evidence of love And forgiveness. Both are not seen. But faith, faith gets a bad rap, doesn't it? Faith is spoken about in unfriendly tones, in even judgmental tones. Faith is said to be A cheap way to justify a belief in God when there is no empirical evidence to prove that God exists. To underline the bad rap faith is given, the word blind is tacked on. And so a person is accused of having blind faith. But blind faith in reality is just faith given a first name when it is ridicule. To the unfaithful, the people who claim faith, who claim no faith, those who have faith to them are ignorant. They are said to believe in God because they need to believe in something greater than self in order to understand the world and their purpose in the world. God was described by Sigmund Freud, that most famous of psychoanalysts. He described the belief in God as a belief in a Superman figure A Superman figure that weak-minded people need to have in order to believe that they can be saved from my circumstances. And such is the same argument against Christians as the crutch that we have heard for centuries. Jesus is said to be a crutch for us. And with that character, we are to be embarrassed because anyone who uses a crutch Well, they're less than whole, and they're dependent upon the help of something other than self Of late, however, Christians have begun to accept this character of having Christ as a crutch with pride. I recently saw a bumper sticker that said, Jesus is not a crutch. If anything, he is a stretcher. Such accepts the identity of being weak, of being wounded, of being in the need of help. But does not the scripture say that we are dead in our trespasses and sins? And when a person is dead, he needs a stretcher. Jesus is our stretcher, and we say that by faith If anything, Freud was identifying what nature reveals to us, which is that we need a Superman. It is true that we need somebody to save us. And so faith is positively divine as substance of things hoped for. And evidence of things not seen. And then after the positive definition We can even do better if we recognize that faith has its counterfeits. If we look at Hebrews chapter 6, and you can turn there in your Bibles to be helped along, in Hebrews chapter 6, 1 through 3. We can see a different angle about faith when we see that it is presented to us as a parallelism. Now, scholars have long marked the use of parallelisms as a foundation for Hebrew poetry. And we find parallelisms all over the Psalms, and I'll give you a brief example. Here in Psalm 24, Verses 1 through 2 it says, The earth is the Lord's and everything in it. The world and all who live in it. For he established it upon the seas and established it upon the waters Now to say the earth is the Lord's and everything in it, that is stated next by the line, all who live in it. It's a parallelism, a repeat. To say God established it upon the seas, and next to say he established it upon the waters is to say the same thing, only in a different manner. That's a parallelism. Parallelisms are also stated to contrast two things. And so we look at Hebrews 6, verses 1 through 3. With parallelisms in mind, And we can learn that faith is not as it is contrasted against dead works. Faith is not dead works. Remember, the first foundation stone is repentance from dead works. And then the next is faith toward God. And we learned two weeks ago that dead works consist of things that we tried to do to earn God's favor. To repent from such works can also be said to be having faith in God. It's the opposite. Thus, the parallelism is that instead of trusting in works to find favor with God, we do the opposite, which is to have faith in God. Perhaps the most fundamental understanding of faith is found in St. Paul's words to the Christians at Ephesus, where he states. By grace, you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift from God. From these words we learn again that faith is something attached to something greater. Christians, and hear this now, Christians don't have faith in faith. Christians have faith in Jesus who procured our salvation. Our faith in Jesus then acts as a conduit that enables grace to flow to us. Faith, then, is a means by which God's grace, his forgiveness, his blessings are given to us. A necessary means. Next, Paul clears up a possible misunderstanding and thus a misapplication of being saved by grace through faith by informing Christians that faith that each of us has For God flows to us as a gift from God The faith we have then is not our faith as if we own it ourselves or conjured it up ourselves, came up with it ourselves, as if we can get more if we desire But instead, it comes from God. As a Christian, I believe because God enables me to believe by giving me faith. The gift of faith is why one group of people will hear the good news of Jesus living and dying and rising again and they give their life to him because of it. And others hear the same message and find no reason to believe and yet turn away from the gospel instead and continue as their own God. The group that turns away does not have faith given by God to believe Let me add more to this. Faith as a gift is further explained in Scripture. As a special gift given by God to certain Christians for the edification of the church. It is listed as a gift by St. Paul in his first letter to the Corinthians. He lists faith along with the gift of tongues, the gift of healing, and others. And because of this faith that is given to all who believe in Jesus as Savior, that faith is titled Saving Faith. Whereas the gift of faith that edifies the church is called the spiritual gift of faith The spiritual gift of faith is displayed when Christians respond with strong and unshakable confidence in God in the midst of very trying times. Consider whereas I could hear, God forbid, that my wife has been stricken with cancer, and I could crumble emotionally My daughter or sons could hear the same news and remain joyful and steadfast with the hope for healing. And that joy and that hope displays the spiritual gift of faith. When someone displays the spiritual gift of faith, it strengthens God's people. It strengthens those who are struggling to trust God, to trust His providence. And it also reminds each of us to pray, asking God for more faith. As we realize faith only comes from Him. He made us, He saved us, and He continues to save us by faith. Faith is something we ask for, just as that father who had that possessed child, Jesus asked him, Do you believe? And he said, and we must repeat it. I believe help my unbelief. Ask for faith As you know, the Bible is filled with stories of men and women of great faith. And their stories are told again and again as encouragement that you and I would apply the faith given to us in moments that try us and tempt us. We must apply the courage faith like that of Daniel who slept with hungry lions. We must apply fearless faith, that of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Who were confident that a fiery furnace would not take them from the presence of God. We must apply the undaunted faith of Moses, who could see a path through the Red Sea before it parted. We must apply the curiosity faith of Rahab, who did not know the God of Israel, but knew that he was mightier than any God the people of Jericho worshipped. We must apply the against all faith of David, who believed a rock could bring down a great giant. We must apply the counter-cultural faith of Elijah, who alone challenged the prophets of Baal to a duel and saw God destroy them by fire. And we must have the personal faith in Jesus practiced by the apostles, who believed every word that he said, and went out and about. Making disciples in the known world. And finding stories about outside the Bible about faith being applied. To trying and tempting times is easy because Christians have been collecting those stories for generations. We have the Fox's book of martyrs that inform us that each of the apostles died in their faith in Jesus. In faith, James the Great, brother to John, died by beheading. In faith, Philip was scourged, imprisoned, and afterwards crucified. In faith, Matthew was speared to death. In faith, James, the brother to our Lord, was stoned and clubbed to death In faith, Matthias, the one chosen to replace Judas, was stoned and beheaded. In faith, Andrew was crucified on an X-shaped cross. In faith, Peter was crucified upside down. In faith, Paul was beheaded by a sword. In faith, Jude was also crucified. In faith, Bartholomew was cruelly beaten and then crucified. By faith, Thomas, like Matthew, was on the wrong end of a spear. By faith, Simon the Zealot joined those who had been crucified. And many, many more died with their faith in Jesus intact. And while I put before us many faithful examples of Christians maintaining their faith until their last breath, It is a failing of this preacher to only put great stories of faith before us. We must not underestimate. The examples of every day, day in and day out, faith that is practiced by so many among us and who have gone before us. No book of martyrs Is written for the mother who by faith changes the diapers of her children and keeps the kitchen floor clean. No record is kept of the father who gets up before the Son and puts in eight or more hours of work every day but Sunday so that his family has food and clothing and many more things. No award is given in this life at least that recognizes a woman who stays in a marriage in which she is not happy. No well done is spoken to the life of a teenager in this life who resists the temptations in which his peers wallow. And yet every day, everyday faith is essential because everyday faith is saving faith. Everyday faith says that Jesus is Lord and Savior, regardless of what is on the news. Everyday faith says that circumstances in this life do not dictate who is God, and that there is one God who is revealed to us as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Everyday faith sees eternal value in the mundane things of life And so faith is a foundation stone in the Christian life. Our perfection, our holiness, our eternal reward is built upon the faith that we have. In Jesus as our Savior and our God. And faith is a gift from God. Both saving faith and spiritual gift of faith are gifts from God. And we can ask for more if we need it. And God will grant it. Such is the nature of the foundation of faith. May it be firmly established in us all. Let us pray. Our Father I confess there is much more to be said about faith. But we pray here that what is foundational about it would be established in all of our lives. And we say together, I believe, help my unbelief. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.