In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I do really I truly encourage you to turn to Revelation chapter 6. We're covering verses 1 through 8, and if you're not following along in the scriptures, it will get confusing. So encourage you, Revelation 6, 1 through 8. Up to this point in Revelation, I believe I have not said anything regarding the meaning of the book that is controversial. I have inferred a certain position about the end times, and I know scholars who disagree with my position, but I have not overtly stated it because the text has not required it. That will change today. Before we discuss the breaking of each of the first four seals and the horses that appear in the Revelation as a result of the breaking of the seals, I want to go back and briefly discuss the content of the scroll Be reminded that the scroll taken by the lamb is written on both sides. We said that such description is similar to the Ten Commandments as described in the Book of Exodus That relation means that the scroll contains God's words and thus God's will. It is worth noting that the scroll, even after all of the seals are broken, is never formally read. The content of the scroll is never explicitly revealed. Because each seal reveals a dramatic scene We are to understand the scene and what it symbolizes as God's word or God's will being fulfilled. Thus, the very least we can say is that the scroll contains the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, and the mysteries are revealed with each seal that is broken. Another important point to understand before we begin to understand the meaning of the four horsemen is that nowhere in this chapter is there a reference to time. I point this out because some scholars have interpreted these revealed horses to be successive chronologically, but such an understanding does not come from the text At the end of this sermon, you will understand why it is not necessary to perceive these horses to appear chronologically. After the first seal is opened by the lamb, who is the only one worthy to open the seals of the scroll, immediately the white horse and its rider appear. John takes notice of them after being directed by a living creature around the throne. John had numbered the creatures in chapter 4, and he stays with those numbers. as a reference in his description. The first beast, you remember, had the face of a lion. It is that beast that tells John, Come. The direct to come is emphatic. It is the same cry God uses to call his people to worship. It is the same directive that God uses at his second coming advent when he will tell his bride to come to him. What John is about to see is related to the salvation of the world. It is fitting that that beast with the face of a lion, symbolic of Jesus as the lion of the tribe of Judah. Thunders forth the directive for John to come and behold. White represents purity and is a dominant color in heaven. Horses throughout the Old Testament and in ancient Middle Eastern cultures were symbolic for war. A man who rode a horse toward a city was a man coming in war. Watchmen were instructed to alert authorities in a city if a man were riding toward the city on horses because it was culturally understood that they were coming against the city. A man who came on a donkey, like Jesus did when he entered Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, it meant he was coming in peace. If a man was coming to a city on a white horse, he was doing so to declare victory It was Roman custom for a Roman general or Caesar himself to switch horses after a battle by climbing on a white horse, ride into the city, and declare victory. Remember, Christians, the revelation of John is written not only to describe the victory of Jesus over sin and death, but to declare it. Jesus won the victory at his resurrection. The white horse and its rider are symbolic of the victorious Christ. The psalmist gave a prophecy about this very scene in Psalm 45, where it reads, Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O mighty one. In thy splendor and thy majesty, and in thy right hand teach thee awesome things. Thine arrows are sharp, the peoples fall under thee. Thine arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. That the rider represents Christ is further clarified by the crown that is upon his head No crown is given to anyone in the book of Revelation that is not thrown back to the one who is worthy to wear the royal symbol. The worthy one is Christ alone. The white horse being revealed first is not chronological, but it's theological. For it proclaims that all that is to come from the next six seals comes under the banner of the victory of Christ. This is a needed message for persecuted Christians in the first century and Christians of every age Who would become anxious over wars, over famines, over pestilence, over persecution, over disease, over pandemics What comes with the next three horsemen does not come outside of or instead of the authority of Christ, but is a reflection of the victory of Christ. These come because Christ is victor. After the second seal is opened, the second living creature that had a face like an ox or cattle instructs John to come His directive is also emphatic. The second horse is described as fiery red. The rider of the horse was given power to take peace from the earth and make men slay one another. To further symbolize his purpose, he wields a large sword. This second horse, this red horse, symbolizes war. We must remember the words of Jesus at this point, saying, I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. Also, he said, he who lives by the sword will die by the sword. Some have interpreted this horse, and others that follow as being evil or a release of the demonic. This is unnecessary and is caused by a false perception of God. Some refuse to acknowledge God as an avenger. But God has always revealed Himself as an avenger. He brought a flood upon the earth because of the evil practiced by men. He rained fire from heaven upon Sodom and Gomorrah because they would not repent. He conquered cities within the promised land, ordering the death of all citizens because they continued to bow in honor of false gods. The horse in red that symbolizes war is a horse that is of God and given power by God to perform the assigned task. It is beneficial to our weak minds and our feeble hearts to know that wars on earth are not outside of God's will. When Christians hid from the wrath of Nero, when they marched against the Muslims, when they put a red coat in their gunsight. When they found shelter from the bombings of the Nazis, when they made their way to the beaches of Normandy, when they fought in the deserts of Iraq and Afghanistan. Each and every one of them had to know that such wars around the world were not outside of God's plan. War can be confusing regarding the cause and objectives, but for Christians, wars always fall under the mysteries of God's kingdom. They are confusing because man is confused in his sin. But such confusion is also a part of God's plan. When the third seal is open, the creature who has a face of a man says to John in the same emphatic way as the other creatures before, Come, he says. The horse that is revealed next is black in color. The rider holds a pair of scales The scales are balancing scales. The scales are used to judge and determine value. Black is typical of woe and mourning. Woe and mourning in this case involves scarcity of food. A voice from the throne, unidentified, announces the price The measure of food was what was allotted to soldiers for a day. Thus, a man can only afford to feed himself from day to day. The cost is too great for a man to feed his family. There will not be enough money to spend or save beyond that which is necessary. The common man will suffer, the poor man will starve. Graciously, there is a restriction placed upon the horse and the rider. They are prohibited from hurting the oil and the wine. The oil is used to make bread and to soothe wounds. The wine is to make glad the hearts of men. Their prohibition is both practical and spiritual, for oil and wine are part of the church's ministry. Oil is used to anoint the sick, and wine is used to remember the poured-out blood of the Savior. Historically, not long after this vision given to John, there was a famine recorded in the region under the reign of Claudius. The famine did not overlook the Christians, as many suffered and hungered, and died. But the famine under Claudius was not the last famine There have been famines all over the world, and Christians, along with non-Christians, have suffered because of lack of food. It is worth noting again that the events symbolized in these horses are not chronological and may actually occur concurrently. War and famine often occur side by side. One may even cause the other. In the history of man, many have suffered because of war and famine. The fourth seal is then broken. Another call to come is made to John by the fourth beast, who we remember to have the face of an eagle. The horse is described as being pale. The Greek word for pale is chloros, literally meaning greenish white. It is a color of a person who is stricken with disease or with death. The Greeks used the word to describe people who were afflicted by a plague. The color is consistent with the name of the one who rides the horse, whose name is death. Directly associated with death is Hades. who in this vision is the dwelling place of the dead personified. We are told that Bay, the Bay meaning death and Hades were given power over a fourth of the earth to kill by sword, famine and plague, and by wild beasts of the earth That death and Hades are restricted to a fourth of the earth is significant for hopefully obvious reasons. First, they are not given authority to judge the whole earth, although the whole earth is worthy of such a judgment. God's grace, exhibited by a restrained hand, is practiced here. Also, the number four is symbolic of the whole earth, as in the four corners of the earth, which you remember is to refer to the earth as an altar to God. These two thoughts together allow us to conclude that death and Hades have authority that is restricted to a fourth of the earth, and the fourth of that earth is spread throughout the globe. Another interesting reference to sight regarding the authority of death and Hades is Ezekiel 14, verse 21. God proclaims through Ezekiel that he will judge Jerusalem by those four dreadful judgments: sword, famine, plague, and wild beasts. These are the same manners of death brought on by the riders of death here listed. The people of Jerusalem were to suffer because of their rebelliousness before God by the four judgments listed by John and receive the description of the four horses The following application then cannot be avoided. In seventy A. D. A little less than 40 years after the death and resurrection of Jesus, the city of Jerusalem was overrun by Roman forces. Thousands of Jews were killed, and many more were thrown out of the city. The temple was desecrated, and Roman forces occupied the holy places as well as the seats of local government. Could the fall of the city of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. be the fulfillment of the prophecy of Ezekiel and the vision of the pale horses? Who rider is death followed by Hades? I believe the answer is yes. I also believe that its fulfillment does not begin and end with the fall of Jerusalem. It is necessary for us to remember the words of our Lord to his disciples When he warned them that they will hear of wars and rumors of wars. Such things will happen, but the end is still to come. He warned that nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. There will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All of these are the beginning of the birth pains, which means the beginning of the end. From the time of Christ's resurrection until today. We could map the wars of men and their outcomes along with the famines that have swept through certain lands There are body counts too numerous for us to comprehend and disease that every culture has struggled to overcome. Each of these periods could be said to be a result of the first four seals having been broken and the release of the four horsemen and the apocalypse. Take, for example, the upheaval in the Iraq War three decades ago When America first engaged Iraq in war in 1991, numerous books were written by Christian communities confirming that Armageddon had begun. What we may call those books now is a fulfillment of Jesus' words, which is wars and rumors of wars. Because these horses of the apocalypse are general in their description, every decade in history is being described by the authority given to these respected writers. Every age of man has consisted of men fighting against and killing one another. Every age has suffered times of famine and disease. Every time there is a war, famine, or disease, death and Hades are present. The four horsemen of the apocalypse. are symbolic of every age of man even before the time of Christ. Take, for example, the time of the plague in the Middle Ages The Christians of that day believed the end of time was at hand, because the four horsemen, the one that was pale, whose rider was deaf, had obviously been released upon them. But such a time was not the end of time. The period of mass deaths eventually ended in Europe and was then followed by wars between Christians and famines again. And famines again. And wars again. So that you are clear about the application of this passage for us, I will be clearer about what I am saying. The first four seals of the scrolls have already been broken. The four horsemen have been released and have practiced their authority since the day of John's vision. Our focus, however, is not to be upon the latter three horses, but upon the one who was first. We are to believe in the one who was in white, who wore the crown and carried the bow. He is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He will come into the revelation again toward the end, claiming to be King of Kings and Lord of Lords. What is to be understood by Christians who were being persecuted in the first century, and Christians from that day until this one, who have been persecuted? Put to death, suffered in war, suffered in famine, suffered in disease, and mourned because of the death in this life. What is to be understood is that all of this is done. In opposition to Christ victorious. It is all coming under the authority of the first horse of the first rider. It is all coming under the authority of Christ as victor. Christians who can wrap their hearts and minds around such a truth will not will not shake a fist at God when a loved one is killed in battle or by disease. Or death that comes to a loved one too early. Such is part of God's plan. All of it comes under his authority. It might not appear so to our perspective, but our perspective be damned. The vision of the four horsemen is not to frighten Christians, but to encourage them. What is painful in this life is a necessary part of God's plan towards our salvation. The white horse and its rider lead the way. Those that follow follow under his authority What we may fear from the vision of these horses are troubles in life that we have experienced. But there is nothing new under the sun. Nothing new under the sun when we f when referring to the troubles of men. What we as Christians are to understand is that all surrender to the white horse and its rider. It's rider who wears a crown. It's rider who carries a bow. It's rider who is victorious now until the end of time. And so we say, No matter what comes our way, thy will be done. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, this is truly a vision that is beyond our scope, even beyond our imagination. But it is also a vision that is clear, and that the white horse comes first and the white horse comes last. And he who rides upon it is our Savior and our God. And so it is in his name that we entrust ourselves to you. May Christ, victorious, reign forever. Amen and Amen.