In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 9, our epistle reading, 1 Corinthians. Chapter nine As all of you would agree, certain social conversations can be awkward. It can be awkward for a myriad of reasons, especially when you are getting to know someone. You don't know their moral standing, their political affiliation, their marital status, their the cookies they like, you don't know much of anything about them. And such issues are important for if we speak in favor of something our new acquaintance opposes We have offended before we have befriended. This is especially true in this day of President Donald Trump. It is difficult to diagnose all persons as to why they get emotionally hysterical over their hatred for the president. Whether you agree with his policies or not, as Christians, we are not to be emotionally hysterical about anyone or their policies. Because Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father, and thus nothing outside of God's sovereign will, including the rise and decline of political leaders, nothing is outside of God's will. There are also so many people today presented to us in the media who are quickly offended at certain types of speech. I am aware that much of what I preach each Sunday would be labeled by the current media as offensive and even hate speech. So be it. But offensive speech can occur between two friends as well One can babble on, pontificating about one issue after another, not even realizing they have just offended a friend. We all, by experience, can confirm the proverb: When the words are many, sin is not absent. Unfortunately, much offense occurs between friends because what was stated was poorly stated, and what was heard was poorly heard. One of the more difficult responsibilities is public speaking. When you speak publicly, there are multiple possibilities to be misunderstood and to make offense. In the ministry, the possibility to offend is greater because a minister is expected to say everything well without misspeaking, stumbling, or being too personal. You seem to forget that Jesus himself made great offense to his audiences. Consider that he spoke directly to religious leaders and called them hypocrites. To others, he spoke in parables that they did not understand. And still to others he spoke in a grotesque manner. Remember that unless you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you cannot be my disciple. The result was people walking away in disgust. It is a difficult task to speak truth to an audience while at the same time encouraging them to follow you. When you read the book of Hosea, for example, you will note the bravado in the prophet's message. Comparing his bravado to preachers of today. You will easily identify how men do not speak the truth within their own pulpits When speculating as to why ministers do not stand up and speak the truth to their congregations today, you may think that there is a fear of hurting the feelings of those in the parish. When feelings are hurt, parishioners become angry. When parishioners get angry, well, enough of them, a minister could lose his job. Some ministers don't preach by conviction for fear of losing their paycheck. C. S. Lewis calls such ministers who give in to such fear as men without chests. Men without chests can be caused by in part by congregations without ears. As Paul warned Timothy There would be a time when men will want to not want to hear sound doctrine, but prefer to have their ears tickled. It becomes a revolving cycle that is hard to jump off. Pastors don't preach the truth because congregations become angry. The people don't hear the truth because the past pastor is afraid to preach it. The result is a congregation remaining comfortable in their sin and a pastor uncomfortable in his calling. To turn this around, someone has to take up the mantle and speak the truth, regardless of the consequences. Even when someone tells you that he wants to hear the truth, I want to hear the truth, experience has taught us that most underestimate how much they can handle. What husband hasn't been in a quandary when his wife asks him if she looks fat in this new dress If he says no, he is lying. If he says yes, he gets boiled cabbage for dinner. A wise husband. Must realize that his wife doesn't want to know the straight-out truth about weight gain. She wants to know if her husband still finds her attractive. What he should say is, honey, you look great in everything that you wear. Of course, the same scenario can be described of a balding man. All of this that I've said thus far is a setup. To examine what St. Paul faced as a founding preacher, pastor to these Corinthian Christians. The Apostle Paul found freedom in preaching the truth. He was comfortable to say what needed to be said, regardless of how it was to be received. And this is not to say that he desired to run Rushd over the people of God. He is called to be a minister, a caretaker. He is the one who instructed the Galatians to be rebuked, but to do it in love. Such reveals his heart as a pastor. This is after he stated to the Galatians that the church was bewitched. The apostle, nonetheless, had a reputation for being much more harsh in his letters than when he came and talked to them in person. And this shows us that although he was right in what he said, he was gentle in the way he communicated it. His ability to say what needed to be said came from his confidence in his calling in Christ and his freedom to not be dependent upon man. If you remember from our look at 1 Corinthians chapter 8 last week, the apostle instructed for the strong in the faith. To give way to the weak for the sake of the kingdom of God. He now uses his own life as an example of how he has given way to the weak for the sake of the kingdom. For the Corinthians to understand just how much he has given, he reminds them of his position as an apostle. That's how he starts the chapter. The office of apostle commanded immediate respect from the Christian community. These were men that were chosen by Christ personally to continue his work. Honored as he ascended to heaven. First, you remember there was the twelve. One was a traitor. Another was added immediately after Jesus ascended. The integrity of the twelve was known by all within the faith. They had seen Jesus. They knew him intimately. And most importantly, Jesus personally commissioned them. So the Apostle Paul comes along claiming to be an apostle It's clear he's not part of the first twelve. He makes thirteen. That's odd. An interesting note. on the question of where he fits in, is that with the twelve tribes of Judah, you remember that Joseph's his tribe was split in two. Being represented by his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. Thus there were thirteen tribes, just as there were thirteen apostles. But it was due to the manner of Paul's conversion and his effectiveness in ministry soon after. It was impossible to deny, even by the other twelve, that Paul was an apostle The twelve recognized his legitimacy on a number of factors, including his dramatic conversion, where Jesus appeared to him personally and commissioned him personally. This personal commission was verified in his effectiveness in ministry to the Gentiles. This effectiveness was written firsthand by the Corinthians. They knew his labor. They knew the results of his apostleship. Paul then appeals to the personal testimony of the Corinthians. Others may deny his apostleship because it was not procured like the first twelve, but surely the Corinthians knew differently. To confirm Paul as an apostle to the Gentiles, one needs to look no further than the Corinthians themselves, who were saved out of the darkness of paganism and into the light of Christ. It must be concluded that if the office of apostle commands immediate respect, then Paul himself commands immediate respect. The respect of his office commands includes freedom in behavior. He says he is free to drink as he wishes Eat as he wishes, and take a believing wife as he wishes. As an apostle, no one stands in judgment over him regarding such matters. Now, regardless of what the Roman Catholic Church would have us believe, the apostles, along with presbyters and deacons, had a right to take a wife. In fact, we should consider it a great irony that the Roman Church would so doggedly hold to the practice of celibacy amongst its priests when Peter was the first supposedly the first pontiff. We know that Peter had a family, as he is referred to here as Cephas by the Apostle Paul. He had a wife and extended family to care for. And there was most certainly nothing wrong with having a wife. It is within their rights. Another right of the office of apostle and/or preacher of the gospel is the right to be paid. In verses six through twelve, the right is explained as natural and scriptural. Apparently, Paul and his companion Barnabas were expected in some circles to have to work in order to continue supporting their own ministry while the other apostles were paid by the church. Paul points out that other occupations, such as a soldier and a farmer and a shepherd, allow the workmen to receive the benefits that they help produce. He gives another example in the law of Moses of when an oxen was feeding on the grain that the oxen was treading. These mills, some of them are still used today in the Middle East, consisted of a pole sticking straight up, and then another pole perpendicular to which the oxen was attached. And the oxen goes around in circles milling the grain. During the work, the grain would come out and be on the ground, and the law then forbids a cruel master from muzzling the oxen to prevent him from eating the grain on which he is working. The Apostle Paul claims this law to have been written for the application to ministers. A minister of the gospel deserves to eat from the fruit of his labor. A minister sows spiritual seed. The righteousness, blessings, and souls reaped from such seeds are a harvest for which he has a right to receive. Verse 12 closes the point by reminding the Corinthians that others have received financial support from them and Paul, although deserving it more Paul has not. Now one would think that the apostle has said enough to make his point, but he says more In case he has not been emphatic, he reminds them that the workers in the temple were to receive a share of the offerings. And this fact allows him to brazenly state that the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should receive their living from the gospel. With that argument being emphatically made by the apostle, he now explains what he is getting at, what his point is. He has not used any of the rights that are afforded to him as an apostle. He does not drink or eat whatever he wants. He does not have a wife. He does not receive financial help from those whom he has sown into spiritual seeds. This is Paul's elongated example of how he, as an apostle, has acted out of charity, the same charity he previously charged the church to practice. That charity, that love we discussed in chapter 8, was to give way to the weak so that they can become strong. Paul has given away his rights. Many of the pleasures this life offers could rightly be claimed by him, that he refused them in order to be strong for those who were weak. So that they can become strong. The result of the apostle denying himself of his rights has greater consequences than strengthening the weak, as if that was not enough. For the apostle, a greater consequence is freedom when preaching the gospel. Upon denying himself of earthly pleasures, the apostle has nothing to lose when he preaches the truth. There is no pressure of offending, for those who are offended cannot hurt him. They can't take anything away from him. The only pressure the apostle feels is the Lord Himself, who by His Spirit has pressed upon Paul the necessity to preach. It is as if the apostle cannot escape the need to preach the truth. In fact, the only time he feels relieved of that pressure is when he preaches. A repeated word of advice that I give to men who are speculating about pursuing the ministry comes from St. Paul's words here. If a man is to pursue the ministry He first must be confident that he can do nothing else, because his conscience won't let him do anything else. He must preach, or he will not be in right relationship with God. We spoke in the beginning about how difficult it is to speak without offending. Freedom to speak without offending is not the same as freedom to speak the truth. There is no freedom like that of speaking the truth. The same can be said for freedom to hear and believe the truth. I mentioned in Sunday school recently how the Roman Catholic Church has it right when they regularly implement confession. Well before I go on, please don't misunderstand me, confession should not be thought of as a sacrament. It is not necessary for a person to confess and then follow up with a bunch of repeated prayers or something, some type of act of contrition. What I'm speaking to is the simple act of confessing one's sins to someone else because it has a very freeing action, a very freeing feeling. When you confess your sins to another, someone else knows, and there is freedom in that knowledge. The confessor isn't hiding anymore. The devil can't use our hiding to beat up our conscience. Once a conscience is clear, the person has the opportunity to not be concerned about what other people think about them. When you and I are not concerned with what other people say or think, we are much more ready to hear what Jesus, the Holy Spirit, the Heavenly Father, has to say to us. When we are confident in our position in Christ, we find freedom to hear Him and speak the truth about Him. Too many men and women are weighed down by the opinion of others. They are concerned about how they will be perceived. Some will think you are too religious. Some will think you are too radical. Some will think you are stupid for believing all that Bible stuff. Some will call you hypocritical. Please see that when you concern yourself with the opinions of others, you rob yourself of freedom to hear, speak, and believe the truths of Christ. Bobby Lynn and I enjoy an occasional walk through graveyards. I know some of you like that as well. Imagining the lives of the people buried there in relation to the what the gravestone says about them. Bobby Lynn has an affinity to a headstone that reads, See, I told you I was sick. Along with that witty headstone I have heard of a particular pastor's epithet that reads, He did not say half of what he wanted to say. I think that's more sad than clever. Especially if what he wanted to say was what he should have said. When denying himself of his rights, the Apostle Paul freed himself of the bondage of men. He could not be accused of preaching with a false motive. He was not bound by the need to be accepted. He was free to preach the truth. The church needs more, like the Apostle, more men who are free to preach the truth. And we need more parishioners who are free to hear the truth and speak that truth to their neighbor. May the Spirit speak to each of us this morning as to what rights we need to give up in order to speak and to hear uncovered truths of the gospel. To our Lord and Savior be glory in the church forever. Amen.