Let us pray. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of all our hearts Be acceptable and pleasing in thy sight, our rock and our redeemer. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. I uh was reminded this morning of the first time I read the gospel after being ordained as a deacon As some of you may know, you can't read the gospel in the Eucharist until you're a deacon. And I was newly ordained, my first Sunday as a deacon. And I go down amongst the people, and I began to read the gospel, and I'm thinking to myself as I'm reading the gospel, this is so cool. I'm reading the words of Christ. Uh and and then I realized, no I'm not. I was reading the epistle lesson for the morning. Um so I I quickly apologized and uh went to where I was supposed to do, but um I bring that up because, as you probably have noticed, all of the readings this morning were not what was in the bulletin. And I have to apologize to you all, the gospel and epistle lessons listed are incorrect because I had to write two sermons this week and at the last minute decided to preach this one instead of the other If you, however, do want to hear the other one, you're more than welcome to join us at Westminster Church of the Brethren tonight at 4 p. m. I promise it's a good one too. When I was in college, there was a local megachurch in town that most of my classmates attended One day, mostly out of curiosity, a friend and I attended worship there. It was a patriotic holiday of some sort, and the stage, as they called it, was decked out in a huge American flag. Now, I'm not sure if I remember this right or not, but I also think that there may have been fireworks. Or maybe it was just angry incense. I don't know. On this particular Sunday, they also took a good 15 minutes out of the service to recognize each and every veteran in the church. Now, I believe that in and of itself these aren't bad things. I love our flag. Fireworks. And am eternally grateful for all of the things our service men and women have done for our freedom I'm just not comfortable with taking any time out of our worship of God and giving it over to our federal government. So that's not what we're going to do here today But I would be remiss if I didn't take this 4th of July weekend and use it as an opportunity to discuss what it means for us to be Christians living in this great country. With all of our freedoms, liberties, and privileges. The history of our great church and our great nation are intertwined To be Anglican and to be American are in a lot of ways connected historically speaking. After the war for independence was over, most of our clergy went back to England. There were no bishops, and the church was in danger of becoming destabilized as a result. There was even talk. God forbid, of the church becoming Presbyterian or even Congregationalist in polity. Where's Phil? Another problem arose as well. If we were going to get bishops, then they would need to be consecrated in England. And the trouble with that is that in order to be consecrated by the Church of England The prospective bishop needed to swear allegiance to the reigning monarch. In this case, that would be King George III. And as you can see, this became a pretty large problem for us. But where there is a problem for the covenant people of God, God has always provided a solution. The solution came in the form of bishops in the Scottish Church, who in the beginning of the reign of William and Mary refused to swear allegiance to the new co-monarchs Because they had already swore allegiance to King James and his children. As a result, these non-jore bishops, as they were called, were able to consecrate our new bishop Bishop Seabury, without the customary oath of allegiance to the king. We had our bishop, and the episcopacy was saved. Thanks be to God. And so with our country's independence came our church's independence as well. And though we as Reformed Episcopalians have departed from the Protestant Episcopal Church This is our story as much as it is theirs. And so being American and being Reformed Episcopalian are in many ways connected. But being Reformed Episcopalians should change the way that we are to be Americans. It changes the way that we are to be Americans because we are first and foremost Christians. And to be a Christian American means something vastly different than being a Muslim American, or a Jewish American, or an atheistic American. Our allegiance as Americans is contingent upon our higher allegiance, our allegiance to Christ. And now my thesis for this morning is this. Freedom is the fundamental tenet of what it means to be an American. But freedom does not work without faith in the one who provides it. And the words of John Adams, our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other. Turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 5, beginning in the 43rd verse, and we will discuss this in more detail. Our gospel lesson appointed for today comes from our Lord's Sermon on the Mount. And I can close my eyes and picture in my mind Jesus And his disciples gathered around him on the beautiful rolling hills of the Galilee as the sun shines down and the breeze from the sea blows softly in the background. He begins to preach. Blessed are the poor in spirit. And this is hands down the greatest sermon ever preached, because it came straight from the lips of God. And one of the things that Jesus clearly communicates in this sermon is that the standard of the law is much greater than the teachers of the law have taught. He says, You have heard that it is said, you shall love your enemy, or love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Wait, what? But there are enemies. Exactly. He says to love them. And this is pretty radical stuff How can we love our enemies? Why should we love our enemies? They're our enemies, not our friends. And the answer is simple because he said so. But also because in loving our enemies, we reveal ourselves to be children of the Father in heaven. Loving our enemies is what separates us from them. It's what sets us apart as in the world, but not of the world. This in fact goes against everything the world says. The world wants us to despise our enemies, to desire our enemies' destruction, to see our enemy as, well, our enemy. You see this most clearly in modern political discourse. If you disagree with the prevailing winds of culture. Instead of live and let live, you're called a racist, a Nazi, or phobic in some way And this, of course, is the first step in not only ignoring an argument, but in dehumanizing the person that disagrees with you. Dehumanizing those who disagree with us is not love, and in extreme cases has led to the destruction of entire people groups in the history of the world. And this is not something that we as Christians are to be engaged in. We are, as Christ has commanded, to love our enemies. We are to pray for those who persecute us, remembering that God makes his son to rise on the evil and the good alike. And that he sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous alike. In other words, our God is sovereign. He is in control, therefore hating those who hate us is wholly unnecessary For if God is sovereign, if he is in control, if he is our king, then he will deal with our enemies by either changing their hearts and making them our brethren, or by judging them and giving them what it is that they have always deserved. Prayer is the only thing we need to do. So if all we need to do is pray, what then is left but to love? We don't need to get revenge because vengeance is the Lord's. We don't need to win them over with our well-thought out arguments. Because it is the Lord's job to turn hearts to him. And we don't need to defend ourselves, for as the book of Exodus says, the Lord will fight for you. You need only be still Be still and love. But it is hard to love our enemies, one might protest. They are so enemy-like Well, yes. In fact, Jesus says that himself. He says, For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not the tax collectors do the same? Loving those who love us comes easy, but the real challenge is in loving those who hate us, those who wish us ill. Loving people like that shows the world around us that we are, quite frankly, weird. Jesus calls it being perfect as the Father is perfect So in loving those who hate us, we actually reveal the Father to the world around us. Remember the words of St. John, we love because he first loved us. We are transformed not by our love for God, but by God's love for us. John goes on to say in 1 John 4. 10, herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. He did this when we were his enemies, when we were at enmity with him. But God loved his enemies so much that he gave up his beloved son for them. And this love transforms life, and this love is the example for us in our own earthly relationships. The other day I witnessed a conversation on social media. It's a terrible place to witness conversations. in which someone had made the suggestion that the Judeo-Christian moral ethic is the foundation of Western civilization, and that that was superior to other ethical systems. Now, up until that point, the conversation was a friendly philosophical debate. The suggestion about Western civilization and its moral ethic changed the tone, however, and the conversation significantly. It was suggested by one person, a former hospice co-worker of mine, that the person making this statement about Western civilization was a racist. And that I was probably going to block her and have nothing to do with her as a result. Now I had to formulate a proper response to her assumption and her assertion. One that did not stoop to that level and honored Christ. And I chose to go the route of the Christian moral ethic I explained that I did not plan to block her and that I considered her a friend, despite her opinion of the perspective that the other person put forward. Now, believing that the Christian moral ethic on which Western civilization is built is superior isn't a racist thing to say. If we thought it was, we wouldn't be sitting here today. In fact, I think it's clear from this very text that we are examining that the Christian moral ethic is fundamentally opposed to racism and hate. And I'm even going to argue that it was the developments brought about by this moral ethic that ultimately exposed racism and hate for what they are, namely sin. We cannot forget that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was first and foremost a minister of the gospel. And that the gospel was what influenced that entire movement And so we decided to get to respond in love and mercy. And I highlight this story not to toot my own horn. I am, after all, a sinner saved by grace, and have not always elected to respond in a Christian way to people like this I am a son of the Scotch-Irish settlers of Appalachia, so I've gotten my dander up before and have regretted it later. But instead, I bring this up to illustrate the difference between a Christian response to an opponent and that of non-believers. Calling someone racist is dehumanizing. It does more than denigrate the argument, it denigrates the character of the individual as well. It is, in the words of Jesus, a form of murder. Look at Matthew 5, verse 21. In the same sermon that Jesus implores us to love our enemies, he also says, Ye have heard that it was said of them of old, thou shalt not kill. Verse 22. But I say to you, who whosoever is angry with his brother without cause shall be in danger of the judgment. And whoever says to his brother Racha shall be in danger of the council, but whoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire. Now you can take this extremely literally and conclude that Jesus is just saying that he doesn't want us to call people stupid, but the whole thrust of what Jesus is saying in his sermon is much deeper. He's talking about what we might call in modern times character assassination. We aren't to do that The Christian isn't to denigrate his enemy. To do so is in the mind of the great lawgiver himself, Jesus Christ, murder in the same way as using a knife or a gun. Instead, we are to love our enemies and to pray for them, trusting in God's sovereign power over us all. In fact, I'm even going to argue that to kill someone's character is the first step in a process that leads to physical murder. Hitler, in the beginning, simply lied about the Jewish people. He engaged in a dehumanizing propaganda campaign blaming the Jew for all of the world's problems. And this ultimately led to gas chambers and mass graves. It was a murder that started in the heart. And the mind. It poured out of his mouth and ended in the loss of thousands of lives. And Christians need to avoid this at all costs. And we will do that by striving diligently to love our enemies, even though we might disagree with them. And so this brings me back to my thesis. Remember what President Adams said. Our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other. So then it is no stretch of the imagination to connect these two ideas. To be moral and religious is to follow Christ. And to follow Christ is to what? We remind you every Communion Sunday, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it, thou shalt love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. And that, friends, right there is the Judeo-Christian moral ethic summed up in a nutshell. Love God, love your neighbor. Freedom will never work. America will never work unless we are living that out as a nation. And it starts with us. We are Christ's body and his representatives in this great land. We are to set the pace We are to be the example of what it means to be a religious and moral people. The Constitution was written for us. And now I want to say more about this. Secularism, which defines our current governmental structures. Are not capable of providing the kind of freedom that this nation was founded on It strives to divorce all public life from the Judeo-Christian moral ethic on which our society is founded. But if we do that, though, we no longer have as the source for our laws the objective truth of the command of God. Love God, love thy neighbor. And so what replaces those commands? Only the subjective whims of the people Which is, quite frankly, a scary concept, because without the law of God, we become a law unto ourselves. And so let me ask you this. Why would we want the Ten Commandments removed from courthouses and town squares? Why would we want to ask prospective judges about their religious views and then suggest that they are unfit for office because they believe in the God of the Bible? Is God's law bad? Is there something inherently problematic with following Christ and the ethic he has set before us? Not unless it isn't freedom that you're after. Let's look at those countries who unhitched themselves from the Judeo-Christian moral ethic of the West. Communist Russia was a prime example First, they killed the priests, and then they killed personal freedom. People stood for hours in breadlines, the poor got poorer, and the rich got richer If you ever questioned the government, a mass grave became your final resting place. They divorced themselves from the teachings of Christ, and tyranny followed not far behind. Kill the priests, and you ultimately kill freedom with them. I'm not telling to kill priests. That's bad for me. It is only a moral and religious people who can handle freedom. And we must strive as Christians to protect that freedom. But more importantly, to model what it looks like by loving our enemies and praying for them. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.