In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. Do well to turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 50, but it began with a story Most of us know well enough the story of Martin Luther, the German monk who in 1517 started a religious revolution. It would challenge some of the false teachings that had risen up in Christianity and in particular the Roman Catholic Church When Luther was eventually successful at challenging the authority of the Roman Church over all of Western Christianity, naturally there sprang up a number of religious leaders and teachers. who wanted to go even farther away from Rome than Luther did. One such group was called the Anabaptists Because they believed that for a person to be truly baptized, he or she needed to be baptized as a confessing adult hence uh these professing Christians were rebaptized or baptized again, the word Anna meaning again. But among those who tried to move themselves away from Rome, there were teachers and leaders who wanted to move even further away. And these groups are best described as fanatics or fanatical Anabaptists The city of Münster in Germany at the time of the Reformation was a unique city that it was not governed by the church, but was instead independent, answering primarily to King Charles V. But it was indeed heavily influenced by the Roman Church. Within the town of Munster, there began a rebellion against the Roman Catholics and their influence, so as eventually to remove them physically from the city with their so-called idols. This was 16 years after the beginning of the Reformation. The success of the Lutheran rebels was noted by fanatical Anabaptists who soon entered the city of Munster and took over the city by forcing new elections and bringing in many Anabaptist followers, resulting in the election of a man by the name of John Matthias in 1533. John Matthias was known to promote violent rebellion. With the Roman Catholics pushed out, Mass conversions by way of rebaptism took place inside the city. And by the way, the city was a walled-off city. So you could restrict who was coming in, keeping the Roman Catholics out, and who could go out, keeping the Anabaptists in. Well, this walled city then was surrounded by a Roman bishop who gathered an army and ordered a blockade of the city Hoping to bring panic within to break the rebellion. Although the Anabaptist leaders tried to extend their supplies within the city, the people got desperate. On Easter Sunday in April, Jean Matthias, who recognized the people's panic, said that he had a vision from God and that he was to go out and fight the army of the bishop single-handed. He of course failed and was beheaded. Within the city walls, a man named Jean von Leyden declared himself the new leader Who insisted on the citizens of Munster giving quick and unquestioned obedience to his leadership? Von Leyden next declared a new word from God that decreed that polygamy was now lawful. Meanwhile, he took fifteen women as his own brides, including the wife of the former leader Matthias. All who opposed him would be killed, including any wives that tried to leave him. Meanwhile, another other Anabaptists from the surrounding areas were siding with the leaders because they hated the Roman Catholics. siding with the leaders inside the city walls of Munster, and many tried to sneak in and help. With the siege lasting over a year, Many barbaric behaviors were practiced inside the city simply for the purpose of survival. Some people tried to escape from the city only to be killed by the army that was waiting outside. The bishop's army finally broke through after a year-long blockade on a rainy night and took back the city. What they did with the leaders of this rebellion, I will leave for you to go home and Google and do some research. And I bring this sordid story to your attention on our last look at the book of Genesis, because Genesis is a book about beginnings. Establishing a foundation, yes, a foundation for our Christian faith, which is the covenant God has made with mankind. And to venture away from this foundation, to venture away is to go the way of fanatical Anabaptists. And you and I must be warned. Yes, what they did could happen to anyone who leaves behind what is foundational in the Christian faith. How people get from believing in confessional baptism to accepting murder and polygamy is first cause by leaving what is foundational. So I want you to look back with me at Genesis chapter 50. to see what is foundational from this chapter, foundational to our Christian faith even. In verse 1 Jacob has just died and Joseph weeps bitterly. This is to remind us again that death came into the world by way of the sin of humanity, our first parents, Adam and Eve. Death was the punishment of that sin. Death was not God's eternal plan in what God, although he knew what Adam and Eve would do, God wanted life for his creation. Therefore, death is painful. The forty days given for mourning shows that Jacob was mourned as a royal Egyptian. And this is part of God's promise to Abraham, as God has made his name known through his descendants, the descendants of Abraham, and made God's people a blessing to other nations, just as he promised. Next, Joseph assures that his promises to his father are fulfilled. In his actions of assurance, we see God of promise. Making sure that his promises are fulfilled. Joseph uses his authority and influence to assure these promises, just as God uses his authority and influence to assure us of his promises. And he has promised by way of his descendants that there will be a man to crush the serpent's head. By way of Joseph taking back the remains of his father, Jacob, we see the hope of the resurrection. God is a God of the living. Jesus said as much. Abraham is alive, although the world only knows him as dead. Isaac is alive. Jacob is alive, for God preserves the souls of his people until the day of resurrection, when all of the ground and the sea will give up those dead bodies to be reunited and renewed. With those who will have heaven as their home. When Joseph buries the body of his father, he does so as a testimony of our resurrection hope. And we do the same. We Christians bury our dead with the hope of the resurrection And the great mourning that occurs for Jacob is symbolic of the sinfulness of humanity. As we are reminded that all have fallen short of the glory of God, and therefore all must mourn for their sin so that they can seek forgiveness and receive it. When the brothers of Joseph don't have their father as a buffer of love between Joseph and them, they fear that Joseph will enact vengeance. The fear is unwarranted as Joseph reveals himself to be a Christian man. If you are not used to my expositions, it may sound funny to hear Joseph, great grandson of Abraham, be called Christian. But I argue that the Christian covenant is a fulfillment of the Jewish covenant, making Joseph a Christian, as was Abraham, who saw the day of Jesus and was glad. As a Christian man, Joseph knew he was to forgive, and forgiving his brothers, he had already done. As a Christian man, he is to trust that the will of God, no matter what life circumstance brings, that God has shown him that what man meant for evil, God meant for good. Christian men see the greater purpose of God in all of life circumstances, and so they trust in what they cannot see. And finally, we can say that what we see in Genesis is foundational to the Christian faith, as Joseph can speak words of confident faithfulness that what God has promised Will most certainly come to pass. God will deliver his people no matter how much time passes, and we remember it's 400 years. He did that for Israel, and he's keeping that promise for you and I. Now you might wonder Why I am compelled to defend the book of Genesis in the manner of it being foundational It is because I recently listened to a podcast of a popular Christian evangelist who put forth the idea That Christians today should unhitch, and that's his word, unhitch themselves from the Old Testament. His argument, and I don't want to present a straw man, so I'm trying to give it to you as he put it forward. His argument is that although the Old Testament is divinely inspired, it should not be a main source for Christians regarding any practiced behavior of the faith. He argues that Acts 15 is proof As you remember, that's when all of the apostles gathered together for uh uh making decisions in regards to the Gentiles. He argues that Acts 15 is proof that early Christians did not use the Old Testament to explain or justify their faith, but only stories of Jesus we now find in the Gospels. He believes that the new covenant, the covenant we have with Jesus, is the only thing necessary to understand what it means to be Christian and to live as Christians. This teacher confesses that what he is teaching may be unnerving to some, but in actuality he says it is quite liberating because It makes the message that Jesus brought into the world much more simple. In an article I read about this teacher, It is revealed that he believes people are leaving the Christian faith because of their embarrassment over stories in the Old Testament. Stories like six days of creation, Abraham being asked to sacrifice Isaac, the extermination of entire tribes, and so on. Well for those of you who have heard most of my sermons on Genesis and have heard my sermons on the Epistle to the Hebrews, do you know that the position this evangelist takes, and again he's popular. It's far from my own. And when I tried to understand his point, and believe me, I tried to listen without all of my mind being made up I could hear the heart of an evangelist, an evangelist who is trying to think of a new or at least reworked idea of how to make the gospel message more appealing to modern ears. And yes, I can get that, but only to a certain extent. It is true that the devil can use difficult narratives in the Old Testament to obscure God's intended truth. or to distract what is bothersome to modern minds. And so these people find reasons to dismiss the Bible in its entirety. But a simple answer to that concern is that no one is going to believe in Jesus unless the Holy Spirit has dropped the scales from their eyes, and with that truth we should accept that ignoring the Old Testament is not the answer for helping the spiritually blind to see But I want you to agree with me on something else. I want you to agree and live out the truth that rightly understanding the Old Testament is what is truly liberating, especially to see through the typological study that we are finishing here today. Consider again. Consider again, there is the seed typology, the seed typology that St. Paul expands upon to the Christians at Galatia. A seed or descendant, God promised, would crush the serpent's head. The serpent, the devil, and the seed, Paul teaches, is singular, not plural. It was to be one man. And he was to be one man and the only person ever to fit the description of a descendant of Adam and Eve who could crush the devil. And he is Jesus, who not only bound the straw man as he entered this earth, but stepped on his head while dying on the cross. There is the covenant of Abraham typology that has God choosing a man with no descendants as the patriarch of all of God's people to come. Where men are not fruitful in offspring is like men not fruitful in righteousness, and God provides. Abraham is called out of a sinful land to a new land, just as all Christians are called out of darkness and into the light of righteousness. God makes the covenant with Abraham and his descendants symbolized by the cutting away of the foreskin, which is a precursor to the cutting away of the stone-laden hearts of every person. God also called Abraham to sacrifice Isaac. Reminds you not to see what was in Abraham's heart, for God already knew Abraham's heart. Now he called Abraham to offer his son and then withheld the knife-sealed hand that was going to bring down the blow. He did it to show Abraham that he, God, is not like the other gods that require such a sacrifice of their people, the false gods around Abraham. God was showing that in truth God was the only one Himself who would require such a sacrifice. And there is also the very important struggle between works and grace typology. In the life of Abraham As Abraham performed many obedient deeds for God, like leaving his father's homeland, like offering Isaac, like cutting the sacrificial offerings, you remember as God prescribed and the torch walking through them? Like the act of circumcision. And yet God said it was not all of these works, but because of what Abraham believed, it was his faith that God counted to him as righteous. The difference between man-made works, righteousness, and righteousness by grace through faith is spoken throughout the letters of St. Paul. And Abraham is the primary example to us about faith versus works. By grace we are saved through faith. And so was Abraham. And then there is Israel as the church typology. It is first the Ark of Noah, it is like the church, the only vehicle by which any person can be saved from God's wrath. Then it is the family of Jacob who is chosen to bring forth the people of God as they are made a nation. And the foundation of that nation begins with women at strife trying to have more children than the other. It is siblings being jealous and envious of the favored one of God Just as the Pharisees were of Jesus. And Joseph is so much like Christ, a type of Christ, that I dare not try to describe it all again. It is very plain to see. This family of Jacob reveals that life within and without the covenant with God consists of conflict. And the conflicts are within each person and between parties as well, even brothers. against brothers, as the person of Judah reveals, within and without As rehearsed last sermon, the sins of the family of Jacob were numerous, they were heinous, they were deplorable, with no expectation that God would use them, and yet use them he did. And so in them we see us. We see the church. We are sinners in the hands of the living God, and yet we are not crushed. But sanctified and used for God's glory. If we don't have Israel of the Old Testament to understand what it means to be and not be God's people Then how are we to understand the church in its history and in its modern state, a state riddled with hypocrisy, envy, half-truths, blind spots to sin, and the like While also containing men and women who love God and love their neighbor and pray for his kingdom to come. Israel is as the church. Consider these questions. When you start reading Matthew's gospel, how do you understand the lineage of Jesus starting with Abraham if you don't know Genesis? How do you understand the meaning of repentance from sin and faith toward God preached by Jesus if you don't know Genesis and the fall of man? How do you understand the need to shed blood and sacrifice for sin if you don't know Genesis? How do you understand Jesus to be the word that was in the beginning? If you don't know the book that is about beginnings, Genesis. How do we understand that we are saved by grace through faith alone and not by our own works if we don't know Genesis and that Abraham had faith and God marked it as righteousness. What difference would it make to us for Jesus to say, Abraham saw my day and was glad if we don't know Genesis? And how do you understand, truly understand, so that your hope is in the kingdom of God to come, if you don't understand that in the book of Revelation, the covenant of God made in the Garden of Eden is fulfilled. as the tree of life is found smack dab in the middle of New Jerusalem. That doesn't mean anything profound unless you know Genesis. When pondering this sermon, I remembered the book titled All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten. I have not read the book, but I learned of its content. It is a number of essays about life lessons, and the title of the book comes from the first chapter where the author puts forth the premise that the basic things one learns in kindergarten like sharing and being kind to others and cleaning up after yourself and living a balanced life between work, play, and learning. that all of these are foundational to anyone having an enjoying life. Well, as you may know the many parodies of that title, I guess I'm going to join the fray. All I really need to learn, I learned in Genesis. Not probably saying too much, but But when we learn from the gospels about Jesus and what atonement is, what holiness is, what faith is, and so on Knowing Genesis and all of the Old Testament allows for the other things we know to make a great deal more sense. And so together we thank God for Genesis. Don't unhitch, for you will go the way of the fanatic. Stay hitched and find true liberty. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God We thank you for this book and for all the truths that are revealed therein, that are found in the New Testament. Father, you have revealed yourself in such a gracious manner, and we thank you for the lessons learned in this book these past months. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.