In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue our look at the book of Genesis, covering chapter twelve and and to thirteen a little bit. Fitting for infant baptism to talk about parenting When you are in the middle of a tough parenting moment, it is hard to find anything funny about it You can get caught up in the tough moments, and each moment can feel like it is the most important part of your parenting life. For instance, you tell your toddler not to touch the figurine on the end table. He continues to eye the figurine while moving toward it and you repeat yourself, don't touch. He continues to move. No, you say. He looks back while his hand is reaching toward it, toward what he desires. He looks at you and continues to move forward with his arm stretched out. No, you say, No, no, no. And finally, the deed is done. He has picked up the figurine and is trying to place it in his mouth while he continues to look at you. Once the deed is done, you have to get up from what you are doing and discipline. After all, the book of Proverbs says that a child left to himself is hated by his father The toddler has disobeyed and he needs to be disciplined, and discipline takes time. First there is resistance, then there is crying, then there is consoling, and finally reconciliation. You, the parrot, settle back down in what you were doing while the toddler starts to make his way toward the figurine again, and the whole process of don't touch, no no, starts all over again Subjectively, that is not funny. But objectively, it is pretty funny. Watching a new parent go through such a scenario is funny when Like us, we don't have toddlers anymore. We are able to see what is funny because we are now more objective Using this example, we should try to imagine what it is like for God to say to us, don't touch. And yet we still move closer to the item with our hand stretched out. And like the toddler, we might even look back to God and see how He is responding as we continue to move forward. God says, no, again. Instead we move forward to grab what is forbidden. It all seems to play out like a parent toddler scenario Only he is not a mortal parent, and we are not toddlers, even though we act like toddlers. In Genesis chapter 12, what God says to Abram is to bring him to a true faith is what he says to all of us. And he has said it enough that we should have listened by now and by listening be saved. When God described before the flood, what he described before the flood was true after the flood, and that is that the heart of mankind is bent toward wickedness. But God said he would not destroy creation again by such a means. As Noah's sons begat children, spreading across the globe, they also begat sin. Because the heart of mankind was bent toward evil, and there were more people on the earth, there were more opportunities to sin. A sin common to mankind during the early days of Abram was polytheism, the belief and the worship of many gods. Polytheism had has been embraced by many groups of humanity in history because having gods helps explain the world the way it is. Fire gods, water gods, sex gods are all invented so that the experience of humanity could have some sort of binding commonality. Once the story of Adam and Eve and Noah and family are gone from the memory, something has to replace the truth about the one true God. And so having many gods is attempted. The result is the only God having to reveal himself to mankind in order to make proper worship and true faith occur amongst God's people once again. And so God chose Abram. And the first instruction, even the first words that God spoke to his chosen one, were get out. Get out. The spoken get out is similar to don't touch It needs to be obeyed for our own good and right away. The call to get out expects prompt obedience It is a call to get out of a land of idolatry. It is a call for Abram to remove himself from people from people who do not believe in the one true God or worship in a true holy manner. It is a call for Abram to separate himself from all that would entangle him to the spirit of the age and the ways of the world around him. The word of truth, the word of God, comes to the chosen one, Abram, and demands Abram be sanctified, be set apart from that which is around him. Get thee out, the Lord says. In order to be saved, Abraham must obey. Graciously, God does not place such a demand upon Abram without help. Along with God's command to get out comes the promise, I will. Where God calls, both truth and grace are found. God says, I will. I will show you a land. I will make you a great nation. I will bless you. I will bless those who bless you. I will curse those who curse you. That is what God will do. This is how He saves men from sin and from themselves. He calls them out, meaning out of their sinful state, their sinful lives, and off of the road to perdition. And while he calls them, he gives them what they need to be forgiven, to overcome temptation, and to walk on that narrow road that leads to eternal life. Similar words, to get out, with the same intention, were uttered by Jesus, who said to Peter and Andrew, follow me. Follow me. For in following him, there was a separation from what was around them. And then the promised, I will. I will make you fishers of men. In another place he said, come unto me, which is another call of separation. And then the promise, I will give you rest. These are not words of suggestion, mind you. They do not include qualifiers, as it would be best if you did what I am telling you to do. For Peter and Andrew, to be saved was a must that they follow. For any man to be saved, he must come unto Jesus. Nowhere is necessary separation stated so forthrightly than in St. Paul's second recorded letter to the Corinthian Church, where he said, quote, Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness, and what communion has light with darkness. The apostle then quotes a prophet. Therefore, come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Do not touch what is unclean, and I will receive you. I will be a father to you, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord Almighty What we have here again is a call to be separate. And then the Lord gives a promise of what he will do. The directive not to touch what is unclean. Well, that fits well with the opening example in the sermon How often does the Lord need to say to us that we must be separate from the world so that we might be saved? Do not think for one moment that he is not aware how difficult it is to separate ourselves from our surroundings For some people they must separate themselves from the only things they have ever known. Yet separate they must And our Savior knows his request is not easy. And that is why he gives us the I will. You separate and I will. The way of the cross is never easy. And did he not say that few travel on that narrow road? We are to conclude that few travel on it because it is the most difficult road to travel. Abraham, or Abram, excuse me, was slow to get out. The call was to get out of his country, his hometown, and to get out of his father's house. Abram got out of his country and away from the people whom he had known all of his life, but not from his father's house. And this is not a criticism for Abram was honoring his father as he should. The family, you'll note, traveled together from Ur to Haran. It was only after the father's death at Haran that Abram was able to get out from his father's house. His temptation, like all of ours, was to try to improve on his father's house. Rather than forsake it. God instructs us to flee, and because of our emotionally attachments, our emotional attachments, we perceive that such A reaction is unnecessary. That's too broad too general. We just need more time. That our family might change, our friends can come around. Our situation will change in our favor. And God will finally accept us all. Meanwhile, God continues to say, get thee out. God continues to say it because Abram's father's house, like his past life, was full of many gods. Abram's father is a type for us, and that he can represent what is old and what is dying. For us to get out completely, the old must die. Abram is able to depart, he is able to get out from both his country and his father's house when his father is dead. Terah died in Haran and he stayed there. And we again are slow to learn this lesson, but it must be learned, even faith, for Abraham, Abraham was a man of faith. Even faith cannot take the old things into the place of promise. The river of Jordan is not passed over until the old is dead. In Christ, old things pass away. In Christ, all things become new. It is only the new that can enter into the heavenly realm. It must be faced with bold acknowledgement that the old cannot be saved, it cannot be improved, and so it cannot be taken with us. It must pass away. The old was buried with Christ in baptism and must not, cannot continue on. And I refrain at this point in the sermon from listing examples of possible old things that you have tried to keep alive in your life. It is for each of us to be honest before God and His ever-present spirit about what the old things are that we have tried to improve upon and take with us rather than letting them die as they must. They are sins that you have wrestled to overcome, maybe even before you were a Christian or before you took your Christian faith seriously. They must have a final death. We notice that when Abram passes over the Jordan and into the Promised Land, he is introduced to trials. Obviously the devil is not finished with the man who has converted and even left behind the old things of the world. No, such a man is still a marked man. The devil still tempts, and the Lord himself still tries a man to test his mettle and make his faith stronger. And first we notice that although the land of Canaan is to be given by God to Abram and his descendants, Abram enters with no specific claim to any part of the land. Abram is a tent dweller. He is a pilgrim within the land of promise. It is healthy, then, for us to remember at the point of this story that although the land of Cana is a type of our heavenly home, it is not our heavenly home The spirit of faith may enjoy life on this earth, it may enjoy outward things to a point, but it recognizes that this is not our final dwelling place. Just as the Son of Man had no place to lay his head, neither does Abram, and neither do we. Even though we lay our head in the same bed, even in the same lot for twenty, forty, even sixty years This is still not our home. We, like Abram, are pilgrims. The pilgrim life is appointed For all who follow Christ, because true life is always on the go, always moving. Andrew Jukes explained the importance of being on a pilgrimage when he said In the course of a pilgrimage Trials befall us, which others never meet with. Failures, too, are seen, such as we never see in the prudent, worldly man. The pilgrim learns what is in his heart He cannot easily forget what his pilgrimage has taught him of his own weaknesses. Once he might, like Eve, have believed the word, ye shall be gods. Pilgrimage has proved that even faith is not a God, but only a vessel to receive God. While it is confirmed that Abram was a pilgrim, he is more also. Abram builds an altar. He is a worshiper. He worships in the midst of his trial, his wanderings, and in response, God appears to him. God has to. God promised he would. God appears to strengthen the call he first gave Abram. The land will be given to Abram's descendants. And the focus upon that promise is the word descendants. Abram is to understand that the changes he goes through, the experience he has, the trials he faces, and the seclusion he will know because he is different than any other man Is to be done not for his personal benefit in this life, but for the benefit of his descendants It is a man or woman of strong character who can sacrifice his or her pleasures in this life to better the lives of his or her descendants. It should be the way of every Christian to work toward benefiting those Christians who follow after us. And after God appears to Abram, another trial comes. A famine is in the land of promise. The land that will be known as flowing with milk and honey suffers famine. This is not the way it is supposed to be. Abram could easily have convinced himself that he's made a mistake. It's all been a big mistake He did not hear the voice of God like he thought he did when he was called to leave his city of Ur. And in response to his trial, Abram goes down to Egypt. He goes down to a land he hears has food. He walks in the steps that Jacob will soon take after him. And before he goes to Egypt, Abram prepares for the worst. And so he conjures up a lie to protect himself and leave his bride, his beloved bride, exposed. Abram fails here. Isn't that an understatement? There is no other way to look at it. He fails. He does not protect his bride. He does not think of her well-being before his own. He sins. As you know, God reveals what Abram has done by cursing Pharaoh's household. God's grace restores Sarai to Abram. God's grace restores her. It is an unmerited favor of God toward Abram that not only is Sarai restored, but Abram is not killed by Pharaoh and was allowed to keep his possessions. The only thing Abram has done, the only part he has played to be blessed like this, and for his descendants to be blessed, the only thing he had done right was get out As the years passed on, and the line of Abram became the line of Abraham, a child was born to one of his descendants. The child and his parents went to Egypt, like Jacob, before them, like Abram, only to flee, not to flee, excuse me, a famine, but to flee death, for Herod was after him. When it was saved, the child, the Christ child returned. While in Egypt he was not a slave like his ancestors, but came from there. To free the descendants of Abraham from their sin. While in Egypt he did not deny his beloved, but came from there to call his bride, to call his church to himself. Just as God revealed himself to Abram, calling him out from among a fallen world, and promising that he would make him a great nation. So he continues to call us, to call us out, to tell us to get out. To come out, to repent, and to follow. And when he does, he also says, I will. I will give you rest. I will be with you. I will never leave you or forsake you. We only have to get out. So let us get out. Amen. Our gracious and merciful God, we thank you for this call. And I pray, dear Lord, for these in this congregation who have not gotten out Who have not put to death those things that are of the flesh behind them. May this day be that day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen