In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2. Looking at the first letter, Revelation chapter two, starting at verse one. And as you turn there, I I want to I I've looked at myself on YouTube And I've noticed how many times I preach and I'm off kilter. And for those of you who borderline on obsessive compulsive disorder, I realize that that really might bother you a lot. So try to keep as straight as I can If you are keeping score regarding my sermons, you notice that although we read verse 20 last week, I did not comment on it. I did not do so because I see it as an introduction to the seven letters we are starting to examine this morning. What I want us to agree upon is that because the number seven represents completeness, And because we believe these churches are representative of all Christian churches over all of time that we can agree with the Anglican scholar John Stott that the seven letters are seven marks of faithful and godly churches, that all churches should aspire to be. Consider this summary. Love is in letter one, suffering in letter two, truth in letter three. Holiness in letter four, integrity or sincerity in letter five, mission in letter six, and zeal in letter seven. If each of these characteristics is aspired to, the church will be, will be a pleasing bride to Christ. And so we start at verse 20 of chapter 1. John tells, I'm sorry, Jesus tells John that the seven stars in his right hand are seven angels that are assigned to the seven churches addressed in this vision. The beauty of this description is that Jesus wants us to understand that there are spiritual powers that are assigned to each church. Such powers are guardians of the churches, guardians ordained by Jesus, and messengers of his word and of his will. To believe that God has assigned heavenly messengers to lowly parishes such as St. Stephen's is quite comforting and encouraging, which should embolden us in the faith. We confess, knowing that it is backed up by heavenly powers. And so verse from chapter one, I'm sorry, chapter two, verse one It is natural for the vision to begin with the church in Ephesus because Ephesus was a chief city and closest to the island of Patmas Where John received this vision. Ephesus was also the first seaport in Asia Minor and home to the Temple Artemis, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. also known as the Temple of Diana. Perhaps forty years before this vision, the dating you remember is not assured. Forty years, the Apostle Paul had spent three years in Ephesus building up the church. Later, Timothy had an extensive ministry there. Then late in the first century, the Apostle John, the man receiving this vision, lived in Ephesus and made it the center of his ministry. No doubt there were many in the congregation that received this book of Revelation who knew John personally. Some of them probably knew him very well. And perhaps A number of them, a number of people, could remember the ministry of Paul, who were among the first to receive this letter. Twenty years after the writing of Revelation, Ignatius, the chief minister of the church in Antioch Wrote a letter to the church at Ephesus that is full of praise for what he calls that deserved, happy church, which is known everywhere, he says. For it known for its good deeds, its brotherly love and unity, under a man, this is so fascinating, under a man of inexpressible love, their bishop Onisimus. That name, you might remember, is the same Onesimus, according to ancient tradition, that was the runaway slave and then Christian convert whom Paul sent back to his master Philemon, as we read in the New Testament letter that bears Philemon's name Ignatius also expresses praise for the Ephesian Christians because he says no false teaching could gain hearing among them. Quite a history indeed. Verses 2 and 3. If Jesus were to write to St. Stephen's today and pin these very same words, I would be tempted to be overly proud, sinfully proud, perhaps. For you who have been within my ministry in this parish for any number of years, the one thing you know is that I strive to abide by the truth of the gospel And have made it a priority to be a defender of the gospel as it has been handed down to us from the apostles. The phrase the book of Jude uses is the faith once delivered to the saints. That same faith is what I am willing to defend to the death. I do confess that I have been tempted to be weary several times in the fight to defend it. But I find strength beyond myself and press on. What has been endured by the Ephesians from the words of Jesus were false teachers who have claimed to have the same authority as the original apostles, but then have proven themselves to be liars. And the only way to prove people are liars is to compare their teachings to the truth, and then only stand for the truth. The laboring praise of them is their due diligence to compare the false teachings they had heard, no matter how clever the teacher And to conclude that the teachers were to be rejected. Today, considering how much the devil has continued to use false teachers in every medium possible. It is a testament to the Holy Spirit that even a few remain faithful to that faith once delivered to the saints. Verse 4. What comes next is cold water to the face, but it is also a template for each of the seven letters. In Ephesus, something is missing. Something needs to be addressed. It can be concluded that standing for the truth isn't all that makes up the Christian faith. These Ephesian Christians have left their first love. Those Who think too much have questioned what Jesus meant in saying this to the Christian, to these Ephesian Christians. They questioned, what is the love that the Ephesian Christians had lost? Some argue that what was lost in Ephesus was brotherly love. In their zeal for doctrinal purity, a very good thing in itself And a zeal that they are actually commended for later on in the letter, they had allowed an uncaring and critical spirit to grow among them. As one commentator put it, the eagerness to root out all the staken men had ended in a sour and rigid orthodoxy. And such a problem is not original to the Christians at Ephesus. Others have chosen truth over brotherly love. Other scholars, however, argued that what is meant is that the Ephesian Christians had lost their love for God, for Christ Jesus Himself. That was their first love. They were doing the right thing still, but were no longer motivated by a devotion to the Lord They liken the statement in verse 4 to that of Jeremiah 2, chapter 2, verse 2, where the Lord says to Israel, I remember the devotion of your youth, how as a bride you loved me. But others argue a third possibility, which is that the statement refers to neither brotherly love nor a love of God and Christ. But to a love for the lost world, and specifically to sharing the gospel and bearing witness to others, which these believers had loved to do when first they became followers of the of Christ, as I said, such conclusions are from people who think too much As the great Anglican Archbishop Richard Trench stated, after discussing various interpretations Quote, the suggestion that this leaving of the first love can refer to the abating of any other love but that to God and Christ grows out of entire ignorance of the whole spiritual life. And this makes good sense. Because brotherly love comes from loving our God first and foremost. Caring for the spiritually lost comes from loving our God first and foremost. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, and strength. And what follows from that is a love for our neighbor as ourselves. The human need to love God is similar to the first commandment of the Ten. We are to have no other gods before him. To put something before him is to choose to love something before him, and to do so is to set up an idol in our lives, and that is always self-destructive. That is why some see the first two commandments as the same. To put something before God is to make a graven image. And a graven image is an idol. And when we make an idol, we worship said idol. And this leads me to a passage of scripture in the Gospels that is avoided by many who call themselves Christians. It is from Luke chapter 14, verse 26, Jesus said. If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Such words are especially troubling to our Western culture, which has placed the nuclear family as a centerpiece in fulfilling personal existence. The first time Jesus said anything like this was in the Gospel of Matthew, and he said it to the twelve apostles. When he says it here in Luke, it is to a in in in the context of him being followed by a large crowd. It's almost as if he's walking along and he realizes how many people are following him and he stops. And he looks upon them, the multitude, and he says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother and wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes. And his own life also he cannot be my disciple. And of course he knew he knew it would be a jarring thing to say and a jarring thing to hear. He knew it would trouble the people. But he said it because first it was true, and second, because he wanted to get across to any anyone who would consider being his disciple, that they must be willing to die to anything. To anything in order to put him first. That is how serious he is. And please notice that I said how serious he is. Not how serious he was. He doesn't say such things to his apostles only. He says it to all who would want to call themselves Christian. And we need to ask why Jesus would choose the closest family members, our immediate family members, to be a testing ground of our devotion to Him. C. S. Lewis sheds light on this in his book about the four loves, which is the study of the four Greek words used to express the one word we have for love. One of the loves under the general category is affectionate love. Lewis calls under that category gift love. He has a fictional character named Mrs. Fidget, and she is a master of gift love. She does for her children in their older age what they had eventually learned to do for themselves, but Mrs. Fidget keeps on serving them because she has trouble, a terrible need. To be needed. Thus, what she thinks she does in love is actually done with selfish motivation to be relevant in the lives of those closest to her. There is also a caring love, which is a concern for the safety of family members, so much so that you do not want them to take risks in life. Such love thinks the worst day possible is to hear that a loved one had died, not because of the death of a loved one, but because of the emotional toll it would take on the one who is practicing caring love. Again, caring love is no love at all, but selfishness in disguise. These are just two examples of why we must love God over family. So let us ask and answer ourselves what it means to love God. Well, as stated, it means to have no other gods. Which is to have no other loyalties, priorities, and authorities besides Him. It is not only to place God as our priority, But to do so in every aspect of our lives. Every aspect, and no, I did not stutter. Every aspect of our lives Preacher, you may be asking, preacher, do you really mean every aspect of my life? That I do. You want to challenge for specifics. Preacher, you say again, do you mean God is to be first in my work? I do. Do you mean God is to be my first priority in my pleasure? I do. Do you mean God is to be first in my TV watching? I do. Do you mean God is to be first in my sexuality? I do. Do you mean God is to be first in my money spending? I do. Do you mean God is to be first in my eating and drinking? I do. Do you mean God is to be first in my conversation? I do. Okay, okay. You challenge. Do you mean God is to be first in my business in the bathroom? I do. That is what it means to have no other gods before him, and what it means to love him. The Ephesians had lost that love, that priority, because they morphed into a people who saw themselves as gatekeepers to the truth. Without remembering that part of that truth is to know a living and loving God who wants to know them and for them to know him. We celebrate the coming Messiah this Advent season for many reasons, including the knowledge that God wanted to be like us so that we could know Him. Remember the connection Jesus wanted his followers to see between him and the Heavenly Father. He said, If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. He also said that to love him was to love the one who sent him, which is the Heavenly Father. And so we are to grow in love more and more with the Son of God. But let us get practical. How do you return to your first love? Well, the text says the first step is to repent. To repent is to acknowledge that you have been going the wrong way, and then you purposefully and sincerely go the opposite way you've been going. The call to repentance also includes the acknowledgement that a choice of the will needs to be made. And this is in opposition To modern thought, which conveys that love is something that comes upon you and then controls you. As opposed to you making a choice, as opposed to love being a choice. Any righteous husband or wife will confess. that they have had to make a choice to stay in a marriage because love is not always not always there in terms of emotion. Love then becomes a choice And because it is a choice, and a choice to repent, when it is not enacted, it is also a responsibility. We are responsible to love God. And I am aware that saying such can sound like a duty, and a duty can become something to resent, but again, if you choose to resent, that's your choice. Loving God is a duty. And for those who are to love him, it is a response to how he has loved us. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. The letter closes with a warning of Jesus removing their lapstand, which means to remove them from the position, their position in his kingdom. And it's conditional unless they repent. Such a warning is out of love. For it is to be a jarring motivation to take seriously how Christians are to love God. He next praises them for hating the Nicolacians. And said group will come into play later on in these letters. Who were the Nicolaitians and what they were teaching or doing is not clear, but we know this. It is likely that they were syncretists. Syncretists wanting Christians to blend into the pagan religions around them rather than standing out against them. This then seems to be an encouragement for the Ephesians to continue to stand fast against false teaching. And that's further conveyed in verse 7, where he says that those who overcome will eat of the tree of life in the paradise of God, which we know is a description of heaven, and that will be described at the end of the book. So what are we to make of this praise for remaining steadfast in the faith and then condemning their lack of love and then praising them again for standing strong against false teachers? There are two things I close with that I wish for us to pull out of this. First, the first is That we are never finished in this life in our sanctification. There are always places in our lives where we can be made more holy. And that will be seen throughout these seven letters. The second and most important from this particular letter to the Ephesians. Is that love for God is essential to our faith in Him. Our God is a relational God. He wants to be our God and he wants us to be his people. With the motivation of love, thus we are to choose to love him. There is no better way to prepare for his coming this Advent season than to choose to love Him. Let us pray. Our God, with that call to choose to love you, we recognize that the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. We want to do our own thing. We want to go our own way. We want to live the way we want to live. That is what our flesh calls us. But our spirit says no. Our Spirit says to love you first, and so that is what we will choose to do. And we will do it in Jesus' name. Amen.