In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn, if you would, in your Bibles to Ecclesiastes. The book of Ecclesiastes, chapter 11. We're looking at chapter 11, verses 1 through 6. Ecclesiastes eleven, verses 1 through 6 Please be mindful of what I said early on in our study of this book of Ecclesiastes. The book as a whole is one sermon. It is thus difficult But not impossible, but still difficult, to take sections of the book and make each section a separate sermon. A good sermon ebbs and flows. It hits hard in some places and slows down enough for reflection in others. Taking a step back and looking at what we have covered the last several months, we can see the ebb and flow In chapter 7, we learned how wisdom is better than foolishness, and that when we choose foolishness, we should not be surprised by the consequences. In chapter 8, we learned the importance of submitting to authority, and in specific submitting to God's authority regarding the things we cannot control. In chapter 9, we were challenged to not only accept that there are things we cannot control, but to have faith in God in the midst of our trials and our tribulations. Next, we learn that we are free to enjoy the good gifts God has given us. And last week we were informed about the limitations of wisdom. And that wisdom must lead us to Christ for it for that wisdom to have lasting value. To transition to the lesson in chapter 11, we must keep in mind that there is a temptation to respond to the fact that there are limitations to wisdom. And that response might be to sit and do nothing. The question could be asked If wisdom doesn't lead to fame, if it doesn't give clarity to strange things that occur in life, then why pursue it? There are two general responses to life circumstances that appear ruled by determinism. We can say, what's the point of trying? We can't do anything to change the outcome. Or we can say, let's get all we can out of life since God, since we know God has everything. under control. And from the lesson given in the beginning of Ecclesiastes chapter 11, we can see that the preacher Solomon prefers the latter approach. Get all we can out of life. A literal reading of verse 1 can cause a bit of consternation. Cast your bread upon the water. If a person casts bread upon water, we know by experience that the only thing that is going to come back to him is soggy bread. And that would happen only if the birds and fish didn't get to the bread first. So what does this verse mean? If you struggle to answer that question, you are certainly not alone. The following are quotes taken from various commentators regarding Ecclesiastes 11, verse 1. From commentator Albert Barnes quote, the verse means show hospitality Even though the corresponding return of hospitality to you may seem improbable, nevertheless be hospitable in faith. Some interpreters not unreasonably understand by bread the seed from the produce of which bread is made. seed cast upon the fertile soil flooded by the early rains would be returned to the sower in autumn with a large increase. End quote From commentator Adam Clark, quote, Cast thy bread upon the waters, an allusion to sowing of rice, which was sown upon muddy ground, or ground covered with water. and trodden on by the feet of cattle. It thus took root and grew, and was found after many days in a plentiful harvest. End quote. From commentator John Gill, quote, Cast thy bread upon the waters, as the wise man had often suggested. That nothing was better for a man than to enjoy the good of his labor himself. Here he advises to let others, the poor, have a share with him. And as he had directed in the preceding chapter how men should behave towards their superiors, here he instructs them what notice they should take of their inferiors. And as he had cautioned against luxury and temperance, intemperance, he here guards against tenacity and covetousness and exhorts to beneficence and liberality. That which is to be given is bread, which is put for all the necessaries of life, food and raiment or money. That answers all things, but may be a supply of wants, a support of persons in distress, what is useful, profitable, and beneficial. So which is it? Is the verse referring to hospitality? Is it seed or rice? Is it food for the poor? From these three commentators, there is at least one thing we can be assured of. The meaning of the verse is that we are to be giving. It could be hospitality, it could be sowing rice for a future harvest, or it could be giving directly to the poor. Whichever It is there is a consensus that we, God's people, should be giving. The reference To the number seven and then eight in verse two helps us to better understand verse one. The number seven we are to remember represents fullness or completeness. Thus to give a serving unto seven is to give unto completeness or to give as much as is needed. To give eight is to give beyond what is needed. It is to give in an overflowing manner With this information, we can conclude with commentator Mr. Gill that this verse one is indeed talking about giving to the poor. The natural events that are described in verses 3 and 4 are also events that man cannot control. The manner they are described contains a warning against idleness. A man who is idle and simply observes the events of life is a man who does not sow seed. He doesn't give. He does not cast his bread, and so he does not sow, and finds that he will not reap. If he does not cast bread upon the water, it will not return to him. If he does not give, then nothing will be given back to him. The facts stated in verse 5 first remind us of the words of Jesus regarding the Holy Spirit. You remember from John chapter 3, verse 8, Jesus said, The wind blows where it wishes, and you hear its sound. But you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Next, we are reminded of Psalm 139, where David states, quote, My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in the secret. Intricately moving in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written, every one of them the days that were formed for me when as yet there was none of them. The blowing of the wind and the forming of a child then in the womb are both mysteries to us. And both are acts of God, making him the one who knows the secrets. The difference to be made in understanding that God knows the secrets and that God is doing the things that men are not. privy to watch is that we are able to be free to sow our seed in the morning. Also as instructed in verse 6, we are to sow seed in the evening. But why? Why the morning? Why the evening? Because we don't know which sowing will end up prospering. Will it be the work we do in the morning that will prosper, or will it be the work we do in the evening that will prosper? Whichever it is, God knows, and he would have us sowing at both times. So we stop at verse 6 and try to summarize what we have been taught. We are to give of ourselves. Give what is essential to life to those who are in need. And we are to give beyond what is needed. We are not to sit back and observe life, but instead we are to be actively involved in giving with the understanding that there is going to be a return. on what we are giv giving, even though we cannot control it or see how it's going to come back to us By faith, we are to be giving at all moments of the day with the faith that God will bring about an increase. Sounds pretty simple. Sounds like good advice. We are to give We are to give especially to those who have needs. The problem is, if we are honest in examining ourselves, we don't give as much and as often as we should. Solomon preaches this advice to God's people after having witnessed much of life. And has viewed how men don't spend enough time caring about their fellow men. When Jesus was amongst men, he said literally the same thing. Jesus said, give and it will be given to you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, will be put into your lap. For with the measure you use it, it will be measured back to you. What we need to be reminded of today are the more difficult words. Jesus spoke before his admonishment to give. Remember that the Sermon on the Mount was a ratcheting up of holiness. He was not simply repeating the moral law of the Old Testament, but setting a higher standard of holiness. Remember these words. Give to everyone who begs from you. And from one who takes away your goods, do not demand them back. And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them. If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. And if you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners to get back the same amount. But love your enemies. And do good and lend, expecting nothing in return. And your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High For he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil. Be merciful, even as your father is merciful. I suspect that many of us, when we hear such words of Jesus, we scoff a bit under our breath. It's kind of like what most men do when they hear the words of Jesus explaining that lusting is the same as committing adultery. We stop and say, yeah, right, like it's possible not to lust. Well, to these words about giving, we say, yeah, right Like I'm going to j just give good things to my enemy. Like I'm going to just give to anybody who asks of me. Like I'm going to lend my money and expect nothing in return. There is no way. We can't imagine it. Christians have debated for centuries what really was going on in Acts chapter 4, trying to dissect what it meant for Christians living in Jerusalem to share all things in common. It is described as people not treating the things they possess as their own, and that when land, for example, was sold. The monies made became property of the body of believers and not of any individual From this description it is debated whether a person's spiritual maturity and health could be detected in the manner that he or she allows others to use what they own The point can be made via a question. Can a Christian be living faithfully and at the same time withhold the sharing of his property? The challenge is difficult for people of a society that values material goods as much as you and I do. We speak about homes and cars and valuables using words like my and mine It is my house. It is my car. That television is mine. We even use those words to describe time, using phrases like, you're wasting my time. It appears that by our verbiage that ownership or at least claims to ownership are very, very important to us. Perhaps we could should consider how Jesus understands us when we say what we own. Perhaps we should consider Jesus' perspective when I claim that it is my house or my car. Perhaps we should consider that it is quite absurd for a person who lives under the sun and has a vaporous life for me to claim ownership of time. This obsession about ownership of material goods is sometimes justified with the argument about being a good steward. We argue that it is good for us not to loan out our things because we are being a good steward by ensuring that what we have is not damaged or misused. The problem with that argument is that nothing in Jesus' words seems to foster a concern about being a good steward over giving freely of what we have. Jesus said, give if it is asked of you. That's it. No qualifications. I proclaim to you emphatically, based on the wisdom of the preacher of Ecclesiastes and based on the commands of Jesus, that a Christian cannot live faithfully and be close-fisted. Which means to be unwilling to share freely of what you have been given freely. The ability to give freely is all too rare amongst us today. We are too suspicious, too stubborn, too selfish with the things we claim to own We need to repent. Repent from this obsession with ownership and be freed from such bondage and listen to the preacher and cast our bread upon the water. All too often, when we hear lessons about giving, we think monetarily. I briefly mention our claim of ownership over time. It is also our time that we are to give freely when we are asked for it. We are to give freely of our time without expecting anything in return. Because I give my time to someone doesn't mean they have to give me time in return. And again, this goes against our culture, for we are a people that expect a dinner invitation from the people we have had over to our house for dinner. We expect a card from the people who send us cards, or people we send cards to. The act of giving without expecting a return is a new world to us, and yet it is God's world. It is how citizens of God's kingdom are to live. We are to give of ourselves in whatever capacity is asked of us, and we are to expect nothing in return. And please notice that when the preacher describes planting in the morning and in the evening, that can be interpreted to mean planting early in one's life and later in one's life. Stated plainly, we are to be giving of ourselves all the days of our vaporous life, whether we are 10 years old or 100 years old. We are to be giving, freely giving. The importance of living a life of giving is seen in the numerous times that it is encouraged in the New Testament. To the Galatians we read, let us not become weary in doing good. For at the proper time, we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. To the Hebrews we read: God is not unjust. He will not forget your work and the love you have shown him as you have helped his people and continue to help them. To the Corinthians, we read, the point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. To the Philippians we read, I am full, said Paul, having received from Epiphroditus the things which were sent from you. a sweet smelling aroma, an acceptable sacrifice, well pleasing to God, and my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches, in glory by Christ Jesus. You see, beloved, casting our bread upon the water is not just an advice of a sage. It is a description of what it means to say we are Christian. We are givers. We give whatever we have. And we believe that it will come back to us and even more. Let us pray. A gracious God, we thank you for these mysterious words, words that do call us To be mindful of how much you gave, and that because of that model you set before us to give your only begotten Son, we ourselves who follow you are to be givers. May that conviction reign in us until our days are ended, knowing how much will be returned to us. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.