I don't know what they can mean or they're gonna have to run a pretty much In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. There is a respectable theory regarding the greater meaning of the lives of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The call of God upon the lives of this grandfather, father, and son is parallel to God's call on the lives of any who would follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Abraham represents the spirit of faith, as he is noted for believing in God, and that belief was reckoned to him as righteousness. Therefore, Abraham represents the new believer. Isaac represents the spirit of sonship. Just as all who profess faith in Christ are said to be sons of God. Therefore, Isaac represents how every Christian is to learn how to live out being an inheritor of the kingdom of God. And finally, Jacob represents the spirit of service. He is like all Christians who need to work out their salvation in fear and in trembling. His life is a lesson regarding how works interact with faith. Now I call this perspective about the lives of these three men as a theory. But it seems so obvious now that we are to understand these men in this way that I would prefer to call it a truth rather than a theory. But just as in all typology, nothing is as clear-cut as we first would like. Jacob's life, as well as we will see in the coming weeks, is a life of works But before the works to earn his wives and then his flocks, he must understand, and you and I must understand, how God saves Christianity has struggled since the first century to understand how to work out the difference between works and faith. You remember, of course, that the Reformation was caused in part by abuses in the Roman Catholic Church as it had begun to insist that a man's work within the context of the church could earn God's favor. The insistence of the reformers was that men can only be saved by grace, and any work performed by men is to be in response to God's grace, not to earn God's grace. It was not and is still not that simple As I've just described, for there remains a debate as to what constitutes a work. The Roman Catholic can concede the point that men are only saved by grace. But insists that grace is distributed through the church, and those who desire such grace can receive it if they participate in the sacraments of the church. Participation in sacraments is not a work to earn grace, according to the Roman Church. Reformed Protestants respond by insisting that anything, and they mean anything that would involve an effort by man, that constitutes a work, and therefore cannot contribute to a person's salvation, for the scripture is clear. We are saved by grace through faith alone. The Roman Catholic rebuts saying that reformers contradict themselves by insisting that men are saved without works while at the same time saying that men must confess the doctrine of grace alone, making such a confession a work The Reformed respond by stating that even the ability to confess is given by God, thus it is not a work of man, but of God. They continue their argument by noticing that the error of the Roman Church is the same that was made by the Jews of Jesus' day who believed that they could keep the law of God, and the better they did that, the more they received mercy from God. Well, fairly recently, there has been a new discussion, it may even be called an argument, among leading Reform Protestants. That have brought the question into play as to whether the Jews of Jesus' day have been rightly understood by scholars. A leading voice of this so-called new perspective is Anglican Bishop N. T. Wright. He argues that the Jews of Jesus' day believed that obeying the law was a sign of being in covenant with God and not a means to earn God's favor. He then argues that Paul understood this about the Jews as well, and we should read his epistles with this in mind. The bishop has received strident disagreement from well-known reform clergy, causing sides to be chosen. Now I aired the dirty laundry of the church before you to give you an idea of how difficult and divisive this issue is of how we understand works and grace. And my hope of our study of Jacob, we can reconcile the two. Now we are in chapter 28 of Genesis, and we only read part of it, but I encourage you to turn there. We're going to be covering the whole chapter. and uh and and focus on something more specific. This section of scripture, this chapter, is more commonly known for the reference here of Jacob's ladder. Many know Jacob's ladder more by the spiritual song than they do the details of this story. The song contains the following verses We are climbing Jacob's ladder. We are climbing Jacob's ladder. We are climbing Jacob's ladder, brothers, sisters, all. Every rung goes higher and higher. Every rung goes higher and higher. Every rung goes higher and higher. Brothers, sisters, all. Every new one makes us stronger, every new one makes us stronger, every new one makes us stronger, brothers, sisters, all. The song includes another stanza repeating the phrase, We have toiled in dark and danger, and ends by repeating, we are climbing Jacob's ladder. The song is believed to date back to the 19th century, sung by black Americans who worked as slaves on southern plantations. The song reveals the hardships they endured and their focus on heaven that helped them get through each day. Although popular, there is something, unfortunately, to point out that's very wrong with this song, and I hope that some of you have already heard it After we get through the narrative of the chapter, I will point it out to all of us. So the chapter begins with Isaac confirming Rebekah's instruction. For Jacob to go to his mother's house to find a wife, rather than finding a wife amidst the Canaanites. The idea first came to Rebekah so that he could be safe, again because his brother Esau was going to take his life Now Isaac is in agreement, and with his agreement comes another blessing. The blessing is similar to the one given to Isaac by the Lord, who in chapter 26, verse 3, and verse 24 Promised to give him the same land that he promised Abraham and to multiply his descendants. This was the blessing that God had intended all along for Jacob. The same blessing that was revealed to Rebecca when the Lord told her that the younger son would serve the older. Now an interesting side story to what was going on in the life of Jacob was the reaction of Esau when he saw Isaac blessing his younger brother. Before sending him to find a wife amongst his mother's family. Esau, you will remember, had taken wives from the Hittite tribe, Hittite tribe. And we are told in chapter 26 that these women grieved Isaac and Rebekah because they worshiped false gods. Esau, understanding, or so he thinks. The reason why Jacob was blessed and he was not, he decides to go amongst his grandfather's other son, the family of Ishmael, and take another wife. And I say that his actions are typical to what the carnal mind attempts to do. Instead of repentance and atonement for sins committed A man of the flesh tries to make up for the wrong that was done. Since he married two wrong wives, he tries to marry a right one. If the sin is different, the manner of making up for it, balancing the scales is different as well. If something wrong was said, well then something right said is attempted. If there has been an insult uttered, a compliment will follow. If a lie was formed, an honest truth is told to cover up the lie. By trying to make up for wrong done, men of such carnal minds reveal that they do not understand God. Sin is not made up for by good deeds. The only payment of sin is death. A life sacrifice must be made, but the carnal mind, the carnal mind does not want to have to die. It only wants to try to make things even. While Esau attempts to balance the scales of this wrongdoing, Jacob makes his way to Haran, which is approximately five hundred miles from his home in Beersheba. About 70 miles into the trip, Jacob arrives at Bethel, although he does not call it Bethel yet. Bethel is the same place where Abraham built an altar after the Lord had appeared to him. That Jacob came upon the same place, we need to read, is not by chance. God ordained it to be so, and it should teach us that God does not change. The same covenant he made with Abraham, he makes with Isaac, and with Jacob. It is the same for those who follow Christ. We are under the same covenant. We are children of Abraham. And all children of Abraham are part of the same baptism, having been baptized by the same Spirit. The stones that Jacob uses for his bed are likely those that Abraham used to build an altar to God. Consider that God uses the worship of the grandfather Abraham as a means to pass on the covenant to the grandson Jacob. Providing that a proving that a man never knows how his worship of God is going to bless his children's children. While Jacob's head rests upon a stone, he dreams a dream like no other dream. He dreams of what is translated to be a ladder. Another possible word is staircase, but what makes this word so difficult to translate is that it is the only place here where this word occurs in Scripture. The root of the word is actually a verb which means to exalt or raise up. The only conclusion I can draw from the literal meaning of the word is that this is whatever he is seeing, it is very unique. What is also unique about the dream is the manner that this so-called ladder was used. Angels, multiple angels of God are ascending and descending on it. What the angels were doing besides going up and down, that's not revealed to us in the story. But it is revealed elsewhere. Hebrews 1 verse 14 says that angels are ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation. That's us. Psalm 34, 7 describes angels as protectors. Quote, the angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear him and delivers them. In Psalm 91, verse 11, the promise is made, for he shall give his angels charge over you to keep you in all his ways. In Genesis 28, at the top of the ladder, which is the entrance into heaven, it tells us is the Lord. He is said to be standing above. The words the Lord speaks to Jacob are greater than the blessing given to Jacob by his father Isaac. God will give to Jacob and his descendants the land that he was laying upon. This was the same promise that God gave to Abraham. And like Abraham, Jacob is told that his offspring will be a blessing to all the families of the earth. What is unique about the Lord's promise to Jacob is the description of his offspring being scattered. Scattered as dust to the four corners of the earth in order to be a blessing. We can say with great assurance that such scattering was fulfilled at the spread of the Christian faith. The book of Revelation describes the fulfillment as the four corners of the earth being gathered together. But more important Then the four corners is the mention of Jesus in Jacob's dream. If you did not notice it, let me remind you of a seemingly unrelated story. It's recorded in the Gospel of John. Just as after Jesus begins his public ministry, Philip invites a guy named Nathaniel to join them, to meet Jesus When Jesus sees Nathaniel coming towards him, he comments about the sincerity of the man. Nathaniel asks how Jesus could know him. Jesus explains that before Philip had talked to Nathaniel, he saw Nathaniel sitting under a fig tree. And since Jesus was not in the same geographical vicinity, Nathaniel heard that statement and was alarmed and was convinced then that Jesus could see all, and thus Jesus was the Son of God. And Jesus replied in this way, You shall see greater things than these. More assuredly I say to you, hereafter, you shall see heaven open And the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man. Now, any God-fearing Jew listening to Jesus would know their Old Testament stories and know the application of the description of angels ascending and descending. Jesus in his conversation with Nathaniel was identifying himself with the latter in Jacob's dream Essentially, Jesus is saying he is the means, he is the means by which heaven meets earth and earth meets heaven. The angels descending at Jesus' birth, they continued ascending and descending to minister him while he was on earth They descended to announce his resurrection, and they ascended to take him to heaven at the Father's right hand. Jacob, of course, did not fully understand what the latter represented. He did, however, know that he had seen and heard God. And the natural response for him, like his grandfather, was to build an altar and name the place Bethel, or House of God, or the place where God dwells. Now let us go back and take another look at the spiritual song Jacob Ladder, keeping in mind the symbolism of the dream. The song describes the climbing of Jacob's ladder. It describes how the ladder goes higher and higher. It also describes the great toil of climbing. While it is true that the Song of Toil describes well the plight of black American slaves, they do not describe how man is saved. What should be asked of anyone who would sing such a song, what should be asked is, what are you doing on the ladder? What are you doing on the ladder? Although Jacob sees a ladder, he himself never gets on it, nor are we ever told that he thought about getting on it. Those who are on it are ministering spirits. Those who are on it are bringing the aid of heaven down to us and taking our petitions, our needs up to heaven. Thus, the manner of a person's salvation, the way in which we are saved, is not by climbing a ladder or climbing Jesus. But for heaven to visit us upon earth through the mediator of Jesus Christ. In fact, the one who ascends to heaven and descends upon the earth for our salvation is none other than Jesus Himself. Jesus said of himself, No one has ascended to heaven but he who came down from heaven, that is the Son of Man who is in heaven. After quoting Psalm 68 regarding Jesus' ascension, Paul, the Apostle Paul, explained the following to the Ephesians. He said, Now this, he ascended, what does it mean? But that he is also first descended into the lower parts, descended into the lower parts of the earth He who descended is also the one who ascended far above the heavens, that he might fill all things. This, beloved, is how we are saved. We are saved by the works of Jesus, who is the mediator between God and man. He is the only mediator. He is the only means by which a man can be saved. Jacob understands the dream enough. To know that his blessings on earth originate in heaven. He responds by committing to the Lord a tenth of what the Lord will bless him with in the future. And this is the beginning of understanding the combination of works and faith. God initiates with Jacob. He initiates with all men that he chooses The response of every man with whom God initiates is to perform an act of worship. This is to be our primary act. There are other works to be sure, but worship is the initial and primary work. In response to God's mercy, we are not to get on a ladder, but we are to worship. After that, he will show us what else we are to do. And I hope you see as you think back these last few sermons how this all comes together Two weeks ago we highlighted the mercies of God in the lives of Isaac and Rebekah. Last week we saw how God goes forward with his will, despite the sins of those he has chosen. So that we might all look to him and say, To God alone be the glory. This week we are able to highlight that our salvation is never earned by our own works. But only by the works of Jesus, for he is as the latter who brings heaven to earth and earth to heaven. Dr. Jordan Peterson, who we will use as a springboard for our men's meeting next Saturday. In a conversation about religion, he quoted Jesus as saying, quote, No one comes to the Father but by me. And his response to those words of Jesus was, that's a hell of a thing for anyone to say. I had to laugh at that. And I assure you, he didn't say it as a criticism of Jesus, but instead was trying was trying to express how serious a statement Jesus was making when he used such words. And Jesus used such words to provoke a serious response because forgiveness of sins is serious business. And Jesus is the only way God the Father has chosen for the sins of mankind to be forgiven. So I close by saying, get off the ladder. Get off the ladder and trust that Jesus is the means for heaven to be yours. For in Jesus alone are your sins forgiven you. And all of God's people said, Amen. Let us pray.