Thank you, Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, looking at verses 1 to 11. This could be twelve, one, three, eleven. We Western Christians are a bit odd. We start and follow facts. How many of you remember these facts amongst Christians? The message. Practically a post-modern translation of the Bible. Well how about the prayer of Tibetans? The left behind series. What we think is one of the water to do up just positions. W WJE. What was Jesus doing based on multiple places? The purpose-driven life. A rich war is best self. The staff. I won't describe to you what that always is. Purity rings, symbol of the promise of favor, don't worry. Maybe churches and Christian rock music both describes and such. Well those of you who are younger, you may not know that in the 1980s there was a bad person of pursuing the gift of speaking in owners. I was part of church that Jesus, that if you were a true Christian, you needed to have the gift of coming in with true If you were baptized in the Holy Spirit, they came to the perspective when they look back, where they interpret it and tell stories of Christians, being baptized in the Holy Spirit, and the only evidence being. So if you were to be a member of the church and had to build evidence, okay, this would be fun. It also turns out this one very story from the system to the critical and proof that comes together the same. When I say that such teaching and practice regarding this problem is bad, because it's never seen the picture like it was in the 1950s. And forty years later, it is no longer a holy story as a death, even with the church I want to think. Thankfully today we can be more objective and what S. Paul talked about gifts of what we spirit. She wrote this book now by 1 Corinthians chapter 12, picking up the early 12th. The phrase now concerned indicates that Paul is taking up another subject that the Corinthians themselves have raised in their letter to him. But as the text will reveal, it will become clear that this particular discussion in chapter 12 is connected with the abuse of spiritual gifts that was disturbing the worship services of the religious and also dealing with that subject error in chapter 13. Remember that he has already developed the two other abuses in their worship. And now he commences on the first. He is laying the groundwork here in chapter 12 and chapters 13 and 13. One thing these folks were not eager about was what it's like to be a and how they have been controlled by that false way of light fire. It seems most likely that Paul here referring to their knowledge of the fact That many pagan cults in Corinth practiced what was called inspired speech in their pagan worship. Even though their idols were mute, he's reminding them that it isn't only Christians that claim some form of inspired speech And therefore, any form of ecstatic utterance in and of itself is no proof of true spirituality or godliness. Verse 3. The main point here seems to be against those who wanted to measure and to prove their deeper or higher spirituality by their exercise of the gift of tongues Paul argues that far more basic and more important is the content of the Christian faith itself. And a person's full and sincere embrace of that faith. In this verse, Paul gives a very simple test by way of contrast. A person who confesses that Jesus is Lord gives evidence of having the Holy Spirit. To say otherwise is to say that Jesus is accursed. But of course, Paul means more than just uttering words. He is describing a confession that is sincere. Thus it is only sincere confessions of Jesus as Lord that reveal the presence of the Holy Spirit in the heart of an individual. Verses four through five. Here, the specific question of the use and abuse of inspired speech is placed in a larger context. Paul is going to describe the nature of the body of Christ, the Church, as a unity characterized by diversity. It's a modern word today, diversity, used differently here. This diversity is necessary for the church's health. And it comes directly from God, the Holy Spirit. And it is expressed among other ways by the versities of gifts. Verse 6 We are to notice the reference in verses 4 through 6 to each of the three persons of the Trinity. This diversity is the will and work of all of them, all of the Godhead. And more profoundly, the diversity and unity found in the church is found first and ultimately in God Himself. This is, by way, an important demonstration of the Trinitarian doctrine of the New Testament. One reason it is, is because it is so artlessly and unconsciously stated. It is to say it's not an intentional Confession, but an unintentional confession, thus a proof that Paul and the early Christians thought about things in terms of God, in terms of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, yet a single God had. Verse seven. The point of gifts being For all is where Paul will hammer with emphasis. These gifts that the Spirit has given, one to some and another to others, are for the common good of the church. They are meant to be the instruments of humble love and never for expressions of pride, as they have become in the case of Corinth. Verse eight. The precise definition of these various gifts and their manifestations of the Spirit It's very difficult, and perhaps, because it spans over 2,000 years since this was written, impossible to know. For example, how wisdom and knowledge are to be distinguished from one another, no one honestly knows. Verse nine Insofar as faith is something all Christians share, what is presumably meant is some extraordinary measure of faith by which supernatural works are performed or difficult trials are faced Verse 10. The fact that the gift of tongues and the interpretation of tongues are listed last here, and first in chapter 13, verse 1 Suggest that the abuse of these gifts was a primary problem. By the way, The choice of the word tongues as a translation from Paul's Greek represents probably a failure on the part of translators. In any similar context, the word would be rendered languages, the gift of languages. Only once in the New Testament are we actually given to see the gift of tongues in operation, and it is the Spirit given ability to speak in a language one has not learned. And so the phrase interpretation of tongues most naturally would be taken to mean the translation of languages. Verse eleven. Paul is again making sure that Christians understand the origin of the gift Who is the Holy Spirit, but the handling out handing out of gifts is done according to the will of the Spirit. Which should first humble us to recognize none of it none of us come to gifts because we've earned them, and not all of us deserve any of the gifts. I want to jump down to verse 28 and I want you to notice how it follows. For Paul mixes together offices and gifts in quite a different way than in verses 8 through 10. The main point at the end of the chapter is simply that not all Christians will have the same gifts. But all are to be good stewards with the gifts that you've been given. The day in which we live, when it becomes history will likely be looked upon as very strange in terms of our culture because of our insistence on equality. Equality sounds like a good ideal We all want to be treated the same without prejudice. Our laws should reflect the value of equality when it becomes when it comes to opportunity No one in their right mind would dispute such a statement. Equality when it comes to opportunity. Where our culture goes wrong is the expectation that equality should mean equal outcome as well as opportunity, and some even want equal outcome with no opportunity or even effort. Not too long ago, a woman athlete, a star on the United States women's soccer team. insisted that women soccer players, professional soccer players, should be paid the same as men. That sounds right If all factors were equal, but they are not. Whereas the last Women's World Cup soccer tournament earned a nice $130 million in revenue. The men's last World Soccer Cup earns in the billions. Whereas professional basketball, the NBA men's basketball, earns over two billion in revenue each year The Women's Professional Basketball League, the WNBA, loses over 10 million each year. These are examples of equality of opportunity, but not of outcome. As we look around us, our church family displays many gifts that don't display equality of outcome. I will never play the piano well. I have tinkered at times trying to learn something with no success. I taught myself to strum a guitar and play some chords in order to sing songs with the youth group, but I was not naturally proficient. Is that fair? Should I complain to God that I don't have natural musical talent? My grandmother, on my mother's side, could play the piano proficiently having never taken a lesson. She could hear a song and repeat it on the piano. What a gift! How come I didn't get it? None of her children or grandchildren received such a gift. Where is justice in that? But the opposite could be asked And that I could be challenged as to why I should have gotten such a gift or been given any gift at all. If we want to stick with the idea of fairness It wouldn't be fair if I did get such a gift because I have done nothing to earn it. When it comes to having gifts, we must recognize that no matter how wealthy you are in gifts or how poor you are. You and I deserve none of it. For the Christians, instead of looking for fairness regarding the gifts we have, we are to first do well with the gifts we have been given. And to do well includes using them for the sake of others. The gifts that Paul lists are gifts for the sake of others. Consider, whatever the difference Paul wanted there to be between wisdom and knowledge, both are to be used for others. With such gifts, we can help people apply the Word of God to their lives so that the Word of God helps them to triumph over sin. Or over confusion, or over a trial, or any number of ways the scripture can make sense of a life situation that is difficult to deal with. As I mentioned earlier, that gift of faith listed must be more than a saving faith, but is a faith in dire situations where most want to give up panic or curse is the faith that few have in moments of crisis and or fear. Such faith says God is indeed going to make this situation work. to the good, even though we cannot see now how. This faith says put a rod over the sea, and God will do something he has never done before. This faith says, hit the rock with the rod, and water will flow from that rock in the middle of a desert. This faith says, destroy the temple and Jesus will raise it again in three days. This faith says But though I am but dust in the ground, God will raise me up from the dead, both body and spirit, and give me a new body and an eternal spirit that I might live with him. for eternity. The next two gifts have been put together by some because the gift of healing is indeed a miracle, but miracles are not limited to the healing of a person. Jesus did miracles such as feeding the 5,000 as a sign of him being the Messiah. But whether it be a miracle sign or a miracle healing All are done for the sake of others, with the most important outcome being that people place their faith in Jesus. This then must include the question as to whether such gifts of healing and miracles still occur today. First, allow me to be clear that I am not a cessationist. A cessationist is a person who believes the spiritual gifts of the New Testament have ceased in terms of their effectiveness. The Reformed Episcopal Church does not take a stand regarding whether the spiritual gifts in their entirety are still applicable today. What we can notice regarding such gifts Is that God uses them in the Holy Scriptures to usher in new eras. For example, the era of the law. washer ushered in by Moses and then Joshua, both of them practicing miracles to establish the people of God into the promised land. The next era was that of the prophets, and that too was ushered in with miracles, worked and performed by Elijah and Elisha. This was followed by the ushering in of the kingdom of God through the revelation of Jesus as the Messiah, and that was followed by the Apostolic Age. And they continued the miracles of Jesus. This means there were indeed miracles done at the time of the apostles, and that is why Paul writes about their use. How those miracles continued up to today is a repeated question and a matter of whose testimonies you can believe. To be sure, this is just a historical fact. To be sure, the generation following the apostles did not leave behind testimonies of miracles such as they saw Jesus and the apostles doing. What's the fact? The dramatic work of the Holy Spirit done in the first century has not been repeated in regard to the volume of the first disciples as it was witnessed. But since the scriptures do not instruct Christians to no longer pray for miracles or expect Christians or to pray for healing or expect a prophetic word, but it even tells us that we should pray for healing. It even tells us that we should pray for wisdom. Then it is for us to open to be open to what the Holy Spirit wants in regards to his gifts, with the understanding continuing that it is all to be done for someone else. Not for the person with the gift. It will be done for the good of the church as a whole, not for an individual. The next gift is prophecy. And we say that God still gifts us with prophecy when it comes to preaching and applying the word of God to our lives, and that's connected to wisdom. But there is no new words of God. Because what the scriptures say is enough. And we should spend the rest of our days knowing those scriptures and understanding those scriptures and applying those scriptures. The next gift is discernment, and most certainly such a gift is needed for every age For there are always false teachers and deceptive laity that have sinful motives, and such people must be rooted out. This is why the process of becoming an ordained minister is so thorough, for it is designed for leaders to be able to discern. College and seminary transcripts must be examined for authenticity because people who do not fear God will lie And misrepresent themselves regarding who they are and what they have accomplished. And I'm saying this firsthand. I just recently dealt with a man who forged a certificate of ordination as he tried to transfer orders into the Reformed Episcopal Church. There are wills in sheep clothing and discernment helps us get them out of the pen Finally, there is the gift of tongues. As stated, tongues can be translated languages. And so we can see such a gift continuing that there are people who are gifted to learn several languages When it comes to the gift of speaking in tongues as languages of angels, I have only this to say The gifts Paul wants us to focus on are those that serve others, not those for the person Who has the gift, and speaking languages of angels is only for the person who has such a gift. That is not where this passage wants us to go. I am not sure why Western Christians are susceptible to fads. Perhaps because the Western culture likes fads, and we Christians think we need to have our own fads. But what is not badish, what is not badish is dying to yourself. And in dying to yourself, using your gifts for others And sometimes, beloved, sometimes your gift is just being present. Using your gifts for others is something the devil will never tell you to do. Be assured, such a directive is from God. The whole life of Jesus was for the sake of others. And he expects his followers to live the same. Amen. Let us pray The gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for this call. To know our gifts come from you, regardless of what they are, that they come from you, and that you instruct us to use them for the sake of of others. And so weigh meet, may we, as your people, be stewards, good stewards of the same. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.