In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. I want to publicly thank Becky for filling in. We do want to be praying for Janice. She is under the weather tonight. And I do encourage you to note that this is a service in which you have an opportunity to give God thanks and praise for whatever He has laid upon your heart And uh wish you'd be thinking about that even now before we come to that time The passage for the homily tonight is First Thessalonians five eighteen First Thessalonians five eighteen. Give thanks in all circumstances. Give thanks in all circumstances. I am going to choose to rebel against God's instruction tonight. I am rebelling against his instruction to give thanks in all circumstances. Hear me out. I choose not to give thanks, not to give thanks for the construction on bridges one and two. On Highway 26, leading east away from Eldersburg or west toward Eldersburg I have lived here 18 plus years, and no such work has been done on one said bridge. until these last two years, and that work is constant. And such constant work has made me late on several occasions And there is no warning that such work will start, nor is there warning as to when it will stop. It starts, and then it stops, and then it starts again. And now both bridges are being worked on at the same time. So that drivers have to stop and wait in line at one bridge, only to travel less than a mile and wait again at the next bridge. I say end Liberty Road Bridge work by doing it right the first time Can I get an amen? Amen. I also choose not to give thanks this day or any day for walnuts. Think about it. It adds up. Ralnuts are way too difficult to deshell. A vice plier instrument is required No worthwhile nut should need its own true tool to deshell. Also The nut is dangerous for people like me, who, if eaten fresh, will have our throats swollen so that we can barely breathe. Also, walnuts have ruined, ruined perfectly good chocolate chip cookies. Great care goes in to getting the right amount of sugar, vanilla extract, to get the dough consistent And even to rightly number the chocolate chips per cookie, only to have the taste hijacked by walnuts. Those who want walnuts on their cookies should make and eat walnut cookies while leaving chocolate chip cookies alone. Can I get an amen? I also choose not to give thanks for commercials that follow every kickoff of a pro football game. The games are long enough, the quality of play today is poor enough, to not have a team score To watch the boring extra point, break for commercial, come back to see a kickoff that usually isn't returned anyways, and then have a new set of commercials The games are not worth the time as they play these days, very poor quality of football, and many players are not worth supporting Stop commercial breaks after kickoffs. Can I get an amen? I also choose not to give thanks for the national news media in these United States. We get it. You hate President Donald Trump. Fine. You hate those who voted for Donald Trump. Fine. But if Christians of the first century can put up with being ruled by Nero, Nero, who use Christians as lion food and tiki torches Then anyone can endure the Donald. If Christians can heed the words of Saint Paul and pray for their political leaders, like Nero. And Domitian and Trajan, all who murdered Christians. It seems that the secular world news maker-uppers can be civil about the Trumpster. Can I get an amen? Finally, at least for tonight, I choose not to give thanks for the majority of information people post on social media. Well, I want to know how my grandchildren, nephews and nieces, and brothers and sisters are doing, and the blessings of my fellow Christians that they are experiencing. I do not want to know what your meal looks like that you enjoyed at Bob Evans. Nor do I want to know what the roadkill looked like when you ran over it this morning. Nor do I want to know what your used socks look like that you're trying to sell to your next door neighbor There used to be such thing as TMI. Too much information. Well, we ought to get back to that. No more TMI on social media Can I get an amen? It must be questioned regarding why St. Paul instructs Christians to give thanks in all circumstances. What is the primary purpose? Why can't we do just as I have done and draw lines in proverbial sand? And say that there are certain things we will not be thankful for, and have reasonable and thus legitimate reasons not to be thankful. Well, I have to answer my own questions, don't I? Yes, I do. It is an important principle to live by that if you're going to ask questions, ask serious questions, then you had better be mature enough and strong enough to hear the answers The context of St. Paul's instruction for Christians to give thanks in all circumstances is the simple directive to pray. He first says pray and then he says give thanks in all circumstances. Thus all Christians are to pray at all times, that is, the Christian life. It is a life that is in constant communication with God. Well, of course it is There is nothing better for the human soul than to be in constant communication and thus a constant relationship with the God who made heaven and earth and who holds all things together. Thus, as a greater detail to the type of prayers Christians are to be engaged in We are to be engaged in prayer of thanksgiving for all things. In everything, Christians are to give thanks in every circumstance, in joy and in sorrow. For everything, for prosperity, and for adversity in every place, in the house of God, and on the bed of sickness. Christians should not only be engaged in constant prayer, but in constant prayer of thanksgiving. Our prayers should partake largely of the nature of thanksgiving. For this, this thankful spirit is the will of God. It is God's desire for each of his children in Christ Jesus, the sphere in which we will Live in God, displayed before Him a heart of gratefulness, a heart of thankfulness. Consider how it makes so much sense. That because Jesus, his life, death, and resurrection, ascension enables our forgiveness and our inheritance that we should be living lives of thankfulness at all times. And there are other passages, like that of Romans chapter 5, beginning at verse 4. There, St. Paul describes Christians giving glory to God in the midst of their tribulations. And from St. James, we are instructed to count it all, all of it, every part of a moment in life, count it all to be joy. Even as he says, when we fall into various trials. Saint Peter states such joyfulness as a fact. As if it is naturally a part of a Christian's disposition to greatly rejoice, even though for a little while our lives may have grieved us. with various trials. What else is there to conclude other than Christians are to be a people that express thankfulness in all circumstances? And such thankfulness consists of giving glory to God, even in the midst of when we are going through difficult times that we call trials. It is choosing a countenance of joyfulness in the midst of said difficult times, even to the point of rejoicing. Because we are to have faith that whatever it is we are currently experiencing, there is a greater outcome that will give glory to God. Thus, I must be challenged in regard to any right that I might claim or have claimed. to my own predisposition of being not thankful Choosing to be not thankful in certain circumstances is choosing to not be a follower of Jesus Christ. Choosing to not give glory to God in the midst of tribulations is to not obey God. Choosing to not count it joy, to not be joyful, in the midst of different types of trials, is choosing to not be as Jesus is And there is no righteousness in such a choice or such an attitude. And so I must be thankful for construction on bridges closest to Eldersburg. Because, well, they procure the safety of many people in the future, and the waiting sanctifies my spirit That I might trust in God for the moments I am delayed and for the discipline my life needs that requires me to plan ahead. Instead of traveling without preparation for possible delays, for my rebuke For being unthankful, can I get an amen? I must also choose to be thankful for walnuts Some people, enough people to bother me, like walnuts. And to my horrible surprise, some people like walnuts in their chocolate chip cookies Therefore, I am to be thankful that people have the opportunity to enjoy what they like, and when people put walnuts into chocolate chip cookies, I have the opportunity To think of the desire and wants of other people rather than my own. Walnuts and chocolate chip cookies is another opportunity to die to myself, and that is always a good thing. Can I get an amen? I must also choose to be thankful for commercials during inopportune times, during professional football games. Commercials help these games be shown in my living room. Commercials are sometimes more entertaining than the games. And commercials help me stop thinking about what I want, but accept what I cannot control. For that rebuke, I need an amen. Also I must be thankful for national media and their bias reporting I could be thankful that it sheds light on ingrained hypocrisy of our secular society, but that doesn't please God. What pleases God is to be thankful for revelations and how to pray for the lost, the deceived, the spiteful, the bitter, and souls that choose to be enraged. I, as a Christian, need to pray for their souls and not for better treatment of a standing president or anyone else, for that matter. Reporter and talking heads are people, and they need a Savior. And for that rebuke, I need an Amen. Finally and somewhat surprisingly to me I must be thankful for social media that displays pictures of dinner plates and other unnecessary posts. that provide nothing interesting or informative for society as a whole. And I am to be thankful for another opportunity to die to myself. Does not make social media about me. And I am to be thankful that I can turn it off and not be a part of it at any time that I choose, and I'll assert assume your amen on that point. So we are instructed to be thankful in all circumstances. But we can settle for most, right? That should be enough. No. He says all. But surely we can have certain things we are unthankful for? No. Thankful in all circumstances And we give thanks not just because of the good we can make out of those circumstances. We are to be thankful because we have been told to do so. We have been told to be so because we are a people of faith. We are a people who give thanks in all circumstances because we believe God. And we believe that he works all things to the good for those who love him and are called according to his purpose. That is what God said Amen. Let us pray