In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our text from the gospel reading this morning, I hope, surprised you. It is not a common Christi or Christmas text. But what do you expect of a preacher who's been preaching Christmas Eve sermons and Christmas Day sermons for 19 years now Actually that is not why I chose the text, and hopefully you will see why uh in a due time. But let us consider what's happening in this story There was a poor and wretched man being possessed by a legion of evil spirits, and they had been driving him to madness. His home became the tombs, the dwelling of the dead, where he dwelt day and night, only to become a terror to anyone who passed his way. The authorities from the nearby village attempted to curb his madness, this madness of the possessed man, by by chaining him But he tore the chains from their bindings and threw off anything they used to bind him. He could not be tamed. He was worse than a wild beast. He became a misery to even himself as he cried and howled day and night. It appeared that whatever semblance of sanity was within him wanted to be dead As he cut himself with sharp flints and bruised himself in a frightful manner It was not until Jesus passed this man's way that there was a glimmer of sanity. Jesus simply said to the devils that possess the man, come out of him. And the man was healed that very moment. The man next fell at the feet of Jesus, and when reason came back to him, and gratitude filled his heart and soul. He said to Jesus, Lord, I will go wherever you go. I will be your constant companion and your servant, if you will permit me. But Jesus, a bit surprisingly, turned the man down. He is moved by the man's devotion, and yet Jesus wants something else from him. He wants the man's devotion to be displayed by him going home to his friends and family. And telling them what great things the Lord had done for him, and how he had compassion on him. Such may be a surprising request by Jesus because such a dramatic series of events would make a for great storytelling And any circuit preacher knows how well good stories sway crowds. This man could have been a great example of what Jesus can do for any man or woman who calls upon him to be. saved. He could have been the opening act for Jesus as he went from town to town telling his story and then introducing Jesus as the main attraction who can make it all happen. Many a Christian has thought so well and profoundly of their own conversion that they think they need to start a worldwide ministry to express their profound gratefulness. Gratefulness for their conversion while desiring to tell others about their personal story of what made them believe in Jesus And here, instead, as a man delivered from possession by demons, he is told to go home and tell his friends what God has done for him. Going home brings another aspect of this instruction by Jesus for what was true during the days of Jesus is still true today. Jesus himself, you recall, was not accepted as a prophet in his hometown of Nazareth because they knew Jesus as a child. And it was not that Jesus had a bad reputation as a child, but only that they knew him as a child. They knew him to have been small and thus weak and thus vulnerable They knew him to be like their own children, who soiled their garments as infants, and who needed instruction and protection as innocent babes. And they knew the family of Jesus. Joseph was like any other man. He needed to work with his hands to provide for his family, as well as performing menial tasks, tasks of everyday living. Nothing was special about the family of Jesus, so what would make him special as a grown man That was their reasoning. And the reasoning of all people who become surprised when any hometown child becomes influential on a greater stage For many families, because home is a place where everyone is viewed the same, and no one can have meaningful conversations about politics or religion because every man's opinion is thought to have the same weight or value. And such is being magnified today in social media sources Thus you could think that there would be no effective testimony received if this man goes home and tells his story. Even a story as wild as being possessed by a legion of demons. But that does not detour Jesus. from instructing the man to go home and tell people from his home what Jesus had done for him. The primary reason this text is appropriate for Christmas is the anticipation of many conversations that will take place within the next few days. And the subject matters will that will be broached. Politics and politicians will be discussed and debated. And feelings will be hurt and invitations will be regretted, and the peacemakers will do anything to get our guests off the topic. And then sports will be mentioned and frustration with the local teams will be discussed and who should get fired and who should get hired and who should be signed and who should be cut And although there is disagreement, there is consensus that the team stinks and another season is lost. With that, the spirit of the gathering is brought low, and the host again tries to steer the conversation to a more joyful topic. The next conversation centers around Christmases long ago. And that reminds someone in the party of an argument that took place fifteen years ago that was never settled And some in the family get riled up all over again and try to settle it. The host is once again at a crossroads regarding how to make the occasion a happy one instead of a contentious one. What will not be heard as often as it should, our conversations centered around what Jesus instructed this once possessed man and now sane man to do. Which was to go home and tell his friends what the Lord Jesus had done for him and that the Lord had compassion on him. Of all the anticipated conversations you have around your dinner tables and living rooms this Christmas season Ask yourself if you have planned to tell your friends and family what the Lord has done for you. You ask, but what should I tell? We can answer that from the story, Red. First, you are to know that the Lord has given you a story of personal experience The Lord does not require you to preach. There is no requirement for you to take up a doctrinal topic and expound upon it so that you are shown to be wise and you are able to make others wiser. Instead, you are to tell what you have believed and what you have felt because of what you believe, and therefore you are to tell what you really know to be your own. Such as not what great things you have read, but what great things the Lord has done for you Not alone what you have seen or done in a great congregation, and how maybe great sinners you know have turned to God, but what the Lord has done for you. And mark this, there is never a more interesting story told than when a man tells about himself. Note next that what you should tell should be a story of free grace. It is not instructed, tell your friends how great things you have done yourself, but how great things the Lord has done for you. It should not take long for any person with any sense of self-awareness. The telling of your own accomplishments thins a crowd. A person who is aware of God's amazing grace says nothing about his own doings or willings or prayings or seekings, but instead ascribes it all To the love and grace of the great God who looks on sinners in love and makes them his children, heirs of everlasting life. Go home and tell that story. Another part of the story that we can tell is a story in which we are grateful. Consider the likely story of the previously possessed man. His tale was undoubtedly a grateful story. We can know he was grateful because the man will say, I will tell thee how great things the Lord has done for me. A person who better knows his or her own sinful ways always thinks that what God has done for him is immensely good and supremely great. The more you know your sin, the more you know the grace of God. Now it should be acknowledged that as freely and openly as I have described this storytelling There will be those who will think of it not particularly exciting or interesting But that is not to detour you. You must take the challenge to look such persons in the eye and say, if you knew the Savior as I know him, you would not think little of what I am telling you. Say it with the hope that they may see that you have what they need, which is freedom from the burdens of sin that weigh every man down. It is true that I have spoken in generalities regarding what you should tell others. And you may think that nothing much has happened to you in the last months or the whole year that is worth telling But to conclude such a thing is to disregard the mercies of God that have been great in your life A life in which you are able to call him Lord and Savior. Take inventory of the sins the Lord has forgiven you. In just the past days, not counting months and the year. Take account of your ability to forgive others because of the new heart God has placed within you. As opposed to the grudges and bitterness you so easily carried earlier in the year. Consider how many times you have made foolish decisions, such as to speak when you should have listened And to make haste when you should have waited. And the Lord saved you from the consequences of these matters. And consider the sorrows and cares you have for others and how the Lord has allowed you to weep with those who weep and to mourn with those who mourn. And thus God has used you for the sake of others. All of us have such stories. That can be shared. And all of us have people in our lives who need to hear such stories, who need to be Convinced of the experience that can be theirs because of the presence of God in your life. And that last point brings us to the conviction as to why others need to hear what the Lord has done for you. People do not hear the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ enough today. Too many people do not know the Savior Jesus because they do not know who Jesus is or what Jesus can do for them. There is a comedy movie, I won't give the title, starring Will Farrell, shows him praying with his family to baby Jesus That is how they address God in their prayers. They pray to baby Jesus. As much as such a depiction might border on blasphemy, it also tells a hard truth. Which is that people are very comfortable to hear stories of Jesus as a baby born in a stable, but that is as far as it goes. The hard teachings of Jesus are just that. They are hard. The reality of heaven and hell are just that. They are polarizing. Betrayal, hypocritical behavior, gory death, impossible resurrection are aspects of the story that are not easy to hear and harder to believe for the sake of salvation But they must be told. And the story each of us has to share as to what the Lord has done for us leads to the greater story of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And this brings us to a necessary discussion on the responsibility of every believer to publicly confess the Lord Jesus. Publicly. It is one thing, a minor thing, for we Christians to greet people on the street and in the stores with Merry Christmas! Instead of seasons greetings, the greeting of Merry Christmas can be a witness to your religious beliefs. But to tell other people about what the Lord Jesus has done for you, that is another great step. And a necessary step to fulfilling what Jesus said himself, which was that if we acknowledge him before others, that he would acknowledge us before the Father who is in heaven. To acknowledge him is to say he is our God, our savior. And for him to acknowledge us is to say that we are his family. Now I mentioned I must mention a caveat here, which is that I am not preaching that you should tell what the Lord has done for you to people who don't want to listen. The Lord never places it upon followers to be obnoxious storytellers The wisdom of not casting pearls before swine includes not sharing the story of the grace of God with people who have made it clear that they don't want to hear it. But such a caveat should not outweigh the words of the Lord Jesus, who said, go home and tell your friends what the Lord has done for you. Now I end with the hope of convincing you that there are people who need to hear what the Lord has done for you. As you know, during this time of year it is heard that people struggle with depression and hopelessness because the season is a time for family and for friends to gather, and when family members and friends have been lost in death, it seems like the time for grieving has been extended. And so there is not a focus on the gift of God and giving his son, but instead a focus on self and personal loss. Such people need to hear what the Lord has done for you. And there are people this time of year that are reminded that they have no faith. The story of the Christ child is but a fairy tale, no different than Peter Pan or the Princess and the Pee. Those without faith have no hope and thus remain in their sin. They too need to hear what the Lord has done for you. So on this day, this Christmas day, it is good to heed the hymn which instructs us to go tell it on a mountain. Over the hills and everywhere that Jesus Christ is born. And I say, yes, do that. And while you're at it, tell family and friends what the Lord has done for you, how he has had compassion on you. Amen. Let us pray.