In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. I want to start off by voicing dissent. Voicing dissent. Disagreeing with the Bible. Well, not really disagreeing with the Bible, but disagreeing. With the chapters that were chosen way back in the early thirteenth century. And one of my disagreements is with this Exodus 15. It's ending at a wrong place. Should end at verse 21, and chapter 16 should pick up at chapter 15, verse 22. In fact, uh and I and we can do this, of course, because the chapters and the numbered verses are not inspired, of course. The words that are in the Bible are the inspired ones, so I can feel comfortable uh dissenting with choosing to start the chapter later than chapter 15, verse 22. You see, I believe that we must take chapter 15, verse 22, and chapter 16 in its entirety, and then into chapter 17 as one message, as one lesson. There is a pattern in these sections of scripture. The pattern we are going to recognize, and then we're going to break down. The pattern goes as follows. God tests Israel, his people. Israel complains to their leadership. Moses cries out, God hears the need, and then God meets the need. And I want to examine this pattern step by step. First of all, God tests Israel. God tests his people. He tests them to begin with by having them make their way through the desert, toward the promised land, with no natural water made available for three days. When they did come upon natural water, it had been contaminated and thus not fit to drink. The next test was traveling through the desert after being well watered and running out of their food supply likely that they had brought from Egypt The next test in chapter 17, traveling again through the desert and again having no natural water supply God tests his people. God tests his people And let us hear that carefully. God does not tempt his people, he tests them. God would not tempt his people because God is good, he is holy, he is just and he loves his people. He loves them so much, he tests them. Hear what Moses said to the people as his last testimony in Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 2. He said, and you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these 40 years in the wilderness, that he might humble you. Testing you to know what is in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. We can say from this that God tests us to show us our own character, to show us our own hearts. He knows our character, he knows our hearts. God tests us so that we can see ourselves and hopefully be humbled by what we see, and hopefully see our need for a Savior to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The fact that God tests us is clear in the New Testament. In his epistle, James says this. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet various, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. In 1 Peter the apostle says Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you As though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share in the sufferings of Christ. That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. Now there's a passage for you that there's no way we can unpack this morning the idea that we are sharing in the sufferings of Christ, but I assure you it's quite profound. Now each of these verses verifies that when God tests his people He is looking to do something greater within them and greater amongst them. And this is true individually, it is true corporately. God tests to show who we are inside and thus to make us more holy inside and then outside. And we must not shirk a test, for God uses them to form us into his image. We must not shrink at a test, for God uses them to build up in us the character that we lack. When it comes to facing the trials and tests of our lives, corporately, as a family, or as an individual, we are to see that these are opportunities to be sanctified. To be made holy. And such a perspective is similar to what I have counseled parents about misbehaving children, what I have embraced about raising my own children. When a child is wrong And a parent is tempted to be mortified, because it seems to reflect them, mortified at a child's behavior, or They go into denial that their child could ever do whatever that child did. A better choice is to seize the moment as an opportunity to train the child. Misbehavior opportunity. An act of misbehavior can be seen as a gift from God to reveal what is in the child's heart that needs to be trained out. So that the love of God can go in. And it is the same for when we are tested. We get to see what is within us and what needs to be replaced by God's love. Next, when being tested, the people complain All of you adults will relate to what I'm about to describe. As a pastor of a church, of a parish. You are already scrutinized before you say a word. And you are complained about, both deserved and undeserved, because you are in a leadership position. And people sometimes complain about spiritual leadership when it isn't the pastor that is their true target, but the complaint really instead has the target of God. But the pastor is the easiest target, and so he gets it. That comes with the calling, and every pastor learns it very early on in the ministry. And so pastors can identify with the scenario of the people complaining to Moses about not having water and then not having food and then not having water again When actually, actually they are upset at God. Consider the gall, the gall that is recorded in chapter 16, verse 3. For the people to say it would have been better to die as slaves in Egypt than to be hungry in the desert, that is absurd. That anyone can say such absurd things when faith is weak and flesh is strong. Every adult here is in some way in a type of leadership position. Whether it's leadership over your children at home or leadership in work or leadership in a community And you get complaints, and many of those complaints are unfair. And sometimes you get complaints where you are not actually the target, the person that the complainer is upset about. So we can know how Moses felt as he heard Complaints. Complaints he himself could not answer. And because we can identify with Moses. We are to impart more grace to others that we are tempted to complain about. And here is the great irony of all this complaining. If I complain about people who are complaining about me, I am behaving in the same manner, and thus I am no true leader. Did you ever wonder why Israel was not allowed to speak anything out loud while they were walking around the city of Jericho seven times? It wasn't because they were planning a surprise attack that they were stealth. No, the people of Jericho could stand on the top of their walls and see them marching around their city, around and around, seven times. It was not for a surprise attack. It is because God knew that we are fallen people and he knew what we would do if we spoke up. If the Israelites were allowed to talk that day, there would have been complaining and complaining and more complaining. What are we doing this for? Someone would have shouted, This'll never work! And inevitably a little child is going to say, I'm tired. And about the third time around, you're going to hear, not this again. And those types of complaints would build. You know how that goes, complaining snowballs. One person says they don't like Wednesday prayer, study, move to Tuesday. Or they don't like Sunday school snacks before Sunday school. Another agrees, and they find another that agrees. And soon they get a posse. And they gather around the rector's home with pitchforks and burning torches, yelling for the rector to come out and meet his demise. There is a necessary reason why Saint Paul instructed the Philippians, commanded the Philippians do everything. Do everything without grumbling Or complaining. The next stage in our identified pattern is Moses crying out to God. Moses crying out to God, this is what all leaders need to do if you are going to lead in a godly manner. Leaders need to pray. Pray to God, asking God to meet the need. Every loving parent knows the heartache of watching a child go through a try a trial and not being able to help the child A parent can only nurse an illness, can't take it away. A parent can only be encouraging to a child when the child fails, rather than win for the child. A parent can only be a friend to a child when that child is emotionally hurt by peers. And so God God-fearing parents pray, and God-fearing leaders pray when they cannot meet the needs of the people who complain. But Moses is more than just a leader of people. He is also a type. He is also a shadow of the leader to come. Moses was a type of Christ. And so when we read of Moses praying, we are to think about Jesus praying. And to think about Jesus praying is to have faith that Jesus is our intercessor. Consider that Jesus went through all that he did on this earth so that he could go be where he is now. The right hand of the Father. He did all of it to be an intercessor who pleads our cause to the Heavenly Father. And this is why we pray in the name of Jesus. It is the only way for God to hear our prayers is through Jesus. And our prayer life reflects our faith and understanding the importance of Jesus as our intercessor. No other way. This is a small example, I know. But there's a reason why I give this small example. Last week my computer was working very slowly. So as I've done in the past, I turn it off and turn it back on again. Only it didn't turn on again. And it buffeted and then it stopped. I repeated the process, nothing I repeated the process, nothing. And the real concern was that my most recent sermon had not yet been saved, and it was almost finished. I had not backed up my computer in over a month. And so I began to sweat. You know how that happened to me to sweat. I turn it off and turn it on over a dozen times at nothing. And then I pray. In earnest, I prayed. God helped me retrieve that sermon. That's all I can give. That's all I want. It was Thursday after all. I unplugged it, I took it home, I plugged it in, I prayed again, turned it on, and it worked. Thanks be to God. Let your request be made known to God, the scriptures instruct. Let your request be made known to God. Don't believe the devil that God doesn't care about the small things. He cares about the small things. He cares about computers turning on and off. He does care and Jesus wants to intercede for us. Now the next part of the pattern we are noting is that God hears the complaints. And this is the marvelous part of the pattern for me. For me, it is more marvelous than God eventually meeting the need. God tests, we as people complain, our intercessor prays, and God hears. This is marvelous to me because he does not have to hear. It would be perfectly just for God to say that he is not going to listen to any complaining at all. It would be just for God to judge that his people are ingrates, ungrateful, and thus not worthy to be heard, which is true. And this is where Calvinism has a doctrinal theology that gets it right. Calvinism emphasizes the unworthiness of humanity to be saved by God. Calvinists are right to say that what is justice for all humanity is our eternal damnation, and therefore we, individually or corporately Have no right cause to complain that God only saves some, for in truth he does not have to save any at all. All of that is true. But God wants to save, and thus God wants to hear his people cry out. He wants to respond to our cries. For as much as God is just, he is love. In fact, the love he is, that is what will remain. These three things, faith, hope, and love, and the greatest is love. The next and final part of our noted pattern is that God meets the need. God meets the needs of his people. I trust you did not let it go unnoticed that when Moses cries out to God at the bitter water called Mara, which was likely called that after they realized it was bitter, that God used symbolism to meet the needs of the people. Now the NIV, I don't like that translation that was read this morning. King James calls it a tree, not a piece of wood. God instructed Moses to take a near tree and to cast it into the water So that the water would be made sweet to drink. And so Moses took the tree that was pointed out to him, cut it down, and had it cast into the water of Marah, and the water became healthy to drink. But it is not by accident that God had Moses use a tree to sweeten the water. It was a tree, you remember, that was in the Garden of Eden that gave life. It would be a tree that would hang a cursed man on the hill of Calvary that would be the source of living water, a water from which if anyone drank, they would never thirst again. And it is a tree that is described as being at the center of the New Jerusalem, heaven, that comes down and presides as an eternal resting place for the people of God. The tree was not just by accident. And the symbolism continues in this story for what comes down from heaven? Mana. Or heavenly bread, and that a man named Jesus would call himself the bread of life, which, if eaten, a person will never hunger again. And it is not happenstance that the main symbol of Christians gathering together for worship is to remind them of that eternal bread? And thus we hear when we worship, take, eat. This is my body given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Yes, in every pattern that we examine here in Exodus, God meets the needs of his people, even though they complain. Even though he has shown them time and time again and again that he can be trusted to meet their every need. God is patient. slow to anger, abounding in love, desiring to impart grace to his people. I think this pattern we are noting in this section of scripture is very easy to receive from regarding the message for us, whether it be our corporate life, our family lives, or individual lives. To verify how we are to use the pattern shown to us, we need to be reminded of St. Paul's letter to the Corinthians, chapter 10. And I referred to this back when we talked about the baptism of the people in the Red Sea. Paul points That even though the Israelites were baptized and ate the manna, which all pointed to Christ Jesus, still near all of them did not make it to the Promised Land. Paul then says this, hear it, hear it, hear it. Now these things become our examples to the intent that we should not trust after evil things as they also lusted. That they are these same Israelites who complained and God heard them and answered them and met their need and yet they still did not make it to God's promised land And this pattern is then for us to learn from. It is for us to use as an example of what not to do. First, we are to be aware that God places us in various trials to test us, to see what is inside of us, to mold us, and make us more complete. As Peter said, we should not be surprised at such testing. We should gear up for it. We should acknowledge it when it occurs. And we should face it and we should pass it. And next we should not complain. And if you wonder how such is fair, considering that Israel complained and God still hurt them. Well, recall that God said that he, in times past, overlooked a multitude of sins of his people. But now, coming into the new covenant, we are told to do everything without grumbling or complaining. And next we are to cry out to our intercessor, who is Jesus, who wants to hear our prayers and bring them before the Father, who wants to hear his Son, and to do His will. And next we are to have faith that God does indeed hear our prayers and will meet our need in whatever manner he chooses, whether it be dropping down from heaven or whether it be in the form of a tree. The alternative of not using Israel in the desert as an example for us, as Paul says, is to chase after lusts. And lust does not only refer to the sexual kind. It can apply to lust for prestige amongst our peers. It can refer to earthly treasure. It can refer to positions of authority. Let us be true and say that the fallen human species can lust at practically everything. And chasing after lust is to chase after false gods, and to chase after false gods results in our lives, like the Israelites, scattered throughout the desert, never entering the promised land, which for us is heaven. So there is a dire warning in this story. And Saint Paul wants us to hear it. St. Paul's application of these stories 15, 16, and 17, is not only to hear a dire warning, but to see a gracious God. Who wants to hear us? Who wants to provide for us? He's only asking for loyalty in return. So let us be loyal, for he is worthy. Let us pray.