In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. We are continuing our study of the book of Exodus. We are, as our reading took us through in Exodus chapter three. The story here of Moses standing before the burning bush is known by people who have never read the Bible or cared to know the one true God. For more than one reason, this story is a part of Western culture. Moses stood before the burning bush, and God spoke to him, and told him to go to Pharaoh and demand that he set the Israel slaves free. Bible readers know more detail about this story, and yet the gist of it is understood. To be the same by those who know the story in more detail and those who simply know it as some type of fairy tale Because we are familiar with the narrative of Exodus 3, I am approaching it this morning from the point of answering curious questions about some of the details found in the narrative. Questions such as, number one, what is a priest of Midian? The text says that Jethro Moses' brother-in-law was a chief priest of Midian. Was Midian a cult? Well, to answer that, we must remember that the book of Exodus is a continuation of Genesis. They are really one book. And when you read Genesis 25, you find that after the death of Sarah, Abraham took on another wife named Keturah, and she had three sons. And one of them was named Midian. And so the Midianites are those who come from the line of Midian, Abraham's son. And this means we can Assume that they knew the God of Abraham. But if the Midians were like all the other tribes in that region, they mixed in the God of Abraham with the other gods, thus making him part of many gods. Second question. What is Mount Horim? The name Horib in Hebrew possibly means to glow or heat Because of the manner that the sun appeared upon the mountain from a distance, making it glow. But the evidence for the exact meaning, the evidence is scarce. The mountain is later named Sinai, and again with scarce evidence, it is possible that the new name is given after Senet. Which is Hebrew for a particular kind of bush found in the region, and thus likely the type of bush that was burning and not consumed. The greater curiosity, then the origin of the name of the mountain, is its location. Where is it? In 1 Kings, we learn from the story of Elijah that the location of Horeb was still known with certainty. But strangely, strangely, there are no biblical references after the story of Elijah as to where Horeb or Mount Sinai is. Some even speculate that it's outside of the Promised Land. Third question: What is the point of a burning bush? I recently heard a comedian make fun of this story saying how unimpressive it must have been for God to appear in the form of a burning bush. Of course we know God was not the burning bush, but instead was using the burning bush as a sign. It is said that bushes in the region would catch fire seemingly spontaneously because of the heat. What we who have faithful minds are to understand is that God would again use something simple, something ordinary, as a symbol of his presence, just as he does bread. and wine. And we are to meditate on the most important part of this sign, which is the bush was burning but not consumed. Such is the condition of all who believe, such is the condition of the church. For the very presence of God is within us by means of the Holy Spirit, and we are not destroyed. Think about that. The God of all creation is within us, and we are not destroyed. The presence of Almighty God, who made heaven and earth, is in the church, and it is not destroyed. In fact, it's just the opposite. The church is empowered, empowered to do great works to bring in the kingdom of God. Fourth question. What does Moses have to take? Why does Moses have to take, excuse me, why does Moses have to take off his sandals? Of course, the obvious answer is because God told him to do so. But why did God tell him to do so? Well, God says he told him to do so because Moses was standing on holy ground. But this is a challenge for our modern minds, for we don't think about the material world as holy. Really very important. There's still some Gnosticism going around amongst Christians. I remember visiting my sister and family a few years ago, they would house college students. And they were housing one particular college female who wore ratty clothes all of the time, as did her friends who came and visited her. I mean ratty clothes And they wore the same to the church services, to worship on Sundays. And I questioned what is the meaning of this, and I was told that these young people were protesting protesting by what they were wearing that Christians cared too much about material things. So they were trying to show how unimportant material things were Some Christians today, who haven't fully grown out of their college protesting ways, dress down for worship because they want to show it doesn't matter what you wear. Thus which with such understanding about the material world some would question God As if he's being unnecessarily snobbish. Maybe God is being a little bit too legalistic, caring too much about the material material world when he instructs Moses to remove his sandals. It shouldn't matter what Moses wore, right? Well, it did matter, and it does matter today. God came into the material world. God became matter himself as Jesus took on flesh and blood. Recall that the material world, the physical world at creation was named by God to be good. It longs to be redeemed from the curse placed upon it by man. And it will be made new, the scripture says. Thus we Christians are to understand that there are certain ways we are to treat certain parts of the material world, because they are used to represent the presence of God. We kneel at the communion rail rather than put our feet up on it because Moses removed his sandals. We clean off the communion table when it is not being used, and we only put vessels used for the Lord's Supper upon it, and not our coffee mugs, because Moses removed his sandals. We don't show movies in the sanctuary or perform secular entertainment for applause from the chancel because Moses removed his sandals. God does inhabit the material world, and we are to appreciate it by taking off our sins. Fifth question. Why was Moses reluctant to lead the Israelites out of bondage? I asked that question to myself this week because I thought we needed to be reminded that Moses did not know, even though we are told in chapter 2 that all the men who are after Moses are dead. Moses didn't know that. And so he thinks he's risking his life. And also you remember that Moses was rejected. His leadership was rejected when he tried to defend an Israelite and killed an Egyptian and then tried to make peace between two Israelites, they rejected him and he ran. Moses has no idea that they would accept his leadership now as opposed to then. The sixth and final question I want to answer from this chapter Why did God name himself I am? To understand this name better, we must first realize That Israel was in bondage as slaves to the Egyptians for 430 years. 430 years Consider that the United States as a nation has been in existence 200 years less than Israel was in bondage. And the majority of citizens in the US have forgotten God already. Add 200 more years to our culture. And how much will God be remembered if we continue the path we are on? Thus, how easy it would have been for Israel to forget God, to forget his covenant with Abraham, and to worship anything that they thought could relieve their suffering. Israelites. They would have identified with Moses saying that he is coming in the name of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They would have remembered that. But this name, this name, this new name, I am, they would not have heard that before. Now, in case you are not aware, The translation I am in the English is not accepted by Jewish scholars. In fact The name of God, the name God gave to Moses, is thought to be so very holy that it is not to be spoken by human lips. The faithful Jewish scholars don't even add vowel sounds to the name because they do not want it pronounced. The majority of Christian scholars say it should be pronounced Yahweh, but in truth we have no way of truly knowing. Translators use the phrase I am as an acceptable translation because it reflects what God is seemingly trying to convey here. Which is that he cannot be defined by one name. One name, one adjective sets parameters around God and that would take away from him being the God as he is And so simply saying that God is, that God exists, sets no parameters It allows God to define Himself, which He is about to do to the Israelites, which He will do to the Egyptians, and He has done throughout the ages, and continues to do And with these questions I have chosen to answer now complete, I want to get to the main message I see in this chapter for us. In verse 7 of chapter 3, we read of God using the same loaded verbs that he uses in chapter 2, verses 24 and 25. Look at chapter look at verse 7. God saw, God heard, and God knew. God saw, God heard, and he knew. The repetition from chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, to chapter 3, verse 7, indicates that what God is doing, speaking to Moses from the burning bush, Is taking steps to address the suffering of the Israelites in Egypt. Moses is not yet told how the deliverance of Israel will take place. But he is told that it will be so. And he set it set up by saying God saw, heard, and knew For the Christian, the story of Israel being delivered from slavery in Egypt has been a typology, a metaphor. for how each of us is delivered by God in the person of Jesus from our own slavery. And it is also a typology of how the church universal will be delivered from the bondage of death. As we will one day rise, be made new, eternally new. We see in St. Paul's letter to Colossae, how Paul uses Exodus language to describe how Christians are made new. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And so let us look how God began delivering Israel from bondage in the context of how he will deliver the church. And with the needed message that God sees the plight of the church. God hears the plight of the church, and God knows the plight of the church. I would like to tell you, I'd like to think that God sees and hears and knows the plight of the United States. But let's be honest. God never made a promise to save the United States of America. God made a promise to save his church. We must confess, I believe, that we are unable to know how bad the times really are in which we are living. We can only compare it to other times that we have experienced or other times that we are told about. How difficult was it to live through World War II? I have heard the stories as you have from people who are still with us. And it sounds like it was pretty bad. There were there was fear, excuse me, of the Germans, and there was fear of the Japanese. Each empire wanted world domination. And each empire had great success for such a time as it seemed possible for them to dominate the world. That sounds scary to me. It sounds more scary than what today's terrorists have successfully done. But what our culture seemed to have during World War II that we do not seem to have today There's a unity in identifying our enemies and agreeing that they need to be defeated. And the result of what we do not have is confusion and fear. And the church is seemingly powerless at influencing almost anything in our culture today Do you know what the Christian position is on war against Islamic terrorism? What's our position? Do you know what the Christian position is on gun control? Do you know what the Christian position is on abortion? Oh, we can say we have our personal positions, but who is speaking for the Christians as a whole? One minister, such as myself, or even a bishop of the Reformed Episcopal Church, says that the United States should declare war on militant Islam and no one pays attention. One clergy speaks out against abortion, and another claiming the same faith speaks in favor of it. And this is what should bring the most fear in our day. It is that the church does not have a voice that our culture will heed. And it is our fault. We as a church, Christians Universal. are in bondage to our own sins, sins such as gluttony, passivity, greed Envy, strife, jealousy, and even unbelief As our response should be the same as our prayers from the litany, knowing all of this, good Lord deliver us. And he will. He will separate the sheep from the goats. He will return by way of the eastern sky with those who were faithful to him unto death. And Jesus will collect those who are still alive, and he will return, and his church will be revealed. It will be revealed as one, as holy, as universal. And as much as we can say that the deliverance of Israel from the bondage of slavery is akin to the Christian church being delivered. So we can say that such deliverance is akin to our personal deliverance from sin and death. Before each of us came to a saving faith in Jesus, God saw us, God heard us, God knew us. And having seen, heard, and known us, he had a plan on how we would come to a saving faith in Jesus. And I want each of us to believe today, hear this now. I want each of us to believe today that with every sin that we struggle to overcome, God sees us, God hears us, and God knows us. God has an awareness of our plight. God has a plan to deliver us from our sins. Sins that we cannot overcome by our own strength. Let us be reminded by humble confession that sin is not outside these walls only But also inside. Christians struggle to overcome dependency on alcohol just as many in the secular world do. Christians can and do become dependent on drugs, prescribed or not, just as people outside these walls do. Christians do bow to the pleasure of sex. Christians can be motivated by greed. Christians can surrender to anger and bitterness. Christians can struggle with sins of sloth, lust, selfishness, pride, etc. , etc. We can repent of our specific sins and be determined to commit them no more and find ourselves confessing them again and determining again, only needing to confess them again. The wonderfully good news in all of this failing is that when we cry out to God for our deliverance, we can be confident that God sees, God hears, and he knows us. And he has a plan to deliver us. The devil wants us. To perceive God as the deists do. The devil wants us to understand God Be way up there in the sky, giving us his commandments and remaining above us, looking down upon us, watching us fail, with no regard to what we are experiencing down here If there is any perception for you that God is like that, get it out of your mind. Repent of it The actual God, the only God, the one true God, sees us, hears us, and knows us And gives us his only son, who was like us in every way, only he overcame sin. And because he overcame, he enables us to overcome. I originally plan to close with an anecdotal story Of a Christian struggling to overcome sin and soon finding victory But I concluded that such stories can appear distant because we don't know the person and we don't know if they're struggling in the same manner that we do. I cannot know how God will deliver you from your sins, your struggles that you struggle to overcome, but I can know that he will What you need to know as you stay in the fight to be delivered is that God sees you God by definition is omnipresent and on the present and so he sees all things at all times And because he does, and I know this is going to sound strange at first, but because God sees all things at all times, it allows us not to try to hide from him what we are embarrassed for others to know about us. In fact, God's omnipresence brings us to not be ashamed before Him. Now, of course, it is never good to be indifferent about your sins. There should be some shame. But because God sees everything we do, it is ridiculous for us to pretend we are any different a person than what God has watched us be. That God sees has freedom for us. God knows all of my weaknesses, all of my struggles, and all of my propensities to sin, and I'm glad that He does not, that He does see it. As God sees, he also hears us. He hears us when we confess our sins. He hears us when we bemoan our sins. He hears us when we cry out to overcome. And he hears us when we pray to him to give us a desire to want to overcome. Because God hears us, he also expects us to speak to him. It's part of the relationship. Asking of him, crying to him, telling him our passions and our fears is what he desires from us. He requires us to ask. He wants us to speak to him. That is all a part of God hearing us. And so we speak to him. Finally, as God sees and hears us, so he knows us. He knows our sincerity and our insincerity. He knows when we are genuine and when we are disingenuous. He knows our mixed motives and he knows our insecurities. And because Jesus is God, God knows how to overcome what is weak within us and how to make our motives righteous. All of this is good news for us. It is good news that God sees you, that God hears you, that God knows you He not only can deliver you, but he will deliver you. That is the God he revealed himself to be. And that is the God we will watch him perform for Israel, a God of deliverance. Let us pray.