And I'm going to win the other and then you can just go in the room. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn, if you would, to Judges 16. We read the latter part of the chapter, but we will be covering the whole story. Before there was Hollywood, there was the Bible. The Christian Rite, as some used to call it Speaks out against the sex violence that is glorified by Hollywood in movies and in television. Yet Hollywood does not write or portray stories more lustful violent, disloyal, and painfully sinful than the story of Samson and Delilah. The famous director Cecil D. DeMills recognized how the story of Samson and Delilah married well with Hollywood. So he put the story on the silver screen in 1949. For some reason, DeMills thought it necessary to tweak the story a bit and make Delilah a more complicated figure than she was. There is enough plainly stated in Scripture to satisfy the salacious minds of Hollywood producers and directors alike. As I said, we didn't read the first part of the story, so I will remind you what happens. The chapter begins with Samson lusting and then having sex with a prostitute. Samson's enemies set a trap for him, but he displays superhuman strength and frees himself. He then falls in love with Delilah, whom he does not marry, but lives with Delilah apparently does not love Samson, for she is offered eleven hundred shekels of silver by each of the five rulers of the Philistines. And Delilah was no dummy. She was able to calculate a potential earnings of 5,500 shekels. The money outweighed any feelings that she had for Samson, so she accepted the deal. What follows is a series of games played by Samson. He pretends to give away the secret of his strength only to lie to Delilah several times Instead of seeing her for who she was and what she was trying to do to him, Samson continued to play games. Delilah, however, wore on Samson, and he eventually told her of the covenant God made with Samson's parents at his birth The hair on his head was not to be cut. Uncut hair, you remember from last week, was symbolic of a rejection of Philistine oppression and of their idol worship. Uncut hair symbolize that Samson was owned by God and to be used for God's glory. Delilah took advantage of this knowledge and betrayed her lover. Samson's strength was gone with his hair. After this capture, he was taken into the lair of the Philistines. To the Philistines, Samson's capture was proof That their God was stronger than Samson's God, and thus stronger than the God of the Israelites. Samson was soon publicly humiliated. His eyes were gouged out, and he was put on public display. With their guard down, the Philistines allowed Samson to place himself in position to enact revenge. Samson's prayer for strength is answered, and he brings down the godless temple of the Philistines, killing many along with himself. Hollywood could not write a more dramatic script, and I'm embarrassed to say that if they did, some Christians would protest. Hollywood does not put out anything more sinful than the story of Samson and Delilah. The godlessness of Hollywood is not so much revealed in the stories they tell, but in the details. They enjoy depicting the intricacies of sin, while the Bible refers to them without glorified descriptions. For Hollywood, the purpose of telling such stories is to entice the mind toward lusts of the flesh. In Scripture, the purpose of telling the story is to show God's redemptive work. We remember from last week that Israel did not, did not cry out to God for deliverance from the oppression of the Philistines In fact, there is evidence that they were comfortable in their oppression. God took the initiative to deliver them. He drags them out of the mire in which they were bathing. That God initiates the deliverance is to be remembered as we continue the story of Samson. Instead of focusing on the salacious details of Samson and Delilah, I wish to turn our attention to the covenant that Samson disregarded. It is an inherited covenant. Samson was born for a particular task. He was chosen of God and dedicated according to the instructions of the Lord. Although Samson did not live with respect toward his calling, God used him in spite of himself. As we discussed last week, this manner or way in which God works is not new to God. God uses the sinful and the sinner sinlessly. It is the saddest of stories to hear of young men and young women who have been raised in the Christian faith or in a Christian home, as we say. To hear of them walking away from the faith, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. There are many reasons for this walking away. Some reasons parents will not admit. And some children walking away, parents will not admit. They don't admit it, even though their child is not showing any fruit, to be living with Christ. What I wish to do this morning is to examine what went wrong in Samson's life with the hope that those who are young would not make the same choices And those of us who are parents might learn from the mistakes of others. One of the more important roles a parent plays is preparing their child for marriage. In our parenting videos, Bobby, Lynn, and I have discussed the biblical authority of a parent that he has in a young adult's life. The authority extends to dating practices of a young adult. The practice of recreational dating is not scriptural. Such a statement should not be a surprise to anyone who reads his or her Bible. Being alone with someone of the opposite sex for the purpose of, quote, having a good time Is willfully walking into temptation. A temptation, we pray in the Lord's Prayer, that we would not be led into. There are plenty of biblical warnings against having a good time so that all Christians are without excuse. There are also biblical models like that of Isaac and Rebekah that teach us to be careful when marrying. I am not preaching right now for arranged marriages, certainly not, nor am I touting the once popular courtship model. I am simply stating that what should be obvious, which is that young people do not have the self-discipline nor character development to make right choices And therefore should not be expected to exhibit self control even when they say that they love Jesus I realize this raises issues of trust between parent and child, but such trust is developed over time rather than being automatically given. Such thinking and adjusting flies in the face of modern culture. But that is what Christianity and that is what Christians are to do. Fly in the face of modern culture. One very simple but straightforward message children should hear beginning when they are very young is that they are not to marry a non-Christian. God's people do not marry outside of the faith. And such is not an issue of prejudice, but of obedience. God in his holy word is not concerned about interracial dating. He is not concerned about inter-class dating. He's not even concerned about inter-intellect dating. What he restricts is interfaith dating. Christians are not to be yoked with non-Christians And in case you have not heard the term yokt before, I remind you that it is not referring to the substance of an egg, but is rather a contraption that is placed upon two oxen helping them pull the plow together. Being unequally yoked makes for serpentine lines and circles. And the time to instruct a child to not marry a non-Christian is not when she is sixteen and begins to show interest in boys. Is when she is five and thinks that boys are icky. Samson's parents were aware of God's restrictions in marriage. They pleaded with Samson to look for a woman amongst his own people, but he did not listen to them. By the time Samson was of age, to lust after a woman and to marry her, his parents' warnings had no effect. A repeated mistake among parents from one generation to another is parenting by circumstance rather than principle. Warning a child about playing in the road after you scraped him off of the pavement is not enough. Biblical parenting is proactive parenting. Before a wanton woman confronts a young man, The wise father in the book of Proverbs has warned his son of the wanton woman and her temptuous ways. Biblical parenting sets godly principles in the lives of children early on, so that when they are older, they will not depart from them. Regarding Samson's culpability, he did not heed the instructions of his parents. This resulted in him being led by his lusts and going from the bed of one ungodly woman to another. Each of the women became a trap that he willfully walked into because of the confidence he had in his strength. Perhaps we could say he was more than confident. He was, as they say, cocky. His cockiness was caused by the fact that he had no regard for his calling as a Nazarite. As he defied God's laws openly and still retained his strength. We can imagine How a feeling of invincibility came over him, having, as he determined, gotten away with the behavior without any repercussions. And this is how it happens to all who rebel. There is initial fear before the first rebellious sinful act is committed. When the forbidden fruit is tasted, such as a joint being puffed, alcohol being drunk to excess, sensuality being explored, lying, cheating, and stealing practiced Nothing as far as immediate punishment is experienced, and we've thinking we've gotten away with it. No lightning flashes. No voice from heaven to bring us to our knees. Therefore, we believe a lie, any lie, that would tell us God didn't see it, or God doesn't care even if he did see it. God, of course, does care. He cares so much that he gave his only begotten Son, sending him to die the death of a cursed sinner on our behalf Yes, God cares. There is such a thing as eerie silence. It is the silence that is deafening, for it allows our conscience to be haunted by the spirit of our evil deeds. Though silent, the Spirit of God was around Samson, and he still defied God's law. Not only was he around, that is, the Spirit, he was intricately involved. The Holy Spirit used Samson's sinful ways to enact his will. In the end, the judgment of God was going to be experienced. It was a judgment passed on the Philistines and upon Samson. Samson did not anticipate As he lie in bed with the prostitute or enjoyed the flesh of Delilah, that he would be chained by the Philistines. Samson did not have the foresight that his eyes would be gouged out by his enemies when he played sport with them, time and time again. At those times, it appeared God was silent. It appeared that God didn't see or that God didn't care. Psalm 50 describes well how the eerie silence of God turns quickly into judgment. God describes Israel's sin as follows. He says in Psalm 50, you hate my instruction and cast my words behind you. When you see a thief, you join with him. You throw in your lot with adulterers. You use your mouth for evil and harness your tongue to deceit. Then God says, These things you have done and I kept silent. You thought I was altogether like you, but I will rebuke you and accuse you to your face. The lesson is that we should not be fooled by the silence of God. You may get away with your sin for a time. Because the lightning fails to strike initially, do not be foolishly concluding that it will not come at all. It can come to our bed, causing us to lie there in sickness. It can come to our workplace in the form of great stress or lost wages. It can come to us in the form of Strained and even broken relationships. It can come to us as confusion of thought and bitterness of heart. God's judgment can come in many forms, and in the midst of it, we are to be grateful that it comes in the manner that it does, instead of when it could. Which is when time is no more and there is no more opportunity for repentance. This is when the judgment of God is eternal. At the end of his days on this earth, Samson reaped what he had sown. He got, as we say, as he deserved. It is not that he should not be counted among God's elect. He is another that is listed in the book of Hebrews as a man of faith. His faith was not always obedient, and as we have seen, God still used him. What God did was choose him Because God chose him, Samson could not get away. It would have been to Samson's benefit If he would have surrendered to God's will and walked obediently all of his days. There was not the path, that was not the path that Samson chose, and so his life ended in the midst of a foreign people. Alone and disfigured. And I wonder to myself what Samson thought in those days that he sat imprisoned by the Philistines, having no eyes to see, waiting for his hair to grow back. Surely he must have regretted not listening to his parents He must have regretted listening to the lust of his flesh. He must have regretted playing games with the ungodly, and he must have regretted taking the calling of God on his life for granted. I am confident his conclusion was that the moments of earthly pleasure were not worth the suffering he endured by the hands of the Philistines. So, dear Christian, if God has chosen you and marked you as his own, you can do what you wish. There is freedom in Christ. You can go the way of the world and the way of the flesh, but God will not let your sinful deeds go unpunished. Whatever a man sows, we are told, that he will also reap. That is why the Apostle James says Two Christians, cleanse your hands, you sinners, purify your hearts, you double-minded. Such a call, again, is not directed to the outside world. He is saying that to Christians. A few years back. A young woman sat in my office. Her family used to attend this church. She was confirmed as a member here At the time of our conversation, she was not attending church and spending her nights in a bar. As I tried to talk sense to her, the one thing I kept repeating to her is that because she has been marked by God, God was not going to let her go. In fact, I spoke prophetically to her, explaining that God would make her life miserable until she repented and surrendered her will unto him. At this time, I do not know what has happened to that girl, but she could be any one of us I believe God is saying the same to all of us. We cannot get away from His presence. If we go down to the dwelling of the dead, as David said, God is there. It might seem odd to portray God as someone who would want to get a we someone that we would want to get away from. When God is after us, there is that presence of guilt if we do not repent. But that guilt is there, and that guilt will help save us from eternal fire. If you have been marked by Christ, God will assure by any means necessary to bring you to your knees Once you are finally there, you will regret that you did not do so much, much earlier. Beloved Samson's end of life is a call to us to live holy lives. If you have been baptized in Christ Jesus and if you have been blessed with the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, do not sell your birthright for a bowl of stew. Do not live for the moment, causing each of those moments of fleshly rule to corrupt the rest of your life here on earth. Samson would testify the same to us. Glory be to God that he had made something positive of Samson's life Glory be to God that he will do the same to each of us. Only let us be willing participants. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we think upon the life of Samson so much wasted and yet so much used by you. Heavenly Father, for those who have gone astray from the faith, those that are in our families, we pray for their repentance, we pray for their return. Heavenly Father, for those who are tempted by the world, help them to remember the life of Samson. Help them to learn from these lessons that they might hold on to the faith and never let it go. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let us help spare our hearts to receive the body of love, Collins.