In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in Exodus chapter four, and you will do well to turn there with me. Exodus 4, we read from the lectionary, we read the latter half of the chapter, but we will be covering all of Exodus 4. This is not new, but needs to be repeated. God takes his covenant promises seriously. All covenant promises God takes most seriously. We have sponsored college boot camp here at St. Stephen's for the past several years. Because God takes his covenant promises seriously. Because these young people have been baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. They have placed been placed into God's everlasting covenant. And God desires. He wants He wills and he expects that his covenant will be fulfilled. And for it to be fulfilled, young people must live their lives as having been baptized. as being believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. According to the Barna Institute, reported in the USA Today paper, Over 70% of Christian youth leave the church after high school. Over 70%. As most of you know, it is my greatest passion as a pastor to reverse such a trend. Too many Christian churches place an emphasis on mission, on reaching the lost with the gospel, and that is good and part of what Jesus commissioned his church to do. But mission and outreach and other forms of ministry cannot continue in the church to grow the kingdom of God When new people are walking in the church and our children are walking out of the church. I don't see the point of rejoicing over a new convert being saved. While a child of mine is renouncing the faith and choosing the road that is wide on which many, many people travel. What makes the difference, I believe, for the sake of our children staying in the faith and us staying in the church. Is for each of them to understand that they are in and under a covenant with God. A covenant A covenant is a binding contract of sorts that is based on promises made. Now, because God is the superior in the relationship, the covenant we have with him is determined by him, of course. He sets the parameters of the covenant, and we agree to the stipulations of the covenant, or we perish. Israel. Israel was in covenant with God. Through Abraham, God set the parameters. And you recall what those parameters were? He only instructed that they believe that he is the one true God. And he insisted that they believe in his promise of the promised land. That was it. That was all that was required of them. The law had not yet come. They simply needed to believe in the one true God and trust that the promised land would be theirs. Oh, and there was one more thing. One more thing. There was to be a symbol of the covenant God made with Abraham. That symbol was circumcision. Each male born into the family of Abraham and his descendants were to be circumcised on the eighth day of their life. It was to be the males, because the promise given after the sin of Eve would be that a male, a male, would be born that would crush the serpent's head, the devil It was circumcision because reproduction was to be the means by which the male would be born, only we know that it was conceived by the Holy Spirit. It was also circumcision because the cutting away of flesh would be a symbol of how God would start his new covenant, which was a cutting away of the stony heart. And it was the eighth day because the number eight would come to represent the new covenant, the new Sabbath, a day of celebration. Before we hear how serious God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols, we read in Exodus 4 at the beginning of that chapter. How Moses was given confidence by God by enabling Moses to perform miraculous signs. The first three miraculous signs Moses was to present to Pharaoh, when Pharaoh would refuse to let Israel as slaves go free. The first was a rod turning to a serpent and then back again to a rod, a hand becoming leprous, and then healed from leprosy. And water turning to blood. And it is, of course, I think, natural for us to ask, why would God choose these three miracles as a sign of his authority given to Moses? Consider the rod turning to a snake and then back to a rod. was symbolic of Moses having control and authority over evil. What is a snake but a serpent What did the devil inhabit in the Garden of Eden? But a serpent. And so God uses that symbol that Moses can manipulate such a creature. Tells us that Moses, and it tells Pharaoh as well, that the evil one was not the being that was in control. It was Moses. Jesus in his ministry revealed the same. He revealed that the devil was not in control, he was. At his presence, the demonic obeyed his commands. Even the most difficult demonic possession cases that the disciples could not handle, they were subject to the voice of Jesus. And then this hand turning to leprosy. And then healed. This had to show that Moses was being given authority over the flesh of men. God would cause the Egyptians to suffer in the flesh in different ways if they did not repent and let Israel go free. Jesus also came, showing the same authority over the flesh of men. He could heal them of any and every sickness that humanity could come up with. The outward healing of Jesus was also a sign of an even greater healing that was the healing of the soul and giving the body and soul of mankind eternal life. And then the water turning to blood. The water turning to blood as a final sign for Moses to be confident that God was with him and giving him authority. Symbolize that God would indeed spill blood for his people to be set free. And we know that such blood was spilled, spilled As dripping down upon the rocks of Calvary, down from the cross, where the Son of God was hung and where he died. Blood was indeed spilled for mankind to be delivered, to be saved. As we read the story in Exodus 4, we see that unfortunately, even after these great signs are revealed, to Moses having such great meaning in them revealed to Moses, Moses responds as a coward And we mentioned this a couple of weeks ago as we considered the fact that God chooses men, even though men are such weak vessels for Him to choose. But he chooses them regardless. For the men God chooses all points of that one man who would save all others. And I hope you notice as you read in Exodus 4 the give and take that is between God and Moses. Notice how God uses clear logic to help Moses. Because God is the creator of mouths and of tongues, Moses is to expect that God can overcome any type of speech problem Moses has. But note Moses in this moment is not about logic. He is about emotions. He is about his emotions. And the dominant emotion is fear. And it's wonderful to see that even though Moses is acting like a coward, even though God is making perfect sense to him, it is wonderful to see that God accommodates him. He accommodates him in his weakness. That is the God he reveals himself to be. He is gracious And he is gracious with Moses by sending Aaron to be with him to speak for him. We now come to the second half of the chapter that was read from our lectern. And we are going to learn from this how seriously, again, God takes his covenant And I must say, some parts of the story are quite unique in that there is not anything like any of these events in the rest of the Bible. In verse 18, Moses asked permission from his father-in-law to return to Egypt to check on his people, the Hebrew people. Now there is nothing unique here as Moses was employed by his father-in-law and of course would ask In verse 19, the Lord tells Moses that the people who had once sought his life are dead, and thus the present time was the perfect time to go back. In verse 20, Moses and his family load up for the travel, and again, nothing unique here. But then in verse 21, Exodus 4, verse 21, God says something he has never uttered before. He prophesies to Moses that Pharaoh will refuse his request, the request of Moses, to let the people of Israel go free. And part of the reason, if not the only reason God states here, that Pharaoh will refuse, is that God will harden Pharaoh's heart. God will make Pharaoh stubborn so that he will say no to Moses. Now, before anyone gets too upset, because it may seem to us that God took away the free will of an individual person. I remind you of Romans chapter 9. Romans chapter 9, where the Apostle Paul explains passages like this one in Exodus 4 in terms of God being sovereign over all of his creation and thus being able to use his creation as he sees fit Paul says that God has the right to use vessels for his glory and vessels for their own destruction. Pharaoh is going to be used for God's glory and for Pharaoh's own destruction. And we, being fallen human beings, who see through the glass only dimly, and who are still, yes still under the sun We are in no position to question God. And that really is the end of the discussion. God hardened Pharaoh's heart. The prophecy continues in verses 22 and 23 as God reveals to Moses how all of this is going to end. It is going to end with the firstborn in each household of the Egyptians having to die Including Pharaoh's household. Once again, by the choosing of the firstborn son. We have part of the story of pointing to God's only son. Moses. Is here given the end, so that he will endure the events that are about to take place. What happens next after God gives this prophecy to Moses is so very unique. That scholars continue to wrestle with these passages today. Because they're so unique, I want to read them with you Exodus 24, chapter 4, verse 24 and 25. Allow me to read these with you and comment as we go. Exodus 4, verse 24. And it came to pass on the way at the encampment that the Lord met him, Moses and sought to kill him. So on their way to Egypt, God met Moses and was going to kill him. It does not say how God met with Moses, and we can l easily assume it was by way of an angel because that is how God has done it elsewhere. But the form doesn't matter. For it is to be understood in the text that regardless of the form, it is God. And God was going to kill Moses. He was going to kill the one man, the specific man he chose from birth to lead his people out of Egypt. I simply say remarkable. Verse twenty five. Then Zipporah took a sharp stone and cut off the foreskin of her son and cast it at Moses' feet and said, Surely you are a husband of blood to me. So Zaporah next jumps into action, having sized up the situation rather quickly, I might say, and makes for herself a knife That enables her to circumcise her own child on the spot. To do all of this, she had to know why God was going to kill Moses and how it could be remedied. And she needed to do so all of this while Moses stood by and watched. Again, remarkable. And Zipporah also needed to know what words to say that she and her son were part of the covenant God had made with Abraham. Remember, she was a Midianite. And her words, the words she is confessing that she and her son are under the covenant of Abraham by coming under the headship of Moses. We can conclude, I believe, that she knew all of this needed to be done because Moses was the chosen national archivist. Thus she would have heard of the covenant God had made with Abraham from her husband. Such a role all husbands should play in their homes. But the faith and the wit and the bravery of Zipporah was remarkable indeed. And needs to be commended and thought of as an example to be emulated. God's personal hand was about to strike Moses dead, but was withheld because the child of Moses was circumcised. Which was obedience to the covenant. God takes his covenant seriously, and thus he takes his covenant symbols seriously. God would have struck down his chosen man because of the covenant he made with Abraham. God would have started over with a new plan to free his people because his covenant needed to be fulfilled. And once the Lord removed the threat of death from Moses and his family, they continued toward Egypt. And the threat and the events are never again mentioned anywhere in Scripture. But what a dramatic moment this is. What an amazing turn of events it would have been if the son of Moses and his wife Zepporah did not come under the covenant God had made with Israel. God takes his covenant seriously. So, what is this story to us? Maybe some of you have are ahead of me on this. Recall with me the teaching of St. Paul Where he explains that the symbol or sign of the old covenant, circumcision, is replaced by the symbol or sign of the new covenant, which is baptism. Hear these words from St. Paul to the Christians at Colossae. In him, in Jesus, you were also circumcised by the putting off of your sinful nature. With the circumcision performed by Christ and not by human hands. And having been buried with him in baptism. You were raised with him through your faith in the power of God, who raised him from the dead. When you were dead in your trespasses and in your uncircumcision of your sinful nature, God made you alive with Christ. He forgave us all our. trespasses. Amen and Amen. Bapti baptism in water then is the new covenant symbol God chose And thus it is the mark God places upon all who are under his covenant. And remember, God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols seriously. Because water baptism replaces circumcision, it is and was very natural for the first century Christians to baptize their children. Because their children were circumcised on the eighth day, and baptism replaces circumcision. To the Corinthians, St. Paul relates baptism to the same as all of Israel coming out of the Red Sea. After God parted the waters, allowing them to walk in the midst of the waters, coming out of that water saved them from slavery. The baptismal waters work the same way for the Christian as we come out, having been covered by the water, we are saved from our slavery to sin and death. And just as Israel had children and infants carried through the Red Sea to salvation. So too do Christians who have children baptize them into God's covenant to be saved. Remember, God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols seriously, very, very seriously. Parents. One of the greatest gifts you can give your children is an identity in Christ. And the symbol for that identity, the mark of the covenant God has with them, is their baptism. Parents are to help children know that their identity is secure in Jesus, and the seal of that identity is their baptism. Time and time again, children need to be reminded that they have been baptized into the covenant God made in Jesus. Parents need to speak such words again and again to their children. Remember, you have been baptized in Jesus. That identity enables them, enables them to be different from the world. It empowers them to say no to the world. It allows them to not be conformed to this world, but be formed by the Holy Spirit. The mark of baptism gives a child, gives a teenager. Gives a young adult, gives a middle-aged adult, gives an older adult the security that they are different than the secular world. And they are supposed to be different. Because God has separated them from the world and marked them as his own. It's wonderful to know you've been marked by him. Because God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols seriously, we have college boot camp. To give college students the tools needed to live out their baptism and parents, you don't know what they face in college. And you need to prepare them. Because God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols seriously, very seriously. We catechize our children in Sunday school. We support an academy that offers education that teaches our children to know God. Because God takes his covenant and his covenant symbol seriously, this preacher. Underlines and highlights every chance I get that faith needs to be passed down to our children and to our children's children until Jesus comes again. Because God takes his covenant seriously, Christians can cross themselves to remind themselves they've been marked, they've been baptized. They are in Christ. Christians can receive the bread and wine regularly to remind themselves that the new birth Needs to be fed. We need nutrition to be able to grow and mature With the urgency of Zippura. May we all perform acts In our lives that reflect how we know that God takes his covenant and his covenant symbols seriously. Very seriously. Amen and Amen. Let us pray