In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. May be seated. It would be good for you to turn to Genesis chapter 39, where we continue our series on the book of Genesis. Genesis 39, and I begin by asking several questions of you. What does it mean for you that God has said that He will never leave you or forsake you? What does such a promise mean to your everyday life? How does it affect your prayers? How does it affect your work or school situation? How does it affect your relationships? The statement that God will never leave you or forsake you is found in Hebrews 13, verse 5. And it is based off of God's promise to Israel in Deuteronomy chapter 31, and the promise of Jesus that he would be always with his followers. The context of the Hebrew preacher is where he is making closing remarks in what we call a sermon slash letter. He tells the listeners to be free from the love of money and to be content with what they have in regards to material wealth And he follows it up by saying that God will be with them always, never leaving or forsaking them. So the verse prior means that because of the ever-abiding presence of God, his people will be provided for regarding essentials to everyday life. This is backed up, of course, by the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus tells his followers to seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all that they need will be added unto them. All their personal needs will be met. But in the book of Hebrews there is more, for the verse after the quote that God will never forsake his people, he says, so we had so we say with confidence The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? This puts the promise of God's presence in the lives of believers beyond basic needs of life to the realm of some type of safety. Thus, the presence of God is to mean to us, at the very least, that our basic needs will be met and that we need not fear men bodily harming us because we Can be assured that they cannot do to our souls only what God can do. Again, Jesus said something very similar He said, I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who can kill the body and after can do no more, but fear the one after you have been killed who has the power to throw you into hell. Therefore, God's presence being always with us means that He is the only one who has the authority over our life after this earth. So I asked the questions regarding what it means for each of us that God is with us always, never forsaking us. Because I want to do battle with the devil, who has placed lies in our thoughts and in our expectations regarding God's promises. Take the story of Joseph in the house of Potiphar as an example of what we might wrongly expect when we say that God is with us always. There is an emphasis by the writer of Genesis that God was with Joseph. Look at verse 2 and in verse 3. It is stated there the same way in verse 3 to underline the point that God is with Joseph in a very special way. That God was with Joseph was evident to his master, for there was proof of God's presence in his success. And it was noted by the master that Joseph was successful in this life, and that had to mean God was with him. But I pause I pause here from that main point that I will get back to in regards to what it means for God to be with his people, because in this story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife. We have the best example for Christians and how to understand, to resist temptation, sexual temptation here, but temptation in general We are told first that Joseph was a handsome man, and that makes him appealing to Potiphar's wife. That he was made an overseer of Potiphar's household necessitated that Joseph be a daily presence before Potiphar's wife. It is the master's wife who takes the initiative, asking Joseph to lie with her. We must understand at this point in the story that although Joseph was an overseer, he was still a slave. For a slave to say no regarding anything asked of his master or the master's wife, that was putting his life in danger. We see in verse 8 that Joseph was a principled man. He would never betray his master as his master had been good and trusting of him. And we see he forthrightly states that to lie with the master's wife would be a sin against God. That, of course, is reason enough not to commit adultery. God has said it is a sin, and that is to be enough for those who say they believe It doesn't matter how lustful you feel. It doesn't matter that you have sexual desires that make you want to lie with the same sex. Or the underage, or anyone who is not your spouse. God's commandment is enough for believers to know that sex outside of a marriage covenant between a man and a woman is not to be practiced. That is the principle that Christians are to live by Now, as read, Joseph's initial resistance and reasoning did not stop Potiphar's wife from pursuing Joseph in lust. Verse 10 tells us that she tempted him day after day, and yet day after day Joseph resisted. And he resisted not only having intercourse, but to do anything sexual with her, as that phrase, to be with her, communicates. Potiphar's wife's next move was to physically force herself onto Joseph, resulting in her being able to pull off his garment, which means that he forcefully resisted her. But she had him in her net because no one was around to see her come on to him, and thus she could enact revenge for being refused by falsely accusing Joseph of trying to rape her. The garment left in her hand tells us that Joseph made haste, running away from her. And it is this act of running away It can be applied to a multitude of temptations that Christians face every day. When Jesus said that if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off He was using hyperbole, but not excessive hyperbole. Christians, followers of Jesus Christ, are to do what is within their power to resist temptation. And the most obvious temptation to resist temptation, a most obvious way to do it, is to run away from it. How do I resist sexual temptation? The answer: flee. Flee from places that allow you to express your lust Flee from the bars. Flee from the clubs. Flee from parties. Flee from the internet. Flee and get as far away as possible for what calls you to sin. Not what causes you to sin, but what calls you to sin. From what else and where else can we flee in order to resist temptation? Flee from friends who do not know God and want you to live as they do. Flee from schools that teach the non-existence of God and openly teach sexual promiscuity. Flee from work situations that tempt you to express a different personality that your spouse and God do not know. Flee from any source of entertainment that requires you to be lazy and half-minded. Flee Fly away, make haste, and allow God to be your defender from the fallout of you. Flee. Remember that God will not leave you just as he did not leave Joseph in the dungeon. But that's for a future sermon. So Joseph and his actions provide an excellent example for all of us, any of us of any age, to imitate. But we need to get back to the truth that God was with him. The author made it clear, as we have said, that God was with Joseph. But let us remember that God is said to be with Joseph when Joseph was a slave. If God was with Joseph, then why was Joseph made a slave in the first place? I know the answer that is his brother sold him to be a slave, but that does not answer the heart of the question. For when we read that God was with Joseph, don't we assume that Would mean that Joseph wouldn't be made a slave? Doesn't God's presence with his people mean that they will lead a blessed life? With little to no troubles from the devil or their fellow man. If you say I have got it wrong when I expect blessings in my life, because God is always with me If that is wrong, then why do so many Christians call out to God all too quickly when life gets a little difficult? Why? Why God? When something negative happens in our lives, we say, Why God? I believe it is absolutely to our benefit that we are honest with God. And honest with ourselves, that we confess that we do have expectations. That we do have expectations that are not warranted in Scripture. And is it easy for you to recognize my false expectations when I say that I expect that God's presence in my life means that I will have blessings overflowing It is easy to note that that's wrong-headed. But it is harder, much harder to see the devil, how he has used your false expectations of God in your own conscience to dent and weaken your faith. Let's examine Joseph's life again. As was asked, do we expect That when God is with someone, that he will not make them a slave, and yet Joseph is a slave, and God was with him. We do expect that because God was with Joseph, that everything he did, everything he put effort to was a success. That sounds right. That Joseph was made an overseer is also what we would expect when we say that God is with someone. Yes, he's going to bless you in that way. Success is a natural part of what it means for God to be with someone, right? But then Joseph becomes a target of a wanton woman who has the power to destroy his life. That isn't what we expect when God is with someone. We expect God to keep such people away from us, if He is truly with us. Deliver us from evil, we pray. And Partipher's wife was evil. And yet there is Joseph in a dangerous situation. You know, there could have been other rich places, other homes in Egypt that Joseph could have gone to that didn't have a wanton wife. If God is with Joseph, he isn't working very hard to protect him. Am I right? And the temptations are every day. We pray to God to not lead us into temptation And there was Joseph placed in a situation that he did not control except to remain chaste. If Joseph is not in control, While living the life of a slave in the house of Potiphar, then God. If God is with Joseph, then God is in control. So is God leading him into temptation? It seems that way. I trust some of you have heard the upheaval caused by the Roman Catholic Pope Francis. who over a year ago wanted to change the Lord's Prayer because he says that the phrase, lead us not into temptation, is confusing Because it contradicts other teachings of Scripture that says that God tempts no one. Pope Francis has shown himself to be more of a humanitarian than a theologian or a Bible scholar. The phrase, lead us not into temptation, is a parallelism in the Lord's Prayer, and what follows it, deliver us from evil That is the explanation of what the phrase means. God indeed does not tempt anyone. What our problem is, where we need help, is when we unknowingly find ourselves in a situation where the temptation to sin is the strongest. Our prayer is that we could avoid such situations as much as possible, but when we do find ourselves in one, because that does happen, We are asking to be delivered from that same situation. But maybe Pope Francis has the same false expectations of God that many of us do. Maybe he too expects that if God is with us, we would never be put into a situation of being tempted. But that is impossible. Temptations are not only all around us, but as you know, they are inside of us To lead us away from all temptation would be to lead us away from ourselves But wait, isn't that what Jesus is trying to tell us when he teaches his disciples that we are to be last? When he tells us to pick up our cross and follow him. But let us continue on with Joseph and God being with him. When Joseph finds himself in a trap set by Potiphar's wife, we again wonder why God would not rescue him if God is truly with him. His only rescue is to flee, and still God's presence doesn't stop him from leaving behind evidence that will wrongly convict him. Now God could have stopped that also because he was with Joseph, but he didn't When Joseph was confronted by Potiphar for his crime and believed the testimony of his wife, he became angry and threw Joseph into prison. Some suspect that Potiphar may have been in charge of the prison himself. But if God is with someone, how is that same someone wrongly accused and thrown into prison? But it must have meant something. It must have meant something for God to be with Joseph. A slave accused of trying to rape a free woman, who was a master's wife, would certainly have been put to death in Egypt and in any country in the ancient Near East. For God to be with Joseph meant that it was not his time to die. And read verse 21 with me. This is the key verse. Verse 21, after Joseph had been thrown into prison, it reads, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy. And he, God, gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. So for the Lord to be with Joseph is to show him mercy. If there was a spreadsheet of what God owed to Joseph and what he owes to every human being, that spreadsheet would be blank. If there was a spreadsheet of each of our sins, the libraries of the world could not contain the amount of paper needed. Thus, when God is with us, it is an act of mercy. And when He does something, anything that relieves our suffering or changes our situation, it is always an act of mercy. Which is an act of unmerited forgiveness where harsh punishment is due. For God to be with Joseph never meant Never meant that Joseph would not suffer at the hands of men. It never meant that injustices of a government would not be bestowed upon him. God's presence with Joseph was not a promise that he would not face temptations or unkind people or evil people or times of disappointment or heartaches or prison cells. The same is true with the presence of Jesus with us. Jesus never leaving us or forsaking us is true. But it does not promise warm, fuzzy feelings, and it does not mean we are protected from the sins of mankind or the diseases of this world that are caused by the curse placed upon man and the earth at the first sin of our parents. It is the devil who has given Christians the idea that God's presence with us means we have a spiritual shield that protects us from all sorts of evil. Evil we can see and cannot see. It is the devil who has told us that God's presence with us means we won't get sick. And the sins of others won't hurt us, and friends won't forsake us, and family won't betray us. All of that is a lie. And we need to know this just as the early Christians did. For if the stream keeps flowing, like it is now, against Christians, there will be a day just as there was in the first 300 years of Christianity. When believers will be outwardly persecuted for what they believe and how they live. And when such a day comes The devil will have us believe that it ought not be so, because God is with us and therefore none of this should be happening. The devil's schemes are old. He whispers again, just as he did to Eve. He whispers again. God didn't really say God didn't really say he would always be with you, did he? But God did indeed say it. The testimony of martyrs, knowing the presence of God, began with Stephen in the book of Acts, you remember, our patron saint. Who looked up at his death by stoning and saw the Lord. The Lord was with him. But it began earlier than that with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, who, when thrown into the fiery furnace, had another man, the Son of God, with them, delivering them from the flames. But it began with Abel, whose blood cried out and was heard by the Lord. The Lord was with him But the Lord is not with us to make life easy, to make life soft, to make it comfortable, to have us avoid suffering. No, the Lord is with us to be merciful, for his mercy is everlasting. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God and Father, we thank you for the truth of your everlasting presence. And we thank you for what it truly means, your mercy. And so may we focus upon that, how grateful we are for that mercy. And never expect things you didn't promise, but truly believe in all that you did promise. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.