In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles. To First Peter chapter one. We'll be finishing up the chapter this morning. Before we get to the text, I want to allow you into the family courtroom of the Jorgensen household. Where you can help us solve a cold case. We were living on Jennifer Way in Sykesville, Maryland The year was 1999. The crime committed, the burning of several matches. And the evidence was a number that were quickly lit and quickly put out, placed in a pile on an ashtray stand. The father of the household primarily used the matches to light his tobacco pipe that he smoked two or three times a week. The children of the household, six in number, knew the rule that they were not allowed to light the matches without permission and supervision, regardless of the matches being available. And the crime or sin that the father of the household hated more than the burning of matches unsupervised was the sin of lying. And so all of the sons were lined up, and each of them interrogated, and the father does the interrogating. And thinks he knows well when his son, each son, is lying to him And so he goes down the line. Did you commit the deed? Each being interrogated, and each one denied. No sign of lying from the first son, no sign of lying from the second son, no sign of lying from the third. The fourth sign is at the age that it becomes more precarious. The case gets a little tougher. The fourth son is of the age of having the motor skills to light matches, but he doesn't have the track record or shall we call it a rap sheet, long enough, long enough for the father to know for sure if he is lying And the two younger children don't have the motor skills to light matches from a matchbox. So when the fourth child is accused, He immediately denies any wrongdoing with no expression at all The father has a hunch it is the fourth child, only because the three other possibilities seems more unlikely. And so the fourth child is taken into a room alone, light shining on his face. The father bends down and asks again, did you do the deed? And once again, a denial with no expression. The Father gives dire warnings for lying. offers a reprieve of punishment if the truth is told, and still denial with no expression The father asks the older sons, each alone, for their testimonies, and each deny, and each accuse the fourth son. But there is no corroborating evidence. The father, wanting to punish the fourth child for lying, chooses not to do so. Not to do so because he cannot get a confession. And so the case of the burn matches remains to this day unsolved. Who did it? If you are wondering, I can update you by saying that each child today still denies that he was responsible for the crime Perhaps the guilty party was so traumatized by the interrogation that he has put it out of his conscience, perhaps It is likely that every household present here has a similar story. And the mystery is not who burned the matches. The mystery that I want us to all identify is the mystery of the human will, the mystery of the decisions we make and why we make them We spoke at length last week about God's will overriding our will to get us to be in the Christian faith and to keep the Christian faith. But there is still a will that God has given every human being that makes choices regarding behaviors that we practice. And it is a great mystery regarding where that will begins or ends, and where the will of God begins or ends. I don't present the mystery of the human will before us as if we're supposed to uncover that will and understand it completely. It remains a mystery to all It is a mystery to understand the human will in regards to the choices we make, to sin or not to sin. To speak the truth or not to speak the truth. And today we come to a passage of Scripture. at the end of chapter one of 1 Peter, where we read of certain expectations and motivations regarding the human will. The Holy Spirit here uses Saint Peter to motivate Christians, to influence the will of Christians to live holy lives. And the words he uses, the teachings he provides, the insights we are granted are to motivate our wills. So that we would want to be holy, so that we would strive to be holy. Let us now see If the revelation pen by Saint Peter can be a motivation for us to live holy lives, Peter begins the motivation by informing that the prophets of the Old Testament spoke about the grace that God was going to send upon mankind. Peter says they searched intently and with the greatest of care. to discover specifics regarding how God was going to send the Messiah, the Christ, the Anointed One. And they appear to have understood a little regarding the need for the Messiah to suffer, and that glory would come after the suffering. But they didn't know the whole picture. And we can assume that they were looking at biblical passages such as from Isaiah 53. There we hear of a servant that suffers at the hands of men, and he suffers because of the sins of God's people. He suffers even though there was no deceit found in him, even though he was innocent, yet he was tortured And the prophet Isaiah also promises days ahead, resulting from that suffering, that many shall have their sins forgiven. And we can assume that the prophets looked at Psalm 22, and they were informed that the suffering servant would be publicly ridiculed, that his bones would be out of joint. His hands would be pierced and his clothes gambled over. They could see such events, but in no way could they know him as Jesus Until those specific events and those specific days came to pass. The point being That Christians can look to the prophets as favored men of God, having a part in God's plan of salvation. But they can also see themselves as favored. And so the motivation comes into play in verse 12 when Peter says to the first century Christians, That the prophets of old did not prophesy and look into the scriptures to help themselves. Peter says they did so to help you. Or specifically the first century Christians. Is there any greater motivation to love another? than when you come to know that someone has done something truly wonderful specifically for you. Our children celebrated their mother's 50th birthday, flying and driving long distances, preparing a meal, gathering all together, and they formed a memory book. With letters from each of the children, with also sharing their favorite pictures. Bobby Lynn thought we were gathering to celebrate all of our birthdays in January, but no, it was a night, a day specifically for her. That moves us when someone or a number of people do something sacrificially for you And we should acknowledge that the first century Christians were specifically chosen to be the first to have the truth of Jesus as the Messiah revealed. They were the first to be to understand and accept that a man dying on a cross could and did provide forgiveness for all who believe in his name. Such was a privilege that no other generation will ever know. But that truth doesn't mean that you and I are not privileged. Remember the words of Saint of Jesus to St. Thomas. That the people of future generations who believe, believe without seeing, believe without touching, they will be blessed. Blessed in a different manner that is no less important. And so when we read Peter's words about being privileged, And such words are to inspire us, to motivate us to live holy lives. We are to be motivated personally in our own lives. Knowing that the prophets spoke and searched for the sake of you. And to underline the privilege of first century Christians and all Christians down through the ages. Peter closes his thought by stating that angels, angels longed to look into the plan of salvation that God had for mankind. Can we imagine angels looking over the shoulder of God as God's will played out down through human history? It could not have made sense to those angels that a savior would be conceived by an unwed mother. It could not have made sense to them that the lineage of Jesus would have the sins of incest and prostitution It could not have made sense that the Savior would be of the lineage of King David, an adulterer and a murderer. It most certainly could not have made sense that Jesus, the perfect man, the Son of God, would be betrayed, mocked, and beaten, and killed. They didn't know of what C. S. Lewis called in The Lion Witch and the Wardrobe a deeper magic And so as we know of the humility Jesus took on by being born of Mary, being born of the line of David being mocked and beaten and killed We are to see the privilege that we have of knowing what is more profound, a more profound mystery, a more profound miracle. God can raise the dead. Most English translations begin verse 13 with the word therefore. And in the discipline of logic, the word therefore clearly identifies that what follows is a conclusion, as it does here in St. Peter's reasoning. To make the statement more clearly, we could read into the words therefore the following. Since you know, since you now understand that you are privileged, Privileged to know what you know about the plan of salvation that God has revealed through the life and death and resurrection of Jesus. Such knowledge is to motivate your will to do what I am about to tell you. That's what therefore means. And so next, we are told what to do. Now, our NIV reading didn't capture this. Our New King James does. We are told to gird up our loins, the loins of our minds. And this is a metaphor of picking up our oriental dress and being ready for activity. And it is our minds that we are to be ready for activity. We are to be thinkers. This instruction is a manner by which we are to love God with our minds. We are next told to be sober, which is a metaphor for being clear-headed. And our minds are to be ready for activity and clear. So that we can place our hope completely in what has been revealed to us in the person of Jesus. Dare we not underestimate the importance of our minds and how we think regarding our salvation? Not in that it is complicated, but that it rests in what has been revealed. And we are to protect our minds regarding what has been revealed. Has not our study on Tuesday nights and a study of Timothy in the mornings on Sunday shown that Christians were constantly in the need of protecting their minds Protecting them from false teachers who would have them believe anything but the simple fact that Jesus was God And Jesus was man. And Jesus actually died. That he actually rose again. And that he would actually raise us who believe again. The verses that follow next are the primary teaching, the primary influence of the will that St. Peter has been building up to. And that primary influence is that Christians live holy lives. Lives that are worthy of the revelation that it is a privilege to know. The first metaphor used for holy living is that all Christians are to be as obedient children. As obedient children we are to do as the Father says. Again, the Christian life is not complicated. We are to live as obedient children. The Father says, love him and love our neighbor, and we obey. The Father says, don't worship other gods, don't hate, don't lust, don't steal, don't covet, and we obey what the father says. How is that anyway complicated? It is not complicated until our former desires, our sinful habits Come against what God has told us to do and not to do. So that is what the address it what is addressed next Christians are to conform to the commands of God and not conform to the sinful desires that pull them towards sin. And another way to motivate us is to just do just that, set up a standard And so the standard set up, Peter says, is to be holy as God is holy. Jesus said in Matthew 5, 48, be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect. But we can't do that, can we? Well, it doesn't matter how many times we fail to meet the standard. The standard is still the standard. We are to be holy as God is holy, no compromise. Imagine if the standard were compromised. Imagine if we were to read Be holy as the Father is holy, but if you cannot, no big deal. If something as such were written, we would all settle for the no big deal clause. But there is no compromise. And because there is no compromise, we are given another motivation. We are told that God will judge each Christian according to his or her conduct. Well, I thought we were saved by grace through faith. Yes, we are. And God will judge us by our works. Not save us, not redeem us by our works, but judge us. And yes That is to cause us fear, and that fear is to motivate our will to holy living. So we have been motivated toward holy living by realizing we are privileged, and then by giving us the highest of standards, and then by fear of judgment And in case those motivations are not enough, we are next motivated by the passion of Jesus. He here next described his precious blood being spilled. This satisfactory atonement of the most precious blood is to motivate us to know how much Jesus gave for us. And then Saint Peter brings the motivation back to the privileged position we find ourselves. Verse 20 says that although Jesus was from the foundation of the world, he was manifested in the days of the first Christians for their sake. Peter says, for you. And in verse 21, all that God did in the life and death and resurrection of Jesus is stated to be, for what purpose? Their faith. Peter says it was so that your faith and hope are in God. Verse 22, Christians are said to have purified souls, and that they own true love for one another, just as they ought. And that they have been born again, begotten again, as Peter described earlier. And this new life gives each Christian a new identity. And that identity is also motivation to live holy lives. And the final motivation is what lasts, he says, and what does not last And he brings in this poetic prophecy from Isaiah, telling us that what is true, God's word, will last. And everything that is not true will wither and fade All of this is to be motivation. But a question remains Is all such motivation enough for each Christian to choose by their own will to live a holy life? What was in the will of a child to light matches and quickly blow them out and place them in a pile when they were clearly told not to do such a thing? What was in that will? What was in the will of a child not to tell the truth regarding his guilt of lighting those matches? What was in the will of a child never to do the same lighting of matches again, for the crime that was never solved was also never again committed. What we know from knowing ourselves is that what motivates our wills vary and likely involves several factors. The Holy Spirit knows this about us. God knows we need several motivations to live holy lives. We need several motivations because our sinful desires pull us to sin even when the Holy Spirit is motivating us to be holy. The motivation or motivations God uses for us to choose holiness are summed up in the truth that God wants us. He wants to be our God. In going after our wills, God is pursuing our hearts. For where our will goes, so does our heart. And God will wait for us to return as rebellious sons, or he will stand outside with us and wait till we want to go into the party. He'll do both because he wants us. I say, let's give him us. Let us pray.