In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 21. Picking up at verse 1, Revelation 21, picking up at verse 1. We need to become better storytellers. Storytelling, especially within a family, provides a necessary sense of identity. Over 15 years ago now, I learned that I have a great uncle named Arthur J. Hope on my mother's side. Who attended the University of Notre Dame to study physics? While an undergrad student, he became interested in theology and eventually decided to pursue the priesthood. After being ordained, he went back to Notre Dame, where he served as a professor of philosophy During his time as a professor, he wrote a book entitled The First 100 Years of Notre Dame. The last printing was 1999. And serves as the primary resource for the university's history. I like knowing about such relatives Gives me a better idea of the stock I come from and thus a better idea about myself Another example of telling stories is my grandmother on my father's side, who used to tell a story about her family's brush with fame. Although her uncle was a minister within the Lutheran Church, that was not considered noteworthy compared to the story of the infamous Jesse James hiding out in the family barn. Evidence was left behind to confirm he and his gang spent the night in the barn while hiding from the law, but the family was not aware until they had gone What this says about my stock, I am not quite sure, but she always seemed to enjoy to tell story. Storytelling within the family should be healthy, fascinating, and joyous. It also serves another purpose. Storytelling can be likened to our salvation. Storytelling is how we understand our salvation. This is nowhere more evident than in Revelation chapter 21. From this chapter, we learn about the heritage of man, both under the covenant and outside the covenant. We learn certain symbols, how they're used throughout Scripture. We are also reminded of our beginnings and learn about how time will end. If you have ever wondered Why men like to tell and hear stories, the answer is in Holy Scripture. Originally in history, family stories were orally handed down to succeeding generations. From the time of Moses, men wrote their stories down, enabling them to be consumed by the millions Today, we are exposed to stories via audio recordings, live productions, movies, television, and song This shows that we love stories. And it shows enjoying stories is how God has programmed us. And the good stories, the stories we all enjoy are those that start with a dilemma or a conflict And work toward a resolution with a character that saves or restores what has broken down. Such stories are types and shadows of the gospel. The great dilemma that all good stories resemble Is the broken relationship between mankind and God because of the sin of man. The resolution is found in the Savior, who is first promised and then brought forth. He gives up himself, his own life, for the sake of restoring what is lost. And the end truly can be described as happily ever after. As we examine chapters 21 and 22 of the Book of Revelation, we must see them as the end of the greatest story. It is the only true story. It is the story toward which all good stories point. Verse one of chapter twenty-one begins with John seeing a new vision. In the revelation, we have gone from one new vision to another. Sometimes they overlap, and other times they are completely different. This one is now contrasted to the previous vision of all that is evil being thrown into the lake of fire. Because the first heaven and earth necessarily passed away before the face of God, a new heaven and earth are brought forth, and from this we are reminded of the first creation. When God had created all and said that it was good, He placed Adam and Eve in the garden in order that they might govern the rest of his creation. He was to be their God, and they were to be his people. The sin of man delayed what God designed. Now, in Revelation 21, as John describes it, what God had planned for is being achieved. An important distinction between the new creation and the old is that there are no longer a seed John revealed to us in chapter 17, verse 15, that the waters represented the Gentile nations The land has always represented or symbolized the people of God, while the waters that were all consuming in Genesis imparted in Exodus symbolize nations that were in rebellion against God. Now, in this chapter, at the revealing of a new heaven and a new earth, there is no more water. There is no more sea. There are only the people of God. Finding its place of rest within the new creation is the holy city. The Garden of Eden was the first holy city, and from it all rivers flowed, and in it God walked. Subsequently, after man was kicked out of the garden and God chose David to lead his people Jerusalem, Jerusalem became a type of the holy city. For it was also a city set on a hill, like the garden, and housed the temple of God, which symbolized God, localized God's presence among his people. The holy city that John sees here is called the New Jerusalem. There is a remarkable difference, however, from this city and the ones before it. This city, the heavenly city, is actually a bride. We remember the people of God being referred to as a bride in chapter 19. As the people of God, we take on a submissive role to the Savior and are therefore typed as a bride. The people of God are not only identified as a bride, but a beautiful adorned bride Our adornment is fitting for the day that is being described and the place of heaven in which we live. Thus the people of God are identified as both a beautifully adorned bride and a holy city. The New Jerusalem. Thus, there is a mixture of metaphors used here to help us grasp the profundity of our heavenly state. It has been an emphasis of mine throughout our study of Revelation to proclaim the identity of the Christian Church here and in all of Scripture as the true Israel. I have been saying that the true Israel, the true chosen people of God, are made up of those who are descendants of Abraham by faith. Those that make up the church, the called-out ones, the peculiar people, the chosen ones, are not those who are merely of the bloodline of Abraham, but those who are of the faith line of Abraham. In this vision, the New Jerusalem is a holy city made up of people of faith, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation. Nationality is irrelevant. Faith in Christ is all that matters. To deepen our understanding as to what it means for the people of God to be referred to as the New Jerusalem, a voice from the throne, the same white throne on which the judge of all sits says with a loud voice, Now the dwelling of God is with men. He will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. As mentioned before, the first holy city was the Garden of Eden, where God walked amongst his creation. Then it became Jerusalem, where God dwelt inside the temple, within the Holy of Holies, above the Ark of Covenant. He dwelt there as a means of grace for his people in order to have his presence among them, although limited. It was limited because man could not be in the presence of Almighty God without a blood sacrifice for the atonement of sins. Only the high priest could go before God, and that was limited to once a year. To understand the people of God as a city, the holy city, we are to understand that God dwells among and within us. For this New Jerusalem, there are no more limitations. Just as in the Garden of Eden, the Lord God Almighty walks, physically, dwells among his people. Now, as depicted here in Revelation 21, the dwelling of God is with men. The redemption of mankind and the description of heaven bring the story of God and his people back to the place where he intended. In heaven, we live in a place together with God where we can dwell in peace before Him. We can dwell in peace because our sins are no more. And God dwells with us because He has made us His sons. A favorite description of many regarding what heaven will be like is in verse four. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain. What this will be like, we can only imagine, and imagine we are allowed to do. To appreciate what it would be like to live without a reason to mourn, we must do some inventory. Think for a moment about all the times you mourn and cry. I am not referring to tears of happiness. Those are much different. I'm referring to times when tears flow and our soul aches. Those times are usually, if not, caused by death. And I don't mean that death actually has to occur in order for us to mourn in such a manner. We cry because someone we love almost died. And we emotionally imagine what it would be like to be, to lose, to be without or lose him or her. We also cry because a loved one has been diagnosed with a disease that may take his or her life We also cry because someone we love died some time ago, and something we associate with reminds us of him or her and how empty we are without them. Recently I reflected on my love for my wife and I am moved emotionally because I am aware that one day one of us will likely have to say goodbye to the other Recently, she told me she thinks that I am going to go first, but that is a discussion for another time. And speaking of saying goodbye, why do we become so emotional when we say goodbye to someone who is moving away or simply going on a long trip? It is likely that we become emotional because we consider that we may never see that person again in this life. Such emotions of mourning are conjured up because of the possibility of death, even though it may be many decades in the future. We cry because we are vulnerable to death in this life. In heaven, however, in heaven it will not be so. With death gone, having been thrown into the lake of fire as the last enemy There will be no more reason to cry in mourning. Truly we can say with defiance, as the Apostle Paul says, Mocking, O death, where is thy sting? We can mock death because surely the sting will be no more. We will no longer know absence within the heart. We will no longer fear loneliness. We will not cower because of cancer test results. We will not fear that a loved one has been in an accident. We will not even remember the aches and pains of old age. We will no longer desperately hang on to each moment as if someone is trying to steal it from us. Time will be no more. Eternity is all that we will know. Verse 8 is for the purpose of contrast. While those who are citizens of the New Jerusalem will be having their sorrow turned to joy and their mourning to laughter. There is the reality that those who would not receive Christ as Savior will suffer eternal punishment and the second death. These are summarized in adjectives such as cowards, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and liars. Sinners will be identified with their sin for all eternity. And this will be so because the sinner chooses it to be so. Thankfully, this passage does not call us to focus on the suffering of hell. What I wish for us to underline and to highlight is the second phrase in verse 3. They shall be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. And I would also add verse 7, I will be his God, and he shall be my son. It was God's initial desire at the creation of man for Adam to be his son. This desire is described throughout Scripture in a similar way to what is stated here. One similarity is ownership When God made his covenant with Abraham, he planned to make Abraham's descendants his own people. In the Exodus, we find the use of a singular pronoun, my. My is used over and over again when the Lord refers to Israel as my people. Let my people go so that they may worship me, he said. When the Lord was angry with Israel, Moses reminded the Lord of it that Israel was owned by the Lord. Thy anger, Moses said, is hot against thy people. Consider this nation is thy people, said Moses to the Lord. Through the Psalms and the prophets, the Lord takes his ownership seriously, and he continually refers to Israel as his people, even when they do not act like his people. In the deepest sense, the relationship was one-sided with Israel. From the time of the Exodus on, the Lord has waited for a time when his people would be his own and he would be their God. He wanted to be their God in every way. He wanted his creation to enjoy what he had created and created them to be, and that consisted of having an intimate relationship with him. In Leviticus the Lord spoke to such a time. He said to Israel, I will put my dwelling place among you, and I will not abhor you. I will walk among you and be your God, and you will be my people. Although Israel continued to sin either by following other gods or not trusting in the one true God as their deliverer. God continued to entrust himself to them. He continued to call them his people and look forward to the day when he would be their God. As the psalmist said, Happy is that people whose God is the Lord. Through Jeremiah and Ezra The Lord used the same phrase, the same phrase to describe the future he did in Leviticus. I shall be their God, and they shall be my people. The preacher in the Hebrew epistle used the same phrase to describe what occurs with all those who follow Christ. He becomes our God, and we his people. And now, here in the Revelation, when the heavenly rest is realized, it is stated by God Himself that He is our God. And what can be better? Where the story began, we're talking about stories. Where the story began, God was walking amongst his people. And here, in the end, God is walking amongst his people. And yet the end is the beginning of eternity There is nothing, truly nothing, in this life, that is as profoundly meaningful than an intimate relationship. To know and to be known by another human being stirs up godly desires of service and sacrifice, of passion and freedom. Such a relationship awaits all who call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be saved. This is how it should be. It is how it was written to be. It is the story of our God. Until that time, until that time when he walks among us, we tell the story of God's love and his plan of salvation. Until that time, until that time we say Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father We thank you for this great story, and we thank you for the privilege of being a part of it. And as we thank you for it, We know the commission is that we tell it, and tell it again and again to our children and our children's children and all who would have ears to hear. May all of us be a part of that story to the very end. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen