In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. You may be seated I realize that I started a series two weeks ago with an introduction to typology. With my plan to examine the law offerings from the microscope of typology But I have to postpone that series for just this Sunday. In just over two weeks, we will be participating in an election process That will determine who will be the next President of the United States and who will control Congress. If you fear, at hearing my voice, that this is going to be a partisan sermon, I hope to calm your fears by telling you it is not. I vehemently disagree with any pastor that sides with one party candidate From the pulpit. Unless the Apostle Paul is running against Joseph Stalin There is no reason for Christian ministers to preach about anything other than Almighty God I am called to be a pastor, which means I am called to bring the Word of God to bear into the lives of God's people. What that means is that I am to help you understand and apply God's word to your everyday life. And that includes a democratic election. In case you haven't noticed My approach to this pandemic era has been to keep the church doors open as much as possible So that the Christian Church in general is seen and understood to be essential when it comes to political, social, and cultural crises. Obviously by my actions, I do not agree with those church leaders who have either closed their doors and pointed their people elsewhere Or who have gone online solely. What I see by such choices is a surrendering to a crisis Making the church only relevant when skies are blue and the public is safe. I also see An agnostic and therefore heretical approach. I'm sure I also say a Gnostic, better said Gnostic and therefore heretical approach to ecclesiology that concludes that the physical presence of the church in a time of crisis is unnecessary And even more troubling can be viewed by society as a danger to society. My approach to this time of pandemic has been to say that not only is the church relevant in such a time, but the church itself must make itself relevant. We must act in order to be relevant. After all, beloved, in a time of pandemic When people feel the fear of death, we are to stand taller and to speak louder, because death is what the Christian faith is all about. Death is our nomenclature. We speak death. We speak death in terms of being dead in our sins and trespasses. We speak eternal death in terms of what we deserve. We speak of overcoming death in terms of the resurrection of our Savior and our own personal hope for resurrection. We speak of death in terms of dying to ourselves, which is to die to our personal desires, our personal preferences, our very self Even dying to our fears. We do this because Jesus said, for whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. Christians and Christians alone have been promised the ability at our resurrection to to look death straight in the eye and say, O death, where is now thy sting? For it will be gone, thrown into the lake of fire, and condemned for all eternity. For we are not only about death, we are about overcoming death. And that includes overcoming the fear of it. And just as the church is to be relevant to society in a time of pandemic So too must we be relevant in times of general and local elections. It is being said by the talking heads in our media that this is the most important election in our lifetime. Well, so was 2016, so was 2012, so was 2008, so was 2004, and so was 2000 and and Let us get some perspective. Consider that in the eighteen thirties in America Winning elections was so important that campaigning politicians offered voters generous amounts of liquor during the campaign, and as a reward For right voting on election day. You can go vote the right way and get your bottle. On the frontier, one evangelist noted that a house could not be raised, a field of wheat cut down, nor could there be a log rolling, a husking, a quilting, a wedding, or a funeral without the aid of alcohol. In eighteen sixty, the country was so divided there were four possible candidates on the ballot for president. As the issue of the sin of slavery weighed the country down, Abraham Lincoln received only 39% of the popular vote. 39%. The other three taking up the remaining 61%. But Lincoln dominated the Electoral College. That election seems to have been important. If you think our country is divided now, consider the election of 1868, where the incumbent president Andrew Johnson, who had succeeded to the presidency after Lincoln was assassinated In 1868, Johnson tried to run as a Democrat, even though he was a incumbent Republican president. He did so because he was a Southerner and he disagreed with the Reconstruction decisions of the Republican Congress. The Democrats criticize the Republican Reconstruction policies and campaign on the platform of anti-black and pro-white. Grant won that election by a mere five percent of the popular vote, but he dominated the Electoral College. And if you think the morality in those days was better compared to today, this is a fact. The smallest towns in America and the American frontier boasted 30 saloons to one church in a city. 30 to one. And where there were saloons, there was prostitution. And where there was prostitution, there were abortions to keep brothels more profitable. The biggest difference of the sins of the United States in the eighteen hundreds compared to today is the number of them. Not the difference in terms of the type, but the number of them and the fact that we are no longer ashamed of them. My point is that the election of eighteen sixty-eight was just as important as the election of 2020. Again, all of this has been pointed out to provide perspective. I have heard Christians pontificate about how voting for a particular candidate who is immoral because of his immorality Excuse me, I'll say that differently. I have heard Christians pontificate about how voting for a particular candidate is immoral because of the immorality of the candidate I have heard other Christians pontificate about how not voting for a particular candidate is voting in favor of abortion. A response to this seemingly insurmountable impasse, I heard recently in a sermon by the Reverend Tony Evans, a sermon preached prior to the election of 2016. There he used the analogy that described the Republican Party as a type of one football team. And the Democratic Party as an opposing football team, and the Christian Church in the position of being the referee The analogy works when we understand that referees are going to make decisions that neither side of the aisle agrees with. Both teams are going to think the referees are against them. That is true for the Christian As both political parties can see the Christian church as not buying in to all that they stand for. The analogy also works because just as referees refer to a rule book that is their standard for making their decisions, So too do Christians have a rule book, the Holy Scriptures, that we look to as an objective standard for the decisions we make. The analogy provides a needed perspective, where the analogy breaks down. is all too obvious. The only way referees in a football game can enforce their rulebook is if both teams agree to give the referees authority. Our culture and our major political parties have not given Christians any authority to decide political or moral issues. It is quite the opposite. In fact, as Christians today, we are looked down upon as being foolish fanatics for believing the Bible for what it plainly teaches. For believing in miracles and for even concluding that Jesus was a real person. So, yes, the analogy doesn't go very far. But where it helps is to show Christians that when it comes to political warfare, we are to play a different role than to be strictly partisan. I confess that I know what it means to be partisan. I was a partisan in my past. I was a Reaganite in the 1980s. I was a card-carrying member of the Republican Party. Once I was ordained to the ministry, I chose not to affiliate with any particular political party because I was convicted that I was called to help usher in the kingdom of God. Rather than usher in a political party for the United States government, I gained new perspective. But that doesn't mean it is wrong for a Christian to be a part of a political party. I'm simply sharing my journey so that you can understand and hopefully relate in a meaningful way. What I realized this year was how wrong I have been to put my trust in political leaders to turn the United States around and away from the pagan direction it is going. Or not where it's going, where it has arrived There is this argument that says that if you vote for a certain candidate and that candidate wins and then he or she will then choose judges who will then make proper moral decisions, and those decisions will save our culture from the impossible immoral slide it is on And yet what happens is that the judges are chosen by the candidates you voted for, and those judges don't make the moral decisions that you think are best for the country. And that leads to voters throwing up their hands in disgust and asking, What's the point? Perhaps Christians should get out of politics altogether. And let the culture go the way the devil wants it to go. Perhaps we can say to our neighbors that if they want to kill their unborn, go ahead. If they want to sodomize one another, have at it. If they want to burn their cities down, we will move aside. If you want to continue in debt so that foreign nations own your very land, just keep on living how you're living. After all, God says that he gives people over to their desires that they insist upon until those desires destroy them. Wouldn't we be doing the same if we just got out of politics altogether? The argument against such a position Is that if the church pulls out of politics, that the church will soon be outlawed, as has happened in socialist states, and the church will have to go underground. But what's wrong with that? The church has flourished in the past when it has gone underground. I realize that such is a radical perspective. But the rebuttal to the church pulling out of politics and having a social moral voice is more than just the threat of being outlawed. It is the call to love our fellow man. Even if our fellow man doesn't love us back, or even if he doesn't want to be loved at all We speak against abortion, against sexual immorality, against leaving debt to our children, because such are dangers to the soul of humanity The more sin we accept, the farther away we remove ourselves from God's image, the very image that is in each and every human being. And so we stay in the culture, attempting to have a relevant voice, because that is what it means to love our neighbor as ourselves. That is a biblical perspective. So what is going to happen if your candidate doesn't win the next election? Or what if he does? Or what if the powers within Congress change? Or what if they do not? Consider the passage read from 2 Chronicles, and I invite you to turn back to there, 2 Chronicles 15. That was our first scripture reading. In that passage, Azariah, who was a lesser-known prophet in the early years of the kingdom of Judah, He came and bravely spoke a word to king to a king Asa who was brimming with success after a great victory over the Ethiopians. In the 9th century B. C. , King Assa of the Kingdom of Judah had enjoyed a significant victory over a mighty army. It would be easy to think that he had a permanent claim to God's favor and to God's blessings in the future. Speaking through the prophet Azariah, God wanted Asa to know the importance of abiding in the Lord. He spoke of a faith principle that is taught throughout Scripture, which is this: if you seek God, you will find him, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you. That principle is true for nations, for organizations, and for individuals In his excitement over a victory, Asa needed a new perspective. He needed God's perspective. Azariah goes on to describe the troubles of Israel that they had in the past and how those troubles were caused by the people not seeking God. When they did not seek God, the influence and presence of priests and teachers of God's law lessened and lessened until there were none. Where there are no teachers of the law, nations are destroyed. Men rise up against each other. Azariah next explains that when there is such conflict and destruction, we are to know that it is caused by the Lord. Look at verse 6 again. He said, So nation was destroyed by nation and city by city. Sound familiar? For God troubled them with every adversity. Let me emphasize the phrase: God troubled them. The idea of God causing trouble between individuals and between nations and within cities May be hard to hear, but but if you were with me at the beginning of this pandemic when we studied In in Bible study, the prophet Joel, the Book of Ecclesiastes, and finished with Job, you are aware that God wants you to know and to be confident That whether it is good or evil, God is in control of it. Now don't hear that I said that God is responsible for evil. Evil is the corruption of good, and God is good. What I said was that God is in control of evil. It does not get away from him He allows it when humanity insists upon it, that that evil has its borders. It can only go so far until God denies it. This is an important perspective that Christians need to have. And we need a different perspective than the world. That is the point of this sermon. We need a different perspective when pundits predict that a coup is going to take place if their candidate doesn't win. Anarchists promise more riots if their candidate doesn't win. And in the midst of this political jousting and chicken little screaming, We can read news headlines like Tier 2 lockdown, what you can and can't do in high-risk areas. Next, scientists raise vitamin D alarm over COVID. Next, this state has the worst COVID outbreak in the U. S. Next, 41 states have uncontrolled spread of COVID-19 or are trending poorly, data shows. Next, here's the eight states that have the worst coronavirus case spikes. And hear this one. CDC report indicates masks may increase chance of infection with COVID or other respiratory illnesses. All of those are real news headlines this past week. Are you scared yet? Take the principle taught in 2 Chronicles 15, in the prophecy of Joel, in the book of Ecclesiastes, in the book of Job, and apply it to today. God is not watching rioting in the streets or plan coups as a spectator, surprised at what is happening, but is instead troubling the people. Troubling the people. Remember, God troubled them. While it appears to be chaos to us Such chaos has borders and limits that are according to God's will and his plan of salvation. When St. Paul said that all things work together for the good, for those who love God and are called according to his purpose. That statement has to include all political raging, all political drama. It has to include worldwide events as well as individual trials. As I stated several sermons ago, the goal of the gospel is that God would be our God and that we would be his people. And what Jesus did for us, and what the Holy Spirit continues to do for us is according to that end goal. God is troubling the people for the sake of the salvation of his people. Believe that and have perspective. The Christian Church is essential because we provide a necessary perspective for believers and unbelievers. Where there is chaos, God can provide peace. And where there is fear of death, God can promise life after death. And the only means of peace and life is the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Our God, we take this challenge from 2 Chronicles 15 to accept that you bring the trouble. And to accept that, knowing that your plan is to redeem your people. We accept that, we are humbled by it, and we will not be deterred, no matter which direction an election goes. To the fact that you are indeed under control and your will will be done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.