In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. If you would open your Bibles to Genesis chapter 20 or 37, Genesis 37, we'll be walking through that chapter this morning. What makes the Bible such a compelling book? What makes it interesting literature even To those who do not believe that it is divinely inspired. What makes it all these things is the transparent humanity that it offers. Few, if any, of us, when we write our family history, include stories of jealousy, lust, rage, attempted murder. We prefer to forget such things, but Jacob's family tells the story in details because the Holy Spirit wants us to see ourselves in these stories. Their sins are our sins. The preferential treatment of Joseph and the jealousy of his brothers is one of those stories. In Genesis 37, we will see two types that I hope will increase our faith. The first will be ourselves We will see our sinfulness through the words and actions of these ten brothers who become jealous of the one. And seeing our sinfulness is not fun. It is like looking in the mirror when you know you have a blemish. It is hard to look at at first, but then when you do you become a little fascinated by it, like a big old zit on your nose And that is because what will happen to us is that we will have a hard time looking at the reality of our sin, but then become fascinated by it that it is our image, that it looks so much like us The second vision will be of Christ. Joseph is like Christ. He is like Christ in many ways. What we will focus on in this sermon is how he is like Christ in the manner that he was despised by his brothers. With this story, I also want to jump ahead in the story of Genesis to that moment when Joseph reveals himself to his brothers. And then Joseph sums up their family tragedy by stating that what they meant for evil, God meant for good. And we must apply that truth to every aspect of this story. And so we begin by examining Genesis 37 with the scene set for us in the first few verses. Jacob and his family have been dwelling in Cana just as God instructed him. Joseph was about 17 years of age. He was the son of Rachel, who had recently died. Joseph had assigned, was assigned, excuse me, to serve as a shepherd alongside his brothers, who were the sons of Jacob's other wives. And it is clear from verse 3 that Jacob had greater affection for his son Joseph, who was the firstborn of his beloved Rachel. He preferred Joseph more than he did the rest of his children. That is not good. We could say it's even evil. To show greater affection, he made this coat or tunic, as the New King James uses, this tunic of many colors. Such a tunic was special primarily for two reasons. First, it was expensive, for it took a great deal of time to make such a tunic. Second, a colorful coat signified superior rank, meaning that Joseph was being given greater responsibility over the sheep than his brothers who were older than him. And it is here that we can again apply what man meant for evil, God meant for good. Thus far, the description of Joseph can be likened to Christ in that he was favored by his father. We know that Christ was favored by his heavenly father. Jesus was said to be having found favor with both God and man. He was the firstborn of God. He was the Son whom God said he was well pleased. Joseph can also be likened to Christ because of his coat of many colors. You remember from eighth-grade biology that light is made up of a bunch of different colors and you see it through a prism? Well, Joseph's coat is like a prism. He is showing that Christ to come will be a light as well. Now these types are interesting, but they will become quite dramatic. The reaction of Joseph's brothers to his favorite status reveals the frailty of the human psyche That all of us can relate to. All of us are tempted to be jealous. And most of us have moved past jealousy from time to time Into sin, especially when it involves jealousy of siblings. Joseph's brothers hated him, and they committed murder in their heart because he was favored. What they do to him later began the moment they hated him inside. There is no doubt that Joseph knew his brothers hated him by the evidence that they would not speak a word of kindness to him. They would speak kindly to one another, but not to him, because he was favored by his father, and he was a tattletale. But Joseph either didn't care that he was not liked by his brothers, or he enjoyed seeing them be jealous. He even told them about his dreams. Dreams that had obvious interpretations The brothers knew that they were the sheaves, bowing down to the sheave of Joseph in the dream, and that Joseph would rule over them. And again, naturally, they hated him. We can say of Joseph at this time, what Joseph meant for evil, God meant for good. Evidently the telling of the first dream was not enough, for Joseph told them of another dream, and that same dream had heavenly bodies bowing down to him again, and this time it included his father. When he told his father of this dream, his father rebukes him, but then the scripture says that he held it with in his mind, in the back of his mind, remembering that it would come to reference in the future. Now the story is less emotionally charged in verses 12 through 17. They describe Joseph being sent by his father to travel a few days and to check on his brothers. The emotion picks back up in verse 18, where the brothers are said to have seen Joseph from afar, and they began plotting to kill him. And we remember, we remember what men mean for evil, God means for good The original plan agreed upon was to kill him by their hands, bury him in a pit, and claim to their father that a wild animal had killed him. The whole while they were planning their killing, they were stirring up their jealousy, reminding themselves of Joseph's dreams. Evidence that this is all under God's control. Is that for unstated reasons, Ruben interrupts the plan. He interrupts the plan and insists there will be no bloodshed. Reuben, you remember, was the firstborn of all the sons. He was leader of the brothers, and so it was natural that they heed his counsel. Although they do not kill Joseph, they did everything just short of murder. They stripped him of the coat that they were jealous for. Then they threw him into an empty pit, planning for it to be his grave. And then we are told that they sit down and have a meal. Truly, their hearts were callous, as evident by their ability to mistreat their own flesh and blood, and then enjoy a meal. Their jealousy and hatred continued after they spotted slave traders from among the Ishmaelites. If they are not going to get full satisfaction for their hatred, they reason that they might as well make some money off of their brother, so they sell him into slavery. And we are reminded once again what men mean for evil, God means for good. Once Joseph was sold and the money shared, the brothers decide to stick to the original story And they plan to tell their father that he's dead. Wild animal killed him. Here's his coat with blood on it. All of it to look quite innocent on their part. What men mean for evil, God means for good. As I argued in the beginning of this story of transparent humanity, we look at Jacob's response. And as you read it, you get the idea of how much he was grieved at this loss. We can imagine him mourning the loss of his son in the way it is described. But the greater lesson for us is not found in the manner that Jacob cries. No, the greater lesson for us today is the jealousy in these brothers. Joseph was favored, as was evident by his coat and by his dreams. But he was not just favored by his father, he was favored by God. His two dreams were not doubted by his brothers. They just hated the fact that he was favored. By rejecting Joseph, the brothers failed to see that they were rejecting God's rule, his sovereign plan for all of their lives. But rejected as they may, they could not accept it. God's will would be done. His purpose would be carried out. And here is a fact of life that we all struggle with in one way or another. We struggle with it just as brothers struggle with it. God does not treat all of us the same. He does not give us all the same things. He does not favor us with the same blessings. Some Christians are smarter than others. Some are better looking. Some are more athletic, more financially successful. Some are married to lovelier wives or more impressive husbands. Some have better jobs than others. Some have higher achieving children. Some have children with greater faith. Some live healthier and longer lives. Some people seem to step from one triumph to another, with others seeming to walk into one trouble or another. Some have seemingly natural virtue. Some have greater self-discipline. Some have a naturally kind disposition. Some have a greater work effort. Some are more at ease in front of people. Some have the ability to teach, and a smaller few have the ability to teach well. Samuel Elliott Morrison, an American historian and essayist, once wrote that life is like a card game. God deals the deck. He gives some a very good hand. He gives to others a very bad hand. But everyone is required to play by the same rules. It is a hard truth, but truth it is. And we see it not only in the case of Joseph and his brothers, but in our own lives, and then the lives of everyone we know. A man can squander a good hand, and a man can play a poor hand in life very well. But if a great hand is played, well, played well, it is unbeatable And because we know the end of this story, Joseph was dealt eventually a great hand, and he played it well. The trouble for us is that it is hard to accept when we know that another is holding a better hand than our own. The Tenth Commandment makes the top ten because it is the root of evil that all of us struggle to resist. Struggle against coveting. I know a man who at one time would do anything to serve the Lord in his church. He had a will and a desire to make a difference in the kingdom of God. He served on parish committees, he volunteered to teach Sunday school, and even made his way to the pulpit a few times when there was seemingly no one else available. As the church leadership changed, however, his services became less and less requested. His ideas were no longer heeded. The direction of Sunday school had changed and he was replaced with better teachers. He was also no longer an option for pulpit supply And as he saw others take positions of leadership that he once had, as well as others he coveted, the jealousy overwhelmed him. And he did what most do in that situation. He left his home church. To my knowledge, there was no malice intent on anyone's part to discard this man. Simply put, there were people who were more gifted at doing the jobs he once did. But that is hard for some to take For some, they cannot take it at all. For some, it is nearly impossible to admit that it was God who chose others, who gave greater gifts to others. But this topic of jealousy and God giving more to some people as compared to others is greater than one person, one person having more talent than another. Some people are given more breaks in life than others. Some people are awarded what appears to be blessings when we know that they are scoundrels. To these types of scenarios, we also must be able to say what men mean for evil, God means for good. Consider our political arenas today, and notice the many jealous, envious, those who hate, those who have hearts that idolize power When they rant, rave, protest, lie, slander, and get headlines, we can identify their jealous rage and be concerned about them ever being in charge. But Christians are not to fear the politically progressive. Christians are to have faith that what men mean for evil, God will always mean for good. And that truth, that truth will always be the case. Joseph was despised by his brothers, and Jesus was despised by his Jewish brothers. The Gospel of John tells us that Jesus came unto his own, and his own were his fellow Jews. He came to his own people, he came to his brothers of faith and flesh, and his own brothers did not receive him. He was rejected and despised, said the prophet Isaiah. And why? Why was he rejected and despised? In part, a big part, was jealousy. The Pharisees and the Sadducees were jealous of the crowds that followed him. They heard of the miracles and they saw the evidence, and instead of rejoicing that the Savior had come, they tried to dissuade the crowd from listening to him. When Jesus' words put the religious leaders in their place, they privately seized and plotted to kill him. And like Joseph, Jesus was sold. Like Joseph, Jesus' robe was torn off of him. And like Joseph, what man meant for evil regarding Jesus' death God always meant for good. But we cannot yet get to that good news this morning until again we focus on jealousy. I would like you to go back and just glance through the passages in chapter 37 and notice how many times the word brothers is used, especially at the beginning. There is a purpose for its repeated usage. We the readers are to understand that the crimes committed against Joseph weren't done by brothers. And who is supposed to be there for him? Who is supposed to protect him? Who is supposed to support him but his brothers? And they do the opposite. The reason the scripture uses familial descriptive terms like brother is to describe the Christian relationship in reflecting what we are to be to one another. Brotherhood is the ideal. Thus the sin of Jacob's sons is all the greater, not simply because they were jealous, but they were jealous of a brother. Again what they meant for evil, God meant for good I need, as I trust some of you need, to believe that what men mean for evil, God means for good. And you might wonder how this can be true all of the time. What men can do can be very mean and nasty And because of this, it is hard for us to think that God would allow such meanness and nastiness to occur all so that he could turn it around to the good. Why doesn't God just stop the meanness and nastiness of people? And this is similar to the question to what theologians call the problem of evil. It is argued by some that God should have made all of us incapable of sin to prevent evil from ever invading his created world. But we are not privy to the whole mind of God. We are mere creatures who have no right to question the will of Almighty God. What we are to do instead is to believe, which is to have faith, which is to trust that when men have meant, do mean, and will mean evil That God has meant, does mean, and will mean the good. We don't know how it works with the wills and choices of people who aren't intent to hurt us But that is not to matter. We are to believe that God will make good of what is meant for evil. Not only are we to believe this in general, we are to apply it to our everyday life situations. I need to apply it to my everyday life situation. I need to believe that when people who are supposed to honor choose to do the opposite and to only think about their desires, That when they are doing such, God has planned to turn such sin around for his good. I am to realize that I don't deserve for him to do that. None of us do. We don't deserve it. But that's why it's called grace. I just stated that God seems to allow for meanness to occur so that it can be turned to the good. It seems that way. But he never tells us that. He allows it so that he can turn it around. He never says that He just knows that it does happen that men do things that are mean and mean it for evil. God knows that. And he wants us to know he turns that around. What we are to trust is that within the mystery of God is the love of God overcoming the sins of others, so that in the end, in the end, There is good. The good end may not be immediate, and it may not even happen in this life. But it will come. It will come. That is what we hope for. That is the convictions we have that are unseen. Let us pray. Our gracious God For this great lesson in the lives of these patriarchs, we are grateful. For we get to hear those words. We get to know that in every situation, no matter what men mean to do, You can turn it around, and it can be good. And so we say those words of Joseph, and we believe them. And we thank you for that faith. In Jesus' name. Amen.