In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated, and I encourage you to turn in your Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter 7. We pick up at verse 13. Ecclesiastes 7, picking up at verse 13. Now imagine Imagine, if you will, someone giving this task to a preacher. Here is your task, preacher, and you don't have a choice but to accept it. It is your task, and it must be done. For you are not who you say you are, nor are you doing what you have been commissioned to do. So here is the task Explain in careful detail the beauty, denseness, and vastness of the Amazon rainforest. Including how mysterious and complicated and dangerous it is, so that God's people can clearly imagine it. And to help you along, here is a small plant plucked from the same forest to give people a visual idea of what you are describing. And next, explain the distinct distinct words, the distinct words of the great height of the Rocky Mountains, including an exact description of the pure white snow caps, the feel of the crisp winds that blow, the awe that is inspired when looking up from their bases. and the amazing view when standing at their peaks and looking down and across. And to help you out, here is a picture of the Rocky Mountains. taken from Interstate 70 in Colorado just last year. And finally, provide for God's people A sense of the great depths, vastness, and power, anger-expressing and peace-providing calm of the earth's oceans. And to help you out, here is a cup of ocean water retrieved only a few days ago from the Atlantic to serve as a tangential aid. Go to it, man. Don't stand there and be idle. These tasks, as assigned, are not mere impossible, they are impossible. They are impossible because Picturing the Amazon rainforest from a description can only be fuzzy in our imagination, and that is even after a person has visited there. The grandness of the Rocky Mountains can never be exactly described, nor can a sense of the depths of the earth oceans be realized, even if we were to dive into one. And most certainly, the visual aids would fail to capture anything close to these places, and in fact, the aids may lessen their true reality. as they communicate limitations more than the greatness they are supposed to help describe If these places are difficult to describe, consider how strenuous it is for a preacher, any preacher, to describe God. While a man can place a measurement on the height of mountains and the depth of an ocean, what man can measure God? While a man can come up with the resemblance of snow-capped white mountains or lush green trees with an above-average vocabulary, what man can describe God? who has no physical or spatial boundaries. And then there are attempts to describe God not in terms of physical attributes, but in terms of his actions. The preacher of Ecclesiastes may have tried to do this. I speculate, because what we read at the end of chapter seven. is a recognition that what he sees has been done by God is not what he would have expected And because it not is not what he expected, he doesn't know what to do with what he sees. He doesn't know what conclusions to draw. Have you ever seen something occur? Only it never actually occurred, but you thought you saw it because you expected to see it. Have you ever heard something only you really didn't hear it, but thought you did because you expected to hear it When we expect to see something and then think we saw it, or expect to hear something and then think we heard it, we have to do a double take or a double listen. To erase our pre-programmed minds in order to register what truly we have seen, what truly we have heard. We also do something similar when we don't want to believe what we have seen or what we have heard. We want to think better of someone, and so we disbelieve what we have seen them do. Spouses can do it with each other, and parents can do the same regarding their children. For many, it is easiest to stick their heads in the sand, as the saying goes, and refuse to accept reality. Poet T. S. Eliot got it right when he wrote, humankind cannot bear very much reality. At the end of Ecclesiastes 7, we have a description of what the preacher actually sees, and it is not initially as beautiful as the Rocky Mountains. But it is most certainly deeper than any ocean. First, he challenges man by pointing out that no one can make straight what God has made crooked. And in saying this, he is also pointing out the reality that God makes things crooked. It is worth repeating. God makes things crooked. God is good, we say, all of the time, is the response. If that is true, which it is, then we have to put a syllogism together which concludes that when God makes things crooked, it is good. That may sound logical in theory, but it is most difficult to reconcile in the mind of a human who is under the sun. Because we don't like or want to accept that God would make things perfect The easiest, most simple way to look at the world is to conclude that all good things come from God and all the bad things come from the devil. But the preacher doesn't see it that way. God, he says, makes things crooked. Now I am well aware that I am stepping on some images of God that we have, and I admit that I am not comfortable with all of it. I too can get comfortable with what I understand about God. And I don't like that the preacher is stretching my understanding to an extent that I have never done before. But the text says what it says. God makes things crooked. In verse 14, the preacher adds to this acceptance of God making things crooked. We are to be joyful when we are prosperous. That's good to hear. God wants us and expects us to enjoy the pleasures of life when they come to us. There is nothing wrong with such enjoyments. And in fact, if we do not enjoy, we are offending God, for it is God who has given them to us to enjoy. But then there is the other end of the truth. When adversity occurs, we are also to understand that those times as well come from God. The end of that verse, although a bit awkward to translate in English, states that a mankind that in mankind's position he will never be able to be assured of the future. What will happen in the future is only in God's mind and God's will, and he does not share it with man. Commentator Jeffrey Myers says the following: quote: God answers to no one but himself. He shares his power with no one. He has not relinquished his control to the forces of nature or the randomness of chance of the whimsical nature of the human will. In verse 15, the preacher shares some observations that prove his point: that God's nature in ways extend beyond our understanding. He says that he has seen, making him an eyewitness, he has seen a just man die living righteously before God, which is doing as God has commanded. While at the same time, he has seen a wicked man live longer, longer than most, and never turning from his wickedness. And it is implied in noticing this that our understanding of God would have him turn around such circumstances. The way we understand God, the righteous man should live long, and the wicked man should die because of his wickedness. And now we must understand verse 16 and 17 in light of verse 15. The righteousness of verse 15 is an outward righteousness. He is describing someone who believes that because of the manner he is living, God is automatically going to give him long life. And he expects that because he is living better than an outwardly wicked man, that God is going to end that wicked man's life sooner. Naturally, of course. That's the way it's going to be. That's how we understand God. What the preacher points out is that he has witnessed God doing the opposite. And so as we attempt to understand the instruction to not be overly righteous or overly wicked in verses 16 and 17. We are to know that it is a type of righteousness that is outward and believes itself to be earning God's rewards. And a wickedness that is living as though there will be no consequences to wicked living. Outward righteousness alone will not be rewarded, and outward wickedness will not go unpunished. The underlying wisdom of these points is at the end of verse 18, he who fears God will escape them all. Our responsibility as Christians is not to earn long life by outward living, nor is it to live wickedly and expect nothing in return. Our responsibility is to fear God. The undertow of wisdom in the remaining verses of this chapter is an encouragement to accept the fact that there are so very many things that we cannot make judgments about because of what we do not know. As human beings fallen, we all have weaknesses. There is not a just man, a man who does good and yet does not sin. Such a man does not exist Therefore, when we go to pass judgment on an economic inferior, we are to recognize that the sin we judge is the one we are guilty of ourselves. Again, what we think we know and understand, we come to find out later, is sorely lacking We can say along with the preacher, as for that which is far off and exceedingly deep, who can find it out? This is true about God and what we see happen in the world around us. The remaining verses of the chapter, verses 25 to 29, are comparing the woman of wisdom to the woman of folly. This is not a section on courtship, not a section on dating. It is using the feminine title for both wisdom and folly. To show how each is something that men try to win over, just as a man tries to win over a woman Only there is a great consequence of bitterness and death if folly is pursued instead of wisdom. Ending at verse 29, and then into chapter 8, we see that there are some conclusions to come to, but no mysteries of God are solved. God has made man to stand upright. Man is in God's image. But man also goes about scheming his way through life, even scheming against God. What we can know at the very least is that man benefits from wisdom. What that wisdom is and what it looks like. In all circumstances, like we said last week, is to be discovered, pursued. The best thing we can learn from wisdom of this chapter Is that there is much more to know about God than we can possibly experience in this life, and much of it can be hard to accept. I had a professor in seminary tell a story of his family devotions growing up. His father, he said, would read through the Bible, never skipping a chapter or passage, regardless of its content. He remembers what his father read from Genesis chapter 38, which he remember tells the story of Judah not keeping his promise to his daughter-in-law Tamar that she should marry his next son because her first husband had died. In response to this failed promise, Tamar dresses up like a harlot and deceives Judah into sleeping with her She later reveals herself as his daughter-in-law, and it is learned that she is pregnant by him with twins. I am summarizing to remind you how scandalous the whole story is. Well, as the father of my professor started reading this story, the mother told him to stop. The father asked why, and she responded by saying that the children didn't need to hear of such behavior. The father retorted, but it's in the Bible. She responded, Well, I wish it wasn't. Many would agree. We might wonder why such salacious details are necessary to be recorded. And some of you might agree with the mother that it is not necessary to read such behavior to children. But the story and its details make sense much later when we read the genealogy in St. Matthew's Gospel St. Matthew gives a family tree of Jesus, starting with Abraham, who had Isaac, who had Jacob, who had Judah, who had Perez, by his daughter-in-law Tamar. Yes, God chose the product of an incestuous relationship to be the bloodline of our Lord and Savior and His only Son Jesus, the second person of the Trinity. God makes things crooked. And we want to make things straight. But God makes them crooked. We want to sugarcoat what God has done. On something goes down easier. Many of us Many of us want a cartoon version of God and His way and the world because cartoon versions are much easier to witness and accept. And the children can witness them, and we need not be concerned, for in the cartoon versions of God The whole point is mirth, and the colors are crisp, and the coyote never gets seriously injured when the anvil falls on his head. But we can't make the crooked straight. Our God is a God who makes things crooked, and we cannot change that. One of the more crooked stories in all of Holy Scripture is found in Genesis also, Genesis chapter 22. Where we read of the Lord commanding Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac. And while we know most of the details of the story, many of us don't focus on the things that are crooked and scary. We focus on the end, which was that Abraham did not cut the throat of his son, and that God provided a ram for proper sacrifice and worship. Which meant that for Abraham all of it ended well. That's all we want to know. We conclude that God never really did want Abraham to sacrifice his son, Isaac. It was just an important test, we say. That is the G-rated version. That is the cartoon version. A closer look at the details of the story reveals a more harsh reality. The Bible narrative is actually very frightening. Without qualification, the Lord commanded Abraham to commit an obvious abomination, passing Isaac through fire. In Leviticus, which comes later after Abraham, God revealed this law. You shall not let any of your descendants pass through the fire of Molech, nor shall you profane the name of your God. Such law requires us to ask what has happened then with God's instruction to sacrifice Isaac. It seems as if God suffered from a split personality. Had he given up on the promises he made to Abraham? Had he given up on being God? What hope is there for any of us if God himself has become madness? To have his chosen servant Abraham kill his son is apocalyptic. But it's a test, we say. God really didn't mean it, we cry. But Abraham and Isaac didn't know any of that. Yahweh wasn't straightforward with them. To take Yahweh at his word would mean that he actually planned to have Abraham sacrifice Isaac. In truth, we know the end. It actually increases the horror of the story. The whole thing is a staged play. Yahweh wants Abraham to work through the idea of killing his son, and yet there were other options. He could have been plain-spoken and avoided the ruse. He could have just reasoned politely and respectably with Abraham, perhaps laying out a hypothetical ethical dilemma for Abraham. And then judge him by it. God could have said, What would you do, Abraham, if I asked you to sacrifice your son Abraham's reply, I would do it, Lord. And God, knowing the hearts of men, would have known if Abraham would have done it, would have done what he said he would do. That could have been enough. But no, that's the G rated God. That's the God that makes life straight, not crooked. The Yahweh of this story, Genesis 22, wants to play this whole thing out to the very last moment. Along, allowing Abraham to experience all the turmoil of not understanding God at all To not being sure of the promises he received from God, to facing a future of guilt that knows it was his hand that killed his only son. God played with Nyes. He played with innocent Abraham. What kind of God does this We cannot answer that question in full. We are going to spend an eternity understanding what kind of God does such things. A part of the answer, however, we already know. We know he is a God that doesn't just play out scenarios up to the very last moment and then hold back the hand that holds the knife. No. He lets the knife fall. He lets the whip snap. The nails be hammered, the spear go into the side of his only son. He carries through the story, the crooked story. He carries through the crooked story so that you and I can have life and life eternally. Every one of us knows what a crooked life is. None of us has a straight life. What we are to hope in is that God redeems what is crooked. In the end, he makes everything straight. Amen. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for this truth, although difficult to swallow. Recognizing that even what Christians present today is certainly not a God who makes things crooked. But we understand that to be true, and we accept it to be true. And now we ask that you would redeem all that is crooked in our lives, that we in the end might be straight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.