Think back to the times of fishing you have had. With your dad, maybe your mom, and then later, maybe with your own children. Or maybe because of the other two you've always fished alone. There are many emotions felt and expressed before, during, and after fishing. Disappointment and exaltation Anger and joy. To be a good fisherman is an art. But one of the keys in catching fish is Getting a line in the water. Whether in a river, stream, pond, lake, or ocean, the line has got to go down. Off the coast of New England, eighty miles from Gloucester, Massachusetts, lies an ecosystem that is unexpected, beautiful, and unrivaled in the North Atlantic. Biologists and fishermen have long been aware of its existence because the rich ecosystem serves as a nursery for many species of fish. It is one of the few places on the East Coast considered by scientists to be unique, flourishing, and in need of permanent protection. It has been dubbed the Yellowstone of the North Atlantic. It is the underwater mountain range called Cassius Ledge. One hears stories about Cassius Ledge from the 80s, when schools of cod and cusp and pollock and mackerel and paddock and other fish could be seen with myriad sharks and whales. Anybody know what this is? What do you do with it? Put it in the water, right? The line. And so now I will share with you my story of fishing at Cassius Ledge in the 80s before they wanted to make it a national protection park. It began in a pub, as all good fishing trips should. In Gloucester, I was with two of my best friends from seminary, Gary Laterno And a man named Tim Bailey, who some of you have heard of. We threw darts. We threw back a few pints. Of course, we were witnessing to the fishermen. And around ten o'clock, we had to board our chartered fishing vessel to begin an overnight excursion out to Cassius Ledge. It was a journey of about 80 or 90 miles, and we arrived there early the next morning. At around 5 or 6, we got out of our bunks I guess, but I don't remember the night. We had breakfast, and I assumed coffee. And then we went up to the deck to start our day of fishing. It was a bright and sunny day. And here is what I had to do. All the work I had to put into that fishing excursion at Cash's Ledge. I had to stand at the rail, lower my line over the rail into the water. I had a crewman who attached the hooks. They attached the lures. Some of these guys are big too, these lures. They gave me the pole. They made sure the line was there. And I started to fish. I put my line into the water. I guess that would be called boutique fishing. Don't do they'll do anything except And so I stood at that rail with occasional breaks for about seven hours, lowering my line into the water. So for of course, after all, I'm a real fish in it. Now we'll fast forward seven hours. I had caught cusp, cod, mackerel, pollock, and haddock The fish never seemed to stop biting. Except when one of the guys snagged a shark and he messed up all of our lines, we cut the shark off so we could keep on fishing. Sometimes my line would be rigged with two large lures. You lay it down. These fish were sacrificing themselves. You catch two at a time and you pulled the line. There were two large mackerel or coll cus a cusp on the line. And you load it in, you pulled it up. It was a fantastic day. It's never a day I'm sure I will ever experience again. On the way back to Gloucester, boat hands filleted our fish. And I went home with about 47 pounds of fillet of fish that day. Yeah. You cut off the head, the fins, the tails, and everything else that you don't want. 47 pounds a lot. And so it went into the freezer. I think we had to borrow somebody else's freezer. But it was there ready to we we just fished out for a good old while. Fish and chips was the order of the day On that trip, the crew did 95% of the work. I did five percent. That was my contribution. I told you what that was, right? I lowered the line into the water. I did have to pull it up too, I must admit But once they got the fish up, they took it off, they cleaned it, I took care of it, and then I just lowered it in the line. The boat captain took us to where we had to go to fish, right? He knew We had the right equipment. We had the right attitude. We wanted to catch fish. We knew we would catch fish outdoor starter. But here's the key. I lowered my line into the water, and that is how I caught fish. In our gospel reading from Matthew 4, we find that Jesus walking on the shoreline outside the city of Capernaum, which had become his adopted home. Not far from where in 1986 a first-century fishing boat was discovered and buried in the sand off the shore of Galilee. It's the only boat of its kind ever found in antiquity, and it's an excellent example of the type of boat the disciples would have used that day on Galilee. It dates to the first century BC through the first century A. D. It's about 27 feet long. It's sometimes referred to as the Galilee boat, or maybe you've heard of it being referred to as the Jesus boat. Though there is no evidence, of course, that Jesus ever rode in it. So go online, take an example, take a look at what the Jesus boat looks like with the remains of it today. The hull is pretty much intact You can see the planking, etc. But as Jesus is walking along the shoreline, he comes across his first disciples who was read to you this morning. Simon, Andrew, James, and John. Ordinary men at an ordinary place going about their business as they did every day. For them, fishing wasn't recreation as it had been for me. It was serious business Life or death enterprise for them. Being fishermen on the Sea of Galilee was their vocation. It was their livelihood and would be ultimately their legacy, so they thought So while walking along the shore, Jesus calls on to these four men, men whom he had met earlier, we see in John chapter 1. But he called out to him to them to follow him, and he would make them fishers of men. So they stop what they are doing. They get up and follow him. There seems to be no reservation and no hesitancy in responding to his call. They follow him. Leaving what is known for the unknown, what has become familiar for the unfamiliar. What they were doing though, not fully understanding it, was going after bigger fish. A bigger prize. To be disciples of Jesus, they were willing to give up all that they knew, all that they loved. And entrust their lives and future into the hands of one whom they believed was the Messiah, though they were beginners only at that time in their beliefs. They wanted to be fishers of men. And nothing less is expected of you and me this morning. To be able and prepared and willing to give up all that we know and love in order to entrust our lives to follow Jesus. The call is still the same. The question for us is: what kind of fishers of men are we? Instead of fishing for men and women, we often busy ourselves by attending fishing seminars. Telling fish stories or fixing up the fishing camp, the church. It has been well publicized that 70% of all of our churches are plateauing or declining. And it begs the question, are we truly fishing or wetting a hook? In many instances our fishing today consists mainly of Transferring fish from one church ice chest to another church ice chest down the street or across town. Few churches are impacting the fish pond and reaching your God-given potential. After all, can a person or a church really be a follower of Jesus if they never fish? In Luke 5. 10, we read of another aspect of this call of the first fisherman. And here Jesus tells Peter. Do not be afraid. From now on, you will be catching men. So point one would be Jesus says, follow me. I think that's difficult, right? Point two is fear not. That's also difficult, especially in the area of fishing for men. And he says, fear not to Peter after Peter recognizes his sinfulness when he's in the presence of Jesus. And to be fishers of men demands that we follow Jesus and we trust ourselves to Him to combat our fears. Catching men is an interesting phrase there. In the Greek this means literally to take captive, to take alive. As is done in the course of war rather than killing. So in the fishing for men that Jesus is calling the disciples to, they are fishing no longer to hook, neck, capture, and kill the fish to eat or sell But catching men so that they might be rescued from the bondage of sin and be restored to Christ's kingdom. Consider this You and I are called to fish for men to save men and women. In a sense, we are really a catch and release fisherman. The devil fishes for men to capture them, to condemn them for eternity. We catch them so that God can release them from sin and bondage. A couple weeks ago on March 11th, Pastor Jorgensen, while preaching on Genesis 34, made mention of the fact that the RE Church currently supports five missionaries. Who here heard that? Who here is awake? You can listen to it on the web site. Spied missionaries. The denomination and birth in 1873. My old pal Ulysses S. Grant is president at that time. Five active missionaries. Is that the legacy that we are leaving on the mission field after 146 years? The legacy that we are leaving in the minds and hearts of the next generation in the RE Church. That is, if there is a next generation. As you heard the number five two weeks ago and you just heard it again when I spoke it, are you a little disappointed and embarrassed? The church has been around for 146 years has five missionaries. Seems pretty pathetic, one could say. And if you want to go out on the limb, does God wonder what we are doing or have not been doing with the resources, the Holy Spirit, and the Word that He's been given to us? It seems to me that as a denomination, we are pretty lukewarm. When it comes to our reach, missions, and evangelism. By contrast, a denomination that was founded 100 years later, in 1973, the PCA, Right now they have over 310 overseas missionaries and counting. Then the pastor went on to say that just giving money does not stop anything nor reach anyone He says resting in our laurels occurs not only with individuals, but also with bodies of believers as well, as is the local church. Churches, he said, become fat, dumb, and lazy. They, we, go through the motions, but God causes church always to move forward As outlined in the Great Commission, what Jesus charges and commands his church to continue in preaching, baptizing, and discipling of all nations. That means fishing for converts. It is an ongoing, timeless command, and it extends to the old world. And as he finished up, he said. We are to continue to go. We must do more, and we should not wait for someone else to do it. And then this quote, if you remember it, after all, he says, it could start with us. It could start with you. Why not? Anybody remember that? I won't tell him, you said no. After all, it could start with us. It could start with you. Why not? Good point, why not? Why not us, St. Stevens? Why not you? Why not me? Or better yet you're thinking, why not someone else? But of course, there is no one else. That's the point. Here's a news flash. So I include myself in this lukewarm category. There's not one thing that I've said so far and saying now or will say later. It doesn't apply to me as well. Like the modern church, I chew him fat, dumb, and lazy. Add to that, fearful and faithless. And that would sum it up, I think, pretty accurately. So I would say in some ways, since I'm human like you all, sh and I am human despite all this, you know, I mean we have all the same struggles in outreach, phantasm, missions. Talking to our neighbor. And whether you're on the young side or the older side, we're all called to be fishers of men. Each of us can lower our line into the water And we are promised that if we do so, we will catch money. Men As Christians, our pond for fishing often lies just outside our front door, right? And with the rain we've had, literally, it may be so at your house. But that front door can be, well, you know, it's your front door, it isn't mine. It's your porch where you interact with your neighbors. They're not my neighbors, but in a restrictive sense, they're yours. Your front door can also be your place of work. Well you spend more waking hours than you do at home, applying your vocation with fellow employees or vendors that you see every day. I don't, but you do Your front porch can be your gym, your athletic club, or community group. You go there. I don't go to the gym. Your gym, your front door, your pond. For St. Stephen's our front doors, Eldersburg, Westminster, and Sykesville. Men, women, and children. But let us not forget the teenagers and the youth. Who may have no time or interest in our church, but they may have time and interest for you. You and I have to go to them, for they are certainly not going to come here. Invite them into your home. Be interested in the things they are interested in. In the words of our pastor Here we are as a church become fat, dumb, and lazy. Who's going to say no to that? We have been. Wherever your porch may be, as soon as you walk out your front door, remember that you're going fishing. But what are you and I fishing for? What's the day's catch that we often get tangled up in? More money, promotion at work, vacation time, time off. We fish for that. A fitter body, exotic vacations, pursuit of hobbies and recreations, retirement. Times with family and friends, and all of these are good pursuits, and are necessary, right, if we keep them in perspective But where is the time spent in fishing for men that Jesus talks about? Which he talks more about than he does about retirement or 401ks, right, or life insurance. He talked about life insurance, but in a whole different context. But where is the time spent fishing for men? And what of our front porch here at St. Stephen's? Are we fishing for men and women here in Aldersburg, Sykesville, Westminster? The kind of fishing that requires and demands that we go to the shores and fish off their beaches, so to speak. In order to fish in these towns, we have to motor out to them and fish And their backyards, and that's exactly what St. Andrews wants to do and is trying to do. Fish in their backyard. The fish do not come to the fishermen, right? They don't jump in your boat. Fishermen go to where the fish are. A good fisherman actually fishes. Some of you here, at least two men I know, Alan, Larry, I know you guys fish. And I know you're far more professional than I am, and you guys probably have much better stories. So my story of Cassius Ledge is pretty good. But um You guys are pros, I'm sure, in some sense, but you don't catch anything, unless the mine goes in the water Just saying. Good fishermen actually fishes. In John 21, read that too. We are told that Jesus called out the disciples and asked them essentially this question, Have you caught any fish? At least the disciples were honest fishermen, because not all fishermen are. This was one fish story that was true. They had not caught anything. Could Jesus be asking us the same question? St. Stevens, how's your fishing going? This is the measure of the faithfulness of the church, not our buildings or our budgets. Or our boasting about our fishing. How many souls have we caught? How many disciples of Christ are we making? When the disciples followed Jesus' instruction, they caught so many fish that the net could not be brought in, except very in a much difficult manner. This great catch of fish gave the disciples a foretaste of what God was going to do through them as fishers of men. Just imagine the possibilities of what God could do for us if we will faithfully follow Him and fish. So though, why don't we catch any fish? The problem is not a declining fish population, but a lack of systematic and purposeful fishing. Healthy and growing churches that are penetrating a lost world are churches that are sensitive to the needs of people around them. They're leaving their comfort zone and the traditions that they know to reach others. You know, you may be sitting there thinking to yourself, this is all well and good, but I and I know I need to be a fisherman, but how do I get started I'm going to share with you a simple approach to reaching out to your neighbor that I've come across recently. I think it's doable. Regardless of any excuse which you could make, and we all have excuses, but this one is pretty tight as being doable. And you may say to yourself, I don't like pre-formed rules or regulation. Tough If you have your own toolbox how you want to fish, fish with your toolbox. But let's talk about this toolbox here I came across. I think it's real doable and helpful. It's called the BLT method of evangelism. Now we all know that really means bacon, lettuce, and tomato. But that's not what this refers to. It's building relationships. And I'll tell you the other two layers in a minute. Build relationships with non-believers. Think about your situation. That's where all evangelism begins. It doesn't start with praying with someone to receive Christ. That's the end Don't start with inviting someone to church. That's the middle. Evangelism. Outreach. Fishing. Begins simply by making friends with non-Christians. With people who don't know the Lord. Specifically, this means starting with the people you already know. Family members, friends, or neighbors. You meet at a block party at the neighborhood. Other parents you meet while you're watching your kids play sports. People you meet riding to work or your co-workers co-workers at the office You know, sometimes we feel that we don't know anybody who needs the Lord, but actually we all know lots of people who need the Lord. We rub shoulders with them every day. I do, do you? In other words, we focus on those people God has already placed in our lives. And then we do whatever it takes to build quality relationships with people. For instance, and this is not easy, reaching out to people you don't know or are not believers. This is not easy. But for instance, ask your neighbor for advice or help on something you need help with. Invite your neighbor or co-worker over for dinner. Hospitality breaks down barriers and builds new friendships. Take an interest in their interests. They like to fish. Talk about fishing. They like to cook. Talk about cooking. If they like the Civil War, well by all means, if they like the Civil War, adopt them. But be available to people hurt by looking for opportunities to tangibly express love to them during times of sickness, death, or financial difficulties. Each of these four things are doable. There's nothing religious or churchy about it. So the B and B L T is build relationships. It all starts right there. L, look, BLT, L, look, look for opportunities to talk to your friends about Jesus. Eventually, after you build a relationship with somebody, it actually involves opening your mouth. And that is a difficult part. We all open our mouths and say a whole lot of stuff, but we need to start talking about the Lord at times, right? With these folks that we build a relationship with. So look for opportunities when you open your mouth to say something about the Lord. A lot of ways this might happen. Your friend might ask you a leading question. We might be playing racquetball with someone. Get a chance to share the gospel. The point is that most of us get all tied up in knots because we're worried about having to say something right off the bat. We're afraid people will think we're nuts and turn us off. But that's not how evangelism works. You don't start by saying anything. You start by building relationships. And then in the context of a friendship, get that word friendship, you look for natural opportunities or share your faith. So the L's look for opportunities. B is build relationships. L's look for opportunities. Just the last brief point is, okay, so take your friends to non-threatening events where they can hear the gospel. This is the last part. I think it's a simple strategy. This is where the whole church comes in. These events are hooks, to keep the illustration of fishing going. They're hooks you can use with your unchurched friends. And that should be our goal, to provide a wide variety of events for the community, and not just the church, to come to. And use them as tools to open the door for evangelism. Some may be directly evangelistics, some may not be. Our next-door neighbor, Mary Invited Margaret kind of to partner with her because they invited two unbelievers in the neighborhood, Mary did, invited two unbelievers in the neighborhood to go to an event they had at Life Point Non-threatening. I mean there's often ladies I wouldn't invite it, but I was here. I heard it's non-threatening. Had a good dinner. The speaker was really well received. And it seemed like a couple of these ladies, at least one, were as interested in another event. But that was geared for the community. I think that's pretty simple, isn't it? I think there's a lot of ways we can devise and think of things to do for our community, which is more than just doing stuff for ourselves. It's easy to do stuff for ourselves. I think it's hard to do things for other people. What do you think? Evangelism often seems so overwhelming, we don't ever get around to it. It doesn't have to be that way. The BLT approach is just one tool in personal evangelism. Like I said, you may have your own. Just when you use your tool, pretend like you're going out fishing. Of course, all tools are meant to be used. Opportunities are everywhere. We must take advantage of those opportunities and lovingly share the great news of the gospel. A good fisherman fishes with the anticipation of catching fish. That makes it extremely hard to catch fish without the right attitude. Matthew begins in a sense Jesus' public ministry by calling his disciples on the shores of Galilee. In the Gospel of John, that was read, in a sense, the ministry of the apostles was taken one step further, but it's on the shores of Lake Tiberius. Same lake, different name, like a rose, same name. It's the same thing. Different names, same thing. But it began and it ends, in a sense, on the shores of Galilee, when these guys are fishing. And what a great illustration for you and for me. You know, only the Spirit of God can do the work of salvation in another person's heart. It's not your responsibility. And so as God prepares his fish to bite. Because he will prepare them to bite. On Monday morning, as you take off for your week, take your tackle box with you. And go fish. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we