In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Open your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 1 First Timothy chapter one beginning at verse twelve. Once again, we will be going through this verse by verse. First Timothy chapter one beginning at verse twelve. Comedian Nate Bargetse has a bit where he talks about his parents being Christians and states that they still are Christians. But when he was growing up in the 1980s and 90s, he says that they were the most Christian. And then he states that Christian parents in the 1980s and 90s were the most Christian of all Christians. And I get that humor because I began to walk with Jesus at the end of 1982, and it was somewhat popular, somewhat popular at that time to be a Christian. And one of the popular things Christians would do was to read books by Frank Peretti His first book was published in 1986, titled This Present Darkness. It depicts a fictitious town called Ashton Where a skeptical reporter and a pastor begin to compare notes and suddenly find themselves Fighting a hideous plot to subjugate the townspeople and eventually the entire human race by way of demonic forces. Caretti helps the reader understand that what we see physically is nothing compared to what is happening spiritually. As a person prays, angels and demons are fighting by the sword in the spiritual realm And the depiction of the battles would have the reader picture in their minds the greatest swords play imaginable They were and perhaps are still very entertaining books, although the Bible doesn't describe spiritual warfare in the same style as Peretti. But just as there is warfare in Peretti's books, so does Paul use the word warfare when writing to Timothy. And that is where we will end our focus this morning. But we begin with examining verse 12 through 20 of 1 Timothy 1, verse 12. The manner this verse is worded may make it sound as if Paul was chosen by God to minister in the church because Paul was faithful. But that interpretation would discount what Paul says next about himself, which is that he was a blasphemer, and thus not faithful to God at all, but instead Paul was an enemy of the gospel. And so we look for another understanding of what Paul means, a more likely interpretation Is that after Paul was knocked down by the appearance of Jesus on the road to Damascus and was blinded by the presence of Jesus, And then was rebuked by Jesus and then called to repent and follow Jesus that Paul was made, made faithful. We know by the manner God calls people to himself to do his ministry that he doesn't base such callings on the person's ability. Moses, for example, was a poor public speaker and a man who was guilty of murder. King Saul was a very poor leader, but was made the first king of Israel by God. The nation of Israel itself was insignificant when God called them to be his people, and they were repeatedly unfaithful to that calling. My point being that God chooses the unlikely and makes them to be what he needs them to be. Verse 13. After stating that Paul himself was faithful, he needed to confess that he was what he was before he was made faithful. A blasphemer is someone who speaks falsely and offensively about God. I insist that what I am about to say is not not Not anti-Semitic. We may side with those who are of the Jewish faith because we confess the God of the Old Testament But we are not the same because they deny the God of the New Testament, and to do so is to blaspheme God. And again, to say so is not being anti-Semitic Is simply telling the truth about God. For God revealed Himself in and through the person of Jesus God offered his only son, and Jesus offered himself as the only, the only possible sacrifice for our sins to be forgiven. To reject God's offer and the offered life of Jesus is to blaspheme God. Such is true for Jews and Gentiles alike. I too was a blasphemer until Jesus revealed the truth to me. All who do not believe are blasphemers. As a persecutor, Paul is referring to the days before his conversion where he persecuted Christians. The account, as told in the book of Acts. has Paul holding people's tunics while they stoned Stephen for being a Christian. We then learn that Paul had a reputation for dragging Christians out of their homes and out of synagogues. And changed and charging them with blasphemy if they confess Jesus as their God. Certainly some of us could be called persecutors of Christians if we have ever made fun of Christians or wanted them to be quieted. But Paul truly was a persecutor in every possible sense. To call himself insolent is likely connected to being a persecutor. For to be a persecutor in the manner Paul was, you had to be rude and arrogant, and that's what being insolent means At the end of verse 13, we once again could read it incorrectly. For it could sound to some that God overlooked what Paul did because Paul was ignorant. As if being ignorant is a good excuse for being for behaving, excuse me, poorly or sinfully. In Holy Scripture, ignorance never excuses sin We are told elsewhere that God overlooks the sin of people for a time because of the ignorance of the people, but the sin still needs to be dealt with. That is why Paul uses the word mercy as in I obtain mercy. And it is why he uses the word grace as in, and the grace of our Lord was exceedingly abundant. Both mercy and grace of God are needed to forgive sins. In fact, Paul refers to all that is needed to forgive sins, for in verse 14, he goes on to describe the abundant grace He was given along with faith and the love of Christ Jesus. What Paul has done in these two verses is described the one and only manner he was saved from sin and death. And it is the same way and the only way any of us is saved from sin and death It is by grace, through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, because of the love of God, that anyone is saved from the guilt of their sins and there deserved eternal judgment. Verse 15. It is very likely that this saying was shared amongst Christians early on. It is short and pithy and memorable. What Paul adds at the end, the confession of his own unworthiness, is compared to others that is also memorable. Interestingly, this verse played a key role in the life of a man named Thomas Bilney, who was one of the earliest English reformers. and earliest to be martyred for his faith in 1531, during the reign of King Henry VIII, before Henry became a friend of the Reformation. blindly said this about this verse. I chanced upon this sentence of St. Paul in 1 Timothy chapter 1. It is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be embraced, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the chief and principal. This one sentence, through God's instruction and inward working, which I did not then perceive, did so exhilarate my heart Being before wounded with the guilt of my sins, and being almost in despair, that immediately I felt a marvelous comfort and quietness Insomuch that my bruised bones leaped for joy. After this, the scriptures began to be more pleasant to me than honey or honeycomb. And such a response is evidence of a tougher and stronger time when men could face come face to face with their failings And then face to face with the gospel of Jesus Christ, and instead of being crushed by their guilt or embarrassed by what others knew about them. He can rejoice that what he is and what he has done can be forgiven and he can be made new. Paul had that toughness as well. May we have it also. Verse sixteen Paul here explains how his suffering, his sufferings, and he had a great deal of it as he lists them to the Corinthians. But those sufferings were used by God as a testimony to the unbeliever. For if he, Paul, could overcome the pains and trials of life while having faith in his Savior Jesus Christ, so could they. And this thought causes Paul to break out into a doxology. And we know that Paul considers the value of his calling to be about bringing sinners to God. And it appears that the pr that the privilege of doing so causes him to praise God even more. Because of the Amen at the end of verse seventeen, we should summarize Paul's point. Paul has already argued that these men Who are false teachers, that they have seriously misunderstood the nature and purpose of the law of God. And now he reminds Timothy to remind the Ephesians that salvation is by grace and by Christ. Not by human achievement of any kind, and certainly not by the program these new teachers are recommending. Paul's point can be put simply. I came to Christ not although I am a sinner, but because I am a sinner. And being a sinner, only God could save me. And it was God who did save me by his grace through faith in Jesus Christ. With that established, verse 18. Has Paul passing on his calling to retrieve the lost by reminding Timothy of the time there were prophecies about him? We could call such a time his ordination, such as when a man is set aside for the work of the church in a formal capacity. They even likely included hands being laid on Timothy, for we know that such was done at ordinations. For Paul later instructs Timothy to not lay hands on any man suddenly, which means quickly, as in, be careful who you ordain to the ministry of the church. Regarding the prophecies, we should remember that a prophecy could be a new revelation that God calls his prophet to speak. Or it could be a word God has already spoken, and the prophet shows the church how to apply it. Verse 19. Here Paul is concerned that Timothy live out what was prophesied about him. For if he does not, he will not be living by faith. And if he does not live by faith, he will not have a good conscience. To not have a good conscience is very difficult, both spiritually and psychologically. Many turn to substance abuse to drown their conscience. A guilty conscience drives people to other sins to distract their conscience. The end result is a faith that becomes shipwrecked. He says shipwrecked, which is a metaphor. For not only something that no longer works, but also for something that is abandoned. And such a metaphor leads Paul to remind Timothy of the example of a no longer working and abandoned faith. In the lives of a person named Himenaeus and another named Alexander. We don't know intimately who these men were That Paul mentions men who have gone astray and turned to idle talk in chapter 1, verse 6. And in 2 Timothy, Paul mentions Himeneus by name again and calls him out for saying that the second resurrection had already occurred. That teaching disturbed a great deal of people, for if it was true, those who were alive still had missed it. And would be left to die without hope. And this now brings us back to Paul charging Timothy to wage the good warfare. It also connects us back to last week, where we taught that sound doctrine is connected to holy living. Thus, good warfare occurs both in the doctrines we understand and believe and in the lives we live. I began with mentioning author Frank Ferretti and his novels about spiritual warfare because they awaken me. To the reality that there is warfare going on in the spiritual realm that is occurring on a daily basis, and the war is about the will of God and for the souls of men. I have witnessed too many Christians just in this small parish be unaware, unaware of the spiritual warfare that was going on. And the end goal of the battle was their soul. And I have witnessed people lose. Just like Himenaeus and Alexander, Paul describes their faith being shipwrecked. It is broken and abandoned. I have confronted young women about them living with their boyfriend, and I did so because I feared for their souls. As they were compromising their morals for earthly love and affection. One young woman I confronted left my study and never darkened the doors of St. Stephen's again. Another young woman I confronted about the same sin, left the church, and her parents left with her. None of them understood that there was a spiritual warfare going on over their souls, and they were losing. I don't want to be cartoonish about it as if each of us has a demon on one shoulder and an angel on the other shoulder and each is whispering in our ears what we should or should not do But when we heed false teaching or don't have sound doctrine at all because we don't read our Bibles, We don't attend Sunday school. We don't attend Bible study. We don't read good teachers about the Bible. We are susceptible to our own faith being shipwrecked. There are spiritual winners and spiritual losers when we make moral decisions. When we decide to withhold forgiveness because of how hurt we feel, we might as well picture an angel getting thrust through with a sword. When we are too prideful to be rebuked or corrected, we may as well picture a demon with his foot on the neck of God's spiritual servants. When we choose to side with envy, with greed, with lust, with pride, selfishness, or falsehood, the enemy smiles. And our own spirit is vanquished. But I can't end here. I can't stay on the side of the sinfulness of our spiritual battles For that is not who wins in the end. We just sang about that. The following is from Peretti's first book. As the demon started to enter the church, suddenly, as if colliding with a speeding wall, the creature was knocked backward. And into a raging tumble down the steps, the glowing red breath tracing a corkscrew trail through the air With an eerie cry of rage and indignation, it gathered itself up off the sidewalk and stared at the strange door that would not let it pass through. Then the membranes on its back began to billow, enfolding great bodies of air, and it flew with a roar headlong at the door, through the door, into the foyer, and into the cloud of white, hot light. The creature screamed and covered its eyes, then felt itself being grabbed by a huge, powerful vice of a hand. In an instant, it was hurling through space like a ragdoll, outside again, forcefully ousted. The wings hummed in a blur as it banked sharply in a flying turn and headed for the door again. Red vapors chugging in dashes and streaks from its nostrils, its talons bared and poised for attack. a ghostly siren of scream rising in its throat. Like an arrow through a target, like a bullet through a board, it streaked through the door, and instantly fell itself felt itself inside, tearing loose. There was an explosion of suffocating vapor, one final scream, and the flailing of withering arms and legs. Then there was nothing at all except an ebbing stench of sulfur. And two strangers suddenly inside the church. The big blonde man replaced a shining sword as the white light that surrounded him faded away. A spirit of harassment, he asked. Or doubt, or fear, who knows? And that was one of the smaller ones. I've not seen one smaller No indeed. And just how many would you say there are? More, much more than we, and everywhere, never idle. So I've seen the big man sighed. But what are they doing here? We've never seen such concentration of them before. Here. Not here. Oh, the reason won't be hidden long, he looked. He looked through the foyer doors and toward the sanctuary. Let's see this man of God. They turned from the door and walked through the small foyer. The bulletin board on the wall carried requests. for groceries for a needy family, some babies babysitting needed, a prayer for a sick missionary. A large bill announced a congregational business meeting for next Friday. On the other wall, the record of weekly offering indicated the offerings were down from last week. So was the attendance from 61 to 42. Down the short and narrow aisle they went, past the orderly ranks of dark stained plank and flat pews, toward the front of the sanctuary, where one small spotlight illuminated a rustic two by four cross. hanging above the baptistry. In the center of the worn carpeted platform stood the little sacred desk, the pulpit, with a Bible laid upon it These were humble furnishings, functional, but not at all elaborate, revealing either humility on the part of the people or neglect. Then the first sound was added to the picture, a soft, muffled sobbing from the end of the right queue. There, kneeling in earnest prayer, his head resting on the hard wooden bench. And his hands clenched with fervency was a young man, very young. The blonde man thought at first young and vulnerable, but all showed in his countenance Now the very picture of pain, grief, and love. His lips moved without sound as names, petitions, and praises poured forth with passion and tears The two couldn't help but just stand there for a moment, watching, studying, pondering. A little warrior, said the dark-haired one. The big blonde man formed the words himself in silence, looking down at the contrite man in prayer. Yes, he observed, this is the one. Even now he's interceding, standing before the Lord for the sake of the people, for the town. Almost every night he's here. At that remark the big man smiled. He's not so insignificant. But he's the only one. He's alone. No, the big man shook his head. There are others. There are always others. They just have to be found. For now, his single vigilant prayer is the beginning. He's going to be hurt, you know that. And so will the newspaper man, and so will we. But we will win? The big man's eyes seemed to burn with a rekindled fire. We will fight. We will fight, his friend agreed. They stood over the kneeling warrior on either side, and at that moment, little by little, like the bloom of a flower, white light began to fill the room It illumined the cross and the back wall slowly, brought out the colors of the grain of every plank of every pew, and rose in intensity until the once plain and humble sanctuary came alive with an unearthly beauty. The walls glimmered, the worn rugs glowed, the little pulpit stood tall and stark as a sentinel backlit by the sun And now the two men were brilliantly white, their former clothing transfigured by garments, they seemed to burn with intensity Their faces were bronzed and glowing, their eyes shone like fire, and each man wore a glistening golden belt from which hung a flashing sword. They placed their hands upon the shoulder of the young man, then, like a grace, fully spreading canopy, silken, shivering, nearly transparent membranes began to unfurl from their backs and shoulders and rise to meet the overlap above their heads gently undulating in a spiritual wind Together, they ministered peace to their young charge, and his many tears began to subside. Again, beloved, this is the opening of Frank Peretti's book titled This Present Darkness Warfare. God's people. Warfare. Stay in the battle and fight. Stay and fight. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father, open our eyes to that which is spiritual. Open our eyes to the battles that are raging for our souls and the souls of our fellow men. Open our eyes and give us faith to fight. We pray this in Jesus' name.