In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue the rector's rambling. There are several reasons why modern churches are leaving carnage behind them and sliding into proverbial gutters of falsehood And today I want to address one of those reasons. To show just how far deep these churches have slid into the gutter We have in one mainline church in America, its leader, publicly stated a few years ago that Jesus was not only Not the only way, excuse me, that Jesus was not the only way to God, and that for anyone to say so would be to put God in a box In another mainline church in America, a woman pastor described herself as, quote, Christian by birth, a Baha'i by reason, a Taoist in spirit And a pastor in faith and vocation. What is remarkable beyond the audacity to make such statements is the cowardice of all who are unwilling to hold these so-called ministers to their ordinal vows. Where we should be concerned beyond the poor witness these statements make for the Christian faith is how it came to be that such statements could be made within the Christian bodies, bodies that once proclaimed the same confessions and creeds that we proclaim. We can be assured that it did not happen overnight. I have preached previously that in order to protect ourselves from going down the wrong path, the Bible has to be embraced as our first And primary source of authority for salvation and godly living. I have preached that we are to hold on to understanding of absolute truth in order to avoid compromising in life and in doctrine. I have preached that men need to be a primary concern when worshiping in the church So that they take their needed place in leadership within parishes and within their homes. Today I address an issue that might seem too subtle to be important, and yet, as I see it It is subtle because it is important. The devil has made it subtle so as to cause us to overlook it. The subject is the true importance of the material world, and thus the importance of the physical church. The problem is modern Gnosticism within the church, and its effect can be seen in the manner we build and upkeep our sanctuaries. In the manner we dress, in the manner we treat ordained officers of the church, in the manner we treat our personal bodies while alive and even after death. And finally, in the manner we view sin. Gnosticism, like so many other words in the English language, has several meanings. The prefix is the Greek word gnosis, which can mean knowledge or secret knowledge. When someone says he is an agnostic He is saying that he does not know if there is a God, even though God is not in the word agnostic. Some time ago, I was sent an email that poked fun at our English language. The following sentences use words that are spelled the same but have entirely different meanings. For example, the bandage was wound around the wound The farm was used to produce produce. The dump was so full it had to refuse more refuse. We must polish the Polish furniture. He could lead if he would just get the lead out. The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert. Since there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to present the present. When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes. How can I how can I intimate this to my most intimate friend? There are more, but you get the point. These exemplify that the English language is a melting pot of misfit words and Gnosticism is no different. The word Gnosticism was originally used to describe how to know God. During early Christianity, the word took a new direction and it became a type of religion. Today it describes a rejection of the material world in favor of the spiritual world. It is a belief that the created world, the world of matter, is corrupted and therefore unimportant. In place of the material world, the Gnostic believes that the spiritual world is the only place where God can be found. God, according to the Gnostic, can only be known in the spiritual world. Gnostic belief has been practiced in two seemingly opposed expressions One expression says that because the material world is not a concern, and that it is only the spiritual world where truth can be found. Anything we want to do in the material world is acceptable because it is already corrupt and thus cannot be corrupted more than it is. This is a dualistic philosophy that says the material world and the spiritual world are entirely separate from one another. Therefore, whatever we want to do with our bodies is acceptable. Whatever we want to do with property is acceptable. Whatever we want to do with creation is acceptable because it has already been corrupted. Some would even say the material world was always evil. Another, as I said, seemingly opposite expression of Gnosticism. Is the understanding that because the material world is corrupt or evil, it is to be avoided. These people believe in denying the flesh of anything pleasurable. They believe in simplistic living while searching for spiritual peace. So while one group may not care what happens with the material world, And another tries to avoid the material world, they do so because they both believe that matter is corrupted and that salvation is only found in the spiritual realm. But why do why do we care about such groups, you may ask? Well, as I stated, There has been a subtle influence upon the Christian church that has slowly eroded a previously strong-held belief that the physical church mattered. If you have ever thought that going to a worship service isn't important and that a person can worship God anywhere, then you have been influenced by Gnosticism If you've ever thought that what you wear in the presence of God isn't important, then you have been influenced by Gnosticism. If you have never been concerned that the house in which you worship would also be used to host a basketball game, you have been influenced by Gnosticism. If you have believed that baptism is not necessary for the Christian, or that the laying out of hands is for the Pentecostals only. Or that Holy Communion can be celebrated once a week or once a year, it really doesn't matter. And you have been influenced by Gnosticism. To show why Gnosticism is to be identified when it appears and rejected for the heresy it is, we must turn, of course, to Holy Scripture. From the scripture we learn that matter matters. The physical world is important. What God did say regarding creation after he finished it was that it was good. And if God says that something is good, should any man say the opposite? Now, in objection to these rhetorical poin would be that because sin has entered the world through Adam, and along with that sin was a curse that caused thorns to grow, the earth to shake, the skies to storm, disease to spread, and death For all that is living. That which was once good is good no longer. In theory, in theory, this might be true. That God did not say it. And he most certainly did not respond to sin entering the world as a Gnostic would. No. Instead of avoiding the material world, God invaded it. Instead of avoiding or destroying the created order, Jesus became a part of the created order And that included being subject to creation. Jesus, we know, became flesh. Jesus became subject to gravity, to hunger, to thirst, and of course to death. Jesus became a man, fully a man, and yet was without sin. If Jesus could be without sin and also be a man, how could all of creation be evil? What Jesus did was take that which is fallen and thus corruptible and first consecrated it. After he consecrated it, he sanctified it, and after he sanctified it, he glorified it. Meaning that which was corruptible took on the incorruptible, which Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15 Remember, beloved, that Jesus did not take only the form of a man. He was a man. And remember that he did not stop being a man. Once he was raised, he continues to be a man and will be for eternity a man. This is part of the amazing grace we proclaim. Jesus will forever be flesh. Thus, how can we ever say that flesh is not our concern or that the spiritual world is superior? And also, is not part of God's redemptive plan to bring forth a new earth I realize I'm asking a lot of rhetorical questions, but they seem necessary as what I'm saying most you already know. I'm simply reminding you of how these truths apply. If God is going to create a new earth, then can we be assured that He cares about the physical material world Again, from Genesis 1, God saw all that he made and said it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning the sixth day. As a man, Jesus embraced the world in a very tactile, touching manner He laid hands upon the sick. He stood on the ground, made clay, and placed it on the man's eyes. He picked up the little children. He turned over the tables of the money changers He took the five loaves and the two fish and made more. And he took bread, and he broke it, and he gave it to his disciples and told them to take and to eat. And afterward he took the cup and gave it also to them. I said previously that Jesus first consecrated matter, and by that I meant his own body. Consecrate, you recall, means to set something aside, something physical for a sacred purpose. Jesus himself was something set aside. He made himself of no reputation. St. Paul explained to the Philippians, by becoming a man. Jesus' life was set aside to serve the Heavenly Father As he said of himself, that he did nothing but what he saw the Father have him do. The second thing he did was to sanctify himself. To sanctify is to make holy or be made holy. Jesus did this in many ways. The public way was to be baptized. Another was to fast for 40 days. It was there that he proved his mettle by resisting temptation. And what would be the weakest moments of a human condition, which is hunger? Of course, the most public way Jesus sanctified his body was to be obedient unto death, even death on the cross. With that one act, with that one act he sanctified all flesh that would cry after him to be saved. And next, of course, Jesus' body was glorified as he walked among men after his resurrection and was then received into heaven by God the Father. Beloved, the faith of a Christian, faith in all that Jesus did, is testified in the manner we treat the material world. So first, let us start with our own bodies. The body is to be made subject to the spirit, and therefore it is to be buffeted and disciplined. The body is to be cared for as it is the house of the Spirit of God. A Christian testifies to the goodness of the body when he or she cares about what goes into the body and how much goes into the body. A Christian testifies to the goodness of the body when it is adorned with appropriate dress that honors the God who created him or her. The body is to be honored at death as well, for the manner we treat is a testimony to the world that it will one day be raised. I do not say that cremation is forbidden, and I understand the pragmatic reasons for it, but there is a far greater testimony to be made to the world. When we embrace Christian burial by saying ashes to ashes and dust to dust, while also proclaiming that the dead in Christ will be raised first. We testify to the goodness of the material world also in the manner we treat the created order. While Adam was given the call to have dominion over creation, he was never given the right to abuse creation. Christians should be stewards, good stewards of the created order. Christians should not be wasteful. Christians also care for natural resources. Christians should not be need a crying Native American, if you remember that commercial and I heard he wasn't even Native American. But we shouldn't need that to tell us that we should not be throwing trash into rivers, lakes, and oceans. Christians should also work to preserve natural beauty, because it is that beauty, in that beauty, is a testimony of God as creator. We testify to the goodness of the material world also in the manner we treat structures and furnishings in our homes and in our church buildings. There used to be a day when a minister was invited to a home when it was first built or purchased to first give thanks to God for his provision and second to pray prayers of consecration over each room. So that each room was intended, how it was intended to be used, would be realized. There used to be a day when a sanctuary was finished being built, that all its furnishings, including the vessels used for Holy Communion were blessed by the minister to be consecrated for their particular use. And the manner the furnishings and vessels were treated after the consecration was reverent. Because it was recognized by all that each had a particular use in worshiping God. And each room, and each of the rooms, the vessels were placed, were also blessed because God said his creation. is good. There used to be a time when God's people by great conviction would gather on Sunday mornings, not sun Saturday evenings, not every other Sunday in a month. But Sunday mornings, every week, because Jesus said that where two or more are gathered in his name, he will be in their midst. He is with God's people that worship like he is at no other time when they physically gather. In the Old Testament, such was called a holy convocation. In the New Testament, it is called the gathering together of the saints. In both descriptions, there is a physical gathering. The bodies God physically created physically gather for worship And the people also gathered because the church has called Sunday morning the time when Jesus should be worshipped. And that was good enough for Christians because the church was and still is a physical manifestation of God's presence in the world. There's a scene in the movie, It's a Wonderful Life. Where George Bailey, you know, played by Jimmy Stewart, gives Mr. Potter an earful, and afterward he gets control of his emotions and says, Well, I've said enough. As if he could say more, but he must stop. That is where I am on this subject. The ramifications of this subtle Gnosticism are to not see the world as God sees it. And God wants us to see it as he sees it, so that we would treat the physical world around us as good stewards. As I said, there used to be a day when things were important because Christians understood that the material world was important. Included in those days was a belief that ministers of the gospel carried with them, because of their office, special anointing and authority that made their prayers over new houses and new sanctuaries effectual. It was a time when Christians used to believe in the laying out of hands, which is what was and is done when a man is consecrated to perform special duties in the church. Duties that no one else is called to perform. There used to be a time when Christians believed that whatever the clergy bound on earth would be bound. Whatever the clergy loosed would be loosed That was what Jesus said to the 12, and that is what the 12 passed on to those who were called to the anointed officers of the church. There used to be a time when clergy would consecrate the bread and wine used to represent the body and blood of Jesus And that when such bread and wine were eaten in an unworthy manner, there was judgment. And when such bread and wine were eaten in faith, there was blessing. You don't have to be a believer in transubstantiation to know the power that is in the bread and wine set apart to be used to commemorate the offered body and blood of the Lord. Now I have been using the phrase used to be a time to create in us a desire that those days would return. As the prophet longs for the old paths, so we should long for and work for to bring back days in which the material world is cared for. With faith that it too will be redeemed. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, we're always amazed by your incarnation, by the incarnation of your Son Jesus. And as we think upon that, as we ponder all that it means, help us to be better stewards of what you placed before us. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this material world. Help us to be grateful for it. In Jesus' name. Amen.