In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn in your Bibles to Ecclesiastes chapter eight. Ecclesiastes chapter eight. In C. S. Lewis's Third and final book in his space trilogy titled That Hideous Strength. We are introduced to a heroine named Mrs. Jane Stubbick Jane is a conflicted character as she is married to a man she does not admire nor respect. And she had yet, at least for the majority of the story, submitted herself to Christ Jesus as her Lord and Savior. Much of her reasoning for resisting the faith was her dislike of men and her fear of men, of men lording their masculinity over her. Eventually, she finds the ability to trust one man by the name of Ransom. He is the hero of the entire trilogy. In this quote, Ransom sets Jane straight regarding her dislike of anything masculine. He says, quote, the male You could have escaped, for it exists only on the biological level. But the masculine, none of us can escape What is above and beyond all things is so masculine that we are all feminine in relation to it. You had better agree with your adversary quickly. You mean I shall have to become a Christian? said Jane. It looks like, said Ransom. By the manner of God's masculinity, as it is described by Lewis, is showing that God is much more than a particular gender. God's masculinity is most noted in his authority. It is to the shame of humanity that we all struggle so very greatly with submitting to authority. And it is to be understood that the importance of a wife submitting to her husband and children honoring their parents And all citizens obeying their particular governing authorities is not for the sake of peaceful living only, but for an inevitable transference to God. We are all to understand that our willingness to practice submitting to those who have authority over us is ultimately related to our submission to God. How we obey or disobey authority is akin to how we obey or disobey God. How we treat authority is akin to how we treat God. How we feel about authority is akin to how we feel about God. And how we speak about authority, again, is akin to how we speak about God. The wisdom provided in Ecclesiastes chapter 8 begins with the importance of submitting to authority. The reference is to submitting to kings, but the principle relates to all who have authority over us. It relates to parents if you are a child. It relates to to husbands if you are a wife. It relates to teachers if you are a student. It relates to employers if you are an employee. It relates to governing authorities if you are a citizen. And yes, it relates to ecclesiastical authorities if you are a citizen of God's kingdom. The preacher is saying essentially the same thing that we read from Romans chapter 13. Where St. Paul instructs us to obey those who have authority over us, for they are God's instrument to protect those who do right and to punish those who do wrong. In some ways, life is really not that complicated. If you obey the authorities, things will go well for you. If you do not obey those authorities, expect dire consequences. The preacher turns in verses 8 through 10 to observe those who are in authority. And he notes that some are evil. Such leaders cannot be avoided. He notes that all leaders are limited. That, too, cannot be avoided. Stating it as simply as possible, we are to obey those in authority, but we cannot come close to trusting them in the same manner we trust God. As a nation, we need to be reminded every four years that no person elected president should be given our hope or entrusted with our future. It is only in God that we can place our hope and our future. This is important to remember for once again. Once again, we are inundated with the message that this is the most important election in our lifetime. And yet supposedly the same was true four years ago, and four years before that, and four years before that, and still nothing has changed culturally We still kill our unborn and mutilate their genitalia if they survive the womb. Hard words. True words. There are shadows that obscure when dealing with governing authorities, as the preacher points out in verses one through fourteen. Evildoers do not always receive their just due, and if proper punishment is received, it is not necessarily in a timely manner. Thus men can perceive that they can get away with evil deeds without suffering any serious consequences. When men think they can get away with evil, the occurrence of evil deeds increases. What is best, the preacher reminds us, is for persons to fear God first and last, because there will be a day of reckoning for all who do evil In the meantime, the wicked can get treated like the righteous and the righteous like the wicked. In the meantime. We now come to the final lesson concerning submission to authority. To learn it well, we turn to the Gospel of Mark chapter 4. I read from verses 26 through 29. And Jesus said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. and should sleep by night and rise by day, and the seed should sprout and grow. He himself does not know how For the earth yields crops by itself, first the blade, then the head, after that the full grain in the head. But when the grain ripens, immediately he puts in the sickle because the harvest has come. Now the connection between these two passages may not be immediately obvious. But hopefully you will see it in the end. The parable is peculiar to Mark's gospel. It is a parable that teaches us how the kingdom of God works. Because as believers in Jesus, we are part of God's kingdom, he gives us insights regarding how it is governed. From this parable, we learn what we can do and what we cannot do in God's kingdom, and we learn what we can know and what we cannot know. First, what we can do is cast seed upon the ground. The seed, we know, is God's Word. The seed is the truth that Jesus is the Son of God and the Savior of the world. God has chosen for each and every one of us to be planters of such seed. The ground in the parable is the hearts and lives of our fellow human beings who have fallen away from God's truth and are in need of new life. We are to provide the Word of God to the lives of people we encounter in this world so that they can grow new life. Each of us is given holy orders to plant the seed wherever we go Each of us has a sacred service, and that we are to be given access to people that God places in our lives that we might plant the seed of God in them. This is within our capacity to do, and we are to be about doing it. And then there comes what we cannot do. We cannot make the seed ourselves. It has to be given to us. It has to come from elsewhere and not ourselves, for we cannot manufacture it The seed is not born of a man, nor produced by man, but must come from God. We are to be stewards of the seed, but stewards only I recently read some quotes by a left of Orthodoxy pastor within a certainly more liberal church. Who thinks himself to be quite clever in asking such provocative questions such as, what if Mary, the mother of Jesus, wasn't technically a virgin? Would that change your love for Jesus? Or what if Jonah wasn't actually swallowed by a great fish? Would that affect your trust in Holy Scripture? The questioner is trying to get to the heart of why we believe what we believe, to show, I suppose. That there are many things that are not at the core of what we believe, and such shouldn't be treated the same as what is essential of the faith. From this preacher's perspective, such questions are completely out of place. For the questioner does not appreciate Does not appreciate that to know such a thing as Mary being a virgin when she gave birth to the Christ child is by revelation Revelation, not by our imagination, and we are privileged to know it and privileged to confess it It is true that a Christian's faith in Jesus as Savior is not dependent upon the virginity of Mary. The virginity of Mary is a part of what is revealed in God's truth and is never separated for who Jesus is. We don't need to invent questions, for we do not invent what is revealed to us. It was given to us just as all parts of the gospel, the seed, were given to us. The next thing we cannot do, along with not making the seed, is that we cannot cause life to grow where the seed is planted. This is clearly seen in our gospel reading where we have an older son and a newer son, and each of them respond completely different to the news of God's grace. We might think we can cause life to grow where the seed is planted. We might think we can cause something to grow because of what we do to the soil or how we water the plant But in truth, we are only aiding it to grow, not causing it to grow. For a plant to grow, it is dependent upon that which no man can supply We cannot cause it to germinate, to sprout, to grow leaves, to change color, or to ripen. Modern men and modern churches do not agree with what I have just described. They believe they can make seed grow. They believe they have the skill and power to grow the gospel in the hearts and lives of people. And so they market the seed. They treat it like it is a product to sell on Fifth Avenue. They use the wisdom of the world, and they appeal to the flesh in order for the seed to be purchased. They put the seed to popular music. They surround it with coffee shops. They package it in young verbiage. They say it will make you wealthy, healthy, and happy. But the seed can't be born of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor by human decision. It can only be born of God. If anything does grow from what modern men manufacture, it is either weakly ill or malformed. It is something that is dependent upon being repeatedly fed with what caused it to grow in the first place. If it was born by entertainment, then it always wants to be entertained. If it was born by high emotions, it always wants another emotional high. In the end, things that grow in such manners go the way of the grass withering and the flowers fading. Alongside of what we cannot do is what we cannot know. The heavenly seed grows in secret. We cannot know the heart of another man or woman. We barely know of our own hearts. We cannot fathom why a seed would grow so readily and willingly in one heart and not another We cannot come close to correctly identifying why one man can eagerly receive the Word of God and another man scowl at the preacher and mock everything he says. Like Samuel, we expect the oldest and the strongest of Jesse's sons to be the next king. We expect that what we see on the outside is what is going on on the inside. Have you ever heard someone say of another individual, gee, he sure would make a great Christian? I don't believe people are thinking clearly when they say such things. Oh, yes, I know what they are trying to say They're trying to say that a person who has gifts such as public speaking or intellectual reasoning would provide God's kingdom with great assets. But this type of reasoning is also not thinking clearly, for God has a record of choosing poor speakers like Moses and common intellects like Peter to build his kingdom And I ask you just what person wouldn't make a great Christian? That is probably a question that shouldn't be answered. The reality that we cannot know certain things about the kingdom of God is quite unnerving to some people, perhaps all people. In my pastoral role, I confirm to people going through trials that nothing happens to us by chance, and because of that we can trust that God has greater reasons for what we suffer through. The difficult question to answer, and the question will inevitably come is to understand what God's reasons are right now. A person going through a grave trial wants to know right now what God's reasons are And even though I am anointed to teach and preach God's word and give words of counsel and wisdom, I cannot answer such a question. I can only project that in the future days you will be able to look back and to see what God was doing. I trust that is the case. But the truth is there are things beyond our ability to know right now. And so, what do we do with the knowledge that there are things in our lives we cannot control or know? Here is the lesson of the parable and the lesson of Ecclesiastes 8. We accept it by faith. We accept the fact that there are things we can neither control nor understand. There are things done only by God, and there is knowledge only known by God. We accept it by faith. We have faith in the Lord Jesus, that He has us in His will. That he will make all things work together for the good, that he will never leave us or forsake us. That at the end of it all we will walk streets of gold and live in mansions made in heaven. Faith in such things is the foundation of what it means to be Christian. We accept the fact that there are things we cannot control or know, and we accept it by faith. And what does God do with such faith? Well, again, go back to the parable Although no one knows how it happens, we are to understand and be assured that there will be a crop, a crop that grows, and it will grow until it is fully ripened, and when it is fully ripened, it will be harvested. For us to be harvested is to be taken home, home to heaven. Thus we can say, in every trial There is at least one purpose God has, and we can know it right now. It is for us to be harvested, for us to be taken home to heaven. From the perspective of the preacher of Ecclesiastes, it is good, good to enjoy what we can of this life, because there are many things that we cannot understand. And it is futile to try. He says, so drink out. Eat, drink, and be merry. This advice is fine, at least in terms of moderation, as long as we have faith, faith to accept that moments of enjoyment in this world are to give us a little taste. Of what we have to look forward to in heaven. My family, like your family Has had to accept over the years that there are things in life that we cannot control and we cannot know fully It is tempting to try to fully control and to fully know. We can try to control things by surgery, procedures, treatments, counsel. We can think we know things by looking at recovery percentages and medical advances, all that might give us a sense of hope. But in truth, we control nothing and we know nothing. Only God is truly in control. Only God knows all things. And only in God are we to place our hope. And because he is the first and the last, the beginning and the end, and because all things have been placed in subjection under his feet. Placing our hope in God alone, in Jesus the Savior, is a privileged thing to do. May we have faith. May we have faith to be comforted that He alone controls and knows all things. The true masculine one will have his way. Beloved, I do want to say this before I close. As we prepare to receive the elements of Holy Communion, Please know that there is a reason, a deep spiritual reason Why the last supper scene was mocked at the opening ceremonies for today's Olympics in France There's a reason why they went there. The devil hates what we are about to do, and so he mocks it, thinking we will shy away from it. On the contrary, we boldly approach the table of our Lord, because in receiving it we proclaim Jesus' death until he comes. Amen.