In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you to turn to Revelation chapter 16 We read through a short portion of the chapter, but we will be covering the entire chapter, so being in the Word following along will be helpful for you. We get lost a bit in Revelation. There are some weeds to to walk through, to be sure. But follow along with me if you would. I have interpreted the book of Revelation in a particular way. And that way is different than what has been popular in books and even movies that uh present a particular understanding of the end I have argued that the events described are primarily symbolic, and that the symbolisms enable us to apply John's vision to every historic context the New Testament church uh since the New Testament church began have also taught that the events described are not necessarily chronological. John's vision includes things that have happened, were happening and are happening today and will happen in the near future and in the distant future. We were told in chapter 15 that the final plagues of the judgment upon the wicked were about to be described. In chapter 16, we have the description of the plagues, but it is important, if not necessary, to notice that the seven bowls of wrath have an uncanny resemblance to the judgment that occurred at the blowing of the seven trumpets in chapters eight and nine. The resemblance has led many scholars to conclude that the bowls of wrath are a recapitulation of what has already been foretold in the trumpets and in the seals that were broken by the lamb. In other words, the judgments at the breaking of the seven seals are the same judgments at the blowing of the seven trumpets, which are the same judgments in the seven bowls of wrath. And I have a theory as to why the interpretation I put forward is not popular. First of all, there is no identifiable timeline. If most of what we read in John's vision is symbolic and not chronological then we cannot get a handle on what the exact indicators of Jesus' return will be, and people love those indicators Second, most of us like to have things neat and tidy. Those who put forth an interpretation that identifies particular signs being fulfilled followed by a rapture, followed by a period of tribulation, followed by a thousand-year reign, and then final judgment, have everything neatly categorized. We can follow such a chart and imagine how it will all unfold. Thirdly, Modern man likes the idea that a particular book of the Bible was written primarily for their day and for their age. We are generational-centric, which is to think that a book written 2,000 years ago was written just for the people in my generation. But the truth is, most of the New Testament is addressed to churches and people that have long since passed. If we read the revelation as being future-oriented, then it means that it was written specifically for us. My interpretation has it written for Christians of every age, and that does not make us modern Christians feel special. Setting that point aside, my main point is that any interpretation of John's vision cannot avoid acknowledging the similarities between the judgments that follow the seven trumpets and the judgments from the bowls of wrath here in Revelation 16. The first bowl of wrath is specifically directed upon those who worship the beast. The punishment is for them. It is a punishment that does not have a finality. It consists of sores, and those sores are for the purpose of hurting and making miserable those who are guilty of false worship. The second bowl is poured out upon the sea, and the sea is made of as blood We remember that when the second trumpet was blown, one third of the sea was made blood, and one-third of the creatures of the sea died. The bowl of wrath here increases the death toll for the life of every living being in the sea is taken. The third bowl is poured upon the rivers and fresh water reserves. When the third trumpet was blown, one-third of the rivers were made bitter. Here again, we have the bowl of wrath increasing the extent of God's judgment. No river or fresh water is spared One third of the trumpets, all of it with the bowls. The angels' verse or song following this judgment reveals a principle of God's judgment That Dante captures well in his Divine Comedy. That principle is judgment fitting the sin. God turns fresh water into blood because of the blood of the innocent, or the blood of the prophets that was shed by the guilty on earth In other words, God is saying: if it is blood that they want, blood they shall have. They shall have it to the point of their own suffering and their own demise. There is no response, of course, to this pronounced judgment. Who can say that it is not fair? Who can claim it is undeserved? The fourth bull of wrath affects the sun. The sun becomes an enemy or punisher of men. The response of those who suffer by the sun reveals their rebellious hearts. Instead of crying out to God for mercy, they curse his name. They have given themselves over to evil, and it is evil that controls them. You remember when the fourth trumpet was blown, one-third of the sun was smitten, and a third of the day was darkened. At that time, men longed for more light. And here, with the bowl of wrath, now the light punishes them. The fifth bowl brings about judgment upon the beast specifically. His kingdom is placed in darkness. The darkness represents its powerlessness before the light of the world. The people can no longer look to the beast or to any leader or any false god for comfort. They can only wallow in their suffering as they continue to curse God. Again, remember when the fourth trumpet was blown, stars from the heaven fell into the abyss. Men could no longer find direction from signs in the heavens. They attempt to seek death to avoid suffering on earth, but death eludes them. This is how we know The suffering is great when men seek death to be relieved of the suffering in this life. The sixth bowl dries up the rivers the river of Euphrates. Euphrates was the river that all of God's enemies crossed. to reach the promised land. It is also the name of the river that ran through the Garden of Eden. When the Sixth Trumpets blew, armies from the east crossed over the Euphrates and destroyed one-third of the population of man. Now, at the pouring out of the bowl of wrath, the way is made easy, made easy for the armies of wrath to cross over and destroy all persons that are left. What happens next is also similar to what is described before the blowing of the seven trumpets. You should recall an interlude we studied between the sixth and seventh trumpet that described two witnesses coming forth. Here Between the sixth and seventh bowl of wrath, we have three witnesses coming forth in the form of frogs. They come with miraculous signs to deceive as many as possible in order to form an army to engage the God of all creation one last time. This is the devil's last gasp for survival. This is the Armageddon. The Armageddon we hear so much about, that the announcement of this last battle, the battle at Armageddon, Jesus says, Behold, I come like a thief. Blessed is he who stays awake and keeps his clothes with him, so that he may not go naked and be shamefully exposed. Clothes or garments he speaks of are those that are given to every Christian. It is a garment of righteousness. It is a sign of the fervent love of God for each of his people. Because of the description of Jesus coming as a thief, It's the same warning he gave to his disciples. And because of the blessing of being clothed in righteousness, we can conclude that Christians are included in this great battle in Armageddon. They have not experienced a rapture which would put them at a distance while watching the end of the world unfold like we were all spectators. No, in this depiction they are involved. And I would say this involvement is not something to be frightened about. If we are part of such a great scene, it should be in our mindset to do our part, just as our brothers and sisters in Christ have done their part down through the ages. The seventh bowl is finality. The content of the bowl is poured out on the air. The air encompasses all of creation, and therefore, all of creation is affected by the last bowl. The announcement that it is done is similar to Jesus who said it is finished The content of the bowl stirs up the foundation of the earth. It shakes apart the core of the earth The great city that becomes the focus of the last furious wrath of God is Babylon We discussed a few weeks ago that Babylon is a name given to all cities that persecute the people of God. It is a city that symbolizes enity between God and the principalities and powers of this world. Babylon is any city. It is every city that comes against the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. The Savior of the world. God has special judgment for such cities, for such nations that have set their hearts against him. He has for them a cup filled with the wine of fury. It is a fury that will consume and it will reach every portion of their being. The wine represents a covenant drink of their condemnation. The devastation from God's wrath will be palpable. It will be experienced by all of man's senses And what men will see will have never been seen before and it will never be seen again. Islands will be overwhelmed by the sea. Mountains will be flattened like prairies. The sky will give up hail storms, a hundred pounds each, and this hail will fall upon men, crushing them where they rest and where they run. In comparison, we remember that when the seventh trumpet is blown, there is an earthquake And a great hailstorm, but the details of the effect of both the earthquake and the hailstorm hailstorm are not given And this leads us to ponder whether the events orchestrated by the seventh trumpet are the same as those started at the pouring of each bowl of wrath. The numbering there is the same. The primary judgment is the same. What is not the same is the extent of each judgment and the detail provided by John. Some authors conclude that the visions after the blowing of each trumpet were shadows, shadows of clearer vision revealed of the same scenes at the pouring out of each bowl. And I can accept that interpretation to a point. What I believe is provided to us involves a little more in regards to the purpose. Of the vision, the trumpets versus the bowls. To understand the bowls of wrath in relation to the trumpets blown, We can go to passages such as our gospel reading from this morning from Luke chapter 13. In that passage, Jesus prior It's being told about the Galileans who suffered under Pilate, who were killed While they were giving an offering to the Lord. And then Jesus mentions the falling of the tower at Siloam. We don't know all the details of that, but obviously a tower in Siloam fell. people died. And Jesus taught his disciples at that moment that they were to read those events as a sign, a sign of God's judgment. Jesus then explains that those who were killed by Pilate and those who were killed by that accident are all examples of judgment to come. Jesus used the example of murder and catastrophe to remind his disciples that there is a much harsher and more extensive judgment to come. Unless a man repent, so the warning tells us, much worse than Pilate murdering or a collapsing of a tower will be visited upon the guilty. This warning is implied in the seven trumpets and the seven bowls of wrath as well. The destruction that occurs at the blowing of each trumpet has numerical limitations. One-third, and so forth. It is one-third of the sea that turns to blood. One-third of the creatures of the sea that are killed. Torture lasts five months. The limitations or boundaries placed upon those judgments is to be compared to the full force of God's fury that comes with the pouring out of each bowl of wrath. God's judgment there is not limited. Not limited when the wrath is poured out. No longer will there be boundaries. It is quite likely that what we are to conclude from the difference, the difference between the judgment of God at the blowing of the trumpets and the judgment of the bulls at the pouring out of God's wrath. It's that those judgments that are limited or have boundaries are warnings. Warnings of the great and final judgment to come. When the seas are contaminated so that creatures die, do we understand and speak about them only in terms of nature running its course? Or accidents by men and fail to see the hand of God as a warning When disease strikes hundreds of thousands, do we believe the reports that more money needs to be spent on research or development of drugs or vaccines? That would cure or prevent disease, and not see the right hand of God's judgment upon the immoral again as a warning. When earthquakes destroy buildings, when hurricanes wipe out cities, when famine strikes a land, do we see these as merely natural disasters? Meaning that these catastrophes are expected because man is subject to the whims of nature? Or do we acknowledge that the God who created and sustains all that is Controls the wind, controls the waves, and thus warns his creatures of his wrath to come that has no boundaries. Let us confess that usually our stomachs are not up for such acknowledgement. We notice, do we not, those who seemingly have done nothing wrong, who contract a deadly disease? We witness families and homes like our own, torn up and displaced, and we wonder, what have they done to deserve such suffering? The answer to those questions is the same Jesus gave to his disciples in Luke chapter 13. Those people are like us. And unless we repent, we will suffer even worse fate. The pain and suffering we see happening around us, whether it is caused by neglect of man or the powers of nature, Are all the result of trumpets being blown. These trumpets warn us of the bowls of wrath to come And after the bowls are poured, there is no more opportunity to repent. We know all too well the reaction of our fellow citizens now twenty-two years ago when the towers in New York collapsed People went to church to pray. They were more kind and thoughtful of their neighbors on the street. They took 9-11 as a warning, at least for a time. But soon they went back to their self-absorbed lives, and it was like it never happened. When the threat or crisis was over, so was their need for God and their need for their neighbor in their lives. Have you ever done that? Have you ever increased your presence at church? Increased your time in prayer? Increased your time in Bible study? Increased your giving? When you were in crisis, and then when the emotions caused by the crisis dissipated, did you go back to doing what you would rather be doing? For shame, for shame. The bowls of God's wrath are an increase From the wrath of his judgment at the blowing of each trumpet. Meaning that the blowing of each trumpet was a warning of the final wrath to come. The increase of God's wrath poured out of the bowls is a warning to us all that it will get worse If you do not know Christ this day as your Savior and Lord, be firmly warned If you claim to be Christian, but you are half-assing it with living out your faith, be firmly warned. And you who are more concerned that the preacher used the phrase half-assing from the pulpit, more than you are concerned about people repenting, be warned. If you do know Jesus, but you are playing with sin like a child plays with his favorite toy, be warned. Be warned and turn to the only one who can save your soul. Be warned by the trumpets that blow in light. So that you will be surely prepared for the bowls of the wrath to come. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly father, we now take this revelation seriously, for each and every generation has Trumpets blown, warnings of your bowls of wrath to come. May each of us in this hearing repent And turn and know that there is a greater life to be had. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen