In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to Luke chapter four, we pick up at verse sixteen And we're gonna be going beyond what was read, so uh follow along as you are able. Uh Might sound obvious, but it's not to many. Stating your opinion is not truth telling I find it necessary in marital counseling to remind couples that when you state your opinion, you are not virtuous because you think your opinion is telling truth. When a wife asks her husband if she looks chubby in a particular dress, the husband is not a virtuous truth-teller when he states his opinion that yes, she looks chubby. Neither is a wife a virtuous truth-teller when she tells her husband that she wishes he made more money. While such statements are truth in that they express a person's opinion, they are not objective truth, and they are also not kind and for the man's part not very wise. Which should matter more, being kind and wise. Love, as the scripture says, is kind. In contrast, Jesus didn't confess opinions. He confessed truth. He was true, and what he said was true, and it was objectively true, and it needed to be said. This is the third installment in our series, Thinking Like Jesus. And today we are looking at how Jesus Thought that hard words need to be spoken. Jesus spoke hard words But they were necessary hard words. People needed to hear them. You and I need to hear them, and we need to hear them again and again. Hard words confront. Hard words cause conflict. People get offended by hard words. But hard words give opportunity to change. Stop having sex with that woman who is not your wife. Hard words. They are hard because they address another person's personal behavior. What busin business is it of mine to tell another person to stop committing adultery? None, other than to help stop such a person from going to hell, which is where adulterers go. Hard words again. Addressing the subject of people being judged because of their sin and judged harshly makes people uncomfortable. Some people get uncomfortable even when the charge sin doesn't apply to them. They don't like the confrontation. So they don't like hard words in any form. But soft words don't save. Jesus didn't say to the woman caught in adultery, Go and sin no more, or keep on doing what you desire, it's all the same. Instead, he said, go and sin no more, and he meant it. Sin truly does have consequences, and when a person continues in his or her sin with no repentance, with no forgiveness, then hell is their destination. Hard words. Again, many people don't like hard words. The way modern the modern media presents this current cultural climate, it appears that most people don't like hard words. The same people, they like their own words, of course, but not opposing words. Opposing words are hard words for the sensitive Posing words hurt even before they're uttered. Don't even try, they say. I've been thinking about the manner Jesus responded to political and social uprisings of his day. And there were a lot of them. Barabbas, the man released instead of Jesus, is believed to have been part of a group of rebels who attacked Roman soldiers. The Jews hated Roman occupation of Jerusalem. They hated to pay taxes to Caesar. They hated being treated as second class, for they did not receive justice before the Roman courts unless they were Roman citizens. They hated their Roman occupiers so much that a rebellion took place that led to 1. 1 million. Catch that number. 1. 1 million Jews being killed by the Romans During the siege of Jerusalem, just 40 years after Jesus walked this earth. Jesus saw their anger He saw the anger of his fellow Jews. He heard their disillusionment. He prophesied about the fall of Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple. But he did nothing to support or discourage the rebellion. And why do you think that was? It was because he was about his father's business. It was because he was commissioned by the Heavenly Father to speak hard words about the kingdom of God. And that is what he did. In our text, Jesus has come back from the desert, having been tempted in all ways by the devil, and having not sinned, he comes back to Nazareth. The town in which he was raised. His custom was to attend services at the local synagogue. He went to church. It was his custom. It was what he did on a scheduled basis. Whether he was asked to read or whether it was his turn to read or whether he was a regular reader, we don't know. We're not told. But in the service, he read the holy scriptures, which is what was done and is still done in the synagogue. He chose a passage that day, and it was a passage from Isaiah chapter 61, verses 1 and 2. The passage Sounds like a personal statement by Isaiah speaking about himself. Jesus reads it and sits down. Now don't put our present setup in your mental image of that scene. Jesus didn't read and then go back and sit in a pew. Synagogues were made with a table or podium to place the sacred scrolls and to read them, and next to that setup To the side was a seat called the seat of Moses, a chair called the seat of Moses. It was from there that a teacher would teach in reference to the text read. Jesus sat down at the seat of Moses in the synagogue that he frequented in his hometown, and he said, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. His clear meaning is that Isaiah was talking about him. He also went on teaching. And we can infer this by the for the text says that the people marveled at the gracious words that came out of his mouth. Well, let us look more closely to the words from Isaiah that describe Jesus. We are told that the Spirit is upon him. He was particularly anointed for the particular task of preaching, teaching, and sacrificing. It was his task alone, and he was empowered by the third person of the Trinity to do it. Jesus was anointed to preach the good news of his offered forgiveness of sin and the promise of eternal life in heaven to the poor. The poor were the least respected in both Jewish and Roman communities. The poor were the humble. They were poor in spirit as well as pocket money. They knew they needed a Savior, and Jesus wanted them to be his disciples. Jesus also came to heal the brokenhearted. The brokenhearted are also humble. They too know that they need a savior, for the world has been harsh on them. They don't know where to turn for help. Jesus offers his love, his forgiveness, his hope to them. He and he only can heal them from their brokenness. The captives. The captives are those caught in sin. They cannot free themselves. They are the addicts. They are the desperate. They are the deceived. They think their sinful lifestyle is their only choice. Jesus came to them so that they could be free from the lies that they have believed. Then there are the blind, and there are the literal blind. And we know Jesus healed blind people. But the blind are also those who don't see their sin. They are the older sibling in the parable of the prodigal son, which was so well preached last week. They think they are in good standing before God, but they are deceived. Jesus came to help them see the truth, and for them to respond to the truth by way of repentance and having faith in Him as their Savior. Then there are the oppressed. That may be a reference to a political concern by Jesus. But no. No. Jesus recognized that there were people in his day that were politically oppressed, no question. But his answer for them was that they could find liberty in having faith and trust in him Rather than in a political system, Jesus has set many a person free in spirit and in truth who remained politically oppressed. Finally, Jesus was present at the acceptable year of the Lord. It was the year that God had chosen to reveal himself in the person of Jesus. It was a time like no other. It was a time to be seized. At first, as is described, the people in the synagogue took kindly to the teachings of Jesus, but it didn't last. He started on hard words. What those exact words were, we are not told, but the response of the people reveals that they were hard words. They started to say to one another, hey. Isn't this guy the same guy we see each Saturday who comes from a lower-class family who is just like us? Certainly no better. Who is he to be teaching in this manner? What authority does he have that we do not have to interpret the sacred texts? Jesus sees the change in the people. He knows their hearts, and so he addresses it. He says hard words. He continues to speak hard words that address the heart condition of the people. They wanted miracle proof. But even with miracles, they would not believe. The situation was a proverb being lived out. Those closest to a prophet, those who have known him since he was a young lad, they cannot accept that God has called him to a greater task. They only see a little boy with a runny nose. And so they reject him. Jesus accepted this, but not without warning. He continued with hard words. He warned them of their foolish ways by way of example in the sacred text, where Elijah is said to have chosen one widow instead of the possible many to know the truth about his power. And then there was Elisha, who healed but only one leper, because the rest did not believe and obey. Such is the case with so very, very many people who have heard the truth over so many years since the days of Jesus. But do not, did not believe. Well, the warning given by Jesus was not received well The synagogue gathering turned into a broo-ha-ha as they drove Jesus out of the meeting house and tried to throw him off a cliff. All because of hard words. But it was not the time for Jesus to die. There were more hard words that need to be spoken. So he was able to free himself from them and walk past them by the power of God. Jesus thought it important to speak hard words. He said that we are to be holy as his heavenly father is holy. Hard words. Hard standard. Who can live up to that? No one by themselves. Only in Jesus can we be holy. Jesus said that lust and hate begin in the heart. Hard words. If they begin in the heart, they are a product of us. And thus, when we commit sin, we are responsible. We need clean hearts. We can only have clean hearts if the blood of Jesus cleans them. Jesus said to his followers, You must hate your father and mother and brother and sister, wife and children, yes, even your own life. Hard words. But Jesus knows how easily we humans can place anything and everything in front of God. Unless we are conscientiously putting him first, we will repeatedly break the first commandment. Too many parents have adjusted their morality based on the behavior of the lifestyle of their children. That is what happens when you don't love God first. Hard words, but true words. Words that need to be spoken, heard, and lived Gay is not okay when your son or daughter or friends say they are gay. Hard words. Fornication is not okay when your son wants to move in with his girlfriend. Hard words. Truth does not become subjective because your daughter took a class in philosophy while away at college, and now you have to accept her brainwashed, woke ideas in order to have a relationship with her. More hard words. You ask, why do I focus on parent and child relationships from the hard words of Jesus? It is because I know too many stories. Jesus said the first must be last and the last first. He said the same thing when he said that his followers must pick up their own cross and follow him. He said the same thing when he said that a person who tries to save his own life will lose it, and that a person who tries to lose his life will find it in the end. Hard words. But such words don't match the spirit of our age. Such words go against being told to get what is yours. Or to do what is best for you, or that your earthly happiness is what is most important. Hard words. Jesus said to Peter, get thee behind me, Satan. Hard words. Personal hard words. But Peter was only trying to prevent Jesus from getting harmed. Peter had good intentions. No. No. Peter had earthly intentions. Peter said what his emotions told him to say. Peter became a mouthpiece for the devil when he wanted to preserve Jesus in this life, in exchange for what Jesus would accomplish for eternal life. The hard words of Jesus snapped Peter out of the fog of only considering this life as opposed to the life to come. What words? What words does Jesus need to speak to you to snap you out of your concern to preserve this life as opposed to the life to come? Whatever those words are, they are hard words, and they are needed words. To think like Jesus, we need to receive hard words. Jesus said, Many are called, but few are chosen. He said the same when he said that the road to hell is wide and many travel on it. While the road to heaven is narrow with few traveling on it. Hard words. It is much easier to think of the gospel of Jesus as free love and wide roads and easy travel. But no. It is a road that few travel upon because it takes great courage, sacrifice, and faith, because the rewards in this life are few. To think like Jesus, you have to have faith that everything you give up in this life will be rewarded for eternity, with no earthly evidential proof of it being true. Well, no proof that we presently see. I started this sermon addressing the subject of opinions not being objective truth. I did so because with the hard words of Jesus we could interpret and apply what he said like a Pharisee would. We could treat his hard words as if they are specific laws that must be followed. But the hard words of Jesus Are not regulations such as not being able to walk past half a mile on the Sabbath? They're words that look to govern the heart. Only you and God know whether you are lusting, hating, coveting, or loving your children more than God. Only you and God know if you believe without seeing and have hope without knowing. To think like Jesus. We have to want to hear hard words. We need to want to obey hard words. We need to want the preacher to say hard words. And we need to want to say them ourselves if given the opportunity. No, there is no guarantee that people will believe the hard words that you say Many more people have rejected the hard words of Jesus than have accepted them. That truth is also a hard word. But the words still need to be said and still need to be received by us. So let us think like Jesus. Wanting to hear, wanting to receive, wanting to speak hard words. For the kingdom of God, the kingdom of God is at hand. Let us pray. Our God, we are humbled by the reality that for all of us There are hard words to take, hard words to hear, hard words to process, and yet we want to think like Jesus. We want to receive them, we want to hear them, we want to obey them. Father, help our weaknesses, help our unbelief. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.