Now that we need to have a lot, you want to be able to do that. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in Hebrews chapter eight, working through verse one through six. I begin With the following dialogue from a movie. And I'm not endorsing the movie. Gotta be careful with that. You see it, see it through the television version The movie title is Planes, Trains and Automobiles. It starred Steve Martin and John Candy. The basic plot of the story, two guys are trying to get home for Thanksgiving. Only everything that could go wrong does go wrong. And so they have to work together to uh Use various forms of transportation to get home. In a scene toward the middle of the movie, Steve Martin's character is fed up with John Candy's character Resulting in a tongue-lashing by Steve Martin. John Candy's character is named Dale Griffith, and the following are Steve Martin's lines He says, you got a free cab, a free room, and someone who will listen to your boring stories. Didn't you notice on the plane when you started talking, I started reading the vomit bag? Didn't that give you some clue that this guy's not enjoying it Everything's not an anecdote. You have to discriminate. You choose things that are funny or mildly amusing or interesting. You're a miracle. Your stories have none of that. They're not even amusing accidentally. Honey, meet Del Griffith He's got some amusing anecdotes. Here's a gun so that you can blow your brains out. You'll thank me for it later. I could tolerate any insurance seminar for days. I could listen to them go on and on. They'd say, how can you stand it? And I'd say, because I've been with Dale Griffith, I can take anything You know what they say? I know what you mean, the shower curtain guy? It's like going on a date with a chatty Kathy doll There should be a string on your chest that I pull. Except I wouldn't pull it out. You would. Ah ah ah ah By the way, when you're telling these stories, here's a good idea. Have a point. It makes it so much more interesting for the listeners. Those lines are something similar to what many people would like to say when someone starts a story that doesn't seem to have an off-ramp. And the FYI, the writers of the movie, do a good job of getting the viewers to feel sorry for Del Griffith after he is berated and And yes, E. Barton's character apologizes for what he said, and all is eventually forgiven The point of me quoting movie lines is because of how the Hebrew preacher gets to the point after taking a few detours of his explanation of how Jesus is our high priest. You have noticed, I trust, that we skipped all of chapter 7 of the Hebrew Sermon, and we did so because at the beginning of chapter 8 The chief point of chapter 7 is stated. All that was said in chapter 7 is to lead up. to the main point, which is that Jesus is our high priest, and that is a very, very good thing. There is great importance for us as Christians to understand Jesus as our high priest. For Hebrew Christians, the importance is heightened because they knew the law of God and that it required a high priest to be the only person eligible to offer an atoning sacrifice. We heard earlier in this sermon to the Hebrew Christians that Jesus is that high priest. in the order of Melchizedek, as opposed to being of the line of Aaron, and that Jesus was himself the atoning sacrifice. In chapter 7, we are told how Jesus is of the order of Melchizedek. The preacher reminds us of the story in Genesis Where Abraham goes to battle against tribes who had taken his nephew Lot for hostage. God gave Abraham a great victory over his enemies. And while he returned home from the battle, he meets up with Melchizedek, who is called there King of Salem, while also being referred to as a priest to whom offering is given. This is the first and only mention of Melchizedek in a biblical narrative. And the first mention of a priest of any type. The first mention. When the Hebrew preacher helps us see, what the Hebrew preacher helps us see is that the character of Melchizedek was a type of priestly king. He was a precursor, a type or a shadow of the priest king to come, who is of course Jesus of Nazareth. The argument next explains why being of the order of Melchizedek is superior to being of the order of Aaron. The genealogy of Aaron is of the tribe of Levi, and all priests were to be born of the line of Levi. What the preacher shows is that because Levi was of the loins of Abraham, who was Levi's great-grandfather, When Abraham paid a tithe offering to Melchizedek, it was as if Levi was making that offering payment. Making Melchizedek and his priesthood greater than that of Levi, including first high priest of the line of Aaron. Greater than those priests. And because of the change in the priesthood line, there is also a change in the law. For Jesus fulfilled the law both sacrificially and morally. Thus, there is no more need for a daily sacrifice offered, no need for an annual sacrifice on the Day of Atonement. Jesus satisfied all sacrificial needs, once for all. This gets us to the main point. Chapter 8, verse 1. We have a high priest. We have a priest that is of the greatest priestly order. And what is our priest, what is our priest doing? Right now, what is he doing? Verse 1 of chapter 8 says That our high priest is seated at the right hand of the majesty in heaven. Our high priest sits. Jesus is able to sit because his work is finished. He is able to sit because his work of overcoming sin and death is done, and he sits and waits to come again. Being seated means he is victorious. To be at the right hand of the Father means that Jesus is given the highest place of honor in heaven. And this is what we see in the book of Revelation, as Jesus sits enthroned on high, and all the elders surround him singing his praises, casting their crowns. After comparing the priesthood of Jesus to the human priesthood here on earth It is emphatically stated in verse 6 that the ministry of Jesus is more excellent in every way to that which was under the covenant of Moses. Jesus is mediator of a better covenant and better promises. But we need to stop there for a second. We cannot misinterpret what that means. Using words like more excellent or better. The preacher is not saying that the covenant and the promises are different. and superior, because they are separate from that which is of old. That would go against the teachings of Scripture elsewhere, that the new covenant being a fulfillment of the old And that Jesus Himself was the fulfillment of the old. He was that which with Abraham and Moses both saw in the future. Both saw in the future and had faith in it and trusted in it. So by using the more excellent, the better, the preacher is referring to a fulfillment or an apex of all that was being pointed to in the Old Testament. That's how it's better. That's how it's more excellent. Because it is established that Jesus is the superior high priest. And that means his ministry as mediator between God and man is superior, and nothing can be better We as followers need to increase our faith in Jesus as our mediator and the one who fulfills all the promises in which we put our trust. There is a problem with believers that I witness and I have a burden for regarding Some people who don't believe fully that Jesus is indeed mediating for them. And so we must start with an understanding of what it means for Jesus to mediate, intercede for us. In the first sense, Jesus is our mediator, and that he stands between us and the wrath of the Heavenly Father. Now let us not understand that to mean that God is angry and he needs to be held back before pulverizing us. But instead we are to know that God is a God of justice. And we are to know the Heavenly Father as a God who wants to separate our souls from the sin that entangles us and condemns us. That is why he sent his son so that we could be separated from sin and guilt So then Jesus as our mediator allows the Heavenly Father to have a relationship with us to where he calls us his children and we call him our Father So when there is a problem, when there are times we don't trust that God wants to forgive us and wants to heal us and wants us to be separated from our weaknesses The cause of that problem, the cause of our lack of faith, is us. The cause is our unbelief Consider this scenario. You are angry with someone, and you know that you should forgive this person, but you choose not to. You hold it within your heart and you hold it within your mind, bitterness toward this particular person. And then something happens in your life, such as your car won't start, and you have to have it towed And when you hear from the mechanic, he tells you that you are going to have to pay a few thousand dollars. And when you hear the news, you consider why such a difficult thing is happening to you And then you conclude that your difficulties are the result of you not forgiving that certain person you chose not to forgive, and you conclude that God is punishing you Such a scenario may not be yours specifically, but the principal parts are your story. You think that because you did something you know in your heart you should not have done, every troubling thing that happens after it must be God punishing you. What I say to such a line of thinking and concluding, I want to be very clear. God is not punishing you. That is not the God of Holy Scripture. If it were, then the suffering and death of Jesus was for no purpose. The truth of the gospel God has revealed in Jesus is that God forgives because Jesus paid the penalty for the sins of the whole world, and that means your sins and my sins. The only thing we have to do is repent by way of our mediator, Jesus, and in him and in him alone do we find forgiveness. And as stated, God wants to forgive you all of your sins. That is a major part of what it means for Jesus to intercede, to be our mediator. Our sins are not counted against us. Thanks be to God. I I know I I must say the caveat to the scenario I I just used. For God very well may use events in your life, events that are not pleasant to experience, to awaken your conscience about a sin from which you need to turn away from. That may happen. But again, such events are not punishments. They are calls upon our consciences, calls upon our souls that need to seek God and find freedom. Next, we can know that because Jesus is our mediator, our intercessor, our prayers are heard by the Godhead. And this is the point where we need to embrace our Protestant perspective. The Bible teaches us that we do not need an earthly mediator for God to hear us. We do not need a clergyman to speak God to speak to God on our behalf. We do not need an earthly priest when we have the high priest of heaven. You and I can speak to God in every moment of our lives, and God hears us whether we feel it or not And God not only hears us audibly, but he wants to hear from us as he wants to hear from Jesus, his son. Jesus has enabled by his life, death, and resurrection, ascension, enabled us to be heard by the Father and the Holy Spirit in his name. But these are some statements that I have heard from you over the years. Statements like, I don't know what to pray. The answer is, yes, you do. Jesus gave you precise words to pray. And once you pray what we call the Lord's Prayer and you don't know what else to say, we are even told that he hears our groans. The God of heaven hears our groans and the Holy Spirit interprets them. Or you can just talk to God like you would a good friend, because after all, He calls us friends. I have also heard, I don't like praying for myself. The answer to that, you need to get over that. You need to pray for yourself. And you could start by confessing your false humility. If Jesus prayed for himself, which he did, you need to pray for yourself I have also heard, I don't feel that God hears me. Answer to that: of course He hears you. He hears everything and he responds to everything done in the name of Jesus. What we feel is not relevant to what is objectively true. Feeling the presence of God is a blessing, but it is not what confirms God hearing or caring. I believe a most beautiful image is given to us, given to the church regarding prayer. It's from the book of Revelation, chapter 8. And it reads as following. And the angel of the Lord came and stood at the altar with a golden censor, and he was given much incense to offer with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before And the smoke of incense with the prayers of the saints rose before God from the hand of the angel. Then the angel took the censer and filled it with fire from the altar and threw it on the earth. And there were peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes of lightning, and an earthquake. Beloved, our prayers. Do not rise to the heavens only to dissipate into the atmosphere, but they are collected to be used by God to bring forth his kingdom now and in the future. This we are to believe as a conviction of things not seen. Believe that of your prayers. I wonder if any of you have heard of Rabbi Baruch Kahin. Rabbi Baruch Kahin. Almost two years ago, Rabbi Baruch Kahin was elected by the nascent Sanhedrin in Israel. To be the next high priest over Israel. The choice was made as a precaution That if political conditions would suddenly change and the Jewish people were allowed to worship on the Temple Mount The high priest could re-initiate the Day of Atonement sacrifices as the law of Moses requires. In fact, Rabbi Baruch Tahaim has been leading Israel in performing certain rituals according to the law of Moses, such as offering an omer or barley offering to God in the heart of the old city of Jerusalem Isn't that interesting? Isn't it curious? What if we witnessed in our lifetime Israel offering sacrifices in the temple once again? Well, it may be interesting, but it will mean nothing. It will mean nothing in terms of the fulfilled covenant God has accomplished in Jesus. You and I don't need Rabbi Baruch Kahin, regardless of how nice of a man he is. Jesus and only Jesus is the high priest that is needed. What is the point? So that it is more interesting for you, the listener. Jesus as our high priest stands before God as the one who offered himself so that justice is served and you do not have to be punished in this life or the life next That is the point. What is the point? Jesus, as our high priest, enables our prayers to be heard. We can talk to God. We can call God our Father because Jesus is our mediator. We can speak to God without a priest, without a rabbi, without a pastor. And those of you who struggle submitting to ecclesiastical authority, here is a place where you can embrace your individuality, for you have the ability to speak to God with no help from clergy. That is the point. What is the point? Jesus as our high priest means that no one can Not only can we talk to God, but we can know that our prayers are participating in His kingdom coming and His will being done. Our prayers by the authority of Jesus are incense in heaven and fire and storm on the earth. Our prayers. That is the point. What is the point? The curtain of the Holy of Holies, used to keep all worshippers but the high priest on one side and God on the other, that has been torn into. And we have direct access to God. All because Jesus is the true high priest and always was. That is the point. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father, we confess you today as our high priest. And that all that we offer unto you, especially ourselves, we have every confidence it is received by the Father, it is wanted by the Father because of you. High priest lead us. High priest, always be with us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.