In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Always appreciate reciting the Affination Creed. Thank the Lord we don't have to memorize it. So our second installment in the book of Proverbs. And thinking about the second epistle from John and the commandment once again to love one another. One of the most difficult, if not the most difficult aspect of loving one another is thinking the best of one another. Thinking the best of one another. It is both natural and habitual to question another person's motive about anything and everything. A person may ask us a question, and because we don't immediately understand the context of the question, we might wonder what the motive is behind the question. Why would he ask me that question? What is he trying to get at with that remark? The natural and habitual response of not trusting another person's motive is likely caused by the reality that we humans understand the importance of motive. We understand motive to be at the heart of who a person is I purposefully used the word heart in that last sentence to introduce you to the subject matter we will be exploring in this sermon from Proverbs. According to Strong's concordance, the word heart is used in the book of Proverbs 80 times. For you mathematicians, that means that the word occurs 2. 58 times on the average in each chapter of the book. So it's important The importance of our hearts is underlined by the teachings of Jesus. In the Sermon on the Mount, he explained that the heart is where sin begins. Thus, when you lust in your heart, you have already committed adultery. When you hate in the heart, you have already committed murder. And from a separate teaching moment, similar to our gospel reading from Mark chapter 7, verse 20 through 23, Jesus said, What comes out of a person is what defiles him, for from within, out of the heart of a man, come evil thoughts. sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, and foolishness All of these evil things come from within. They defile a person. And so sin is inside out. And therefore, the place of the heart, that place of the heart is to be protected, it is to be cultivated, it is to be strengthened. Matured, nurtured, given wisdom, built up with fortitude, and I run out of descriptives of how important it is to take care of our hearts. But what is the heart? How would you define the heart? Well, you and I tend to use the word heart to refer to our emotions. When we say that we feel something from the heart, that means that we really feel it. It might surprise some of you to hear For me to say that our heart really is our emotions. It has been said by some that I I disregard the importance of emotion in my preaching and my teaching, and so I may have But I would edit that opinion by pointing out that I focus my criticism on emotions that carry the day, not emotions themselves Getting back to the proper understanding of the word heart, the Bible uses the word to describe our emotions, indeed, our feelings. But it also uses it to describe our thinking, our minds. And then also our choosing or our wills. And so simply put, the heart is the mind, it is the emotions, it is the will of a person. In the Bible, when a person lacks inside or judgment, he is said to lack heart. The heart, in other words, thinks. But the heart also plans, the heart makes decisions, the heart renders judgment. The heart also feels In the book of Proverbs, we find that the heart has anxiety, the heart has bitterness, it has peace, it has good cheer, it's attracted to a beautiful woman, it envies, it loves, it hates. All of this is found in our heart. The heart, as commentator Bruce Watke described, is the center, quote. All of a person's emotional, intellectual, religious, moral activity. Some have called the heart, as used in the Bible, our core personality, our inner self. I like to say it is the very essence of who we are. Our heart. Who a person truly is. And when you take this definition of the heart and you place it back into the teachings of Jesus, where he warned against lust and against hate, you can see why those teachings are so dramatic. Persons who lust in the heart haven't simply noticed a pretty girl, but are giving their essence over to wanting something that is not holy, that is not right, that is not good. The person who hates is giving their very selves over to an emotion that only cares about destruction. Such persons are lost to God. Our definition of the heart also brings us back to the importance of our motivation. Motivations stem from the heart. Our motivations are who we truly are, and therefore they matter a great deal, why we do what we do. Let us now look at some samplings from Proverbs referring to the heart. This first one is from Proverbs 3, verse 1. He says, My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart, your heart, keep my commandments. In order to not forget the teachings of a father, the son must give himself toward duty. Commandments in the heart, when they're in the heart, those are the commandments that are not forgotten. And then from Proverbs 3, verse 5, you know this verse: trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. To trust in the Lord with a person's very essence, his or her true self, is to be given completely over to the Lord. And this is why the Christian life cannot be lukewarm about anything. Following Jesus is not a category in our lives that is practiced only at times It is not an instrument in our lives to be picked up and put down whenever it is seemingly needed or not needed. No. It is to be who we are at all times This verse is seen in the teachings of Jesus, who said, You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart. From this we can say that we are to love God with all that we truly are. Nothing less. From Proverbs 15 verse 13. A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow our heart of the Spirit is crushed. And here is a truth that we all know very well. When the heart is truly touched by whatever emotion it can be seen on our countenances A man or woman happy at their very essence cannot help but reveal their happiness in their face, excuse me, in their posture and their conversation. It comes out of them. naturally, organically, out of them. And the same is true for a man or woman who is hurt to the core. Such hurt is also seen in the face, in the posture, in the conversation. From Proverbs chapter 20, verse 9. A rhetorical question indeed. Who can say I have made my heart pure? I am clean from my sin. This is similar to the truth spoken in 1 Samuel. For the Lord sees not as man sees. Man looks at the outward, but the Lord looks upon the heart. This quote from Proverbs is a rhetorical question because no one can make his own heart pure. No one can clean his own heart of sin. It has to be done by another. It has to be done by the only one who can look upon the heart. From Proverbs chapter 21, verse 1. The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. And such is a helpful verse, for it teaches us that the events of the world that are seemingly controlled by men, whether they be good or bad, Are in truth controlled by the very one who created all things. Whenever you consider that you're worried about what men are doing in this world, what leaders, what choices they're making, and how it's affecting the world, all Always remember as we pray that the Lord has them in his hands, and he will turn them as he wills. And from Proverbs chapter 21, verse 2. Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the heart. This verse teaches us that we have a viewpoint, even of ourselves, and a viewpoint of the world that is not always helpful. We don't always see ourselves or the world as it is. I repeat what I have confessed before. I like you with every argument that I have when it's inside my head. But here is the reality. The Lord judges the heart of a person, and that judgment is the truth. And what the Lord weighs and what the Lord judges, he judges our motives. He cares about not just what we do, but why we do it. A Christian ought to know that he or she can be in the right for the wrong reason. For example, I could be in the right regarding a stand I take against a person gossiping. But my motivation could be that I don't want others to know what I said or what I did The gossip is wrong, but I am most concerned about other people knowing my sin. God knows that heart, and he condemns the motive. It is sin unto him. From Proverbs 27, verse 19. As in water, face reflects face. So the heart of man reflects man. Now here is a verse that verifies how we are defining this word heart. Remember, it's it's who we truly are. It is our emotions, our wills, our mental faculties, our very essence. What makes you you? It is our essence, and our essence is going to be revealed. It may take time, but our essence is going to be revealed, and that is to be good for Christians. It will be bad for some, but to be revealed is to be a good thing for Christians. And one might wonder how much issues of the heart are controlled by the wills of men. How much determination do we have over our own hearts? How much can we actually control when it comes to our own hearts? We first need to be reminded that a heart that does not know God is a heart that is dead to God. And thus that heart needs to be awakened. The Bible uses the metaphor of a circumcised heart to describe what needs to happen to a person who is still dead in their sins. The circumcision of the heart is the cutting away of what is dead to God and thus allowing a new, freshly beating heart to replace what was cold, what was hard, what was dead. And such cutting away only God can do. And so we are completely dependent upon Him to give us new hearts. And after our hearts are awakened, only after our hearts are awakened, then it is for us to care for our hearts. To see that they do not become diseased, clogged, strained, weakened, and near death. That's on us Here from Proverbs chapter 4, verse 20 and 21. Solomon says, My son, pay attention to what I say, turn your ear to my words, do not let them out of your sight, keep them. Within your heart. In these instructions, it is inferred that there is a place In place, the ability for God-fearing people to have control over their hearts, to pay attention and to keep words of wisdom within the heart is up to us And also inferred in this is a will. That is a choice we make or choices we make. We choose to pay attention. We choose to keep words of wisdom within our hearts. And so we accept this ability, we accept that we have a will to be stewards of our hearts, and therefore we must consider how to protect them. And what follows is the least of what we should be doing. The very first thing we need to do, to be stewards of our hearts. is to examine our hearts. Just as St. John taught us, you will remember those sermons. We are to be examining our love for one another, our doctrine, and our personal morality. And such examining is not a one-time procedure, of course. We are to be in the examining room on a regular basis. This is an insisting on an honest reckoning of ourselves to be sure that we are not just professing Christians but have a faith that is living, that we are an embodiment of Jesus Himself to the rest of the world. It sounds lofty. I know that that sounds lofty, but it is the only Christianity that the Bible knows. And to say this is simply to say that keeping the heart, keeping the heart is one way of saying the same thing that the Bible says. That we are to be growing in grace all of the time. A Christian keeps the heart by putting sins to death. Practicing faith, all in the heart. Keeping the heart is not something other than to practice the Christian life Taught throughout the Bible. There is no other type of Christianity, beloved. There's only one. And it gives all of the heart. The second thing we should be doing for our heart is protecting it, protecting it from all influences that would distract us. That would give us a wrong motive, that would change our priorities. This requires of us to stay away from things that promote bad habits, bad thoughts, and bad actions. The heart is influenced and shaped, formed by what we put before our senses. And we find that wisdom prominent in Proverbs, it is here for us in chapter 21 to verse 27, chapter 4. A man who keeps his heart listens to the right kind of instruction. Preserves the truth in his heart. He puts all devious talk from himself We are to be a people who make sure we are concentrating on the right things, keeping focus on the right things. That's what somebody does when he's guarding, keeping his heart. He's keeping out of his heart all the things that would damage it. Consider in chapter 5, verse 8. And there the father warns his son to keep his foot from the door of a wayward woman. Stay away from her and from her influence, lest in later life you will have to say, oh, how I hated discipline and how my heart despised reproof The wrong sort of influences will misshape the heart and it becomes hardened and it will stay that way. Well our society repeatedly debates the effects of pornography, violent movies. violent video games upon young people. They ask whether such images and portrayals cause minds and then actions to become perverted and more violent. For the Christians, that decision is already decided. If you want a pure heart, you can't look at pornography. Or give yourself to daydreams over sexual images. If you want a soft heart that doesn't think violently against others, you cannot be entertained by a celebration of violence You see, the matter is decided for the Christian. It's not a matter of mind or actions, but a matter of the heart. This principle also applies to matters of faith. If you want a believing heart, you cannot expose that heart constantly to unbelieving minds and unbelieving influences, unbelieving teachings. Unless you are able to refute every single one of them. This is how so many young Christians get led away from the Lord. They start to trust in their teachers who are non-believers, whether it be high school or college. They're swayed away from the truth by these charismatic teachers. As we spoke last week, a major choice in each of our lives is who we allow to influence us. The third thing we can do for our hearts is to feed and exercise them. What works for the body also works for the spirit. Remember the Apostle Paul saying that bodily training has some value, but the training of the heart The training of the heart that gives us eternal value. We feed our hearts by being in the Word of God. We read it daily, study it weekly, memorize it monthly, apply it always. We feed our hearts by prayer. Pray the Lord's Prayer daily. Pray the Psalms when you have no words yourself. Pray by talking to the Lord because He is always with you. We feed our hearts by being at corporate worship, religiously at corporate worship. Our hearts need to sing with the saints. Our hearts need to hear the prayers of others. Our hearts need to hear the gospel sermons. Our hearts need to taste the bread and wine. We need to be fed. And then after we get fed, we need to exercise. If you don't apply God's word, that's the exercising. If you don't apply God's word to your heart, you will become weak and you'll become flabby. You have to strengthen it by working it out, which means you have to have to work at being kind, you have to work at forgiving others, you have to work at getting away from the addictions of the flesh. You have to work at believing truth as God has revealed it. The Christian life, beloved, is not for whims. Finally, finally, remember that the Lord measures our lives by our hearts, by what is truly inside of us. He measures it by who we truly are, our very essence. Thus, we need to heed the call to protect our heart. Protect it from what will defile or weaken or distract it. We need to feed it. We need to train our hearts with our thoughts, with our feelings. We need to do all that is pleasing to the Lord for the sake of our hearts. Recall that the Tin Man and the Wizard of Oz didn't realize that the very fact that he wanted a heart meant that he had one. Before Christ was known to us, we didn't have one. Not one that beat for the Lord. But he gave us one. He gave us a new heart, to beat for him and to beat for eternity. It is then for us to protect, to feed, to exercise our hearts. To love our Lord our God with all of our heart, with all of who we are. Let us pray.