In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. You will be well served to turn in Mark chapter seven, starting at verse thirty-one, our gospel reading, Mark seven, verse thirty-one. Cindy. Cindy was faced with a dilemma. She was currently living with her mother, who was ill and bedridden And they were alone as her father passed away a few years prior. Her mother became so sick That she needed around the clock care. And they were finally able to find a nursing home that her insurance would pay for But with her mother moving out, Cindy would have to pay the rent for the current home in which they lived, and she could not afford it. The only option that she could see was to move in with her boyfriend. It made sense. They were practically engaged, which is practically being married, and they could more easily share the financial load together, so they did. They became roomies There was a problem, however. Both Cindy and her boyfriend claimed to be Christian. So, yes, their decision didn't reflect what they religiously claimed But their intent to be married someday seemed to allow their consciences not to be overburdened. And they concluded, they are saved by grace through faith. Their sins are covered by the blood of Jesus, and that includes their acts of fornication. Chris didn't have a dilemma at all. Chris had heard all his life that God was sovereign And that meant to him that it didn't matter what he did or didn't do, because God was in control, and there was nothing he could do or say that would change God's will. But Chris was in a rut. His life was mundane. His marriage was on life support. His kids were dabbling in sins of the flesh, experimenting with drugs and alcohol. Chris lived by the motto, let go and let go. And so he did. And nothing in his life changed. His marriage not only didn't get better, it got worse. And the distance relationally with his kids kept growing Chris began to see the Christian life as one false hope fading into another false hope until there was no more hope. Martha's life wasn't much better than Chris's. Her marriage was also on life support. Her children were also distant relationally from her. And her husband. But Martha wasn't going to just let go and let God. No, she believed in trying harder. If life wasn't the way you want it to be, just try harder. So she prayed harder. She read her Bible harder. She went to church harder. She worked on her marriage harder. She addressed her children harder. Unfortunately, no matter how harder Martha tried in all aspects of her life, her marriage didn't get better, and her children never drew closer to her. Either Christianity doesn't work, she concluded, or God has ceased to care for her. Now the first person I described, Cindy, who chose to live with her boyfriend, can be considered a nominalist. A nominalist doesn't necessarily equate ideas or doctrines with reality. As a Christian She can see that God's law condemns people who choose to live in sins such as adultery, but she can also conclude that such condemnation is an idea that doesn't result in anything real. Thus, Cindy doesn't need to fear God, but only appreciate his warnings. The second person described Chris Who just lets go and lets God, we can call a pacifist. Pacifists who are Christian Believe that the fate of the world, and thus their own personal fate, has been determined by God, and therefore there is nothing that they can do to alter that fate. So they do not need to take responsibility for their lives or the lives of those they are in relationship with. Thus, when such people like Chris live lives of despair, there is nothing they can see that can be done about it. Our last person, Martha, who just tries harder, can be called a moralist. Moralists who are Christian Subconsciously think that they can earn the favor of God, even though they say outwardly that they cannot. Such people will claim to be saved by grace alone while inwardly being convinced that if their life is good, then they are doing good things. And if their life is difficult, it is because they are sinning in some unknown manner or that God has abandoned them. My question for each of us today is which one are you closest to being? Are you closest to being a nominalist where you believe in this Christianity stuff, but not to the point that it should regulate every aspect of your life? Or are you closer to being a pacifist, thinking that there is only so much that you can do, and even that doesn't make much of a difference? Life simply comes at you, and you deal with it when it brings you, not overcoming anything, but just surviving. Or are you closer to being a moralist, which has you convinced that you can get what you earn, even in the spiritual realm? So if things are not going well, you simply have to work harder. The problem with each of the persons described is that they have not, have not encountered, truly encountered the transforming reality of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In our gospel reading, we are told of a deaf man who has a transforming encounter with Jesus. Now the setup we should go into prior to where our gospel reading began, Jesus was outside of Galilee among the Gentiles, and in our reading, he is still there. From the vicinity of Tyre, where he met the Syrophoenician woman, he traveled with his disciples northward towards Sidon and then southeast Down the eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee into Decapolis, another Gentile region His traveling made a horseshoe-shaped trail about the distance of 120 miles Interestingly, the telling of this healing that we read today is only in Mark's gospel And so we see verse 32. We see in verse 32 that the Lord's reputation as a healer had been established on the previous visit to Decopolos, which is described in Mark chapter 5. The man who had been delivered from a demon, according to 5 verse 20, had told his story in all of the surrounding area. The people that believed in the man's story brought to Jesus this man who was deaf and mute. We are aware how difficult it is for people to learn to speak who cannot hear. In verse 33, Jesus removes the man from the crowd. Apparently for the same reason, he would later order those present at the healing not to talk about it. Remember that Jesus had a time frame for his ministry and he would stick to that time frame It is curious why Jesus chose specific physical techniques to carry out his miracle healings. We remember at one time he put mud on a blind man's eyes. What Jesus is obviously doing is physically touching the areas in which he is going to be working. First the ears and then the tongue. And this teaches us again how important physical touch is and how personal Jesus is. Why the saliva is more difficult to answer. In verse 34, we read that Jesus chose an Aramaic word to command the miracle Likely so that those around could be a witness, as Aramaic was the language known by Jews and by Gentiles. By looking up to heaven, he is making it clear where he came from, where he was going, and where the power was coming from that allowed him to do such a miracle. In verse 35, Mark makes it clear how quickly the miracle took place. At the words of Jesus, the man was healed. The Greek translated, his tongue was loose, is literally the chain of his tongue was broken. And a part of the miracle often overlooked is that the man could speak plainly. In normal scenarios such as this, a person would have to have speech lessons because he had not spoken before. But Jesus gave him the ability to speak plainly, which is to be understood in his speech. Verse 36, once again the Lord attempted to keep the popular excitement under control. He had as much to worry about from Philip the Tetrarch, who controlled Decopolis, as he had to worry about the Pharisees in Galilee. And once again, his effort to keep people quiet was futile. Jesus did not want people to make too much of his miracles. It was the understanding of his person, who he was, and the work that was he was doing that was most important. From verse 37, we get a great summation of who Jesus was. He was a man who did all things well. The last part of the verse is a reference to the prophet Isaiah, who said, Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then They will leap for joy like a deer, and the mute tongue shall shout. We all likely know persons who have suffered great hearing loss. Watching a loved one disengage from social life because of hearing loss is terribly sad. Whenever my father-in-law has trouble with his hearing aids, he is no longer able to ask how you are? To tell you how he is doing, to enjoy the family storytelling and the laughter we all share when we get together. He is alone at those times. Not even able to enjoy the evening news on television. That is one type of deafness. But the Bible broadens the idea of deafness when it includes spirituality. What Mark makes reference to, the words of Isaiah, even more expansive, is that it is in the context of the promise of eventual triumph of God's salvation in the world. For just before the verse I read from Isaiah 35, there's a phrase that says this, the glory of Lebanon will be given. Well, what does that matter? Well, the regions of Tyre and Sidon, through which the Lord just passed, that's Lebanon. In other words, this miracle of giving hearing and the power of speech to a deaf mute, Mark understands to be a great picture of the salvation That the Lord would bring in the age of the Messiah, which is a fulfillment of biblical prophecy of the coming of the salvation of the world, not just the region, the world. That this miracle of healing a deaf mute has that symbolic significance of the world A picture of salvation from sin and death, a picture of the dawning of a new day, a new creation, a new world. is further confirmed by the way Mark speaks of hearing as a spiritual capacity. It is to be noted how often the word hear or hearing occurs in the Gospel of Mark with spiritual overtones. It's referring to grasping or understanding the significance of Jesus and the good news about him. The word occurs many times in Mark's account of the Lord's parables, and you will remember in chapter 4, it includes that citation from Isaiah chapter 6, where Isaiah says They may be seeing, but never perceiving, and ever hearing, but never understanding. Hearing, hearing then, in the Bible, is a metaphor for understanding. And so the opposite is true, as deafness is a metaphor or an illustration of mental and spiritual stubbornness. Both an incapacity and an unwillingness to understand what Jesus is saying, and an unwillingness to respond to him in faith. The problem wasn't that Jesus wasn't clear or that his teachings were too complicated so that it confused those who heard him. The problem wasn't in what Jesus said or how he said it. The problem was in the heart of the believers or unbelievers, I should say. The problem was that the people who heard him were spiritually deaf. They weren't capable of hearing the simple and wonderful news of salvation and eternal life. All of it that Jesus brought to them. So later in chapter 8, verse 18, when the Lord challenges his disciples, he says, Do you have eyes, but fail to see? And ears, but fail to hear? He is obviously using physical sight and physical hearing as an image of spiritual capacity. Multitudes of people saw Jesus and heard Jesus, but were blind as bats and deaf as posts. When it came to seeing who and what Jesus really was and hearing what he really said What I want us to try to imagine is how the life of that man who was once deaf and mute, how that life changed. To go from not being able to hear and speak, to being able to hear most clearly and to speak most plainly was likely day to night, I'm sorry, night to day for him. He was able to engage and interact with the world as he had never done before. And in a manner that was personal, intimate, and liberating. In short, his life was transformed and most certainly for the better Those of us who claim Christ, who claim to be Christian, we are not deaf, not physically or spiritually. But we can be, like me, half deaf. As most of you know, I am completely deaf in my left ear. I have been all my life, and so I don't know differently. It only becomes a handicap when people talk from my left side and I don't know I am being spoken to and then that person speaking to me may conclude that I am rather rude for not responding. The other handicap is that I don't know where certain sounds are coming from. Thus finding something that is beeping is quite difficult for me. So I can hear, but not always, and not always correctly. Which brings us back to the lives of Cindy, Chris, and Martha. To be a nominalist like Cindy, you have to be hearing because you acknowledge Jesus to be the Christ But you do not have the knowledge that reveals how a full embrace of Jesus as your Savior empowers you to live a life that matches what you say you believe. To live in sin is to be deaf to the wages of sin, and how real those wages are, which is why Jesus had to die. To be a pacifist like Chris, you have hearing because you believe in the highest nature of God in Christ Jesus, which is that he is sovereign. But you are deaf to your own responsibility to choose love, to enact forgiveness, to care for the downtrodden, to model a living faith. To be a moralist like Martha, you have hearing because you have faith that Jesus was who he said he was, but you are deaf to your inability to improve on the grace of God. As the Apostle Paul wrote, are you so foolish after being with the Spirit? Are you now trying to attain a goal by human effort? Christians are called, and it can be said that Christians are identified, to be a people who love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength This means that our hearts are fully transformed, beating for the love that God has given us. It means our souls are alive and ready to live for eternity. With the freedom from sin given to us by the blood of Jesus. It also means our minds are transformed to believing, hearing, and seeing things we could not before, prior. But that God has revealed and healed our spiritual eyes and ears. Finally, it means that we are to give our very lives, our living, our moving, our being, to serving God. That's a transformed life. From our epistle reading, we hear Paul convincing the Corinthians of the sufficiency of the gospel to transform lives. Such is compared to the sufficiency of ourselves. How much do you trust yourself to overcome vices? Or to be consistent in expressing love, or to stand your ground when persecuted for your faith. I can only speak for myself and confess that I am not sufficient. To live a faithful Christian life, but, but the Spirit that gives me life gives it and makes it sufficient that I can live and be an overcomer. Thus the Holy Spirit gives life so that the Sindhis of the faith will say no to compromise, and the Chris's of the faith will re-engage and be active in their pursuit of God And the martyrs of the faith would work to glorify God only. If you have ears to hear, you can ask Jesus at any time to transform your life. Anytime. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father For this example of healing, for this empowerment to heal a man from being deaf and mute. We thank you. We thank you for that, man, but we thank you for what it means to us that you can transform lives, that you can change us and make us new. That spirit that you give us is sufficient to the task. May it be for all of us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.