In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. In this series on corporate worship, Christian corporate worship We have established that God does indeed reject certain forms of worship We learn that there is a preferred order of worship, God Himself established in Holy Scripture. We have seen how our Anglican traditions follow what God established. Making our Anglican traditions heavenly relevant. Today we look at the power of symbolism and how God has used symbols in the context of his people worshiping him. But first, a joke. I have to tell you ahead of time that it's a joke so that you'll know you're supposed to laugh A Jewish father was very troubled by the way his son had turned out, so he went to see his rabbi about it. Rabbi, I brought my son up in the faith, gave him a very expensive barmitsa, and it cost me a fortune to educate him. Then he tells me last week he's decided to be a Christian. Rabbi, where did I go wrong? The rabbi strokes his beard and says, Funny you should come to me. I too brought up my son as a boy of the faith. sent him to university, and it cost me a fortune. And then one day he comes to me and tells me he wants to be a Christian. What did you do? asked the man of the rabbi. I turned to God for the answer, the rabbi replied. What did he say? asked the man. He said, funny, you should come to me. I have some of you laughed at that. My wife didn't think it was funny at all. I like the joke because it mixes together the old covenant and the new covenant. Recently I have been reading Bishop NT Wright's book titled Paul, a biography One of the bishop's arguments that I so much appreciate is that the Apostle Paul did not have a conversion experience To Christianity on the road to Damascus when Jesus appeared to him in that blinding light. Bishop Wright argues that it wasn't a conversion But a proper right progression. For it was God's plan all along for the Jewish people to follow Jesus as their Messiah. God promised a Messiah to the Jewish people within his covenant promises, and Jesus was and is that Messiah. To believe in Jesus was to believe in the covenant that God made with Adam and Noah and then Abraham and through Isaac and Jacob and Judah and then Moses and then David and then Jesus That Jesus is the fulfillment of what is meant to believe in God's covenant with the people of Israel is dramatically stated in the book of Revelation. Where Jesus calls Jewish people who reject him as being members of the synagogue of Satan. Quite a dramatic way to put it. This oneness of the Old and New Testaments allows us to glean from the Old Testament principles regarding how God prefers to be worshipped And we did that extensively last week looking at Exodus chapter 24. Today we peek into the tabernacle, into the temple worship To understand powerful symbols and how God's people can use them to worship Him. And to appreciate symbolism, we first need to address the second commandment. Remember, it condemns the making of raven images, and that such images should not be bowed down to nor worshipped. Here is the commandment in full. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them. For I, the Lord, thy God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me And showing mercy unto the thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Now the middle part of that commandment is important. For some Christians have interpreted the first part of it so stridently that they believe it is a grave sin for any Christian to make any image at all of any likeness of heaven or earth. Historically, such people have been called iconoclasts, for they were of the conviction that it was their duty to destroy images that Christians used to worship God. And it would not be useful for us, or possible for us, to address all of the issues regarding sacred images, for that issue still divides the church today. What we can know for sure is that God was not commanding that no images of any kind should be made And we can know this because God Himself commanded that cherubim should be made of gold and placed on top of the Ark of the Covenant with their wings pointing at one another. Also, the curtains of the tabernacle were to have been decorated with elaborate embroidery depicting heavenly cherubim, which were angelic-like creatures that symbolized God's protection. God therefore was not hypocritically commanding that there be no graven images whatsoever, and next commanding that images of cherubim be used in the holy tabernacle and then in the holy temple So God allows for images to be used for worship. What we need to underline is worship Him as opposed to worshiping an image. Reflect with me how God uses images, symbols for his people to worship him The Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant was a profound symbol for God's people as it represented God's very presence among them, amidst them. It contained, you remember, the Ten Commandments, the central doctrine of God's covenant with his people. It contained Aaron's rod that budded so that God's wrath would be turned away It contained a pot of manna reminding the people how God provided for them in the desert. Each item was a reminder of God establishing covenant with his people, Israel, as a whole. Regarding other furnishings that served also as symbols, there was that outer wash basin In the temple court that was used to ceremonially clean so that the priest could properly present the offerings It also pointed to the watching that God would give believers at their baptism when Jesus the Messiah was revealed. There was also the altar where the sacrificed animals were bloodless because the wages of sin is death. That altar pointed to the cross. Inside the curtains of the tabernacle and later the temple was the table of showbread containing twelve loaves representing the twelve tribes. It was an offering to God in thanks for the grain that was received by him every year, and that God was their provider. It also pointed Israel to the Messiah to come who would offer himself as the bread of life Then the lampstand across from the showbread table served as a source of light, of course, while also representing God's presence as he went before the Israelites as a heavenly flame. It also refers to God revealing himself to Moses as a fire in a bush not consuming. And then, of course, more importantly, it pointed to the Messiah who would come as the light of the world. Then there were the garments to be worn by the priests, and especially the high priests, who wore a breastplate of precious stones that were symbols of God's commandments to his people and symbols of what God thought of his people, that they were beautiful, and he was making them beautiful. All of these reference symbols are related to what God has done and was doing and is doing to bring the salvation for his people. The use of symbols representing God bringing salvation to his people is tenfold in the book of Revelation. Where Jesus is exalted with feet of brass, eyes like fire, upholding the seven churches around him, surrounding him like lampstands. In Revelation, we are next in a throne room where Jesus is on the throne, and then he also appears as a lamb before the throne. The 24 elders surround that throne singing, holy, holy, holy, and then taking their crowns and throwing them at the feet of their Christ, their Savior, their God. In the scriptures, a violent sea is a symbol of troubled nations. In heaven, in the book of Revelation, the sea is smooth as glass. Representing Christ having brought peace to the nations. Also, a rainbow can be seen only, a rainbow that's not a half circle, but a full circle. Meaning that God has fulfilled his promises, all of them, to his created order Each depiction of the heavenly scenes tells us a portion of the story of how God saved and is saving his people. All of these symbols from the tabernacle worship to the throne of Christ Jesus are heavenly relevant The question is, are we? Are we heavenly relevant Remember, I quoted a proverb of sorts at the start of this series that says that a grandfather's conviction can become a son's tradition and eventually his grandson's elimination. An example is a trend within contemporary Christian worship that has pastors wearing casual clothes while standing on a stage speaking to the congregation like Tony Robbins at a you can do it positive mental attitude seminar How did that happen? Notice that our traditional setting of chancel furniture has the pulpit on one side of the sanctuary, the lectern on the opposite side. the Holy Communion table in the center, in the back of the chancel. That is purposeful. For it gives a cruciform shape, the shape of the cross, more clearly seen from a bird's eye view. The shape of the cross is thoughtfully made, for it is the cross that enables us to call upon the name of God. The central position of the Holy Communion Table communicates the primary importance of the Holy Meal. That we eat each week to commemorate our covenant with God and where God is manifested to us as we eat of the flesh and drink of the blood. As an overreaction against Roman tradition. Certain Christian gatherings from the time of the Reformation Decided that the Holy Communion table should not be the central focus, but instead it should be the preaching of the Bible. The result was placing pulpits at the center of the chancel And such placing of the pulpit communicates priority, the priority of preaching. With some modern churches, the pulpit is altogether removed, communicating a different priority. What or who is the priority when a man stands in his by his lonesome with his microphone headset, his blue jeans, his untucked shirt, and his talking points. What is the focus? The answer is the man, the man himself. And we should be asking, is the priority of a preacher's personality, is that heavenly relevant? And I submit it is not But it sells. It markets well. There are even Christian gatherings that display a video of a man. Who is in another city, maybe even another state, wearing his blue jeans, his untucked shirt, cordless microphone, displaying his talking points. It is modern church on the big screen. Thousands of professing Christians appear to prefer such a setup, for they attend most Sundays to watch the church service. To watch it. These things have happened. Because nobody knew why the pulpit was placed in the middle of the chancel to begin with. Because no one remembered that preaching of the Word of God was to be a priority The pulpit was placed at the center because people didn't understand why Holy Communion was so important. Because they didn't hear it taught that God preferred to end his time with his people and worship by eating and drinking. And I submit also that the Holy Communion table was removed from the center of the chancel and the focal point of the worship service Because people stopped believing that Jesus was present among his people when they broke the bread and shared the cup. An absence of faith in the real presence of Jesus at the communion table has resulted in placing the personality of a man center stage. And we we can call it a stage because it is not treated as a chancel. The word chancel is from the Latin meaning crossbars. It describes the barriers that were used to distinguish the area that the clergy and the choir worshiped from the nave where the congregation worshipped, and from the altar where the bread and wine were consecrated and consumed. The chancellor. was treated like the holy place in the temple and the altar, the communion table, like the holy of holies. What was done in the chancel area was the leading of worship of God's people with the utmost reverence. Because the clergy pursued reverence, it was necessary that their vestments not represent themselves, but represent the office that they held, or more specifically, the God that they worshipped. Clergy in the Middle Ages learned how effectual their vestments could be at helping the worshipers of God. Wearing two cloaks for warmth turned into wearing a cassock, which is black, representing the sinfulness of the preacher. And then a surplus ovary representing the purity that Christ gives all of us The tiffit or stole worn over the surplus came to represent a yoke that is placed on oxen to plow a field. It was to help the clergy know he is first and last a servant. When leading a full holy communion service, a white robe became, called an owl became a clear choice, for it symbolized the presence of Jesus. The presence of Jesus as the congregation broke bread and drank wine. I have said it many times before Holy Communion proper. That it is Jesus who offers us the bread and the wine, and the white being worn by the clergy symbolizes that reality. And I mentioned the knave, which is where the congregation worships. The knave comes from the Latin nabis, which means shit. Traditionally, Christian sanctuaries lined their knaves with rows of seats or pews to replicate a galley of a ship where the servants would row in unison. To keep the ship moving toward the heavenly shore. The concept of a sanctuary being like a ship comes from Noah's Ark. Which was the vessel God used to save his chosen people from his condemnation of humanity by the flood The church then serves just as the Ark of Noah did for each are vessels by which God's people are saved. Consider that if you remember each time you enter this sanctuary or another like it That you are on this journey toward the heavenly shore together with other Christians. And if you remember that, you are less likely to be selfish, to be unkind, to be unforgiving. Because you know you can't row alone. And we need one another. And we need to stay in the boat. There are other important symbols that when understood add to our appreciation for what God has done for us that we might receive salvation. The fine linen cloth on the communion table is to remind us of the cloth that was used to cover the body of Jesus at his burial. The veiling of the chalice and the patent are symbolic of the cloth that were once covered Jesus when it was found were folded and placed to the side because he was no longer there. He's risen. If you pay close attention, you will see water being poured into the communion wine. That symbolizes that at the suffering of Jesus on the cross, Both water and blood poured from his side as his side was pierced by a spear. Interestingly, it It has been speculated that the water that poured out of Jesus was from the pericardian sac that surrounds the heart, meaning that Jesus died of a broken heart for the sake of his people. There are other symbols and movements you might witness the clergy performing that are part of Anglican custom, that are they're not prescribed in any book of the church order or book of common prayer. They include crossing oneself or bowing while professing the names of the Trinity You might see clergy and laities striking their chest while confessing their sin as a reminder that we are the same as that publican in the story that Jesus told Of the Pharisee who stood before God with a self-righteous heart, while the publicans stayed back of the room, pounding his chest, recognizing he was a sinner in need of God's grace. There are other symbols that are too numerous here to review. But the point of it all remains that each contribute to telling the story of how God has redeemed, is redeeming, and will redeem his people. Are they necessary for worship? No. No. Are we better Christians for using symbols? No, and there's no such thing as a better Christian. Can they be useful tools to heighten our attention upon God while we worship? The answer to that is that God thought so. Let us pray Our Father, once again, for the traditions that have been handed down to us, we do not make them idols And Lord forbid that we ever would. But we thank you that we can look beyond those symbols to the truths that they represent. To your salvation that you have given to us, are giving to us, and will give to us. And so, Father, heighten our attention that we might worship you better all the more. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.