In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. May be seated. The reading, uh the first reading in the Old Testament, uh, we took a big chunk out of chapter 26, but I'm actually going to be covering the whole chapter, at least Not the last two verses, but everything before that. So if you turn to Genesis 26, follow along with me. Dr. Peter Lyhart, in his book, A House in My Name, makes the observation that the Garden of Eden must have been on a mountain. The evidence is in the description of the region which has a river coming from the land of Eden and through the Garden of Eden. Eden itself then is higher than the garden, but since the water runs through the garden, it too is on high ground. The ideal uh idea of a higher ground and the people of God meeting with God on such high ground, that is constant throughout Scripture. In fact, the city called the City of God, Jerusalem, is built on a mountain that we know as Mount Zion. If you were to stand on the outside of the city of Jerusalem and you were to walk all around it from every side, you would see how high it is raised up above the valley around it It appears, Dr. Lighthart noted, that ever since Adam was kicked out of the garden, his seed, his descendants, have been trying to get back there. In the garden were a man and a woman on a mountaintop with all the water and food they needed to sustain a peaceful life. The themes of a man, a woman, mountain, and water play a vital role throughout Scripture. Thus, it is not by accident that the men of God meet their wives by wells. They come togethers in a similar manner as Adam and Eve. And in the Genesis 26 narrative, we see the importance of water, elevation, and family. So here we have another famine coming into the land where Isaac and his family are dwelling. And Isaac is first tempted to go down. Go down to Egypt where there is grain. Before he can do so, the Lord appears to him and instructs him Not to go down to Egypt but to stay up and live in the land the Lord chose him The land the Lord had to show Isaac was the same land he promised Abraham and Abraham's descendants. The words God uses to describe the promise are similar to those that He spoke to Abraham, and this makes it clear that God is showing that the covenant promises are passing through the person of Isaac. The reason the Lord gives to Isaac for continuing his covenant is the obedience of Abraham. He said, Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. implied in those words is that Isaac is to do the same. Follow suit. Follow the path that Abraham started. For the promise to continue, obedience must continue as well. Thus Isaac is connected to the covenant by blood offspring of Abraham, and by obedience, and that obedience is of his father, who we know obeyed out of faith, the man of faith. The narrative regarding the covenant being passed on from Abraham to Isaac is interrupted by an event that is eerily, eerily similar to the events experienced by Abraham. Just as men of the region lusted after and inquired after Sarah, so now they do with Rebekah. And just as Abraham feared for his own life, rather than protecting the purity of his wife Isaac shrinks and called Rebecca his sister. Such behavior is a sad reminder of how men of faith, men of faith, They too can shrink in fear, and they too can fail at times to trust God These moments cause us to view Isaac and his behavior as really an anti-type of Christ, for we know that Christ would never deny us as his own. Now the similarities between Abraham denying Sarah and Isaac denying Rebekah, they must be there to teach us who hear and every generation About the dangers of the sin of a father. The sin of a father. Being a father or parent is the scariest thing most of us have done. Being a father was appealing to me at the moment I said I do. And my experience was that being a father of young ones was a blast. Life in the eyes of young ones is vibrant. Everything is cool. Everything is fun And no matter what type of day I had, I could come home to my wife and we could put those buggers to bed at 8 p. m. and have the rest of the day or night to ourselves. Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on your vantage point, the young ones, well, they grow up. Their moods change. No longer is everything exciting. In fact, most everything is boring. Whereas we used to hear, this is fun, you next hear, this is boring. And they don't go to bed at 8 p. m. anymore. In fact, teenagers stay up later than their parents do. But among these differences is not what it is most difficult about being a parent. What is most difficult is noticing your sins in the lives of your children. It is more than sobering to watch the ugliness of sins that you have struggled with most of your life being practiced by your children. First there is the guilt you feel for passing such a sinful trait onto your child, and then there is a bit of a panic For you wondered that if you've been struggling with this your whole life, how are you ever going to be able to help your child? Very, very humbly. I have read the story of Isaac denying Rebekah and compared it to Abraham denying Sarah. several times with with an attempt to find a lesson from the Lord that would help a father from passing on his personal sins to his sons, and I have not found one. In the story of Isaac, we see that God is merciful and that he reveals the lie before Rebekah is defiled. And like Abraham, Isaac is blessed with material wealth by the Lord even after the lie was revealed. So what I believe the blessing teaches us is what we will discuss after we get through the rest of the narrative. So we continue that although Isaac sinned, we are told that his household continues to prosper. He gets livestock, and he gets to harvest. And a man living in such a time in history was truly wealthy if you were able to raise livestock and to farm the land. The Philistines then envied Isaac because of the wealth he had accumulated, and because he was blessed, and they were not. A common reaction by the ungodly toward the godly, toward those who are blessed, is to make life more difficult. This is why the wells are filled in. The wells were rightfully Isaac's as they were given to his father, but the Philistines did not honor that right. They filled in the wells, which was symbolically appropriate. For as we have seen, the wells remind us of the water from the garden. And they point to the Savior, Jesus, who will be called living water. The ungodly want nothing to do with the garden because they do not want to walk with God. They do not want to drink from the living well who is the Savior. They want to stop up the water and not allow anyone to drink. Like demons, the ungodly are miserable in their sin, and their only joy, if you can call it joy, is to bring low as many souls as they can to be with them in their misery. Isaac's response to this mistreatment is to move on. Move on. He is in his right to resist, and by the testimony of Abimelech, Isaac's household is mightier than all the other households For the godly, however, it is not about personal individual rights. It is not about providing, proving, excuse me, who is mightier, stronger. It is only about the persecution of the righteous. So Isaac moves on, and he settles in the valley of Gerar. Where Isaac fails, or what makes this decision poor, is that he is dwelling in a valley where dwells the ungodly. Remember that the garden is on a mountain and the people of God are called to go higher up. When Isaac settles in a valley, he is bound to be in conflict with the ungodly. We read that the herdsmen of the region quarrel with Isaac's herdsmen, and they claim that the water dug up by Isaac's household, they say it's theirs. Once again, Isaac is within his rights. These wells that he dug up were his father's wells His household first dug those wells. But once again, Isaac moves on. Isaac digs another well. The ownership of that well is disputed, and again, Isaac moves on. Finally, he moves on far enough away that the Philistines no longer care if he finds water. They have theirs, and that was most important. Similar to Isaac choosing to move on, we remember that Jesus would go from town to town, village to village, preaching the good news. He would, in a sense, dig up well waters by healing the sick and casting out demons, demons that had conquered the deranged. When the people of the towns and villages saw what he had done, some of them asked him to move on. They did not know what to make of him, but only concluded that he was not like them. And therefore should not stay among them. And what did Jesus do? He moved on. He claimed no ownership. He moved on. The plight of all who dig for water in the name of the one true God, the plight is contention and hatred by those who do not know God. Because this is not our home, and because those who are born of God are born, or excuse me, not born of God are born of the devil, there is going to be contention and hatred. Did anybody feel contention when you see lawmakers in New York applauding abortion? Feel any contention Isaac's response and Jesus' response to contention and hatred should be ours. We should not be quarrelsome or insist what is rightfully ours Need to move on. As is possible with you, the scripture says, be at peace with all men The calling of God's people is not to win court cases or to ensure that we get what is ours in this life. It is to return a curse with a blessing. It is to return a harsh word with kindness. It is to turn the other cheek or give an extra coat. The behavior of Isaac eventually becomes a noticeable testimony of his faith. Abimelech comes to him After the contention and after noticing that Isaac is once again blessed, and he convinces Isaac that, or he is convinced, excuse me, that Isaac is a man to be at peace with. Abimelech and the other men conclude that Isaac is a man blessed of God, and therefore he should be a friend, not an enemy. The words of Abimelech reveal that he comes to Isaac for the purpose of self-preservation Isaac is surprised at first and reveals his suspicion by pointing out that every time that he was among them, he was kicked out. They sent him away. Abimelech explains that they have seen how God has blessed Isaac while insisting that they have done nothing wrong. By saying they did nothing wrong, he meant that they had not physically harmed Isaac. With fear that Isaac just may do them physical harm, they seek a covenant with him. And notice the words of Abimelech. That the covenant is for the protection of the Philistines, not the protection of Isaac's family. They say, let us make a covenant with you, that you will do us no harm. This is a one-sided covenant if there ever was one. Isaac certainly knows this, but it doesn't matter to him. In fact, Isaac says This is, oh Isaac decides that he's going to have a feast for them to celebrate the covenant that is not in his favor. Isaac gained nothing from the covenant that he made with these men, but he still made it. And as a confirmation that the Lord's will was being done, and the Lord's blessing was upon Isaac, the news that there was another well found and supplied him plenty of water. And these events juxtaposed cause Isaac to name the new water supply the Well of the Oath. Now the last two verses of the chapter, verse 34 and 35, they are to be studied with chapter 27. So we're just going to notice how all of these stories are sandwiched together. The primary message of this chapter, and the hope, the hope for parents not to pass on their sins to their children, the primary message Is the mercy of God. And I don't want to sound glib or oversimplify this text. I truly believe that the mercy of God is to be highlighted in all of these stories. We first see the mercy of God in the reason God pronounces the covenant to Isaac. Remember that he said it was because of Abraham's obedience that the covenant was passed through Isaac. Now, I've spent a good deal talking about the sins of the Father being passed on, but I've yet to speak about the blessings passed on because of obedience. Whereas God curses generations because of the sins of the fathers, he also blesses because of the obedience of the fathers. Whereas Noah's family was blessed because of the faith of their father. Abraham's family was blessed. David's family was blessed. Even in the New Testament, we read of children being healed because of the faith of their father The reason that Isaac is blessed is due to the obedience of his father, making the covenant passed on through Isaac, an act of God's mercy. He didn't have to do it. The second place we see God's mercy in the narrative is in the fact that Isaac was not punished after he denied his wife. We see mercy in the fact that Rebekah was not defiled by being forced into adultery. We see mercy in the fact that instead of being punished, Isaac is then blessed. His household was actually made stronger after his sin. And we might ask, how can this be? And the only answer is God's mercy. If we understand this in terms of Isaac simply being lucky or favored more than other men, we need to think again. All of us must be honest when examining our moral choices. How often, hear this now, how often How often we are not punished in the manner that we certainly deserve How often that we do not get what should be coming to us It is not remarkable that a drunk driver gets pulled over or arrested, but it is remarkable how many times the same drunk driver is never caught. It is not surprising that a student gets caught cheating, but it is surprising how many times his cheating went unnoticed. It is not a shock that someone is caught in a lie, but it is a shock how many times her lies have gone unchallenged. The list can go on and on of examples of how often we are not punished for our sin as compared to the times that we are. It is not mentioned anywhere in the text what Isaac's thoughts were as God was merciful to him Instead, what we find in Isaac were actions. After not being punished for his sin, but blessed beyond other men, Isaac's behavior Tells us his reaction to God's mercy. Because of God's mercy, Isaac is merciful. As was noted, he had he had the lawful right to those wells he dug, but instead of fighting, he moved on. Each time he dug, he had a right, but instead of conflict, he moved on. His response then to God's mercy was to be merciful. He was a forgiving man. Even when the covenant he made with men of the region favored them and not him, he was merciful. For these reasons he is like our Savior and like us. He is like our Savior as he was merciful to those who did not deserve mercy. He is like us in that much mercy was given to him and therefore much mercy was required of him. Instead of accounting for all the times you perceive God to be punishing you for your sins Take inventory of the times that you did wrong and were not required to pay a justified consequence. Most certainly, that number is exponentially greater than the times that you have had to reap what you've sown After we account for the mercies of God, there is but one response. We ourselves are to show mercy. The call for God's people to not go down and live among amongst the pagans Is a call for us to go higher and to live higher. We are to go higher up where the river runs through the garden We are to go higher up when men count the mercies of God and act out mercy toward their fellow man. We are to go higher up, for that is what Isaac did in his character, and we are to do as well. Remember the words of our Lord, to whom much is given, much is required. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God. You who have shown us such great mercy, we now take the call to be merciful. To not return evil for evil, but to do as you did for us. Show mercy. Father, help us to be creative and courageous in showing that mercy to a world who would hate us, and would hate truth. Father, empower us to do that, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.