Christ is God, God is for us, God's glory, Christ, glory long, great. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Instead of being perplexed and quizzical When God appears to judge mankind by way of flood, earthquake, fire, or wind Asking why God, we should be just as interested as to why God allows us to get away with as much as we do. I mentioned this a few weeks ago by calling each of us to recount the many times that we have done something wrong, but received no consequence. Taking such inventory a step further, I ask you to notice the beliefs and behaviors that you have exhibited over the years. beliefs that are superstitious, behaviors that are contrary to the Word of God, and to notice how God has been patient with you. If we are going to ask why God, when referring to so-called natural disasters, why should we not ask why God when we do not receive the punishment and rebukes that we so justly deserve. By accounting for the many times God overlooks our sin, both in our behavior and in what we believe. We can better understand how the behavior of Jacob and his family is overlooked. In summary, the story of Jacob and his family as told in Genesis 29 and 30, and I want you to know that we'll be covering those two chapters entirely. We only read a part of chapter 30, but we're covering Genesis 29 and 30. That we notice in these stories of these two chapters that these stories include deceit, polygamy, adultery, and superstition. Not to mention jealousy, backbiting, and shallowness. Now before we get to the types and lessons of these two chapters, I want to quickly summarize each primary scene in the narratives of these two chapters, since we didn't take time to read the entire chapters this morning. So we start off noticing the first 14 verses of chapter 29 are the most benign of the two chapters. Jacob arrives at Haran. He is introduced to shepherds, and since he is a shepherd himself, he quizzes them on regarding their watering practices. When Rachel arrives, Jacob is excited because she is family and she is beautiful, which confirms God's hand upon his quest to go find a bride amidst his mother's family. The description of Jacob kissing Rachel is not to be understood as romantic, it's familial affection. Laban, Rachel's father, receives Jacob in the same hospitable manner he received Abraham's servant when he was looking for a bride for Isaac. In verses 15 through 30, here begins the soap opera of sin between these family members. Laban offers to pay Jacob for his labor. Jacob wants to marry the pretty daughter, Rachel. So the two men come into a covenant. Jacob will receive, will serve, excuse me, the household of Laban for seven years, and afterwards receive Rachel as his wife. After the seven years, Jacob requests his payment, and Laban pretends to honor the agreement Now say pretends because we know that he deceived Jacob and gave him Leah instead. And I need to stop here and mention to you that I have gotten in the habit of calling her Leah, and my wife reminds me that this is not the Star Wars story, this is in the Bible. So it's Leah, but if I say Leah, you know who I'm referring to. Leah is described as being weak-eyed or having delicate eyes. Most commentators agree that the description means that simply she was not as pretty as Rachel. The text tells us that the wedding occurred in the dark, and we know of the customs of the day that Leah was likely veiled, so we are able to imagine that Jacob did not detect this deceit. We are also not told how Leah and Rachel felt about this deceit, and so we're to assume that however they felt doesn't matter to the story. When the deceit is discovered, Jacob confronts Laban, who attempts to justify his actions by claiming a higher moral ground because he was honoring a custom. The obvious rebuttal is that he should have told Jacob about this custom before Jacob asked for Rachel. And what else is obvious is the what some call the come-uppins, the come-uppins received by Jacob. He was the original deceiver. He deceived his father by pretending to be Esau, and now he is the one, justifiably, to be deceived. Jacob next insists on the original agreement that it be honored to receive Rachel as his second wife. Here is polygamy. The manner the story is told does not make it clear if Jacob was given Rachel as his wife after he served another seven years or as a down payment for the seven years to come. The latter scenario is natural to the text, so we'll think it that way that he received Rachel and then worked for another seven years. And it's natural because of the strife and the jealousy that is experienced by these two sisters. Although the text does not condemn the behavior of Laban or the taking of a second wife by Jacob, the Lord will list such sin when the law is given to Moses. The book of Leviticus will contain a law that prohibits false witness, as well as a man marrying sisters, calling it incest. Once again, just as we had seen so many times in Genesis, man goes against God's will And he's not eternally condemned, but he will suffer consequences in this life. And they will. Although Jacob is in covenant with both women, he favors Rachel over Leah. Leah. But the Lord has revealed himself as a God full of compassion. He loves the unloved. And so as he sees the pain of Leah, he blesses her over Rachel. The fullness of Leah's womb begins, a bitter rivalry between the two sisters. Leah had four sons consecutively, and she named them after the manner the Lord answered her prayers and the desire she had to be favored by her husband. Instead of rejoicing for Leah and Jacob, Rachel is filled with jealousy and desperation. She confronts Jacob, and then Jacob confronts her back. Confronts her because he recognizes that Rachel's closed womb is of the Lord. God is doing something to her. It's not his fault. Rachel decides that she will get a child immorally if she cannot have one morally. And so she gives Jacob her maid Bilha. This can only be described as adultery, but Jacob, typical man, doesn't protest. Billha does conceive and has a son. Rachel believes that the son of her maid is proof that God has judged her side to be right. Although nowhere does God agree to her assessment. After Bilha gives birth to a second son, we learn what Rachel's motivation was. Look at chapter 30, verse 8. It says, then Rachel said, With great wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister, and indeed I have prevailed. So she called his name Naphtali. She's not wrestling with God, she's competing with her sister. Leah is not to be outdone in the competition, and she responds by giving her servant Zilpah to Jacob so that she can have another son. Zilpah gives Jacob two more sons, confirming to Leah that God is on her side. The minds of modern men can only imagine what it would be like to have your two wives insisting that you sleep with other women. Jacob does not protest. The silliness in the narrative continues regarding the mandrakes. It seems that Rachel believed there was fertility in the mandrakes And that is why she insisted on having some for herself. She was so desperate for the mandrakes that she agreed to tell Jacob to sleep with Leah Once again, Jacob obliges, and Leah becomes pregnant with another son. According to verse 22 of chapter 30, It was not the man drakes, but the Lord who opened Rachel's womb. In God's time, he gave her the privilege of having a child of her own The name she gave her son Joseph means literally, may God add or increase, which is a prayer for Rachel to have another son, revealing that Rachel was not focused on raising sons, but having sons. Again, reminding us that it's not a virtue to have children, it is a virtue to raise them in the Lord. The playing of musical beds slows considerably after the birth of Joseph, and this moves the narrative back to Jacob's relationship with his father-in-law, Laban. Once again the two men enter into a covenant. By now they know each other well, and this makes the covenant a little bit cunning on both ends. Jacob wants to go back home, so he asks permission from Laban to take his wives and children. This probably seems strange to us. To ask permission to take your wives and children, but it reveals the confusion regarding the relationship between these two men Jacob was both a son-in-law and he was a slave. David essentially denies Jacob's request for the selfish reason that he noticed that he was being blessed, his household was being blessed, because Jacob was amongst him. However, because he knows Jacob is blessed, he also recognizes that he might not be able to stop him from leaving, and so he offers him a deal. And it might sound noble of Laban to say to him, name your wage, which is what he said to Jacob. But we will see later that the wages change several times, according to Laban. As was said, Jacob knows Laban, and so he presents him a deal that seemingly entirely is to Laban's advantage. Normally in the region the sheep were white and the goats were black. It is rare to have a black sheep or speckled or striped sheep or speckled goats No more than 20% in a flock. So Jacob offers to take the sheep and the goats that are striped and speckled. The end result would be Jacob taking no more than 20% of the flocks as they multiplied. And this would clear the gene pool for Laban's flock. But to be sure that he is not taken advantage of by Jacob, Laban journeys three days away from Jacob so that their flocks aren't intermingled. And this move turns out to be to Jacob's benefit as he is able to breed his flock in secret. Now regarding Jacob's reading method, it must be said that it is absurd. It's absurd. Jacob, like Rachel, is superstitious. He believes that his flock only needs to look at something speckled or striped while mating, and the result will be offspring that is striped and speckled. That is, as I said, absurd. It is not absurd as the liberal mind would say, believing that the whole story is fiction. This is not fiction. What is absurd is that Jacob would believe his method is responsible for God's blessing. What is going on in the story is the same that occurred with his father Isaac. God is blessing Jacob while he is in exile, while he is a stranger among strangers. While Jacob believes it is the work of his ingenuity, God has simply chosen to bless him for the greater good. And the greater good is God's sovereign will being done, not Jacob's. The primary lesson of these two chapters is like the one we learned in the life of Isaac and Isaac's family. God blesses those he chooses despite their actions. He does so for the sake of his sovereign will and for the sake of his deserved glory. It is the secondary lesson, however, or lessons, that I wish to focus on as we come near the end of this sermon. First of all, Jacob is a type of Christ. Certainly not entirely, but in a very important part, Jacob is a type of Christ. Jacob loved Rachel and he worked to get her fourteen years. Remember that seven is the number of completion, and Jacob worked to completion to marry Rachel the first time. He was duped by his father-in-law into marrying Leah. So Jacob, because he loved Rachel as much as he did, worked another completed term. He worked another seven years to have Rachel as his wife. Rachel is a type of the bride of Christ, the church. She was a shepherdess and the fairest among women. For her sake, Jacob served, and for the church's sake, Jesus served. Jacob served seven and seven again. Jesus served in his life and then into his death. In a world of conditional love where affection is given only if affection is returned, we yearn to hear stories of true love. In a world where the word love is spoken just as quickly as it is taken back, we yearn to hear of a love that is eternal. The story of Jesus loving his church is the love we yearn for. He is the one who suffers for and with his church. He remains at the door and knocks, wanting to commune inside with believers. He continues to seek out individual sheep that have wandered into danger, and he rejoices when he has just returned, just one, just one to the fold. For love Jacob served fourteen years. For the love of the church, Jesus gave all he was by taking on the form of a servant. And hear this. the form of a servant for eternity. Other types in this passage are Leah and Rachel, where Leah represents Judaism and Rachel Christianity. Leah is the old covenant and Rachel is the new. Leah, like the law, like Judaism, must be first, not just by custom, as Laban explains, but by the sovereign will of God. The law comes first, for it reveals the holiness of God and the depravity of men. As the law reveals these things, those who have their consciences pricked, those people look for a Savior. The law, however, again, like Leah, is also veiled. The new covenant is veiled in the old. Jesus, the Savior, must be revealed When the new covenant is revealed, we see that it is beautiful like Rachel. That Leah must be first, besides referring to the law, also refers to Jesus coming first for the Jews. His message and his sacrifice was first for them. It was only after he was rejected by the Jews that the message went to the Gentiles. The strife between Leah and Rachel is akin to the strife that Judaism and Christianity has had and continues to have. It was the Jews who first persecuted the Christians, yes, even before the Romans. It was the Christians who persecuted the Jews during the Middle Ages as they tried to take back Jerusalem Leah and Rachel were at odds, having their focus upon being jealous each of the other. Where they failed is where Judaism and Christianity continue to fail. Jesus did come first for the Jews. The first Christians were of the Jewish race. Just as Leah gave birth first, so too were the first born-again Christians of Jewish descent. But after having gone to the Jews, the Lord then went to the Gentiles, and from them brought forth many children into his kingdom. This is Rachel. Instead of being bitter and envious, each should have humbled themselves to the point of appreciating that God would choose them from among all other women. Please don't hear me speaking negatively against the Jews, simply pointing out how These types, these shadows of Leah and Rachel fit in our context. Christians worship the Triune God, the God who has revealed himself as the Father, as the Son, as the Holy Ghost. Judaism rejects the Son. They reject our Savior, Jesus the Christ. This rejection is most serious because Jesus was always a part of the covenant that God made with Abraham. Jesus completes that covenant. To reject him is to reject the covenant God made with Abraham, and then Isaac, and then Jacob. But of course, the religious Jewish people don't see it that way. Attempting now to bring these two types together, which is Jesus' love for his bride, and Judaism and Christianity being at odds. I believe we are able to see it in the words of Jesus, if you remember, as he was making his way to Jerusalem, looked upon the city as he stood on a hill. And he said, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, I wish that I could take you under my wing. This is knowing that he is about to die. God's love for Israel was expressed by choosing her and sending his son first to her. God's love for the new Israel, the Christian Church. is the same. Only the Christian faith has received his son, making her, that is, the church, more beautiful. Rachel. What the Jewish people need is what Leah and Rachel needed in their relationship with Jacob. Each of them needed to appreciate that they were loved. And each of us needs to appreciate that we are loved. Appreciate that God has chosen you Learn from Leah and Rachel. Stop concerning yourself with how another appears to be favored and blessed and loved more than you. Appreciate that you are loved, and that will be sufficient. For the Christian, we are to appreciate being loved above all things. And never, ever concern ourselves with someone who appears to be more favored or blessed than we are I personally have struggled with such concerns in the past, as I have seen numbers swell in other churches while I labor to remain faithful and receive a smaller return While we should not compare the number of attendees in different churches thinking that larger is better We are tempted to do so, even though such logic would mean that cults are being blessed, and we would be ignoring the truth that Scripture reveals, which is that it is God. Who gives the increase? What I miss, where I sin, is any time I become jealous of someone else. It is then that I failed to appreciate the love of the Heavenly Father, the love He has for me. His love for us, His people, is more than Jacob loved Rachel. Of course it is. He worked hard to express that love. And it is never appropriate for us to be jealous or wish that we were someone else. God's love in Christ is enough. It is truly enough. But it is not enough for me to say it to you, for each of us needs to confess it to God. Each of us needs to say to God, your love is enough for me. The more you say it, the more you will believe it The more you believe it, the more you will be content in that love. And the devil's temptation to be discontent will weaken and weaken. Confess to God that his love is enough for you. Say it to him. Say your love is enough for me. And it'll be so. Let us pray. Our gracious and loving God. We thank you for the images found in these two women, in the dealings of Jacob and Laban, and we thank you for the revelation. That you do love us, and that love is enough. May we never stop telling you that. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.