In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 2. Revelation chapter two, picking up at verse eighteen Each of us has personal and peculiar sins with which we struggle Although culturally we may view one sin to be more serious than another, the Scripture treats sin the same in terms of each of it and all of it bringing forth death. The adulterer is viewed and rightly so as a pervert who commits sin against God and his family But according to Scripture, he is no worse a sinner than a Sabbath breaker or a man who covets a Harley Davidson motorcycle. Churches have sins they struggle with as well. The parish can practice great reverence in worship, but not fulfill the command of Jesus to feed his sheep. Another feeds sheep well, but does not evangelize in their community or support missionaries outside of their walls. Such are corporate sins. Individuals who sit in pews may not be consciously sinning in the manner described as the whole church But if the sin is taking place within the parish and nothing is being done to combat it, each person contributes indirectly by standing by and saying and doing nothing. The manner I am using the word sin is important, and using it in the most general of senses, sin is missing the mark, the Greek harmartia. It is failing, excuse me, it is falling short of God's perfection. A person or church that falls short of God's perfection in any way is guilty of sin. And in need of God's forgiveness through Jesus Christ. Acceding to the truth that we all struggle with personal and corporate sin, we look to the church at Thyatira. And immediately notice that their sin is almost the exact opposite to the church at Ephesus. You will remember that Ephesus was commended for holding firm to the doctrines that they had been taught, but found guilty of forgetting their first love. Diatira, on the other hand, shared the love of God with all, but failed to protect itself from false doctrine. In this address we are looking at today, we are to notice that Jesus does not treat the sin of the church to be any more serious than that of Ephesus. Sin is sin. And when it is revealed to us, we are to repent and lean on the mercies of Christ. In the three previous letters addressing Ephesus, Smyrna, and Pergamum, we found ourselves heading due north. Diatira takes us southeast. Thyatire was a trading post very close to the main road leading to Rome. It had the usual false idols like most cities of Asia Minor. One idol that was unique to the city and actually considered the guardian of the city was to the son of Zeus. Thus it makes sense that the first word Jesus says to the church at Thyatire is to proclaim that he alone is the Son of God. This is the only place in the book of Revelation where Jesus uses that title to describe himself His title is uncompromising against the false son of Zeus. He is here proclaiming it. Jesus emphasizes in his introduction two parts of himself that were used to describe him in chapter one. The eyes of fire remind us again that he sees all. Nothing can be hid from him His feet of bronze have us to recall the beautiful feet of those who bring good news. Jesus brings good news to the churches in a glorified state And the fact that he is glorified is part of the good news. This awe-inspiring vision of Jesus in chapter one may not communicate good news initially Because his exalted image tends to engender fear. However, the fact that the exalted Christ addresses the church and gives those that are guilty of sin a chance to repent That is most certainly good news. Being confronted with sin is hard on the pride. And our initial response tells us that the situation is bad. When our pride is overcome, we can then see opportunity for repentance and restoration more clearly. Thus, Jesus speaks to the church and he brings good news. The personal address to the church begins with a commendation. They have been living out their faith and love by deeds and acts of kindness and service. Moreover, they had persevered while doing these deeds. What the deeds were exactly is not listed, meaning that these specifics are not necessary. Acts of love, kindness, and service are not limited to certain things. Such can be anything when a person puts the needs of others before his own. Such deeds have to be unconditionally done for them to be out of love. To serve another person expecting nothing in return is what our Lord did to his fellow man. Christians perform such deeds because the love of God dwells within them to the extent that they can't do anything else. It is to be natural for Christians to forgive, to serve, to nurture, and to show concern for others because the loving Spirit of God dwells within. To persevere while expressing their love through service is most impressive. It is impressive because it is all too easy for us to become discouraged. Considering how the flesh wars against the spirit. Although we live by the Spirit of God that dwells within us, we also battle with the flesh and our fleshly desires. We grow tired. We become weary. When someone refuses to receive our overtures of kindness, we are tempted to just give up. When someone steps on our acts of kindness, expects them from us, or shows no appreciation, we are given another reason to cease to stop doing them. To do so to be giving in to the desires of the flesh, and that caused us to be concerned with self first and self primarily We do not know all that the people of Thyatira suffered in return for their deeds of love, but we can be encouraged that they did not stop their deeds, even while being mistreated. The Savior is aware of their good works, done in faith and love, regardless of whether the recipients of that love were appreciative, and Jesus loves them for it. In addition, the church is further commended for their maturity or growth in their deeds. The growth could have been by quality, quantity, or both. The important point is that they were performing greater deeds than they were at the beginning of their faith. The church's maturation is an example to us all, individually and corporately. Many have been tempted in their latter days of life to view their deeds of the past as enough. I did my time in the nursery, some have said, and it's time for someone else. I showed up for work day once three years ago, and so I've done my part. I shared the gospel with my neighbor across the street, someone else can reach out to the neighbor next door I provided sandwiches to the homeless last year, someone else can provide for them this year. For the church of Thyatira, there was no expiration. or uh for doing good deeds, and one was not enough, nor was one hundred. Jesus reveals in this letter that a church is supposed to mature And the way it expresses its worship and its outreach. A person should be able to visit St. Stephen's ten years from now and see maturity. The maturity should be expressed in greater sincerity, in greater piety, and greater reverence. We should be friendlier towards strangers and more hospitable to one another. We should have more missionaries we support and more people who have become a part of the kingdom of God through the sharing of the gospel by membership by members of this parish. From deep mature love comes an increase of good deeds. Ryatira had not forgotten their first love. Unlike the Church at Ephesus, the love of God compelled the people of Diatira. But not all was well. Also, unlike Ephesus, they did not fight stridently to resist false doctrine. Where Ephesus was commended by a tira, failed. A plain and simple reading of verses 20 through 23 would have us understand that there was a woman in the church whose name was Jezebel. This Jezebel called herself a prophetess, and by her teaching had misled the people of God and influenced them toward sexual immorality and a participation in idol worship. Considering the salacious connotations of the name Jezebel and the metaphors the Savior uses in these letters. It is more likely that the Jezebel referred to is either a real woman that Jesus refers to in a derogatory manner, or a compromised teaching of Scripture that Jesus gave a proper name. You will remember that the Jezebel in Israel's history was the wife to King Ahab. Thus she was queen of Israel in the 9th century BC. By the accounts recorded in 1 and 2 Kings, we learn that she was a wicked queen who led God's people into idolatrous worship of pagan gods, false gods. The proper noun Jezebel is thus fitting to describe a person or a teaching that would lead people astray, people of God astray. Evidently, this person or teaching was not embraced or taught by the elders of the church, but it was tolerated. Tolerance is a modern virtue that has extended its influence on much of our culture. Tolerance is a modern virtue that accepts all faiths and religious practices except those that are intolerant. Thus, modern tolerance is actual intolerant toward the intolerant, giving it an inherent contradiction. Let us be open and honest and confess that Orthodox biblical Christianity is intolerant, for we believe that Jesus is the truth, not merely a truth. He is the only way to heaven, not one of many ways. This makes modern tolerance intolerant of Christianity. Because God is intolerant of churches that are tolerant of sin, we stand in the fork road. Going one way makes us tolerant of the world, but intolerant of God. Going the other way makes us tolerated by God, but intolerant of sin. Taking into consideration who the Bible says will win in the end, it is the church's well-being that we are intolerant. Imagine the effect of tolerated sin upon a church When a person is living in open sin and not being required or called to repent If a man, for example, is leading an adulterous life, and this life is known by the elders who do nothing to call the man to repentance, and he continues to escort his family to church each Sunday, The stir such behavior would cause would be a slow corruption and a silent uproar. Imagine further such a man coming up for Holy Communion. Despite the warning in 1 Corinthians chapter 11 that such sinners eat and drink damnation to themselves, the man still comes forward. What respect is garnered by the people toward the minister who distributes the bread and wine? How can the people trust that such a man would care for their souls if he does not stand strong before a known sinner? The prayer book states specifically that if anyone who comes forward were a known sinner, meaning a person living in sin who will not repent, the elements are to be withheld. To tolerate such sin in our midst opens the gate for the weak and impressionable to pursue the lust of the flesh with no fear of earthly or heavenly retribution. Such a slope is very fast and slippery. The example I used of a man committing adultery was not by accident. The sin of Jezebel is the leading of people into the sin of sexual immorality and the eating of food offered to idols. It is not known whether the sin of sexual immorality is used figuratively, as the name Jezebel might have been being used, or if it's literal. It makes sense that it would be literal because of how intertwined sexual immorality and idol worship were in the scriptures. Fornication and idol worship are almost used as synonyms in the Old Testament to describe the sins of the Gentiles. We know well from either our own experience or the culture around us about the large role sexual immorality plays in most sin. It was true in the New Testament times, and it is true today. In Acts chapter 15, when the disciples decided to bring the Gentiles into the church, The summary requirement was for them to restrain from sexual immorality and from eating of food offered for sacrifices to false idols. Such sins were dominant in the world around them, and to refrain from such sin was to be separate from the world. The punishment that the Lord plans for Jezebel is poetically appropriate. It is to put her in her place. Since she will not repent and wants to be in bed with sexual immorality, then the Lord will cast her there where she will suffer her death. The principle is the same as Jesus' words to Peter, that a man who lives by the sword will die by the sword, and those who live by sexual immorality will die by their sexual immorality. The final instruction in verses 24 and 25 refers to Satan's so-called deep secrets. This is likely a reference known only to those who had submitted to the teachings of Jezebel. We do not know what the secrets are, and it would provide little help for us to know. The faithful at Fiatira did not believe the secrets, and neither should we. What is helpful to us is the instruction to hold on to what we have until Jesus comes. And so I ask, do you realize what you have? I form the question to cause you to examine yourselves. Do you realize what you have? What you have in the freedom you express, the Bible you possess, the traditions that have been handed down to you Hold on to what you have. You have been given great gifts. The first and foremost is your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Others include the Bible in a language you can understand. You also have been given a reverent form of worship to follow Many of you have parents you are to honor and children you are to train. Hold on to what you have. Don't treat it for less than what it is worth. It is worth your soul and the souls of your children and the soul of your children's children. Modern Christianity can be confusing as there are many expressions of worship, Bible interpretations, forms of church government, and some wild ideas about outreach. In the midst of the confusion is the temptation to wonder if the grass is greener on the other side. Thus, the very least we should do is hold on to what we have. The Christian life is not about what is new. It is about the old paths. The old paths that converge with only the only path. The only road that leads to heaven. While being enchanted with what is new or more exciting, we are tempted to grab a hold of the new and letting go of the old Those who hold on to the old, to what they have, those are the ones who overcome. Those who overcome are given authority over nations. Those who overcome will rule. Jesus received authority from the Heavenly Father and gives it to those who hold on. I ask again, do you know what you have? Hang on to it until Jesus comes. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, we give thanks together for what we have, for the riches that have been bestowed upon us as a people of God. Help us to have the courage to hold on, to be thankful, and to hold on until you come. Help us, dear Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.