In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The sermon this morning comes from Genesis twenty five. As always, it would be useful for you to turn there There appears to be purposeful ambiguity in the narrative as it ends in Genesis chapter 25. We made effort last week to understand the difference between Esau and Jacob. Esau was a man of the flesh, and Jacob a man of the spirit. And just as flesh is said to be first in this life and then the Spirit, so it was that Esau was born first and then Jacob. Just as flesh and the spirit are contrary to one another, so were Esau and Jacob. And that contrariness to one another is evident by them wrestling in their mother's womb The typology is very, very clear, as we have seen, and as we will see What is not clear, what is ambiguous, is the ethical behavior of the godly characters in this narrative. The first ethical ambiguity is in the favoring of Esau by Isaac and the favoring of Jacob by Rebekah We know such favoring is wrong because the Bible says so. Show favoritism to no man, commanded the Apostle Paul. The command is based on the fact that all men are created in God's image, making them each worthy of the same esteem. The similarity between the rich and the poor, Proverbs says, is that the Lord made them all. There is to be no partiality shown because of social or economic status. There is to be no estimated value of worth for one person over another. For there is neither male nor female, Jew nor Greek, but all are one in Christ Jesus. We also know that the type of favoritism being shown by Isaac and Rebecca is wrong because of the damage that it does psychologically to the health of a child. Children have a difficult enough time fitting into their peer groups, finding their place in the world If a child has to add a perception that he or she is not particularly liked by a parent, but the same parent prefers a sibling Such a thought could send a child over an emotional edge from which he may not recover. We can only imagine how difficult it was for Jacob to be less in his father's eyes for the simple reason that Esau cooked, or killed and cooked, venison. Thus it would appear that Isaac's standard for favoritism was his stomach. The second ethical ambiguity is the conniving way that Jacob obtains the birthright from Esau. The story seems to put Jacob in a planned thought-ahead geographical position where he is making a particular stew and he knows that his brother will desire it coming from his expedition knowing he would be naturally tired and hungry. Thus he takes advantage of his brother's weakness in the flesh and makes a deal with him in such a manner that we would expect the devil himself to do As people of God, we are actually called to warn other people of temptations and the sins that result. It is better, Jesus said, for a man to have a millstone tied around his neck and to be thrown into the sea than to be guilty of leading someone astray. If we are to pray, Lord, lead us not into temptation, we most certainly are not to be responsible for tempting anyone. And yet, here Jacob tempting Esau and succeeding. These ethical scenarios are ambiguous. Because the Bible does not condemn any of these actions mentioned, at least not in this story. Nowhere do we read that it was wrong for Isaac and Rebekah to show favoritism to a particular son. Nowhere is Jacob condemned or even spoken of in a negative way for tempting his brother. In fact, it is just the opposite. Hebrews chapter 6 condemns Esau, condemns him with fornicators and the profane for selling his birthright. And there is reason, I believe, for this ethical ambiguity We can look back on these stories and condemn the parents and Jacob for what they did, but we should remember that the law had not yet been given That the revelation of Christ had not come to them. We can conclude that their behavior was wrong, but that's not the point of the story. The point of telling the story, the reason why it is part of holy writ, is not for us to judge the characters and their moral or ethical standards through our New Testament eyes. It is to look beyond the ethics to what each character and scenario represents. Ultimately, we are to come to understand the privilege of the birthright. The privilege of the birthright. Undoubtedly, the purpose of the narrative style is to contrast Esau and Jacob, and so that's what we need to do. The few deep details given are for the purpose of that contrast. We learn of their birth and shortly after their adult lives with no information about their development. The story gets to the point immediately, and the point is that these two men are different, and the point is why they are different. The differences begin with God's prophecy to Rebecca. Remember that he tells her that within her are two nations, not just two children, two nations. As descendants of Abraham, nationality was intertwined with purpose, identity, and faith. To be different nations meant that you were a people of different faith. So Esau and Jacob are of a different faith. That the older would serve the younger was in contrast to the culture and the time. The oldest son had the birthright to receive the primary inheritance of his father. The scripture later describes it as a double portion of both spiritual blessing and material wealth. That God is reversing this order is another instance of God pointing to the person of Jesus. Remember that Cain was born first but was rejected. Ishmael was born first, also rejected. Esau born first, and he too rejected. These are all in the same line of Adam, who was that first man, but was rejected because he sinned, requiring there to be a second Adam who we know is Jesus. He is the secondborn and the true son of the promise. From the moment of the twins' birth, each child Revealed its ultimate role or character in life. We read that Esau was ruddy, or as the New King James states, red and hairy. The word ruddy describes natural health and strength. Interestingly, I find this stuff interesting. His hue, his redness is like the red horse. or the scarlet beast that is described in Revelation 6 and 12. The responsibility of the red horse is to take peace, to take peace from the earth by sword Thus the color red communicates physical strength and violence, as was Esau. Esau is also described as hairy. Long or abundant hair communicates strength along with wildness. The Lord through Ezekiel used the description when referring to Israel growing in strength. We remember Samson's strength associated with hair. The wildness is in the line of Nebuchadnezzar, who you remember, when he went mad like a beast, let his hair grow long. Thus Esau is described to be like a fierce animal. In contrast is Jacob. Nothing about him physically is noted other than he does not look like his brother We should note also that if Jacob is born like most children, we should note that Jacob was likely hairless, or at least not hairy like Esau. In Numbers 8, and again, these contrasts or these connections fascinate me, in numbers eight, the priests Who were consecrating themselves to serve in the temple were required to shave all of their flesh, all of their hair off of their flesh, symbolizing cleanliness In order to go into the temple. At birth, Jacob was set apart from Esau. The one description of Jacob at birth was his action, what he did. Jacob, we will find is a man of action. He is born grasping his brother's heel. And as this is seen, he is then named Jacob, which the word means surplanter. A surplanter is a person who wants to take over for or take place of the person who is ahead of him. Jacob is not only destined to receive the blessing of the firstborn, he has wanted it since birth. The next paragraph in the story describes the brothers as men. As men, they are vastly different regarding the trades that they choose. Esau became a skillful hunter, and Jacob became a tent dweller. It might appear by this translation that Jacob is a homebody and that Esau is a man's man. This is not the case. Describing Jacob as a tent dweller means that he was as his father was, and as his grandfather was. He was a shepherd. He herded and cared for livestock. Esau, in contrast, was unsettled. He was an unsettled man wandering in and out. He was a man who was uncomfortable in his own skin. He went out to hunt when it was not necessary to hunt. He honed the skill of hunting that was not needed, for there was plenty of livestock to eat. To prefer to hunt What is not needed could be a sign of an unsettled soul. The Bible warns men against leading unsettled lives. The warning is in line with the command not to covet. Unsettled men look for other women besides the one that God has given them. They look for thrill or adventure as if providing for and raising a family is not thrilling and adventurous enough. They pursue sport for the sake of distraction. Distraction so that they do not have to face the reality that their youth is gone and the end of their days on earth is coming closer and closer. Instead of leading unsettled lives, the scripture commends the pursuit of peaceable and quiet lives. Paul said to the Thessalonians, aspire to a quiet life, to mind your own business, and to work with your hands as we commanded you. While these two brothers had nothing in common that was noticeable, they did come in contact, and the most important moment of their encounter, that is told to us. And as I described earlier, it appears that Jacob placed himself in a position to bribe his brother, whom he knew was likely to come through where Jacob was cooking his stew. And perhaps like no other time before, Esau would come, like every time before, Esau would come back hungry after spending a good deal of time in the fields. And if we can look beyond the ethical issue that is presented of Jacob bribing his brother, it is there that we notice the primary point. Jacob wanted the birthright of his brother, and he worked to get it, while Esau cared more for his appetite than his birthright. It is this contrast of the two brothers where the greatest lesson and warning, warning is found. Jacob cherished the birthright, whereas Esau did not. This is the important difference between men of the flesh and men of the spirit. It is the difference between the wheat and the tares, the sheep and the goats. When Esau is presented with a bargain, his logic is based on the immediate. In the moment. He is hungry, so hungry that he feels famished. He reasons that a birthright will do him no good if he dies, so he willingly sells it. Of course Esau would not have died, but he felt like it in the moment, and that was enough. Perhaps he felt even too weak to beat up his brother and take the school for himself But whatever the case, his immediate hunger was most important to him. After having eaten both the red lentil stew and bread Jacob had made, Esau went his way, apparently thinking nothing about what he had done. The Lord, however summarizes what he did by stating, thus Esau despised his birthright. To understand how serious this is, we must understand birthright. The birthright, as was said, is a right to a blessing. It was for the firstborn male in a family, and it consisted of the right to a blessing of the father for prosperity. As well as receiving a double portion of all that the father had owned compared to the rest of the siblings. What distinguished the birthright is that it was given to the oldest son based on the fact that he was born first, rather than having worked to earn the blessing, to earn the inheritance. The birthright then was ordained by God, meaning that God chose who would be born first, and thus who would receive the blessing, the double inheritance. To despise a birthright then was to despise a gift from God This is what Esau did, and it is what Israel did when they rejected the Messiah. The parallel of Esau despising his birthright and the people of Israel despising Jesus as God's son is before us in this story. God chose in the fullness of time to present his son before the people of Israel. Jesus said that he came first for the Jews He referred to them as God's children, and you remember he referred to the Gentiles as dogs under the table. He confirmed the Jews as God's chosen, as a people who were privileged by birth to have the law and to be the first to hear the gospel of Jesus. He even prayed up to the end of his life that the Heavenly Father would forgive them because they know not what they were doing. And yet they rejected him. They despised him. By rejecting the Son of God who came to save them, they were rejecting their birthright as children of Abraham. As we recognize these parallels, and as we gawk at the audacity of Esau and the Jews to reject their birthright, we also must be warned. If you have been baptized in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, you too have been given a birthright. You too have been given a blessing and a double portion inheritance. For all who claim Jesus as Savior are called sons of God, and all are inheritors of his kingdom. Having been adopted as sons, we are each to understand ourselves as firstborn, because as believers in Jesus, we all share in the inheritance from the least to the greatest. All of us, male and female, are to see ourselves as adopted sons, for sons are the inheritors. And as a son of God, you too can be tempted to sell your birthright. It is what the devil would have you do. This can be done in various ways, of course, and it is usually not as blatant as Jacob's offer to Esau. As God's children, we are privileged to call upon the name of the Lord. So the devil would have us believe it is more of a privilege to do something else. As God's children, we are promised that our daily bread would be provided. But the devil tempts us to want more than we need. And to pursue temporary wealth before pursuing the kingdom of God. As God's children, we are called to give up our lives in this life. with the promise of an eternal life after death. But the devil tempts us to pursue pleasures in this life, or pleasures in the moment, just like Esau. Esau gave into temptation. He settled for pleasure and satisfaction in the moment. This is the most common of temptations. And as I was writing this sermon, I recognized that I have I have preached like this before. I have given many warnings over the years regarding the dangers of exchanging pleasure in this life, exchanging it for the hope of heaven after? And some people who are no longer with us did not heed that warning. You and I know of people who consider their personal happiness, their personal pleasure in this life to be worth more than their birthright in the kingdom of God. I am honest with you about this because I want you to be warned and then raise the warning to a higher level. So that when you are tempted to exchange your birthright for pleasures in this life, that you will remember this day, remember this sermon, remember Esau. Remember those who have done so only to lose their souls. As you have seen, the story of Esau and Jacob is more than a moral story. It is more than the ethics described. It is a confirmation that when Israel rejected Jesus, they rejected their birthright. Which allowed the Gentiles to be like the second born son and claim it for themselves. And the story is a warning, and perhaps this is the most important purpose of this story. Those who now have the birthright, we are to do whatever we need to do to keep it. Nothing is more valuable, and nothing in this life will compare to God's promises for eternity. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, for this story, for the example herein, that points us to the birthright you have given each who call upon you Father, may our souls be quickened, may our hearts be charged, may our consciences be seared, may we truly, truly seek you first And may we always hang on to the wonderful gift of being born into your kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.