In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 1. We're picking up at verse thirteen. It was our first reading this morning. A powerful residual that comes along with believing in and following the Lord Jesus Christ is a sense of identity, especially for young people. Christianity provides identity for all ages, of course, but it is especially important in the lives of young people The young among us struggle with identity. We all do when we are young. Educators and psychologists have encouraged young people to ask themselves Who they are, as if their personal identity can be found within them. The reality is that when we are young, finding out what is inside of us is like peeling an onion One layer looks like another until there's nothing left. The more important question instead is who do you want to become? When that is answered, a person can then make strides in life to come closer to whom he or she wants to be. I remember a specific instance of wanting to be like someone. When I was in seventh grade, our junior high school had seven, eighth, and ninth grades, and there was a ninth grade boy who most of the girls liked. He was successful in athletics. And so I studied his mannerisms, his gait, his attitude, and tried to alike myself to who he was. I don't know how well it worked, but I well remembered the desire to establish an identity that I would strive to live up to. As I said, we all struggle in a similar manner. We established last week that the story of the world, the universe, of all of creation is centered on the main character who is Jesus. We play a role in the story and we thank God for that, but we are not the center of the story. Never ever are we the center. It has been, is, and always will be about Jesus. A beautiful aspect of the gospel of Jesus is that while he is the central character, he bends down and cares for us. He cares about us individually and corporately. He is the center of the story, and yet he treats us as if we are the center of him. That is a beautiful thing. We also established last week that we are privileged to understand what God was doing by sending Jesus and by Jesus suffering as he did. We get to know what angels longed to look into, longed to understand. We get to see the finished product while understanding what was going on all along, down throughout history. And so it is with the revelation that the story of all creation is about Jesus, and that we are privileged to know the story. With that in mind, It brings us to St. Peter's next point in verse 13. The word therefore starts us off. Because of all before, therefore Peter is saying, because of what he just described, here is what we as Christians are to do about it. The first thing we are to do is gird up our loins. Thankfully, we don't wear loins anymore in our culture. But the expression simply means get ready to be active, and that's not even enough. It also means get ready to fight, get ready to go to battle. And it is the loins of your mind that is to be ready for a fight. Thus, we are to be sober, which does mean not having alcohol impede us, but it also refers to being mentally aware. As opposed to what is called today being spaced out or simply not paying attention. Our minds instead are to be focused on the hope that we have in the grace of God, which includes the hope That our sins are forgiven and that our heavenly reward awaits us. And because we are God's children We are to behave as God's children, and that means not to live as we used to live before Jesus became our Savior. The simple logic is that if you are called holy, which Christians are called because Jesus has made us so by forgiving our sins, then we are to live as holy. Connecting this to my opening comments, our identity is being holy. That is our standard and nothing else. God has said to his people in the book of Leviticus, be holy, as I am holy Jesus repeated the standard when he said, Be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. No apology followed, no excuse accepted. No qualification offered. The holiness of God is our standard and thus our identity. The standard of holiness, being God the Father, means that all commandments forbidden are not to be practiced. And all commandments directed are to be followed. The standard being God the Father means that all inner turmoils are brought under the authority of the Holy Spirit. As our attitude and our emotions are to be governed by the love of God. Thus we are to be holy both outwardly and inwardly. There have been very different approaches since the time of the ascension of Jesus on how Christians were to go about and are to go about living holy lives. I'm going to group these responses, these approaches, into two camps with the awareness of the many variations that reside underneath these two camps. I do so only to make a greater point than being concerned about those variations. The two camps I'm using are labeled liberal and conservative. The terms liberal and conservative I am not using in a political sense, but rather a theological sense, that politics play a role. Politics always plays a role. The liberal camp sees the standard of holiness being God the Father and concludes that such a standard cannot be reached And therefore, God can't really mean for us to meet that standard. This then allows them to focus not on the laws of God to obey, but instead look for a spirit Behind the laws. Because the spirit of each law is a subjective thing to identify, it allows for all sorts of interpretations and goes along well Goes along well with the line given by the devil to Eve in the garden when he asked, Did God really say you should not eat of the tree of life? From a liberal perspective, we get questions such as, did God really say you should not sleep with your neighbor's wife? Did God really say that He hates divorce? Did God really say that life begins at conception? Did God really say you shouldn't obey the lust of your flesh? Did God really say that we should not have idols in our lives? Did God really say that you were to not behave like the unbelieving? Did God really say that he was one God and there is no other? What is implied, of course, is that what we thought God said likely has a different meaning than we first heard it or understood it. From the New Testament context, we get such questions as: Did Jesus really say he was God? Did Jesus really say that no one receives a heavenly reward unless they go through him? Did Jesus really say that God's kingdom is established in him only? Did Jesus really say he and the Father are one? And then from the letters of Paul and Peter, did the apostles really teach that God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit are all divine and yet one? Did the apostles really teach that the moral standard of the Old Testament continues to be the moral standard for God's people? Did the apostles really teach that men and not women are called to the priesthood to be bishops, elders, and deacons? And then the overall question. Did God really say anything at all of value or truth that should change the way you want to live? Just as where the scriptures say that when you have broken one law, you've broken all the laws, so too it can be said that when you question One clearly stated truth or moral standard of Holy Scripture, you have questioned them all The conservative camp, in contrast, sees the standard of holiness being God the Father and concludes that when the standard is set, it is set There is no deviating from the standard. Truth is truth, is truth. Either you obey it all or you toss it all out. From the conservative perspective, truth morally, historically, statistically, remains constant and objective. Such also describes the God of the scriptures. He is truth, he is constant, he is objective. He is the opposite of shifting shadows that deceive the eyes. He is the opposite of the weather vein that always points to the direction the wind is blowing. Examine the character of God Peter describes when he speaks of God as a judge who shows no partiality. To show partiality is to shift. It is to change, to adjust laws, to fit desires and personalities. That is not our God and not our standard. We are to conduct our lives, that is what the phrase, throughout the time of your stay here, it's talking about your life in this world. From verse 17. We are to conduct our lives in fear. That's a holy awe of God's infinite authority and authority and power. And we are to live before a God who does not change, which means his standards never change. And let me tell you why this is so important to grasp, this understanding from a conservative perspective. It is because the devil has ways, he has strategies, he has methods that he uses to get as many of us as he can over to the liberal side, which is his side. What I'm going to do this morning is what the Ravens should have done last week. The Ravens last week faced a defensive strategy that forced them to turn to the passing game, but the Ravens weren't ready for the game scheme, and therefore they lost. Well, it is the same for us when we are not ready for the game schemes of the devil. We lose, and that means we give in to sinning. One of the game schemes the devil prominently uses today is syncretism. Now remind you that syncretism is the combining of the Christian faith with morality or other beliefs that are in conflict with the Christian faith. Syncretism can be seen in the behavior of a young man who claims Jesus as his Savior and yet he is sleeping with, having sex with his girlfriend. And sees no conflict with his state of belief and his behavior. Syncretism can be seen in a person praying to Jesus on Sunday and reading her horoscope for guidance on Monday. The synosyncretism was what Jeremiah the prophet repeatedly addressed when he prophesied to all of Israel As they repeatedly offered their offerings to the only true God and then turned around and trusted in the honoring of their family idols. And the most subtle asyncretism is worldview. It is when Christians pray their prayers, give their offerings, sing to and hear from the one true God. and then embrace socialist politics or fight for libertarian ideals or be obsessed with consumerism or whatever social ideal or political policy they stand for that is in opposition to biblical standards. There is no righteous tension when evil tugs a war against holiness. Holiness always has to win and will in the end. Another game scheme the devil has is to make what is clearly objective become subjective because of family. The most common practice of falling for this scheme is when parents raise their children to not have sexual relations before marriage. And when the son or daughter decides to move in with his girlfriend or her boyfriend, the parents look the other way and either do not condemn the behavior, be silent. Or actually condone the behavior because they don't want to lose the relationship they have with their child. A more obvious example of making what is clearly objective become subjective because a family Is when a family member announces that he or she is a homosexual. And for the same reasons mentioned previous, now homosexuality is an accepted lifestyle by the entire family. Note that nothing has changed in terms of what the Bible teaches. The only thing that has changed is a person's subjective experience, your family now embracing homosexuality. And now the subjective rules over the objective. The Church of Corinth did something similar when a man began sleeping with his father's ex-wife, and the church turned a blind eye. And the result could have been the loss of the man's soul. Someone needs to sacrifice likability and speak the truth in love in such situations. Another game scheme of the devil is to get us to think that righteousness in one aspect of our lives Is sufficient or a balance for the unrighteousness in our lives. We are seeing this played out in our culture. as the political left not only approves of killing the unborn at all stages of development and even after birth has taken place, but will give up their lives to defend seal pups from hunters and poachers. But it doesn't have to be seal pumps. It could be the environment they claim needs saving, or the social justice that needs changing, or the sexual perversions they want protected. It is anything that they can use to make them feel more righteous. But their righteousness is in their own eyes. It is certainly not the righteousness of God. Such self-righteousness is believing in corruptible things, like verse 18 describes. When it comes to understanding true righteousness, We are to be taken back, as Peter does in verses 19 through 21, taken back to the sacrificial death and the miraculous resurrection of Jesus. It is only by the death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus that any person can be made righteous. And it is because of what Jesus accomplished that we are to live righteously. And we don't continue our righteousness because of how we live. We continue because the sacrifice of Jesus continues to be effective in our lives, and we are reminded of that continued effective sacrifice when we take the bread and we take the wine The past year that included a presidential election and a once-in-a-lifetime pandemic revealed how easily human beings can fall into the sin of self-righteousness. We have heard people say that they love their fellow man more than others because of how they have responded to the pandemic. We have heard people say that they love the world more and the environment more because of who they supported for president. We have heard those who claim to be Christian say that the manner of a candidate Is more important than the policies by which he governs. Apparently, even when such policies allow for no restrictions for the killing of the least among us, the unborn. I prophetically say to you that there will be no sin more hypocritically obvious on the day of judgment than the one that is uttered by those who say that they love their fellow man and then support the right for a person to kill an unborn child. The God that Peter describes, the God that you and I are to emulate in his holiness, is a God who died for the sake of the child in the womb, the very least among us. I began this sermon talking about the importance of identity, and so I shall end there as well. Our identity is to be holy as our Heavenly Father is holy. We can only achieve that by way, not by way of earthly politics, not by way of personal behavior, but only by way of Jesus, being our Lord, being our Savior. It is only after surrendering to Him as our Savior that we can be motivated to be righteous as God is. The sacrificial life and death of Jesus is to be our primary motivation. To do and not do as God has commanded. The resurrection and ascension of Jesus is to motivate us further that our life lived here is to emulate the glory of the promise of the hereafter. I have been reading a biography about Eric Little, who most of you know from the movie Chariots of Fire. He was an Olympic champion and a missionary to China, where he was also made a martyr. The author spends a great deal of time describing the character of Little. And it is an impeccable character, even compared to the upstanding persons of his day. And the author interrupts his description of Little's character anticipating that the reader is going to think that he's exaggerating. He assures us that he is not. And there was not one person who was interviewed about the character of Eric Little that did not agree. When I heard the character describe of little, I thought it was an exaggeration. But I realized I only did so because I was aware of my own character flaws in comparison My simple point in sharing this with you is that we truly can live more holy lives than we are currently living. And that is why Peter wrote, Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind and be holy as God is holy. Let us pray. Our merciful and gracious Lord, we are grateful for the courage of Peter to remind us of the standard That will always be there, never changing, because it is you who never changes. And that is what we cling to in a day that tosses us to and fro. Father, help all of us have the courage to take up the standard and live it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.