In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. John Smith, and yes that was his name, spelled S M Y T H was a British barrister, which to us is a lawyer, who was a Christian evangelical advocate He ran youth camps for boys, upholding high moral standards as taught in the Bible, and he fought politically against homosexual marriage and sexual indecency. That his ministry had some unfortunate twists when a public schoolboy died in the care of one of his camps, being found naked and drowned. John Smith was not charged, but later Smith was accused of abusing several boys while running his Christian summer camps. Details included swimming naked with teenagers, showering with them in the nude, and encouraging them to talk about masturbation. One alleged victim from South Africa named that said that Smith administered savage beatings with wooden bats. which was a chilling echo of what was also said to have occurred in Britain. But Smith, a former friend of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby Who was said to have no knowledge of any abuse claims, had the case against him dismissed a year later in Zimbabwe. Court documents from the time reported, quote, the particular allegations against Smith made the complainants walk naked to the swimming pool at night. That he took showers with them in the new, that he talked to them about masturbation, and told them to be proud of their anatomy because Jesus Christ was a man. Smith was also accused of assaulting the complainants on their rear bare buttocks with a tennis bat, table tennis bat. Smith left Zimbabwe in 2002 to move to South Africa, where he became a religious campaigner against gay rights. In summary, the schools, the camps, the churches Smith worked with all had reason to question Smith's behavior and tactics And to investigate the allegations made against him, but chose instead to trust in Smith's public personae. It was not until 2017 that Hampshire British Police reactivated the inquiry and found that the eyewitness accounts were credible. A spokeswoman said that no report was made to the police at the time of the first allegations, not least because the parents of the victims felt that their sons should be spared more trauma. The college involved had never sought to conceal these dreadful events, it said in a statement. In 2017, Smith refused to cooperate with investigators by refusing to return to Britain to face his accusers. He died in his home in South Africa in 2018 by undisclosed causes. Secrets, secrets are no fun. Secrets, secrets hurt someone. Mr. Smith had a secret, a very deranged and perverted secret, and it caught up with him in this life. For many people, their secrets don't catch up with them in this life, but as we believe, they will be accounted for in the life or death to come. All of us. All of us are tempted to have secrets in our lives. To have parts of our lives that only we know about Some secrets, such as drug and alcohol abuse, can be physically dangerous and damaging. Others, such as lust and envy and bitterness, can be internally dangerous and damaging. But when Jesus thinks secrets, he thinks of them in a holy manner. Secrets to Jesus are to be holy. It has been our attempt to examine how Jesus thinks and to align ourselves with the way of that thinking. And last week we saw how Jesus thinks differently than the world in very specific ways. Well, I don't imagine you can think much differently than the world by thinking of secrets in terms of holiness as opposed to having secret sins. From Matthew chapter six, verses one through four, it is implied that the self-righteous or hypocrites, as Jesus calls them made it public knowledge when they gave their money to aid the poor. Later Jesus teaches us about the widow's might and that What she gave was so much more than anyone else of wealth, because what she gave was all that she had, and she gave out of faith, and that was more valuable to the kingdom of God. The point of this giving, as Jesus describes in secret, is to rece I'm sorry, as the hypocrite after as the hypocrites gave, was done to receive praise from our fellow man. For doing a good deed. In John's Gospel, we learn that the hypocrites Jesus describes are the Pharisees. As John commentates, they love the praise of men more than they love praise from God. The Pharisees. Are a complicated bunch because at the time of their service, they were the conservative people. They were responsible for preserving the daily faith of the Jews when the Greeks and the Romans tried to control that region of what we now call Israel and control the city of Jerusalem. It was the Pharisees who kept the law of God before the people. At their origin, the Pharisees were contrasted by the people of Israel against the Sadducees. The Sadducees were the wealthy, priestly, ruling class, whereas the Pharisees were seen as the leaders of the local regions. They were the leaders of the average citizen. Because of their popularity amongst the average citizen, they grew in number and they grew in arrogance. By the time of Jesus walking among men, they had established themselves as the religious order to emulate, to idolize, and at some times to fear. Their notoriety, the praise of their fellow citizen, went to their heads. As fallen human beings. When we prioritize the praise of other fallen human beings as being the most important thing we can achieve in this life, the problem is grave indeed. Being an idol in the eyes of others can become an idol itself. We can too easily bow down to a system that will allow us to be praised by men. And our culture is so brazen about the importance of the praise of men that we have a national contest that uses the actual term idol. But in the kingdom of God, idols are smashed, idols are crushed and burned until every one of them is at the foot of the cross of Jesus Christ. Unfortunately, young people today have polled that over 50% prefer reaching the goal of being famous more than they desire achieving anything else in this life. And it doesn't seem to matter how the fame comes. The praise of men can be a drug. as is proven by a quote from one popular singer who said that she wished that fame was an IV that she could hook up to whenever she wanted, and that she lived for the applause. As Jesus said of the Pharisees, so he warns of all who seek earthly fame. Your reward will go no further than the praise you receive in this life. So Jesus thinks differently about the praise of men. Jesus thinks it should be avoided. Jesus thinks what other people do to be praised, his followers should do in secret. And so the secret life of a Christian is to begin with the money we give for the needs of others. Giving to help the needy is a religious duty. And those who give to those who have little, much praise is given to them, especially When we see people on the television, which we see every Thanksgiving, usually an athlete, given praise for handing out turkeys to the poor on Thanksgiving. The press loves to uphold such people and to show them as such giving people, but they do so, and you and I know this, for the praise they receive. But what we do as Christians must come from an inward principle, which is that we may be approved by God, not that we be praised by men. And we are told to take heed of this sin because it is a subtle sin. And vainglory creeps into what we do before we are aware. But the duty of providing for the needy isn't to cease because of the threat of hypocrisy. The doom of Christ Jesus that he describes at first seems like a promise. But it is their reward. Not the reward God promises to those who do good, but the reward of hypocrites promising to themselves, and a poor reward it is. That is the reward to be seen by men, and men do see them. And thankfully, there is a reverse truth. That when we take lesser notice of our good deeds, God takes more notice of them. In the end, He will reward us. Not as a master who gives to his servant for what he has earned and no more, but as a father who gives abundantly to his sons who serve him well. And next, Jesus said, we are to pray in secret. Perhaps it is taken for granted that all who are disciples of Christ pray. After all, to become a Christian, if you're not raised in the church, you have to pray. And if you are a sinner, which you are, you have to pray daily. You have to personally talk to God. It has been said that for the Christian, prayer should be like breathing. You should no sooner find a living person not breathing than find a Christian not praying. Because prayer should be so natural to the Christian, it would seem difficult to be hypocritical about it. But no, it also is easy to do in order to receive the praises of men. The scribes and the Pharisees were guilty of two great faults in their praying. They did it for vain glory and in vain repetition. Praying to God is a privilege. Praying to God in the name of Jesus is an even greater privilege. To do so in order to impress others is to burn cow dung having smoked rise as putrid incense. Of course, the persons who are most susceptible to pray for the praise of men are spiritual leaders. We can seek praise for the affluent words that we say. We can seek praise for how well we say those words. We can seek praise for the volume and the tone in which we pray And here is the truth. Any such praise received is of no value, for the prayers, regardless of content, are not heard. What we learn in Holy Scripture is that when we pray, we are to humble ourselves by asking God's favor upon us that we do not deserve. And the most powerful intercessions are those that are made of groanings that cannot be uttered. Next we are to practice is the practice or habit of repeating words. Repeating words is like the world, it's like the heathen. It was the idol worshippers who would chant the same phrases over and over, believing that the more they pray, the more they repeat the same prayer, the greater chance to be heard. by their false gods. Let us well study what is shown of the frame of mind of which our prayers should be offered, and learn daily how Christ prayed. Jesus went to be alone to pray. He prayed in secret. And while in secret, he praised his father. While in secret, he called God his Father While in secret he prayed the words, Not my will, but thine be done. While in secret, we are to do the same. The next thing we are to do in secret is to fast. The word fast literally signifies to abstain from food and drink, whether from necessity or religious observance. It is, of course, commonly applied in the Bible to religious purposes. It was then unusual Excuse me, it was in a usual expression of grief or sorrow. And we know this to be a natural response of the body that in times of grief and sorrow we are not disposed to eat, for we have no appetite. The grief of the soul is so absorbing as to destroy a natural appetite of the body People in deep affliction eat little and often pine away, falling into sickness because the body refuses on account of that deep sorrow of mind to take care of its own health. Fasting, then, is a natural expression of grief. It is not arbitrary. It is something that we naturally do when we are Depressed. It is therefore appropriate in times of penitence, of godly sorrow, of suffering When we are in pandemic, tempest, pestilence, plague, it is useful to humble us to bring us to reflection, to direct our thoughts away from the temptations of this world. It is therefore not acceptable except to be a real expression of sorrow. The Jews, interestingly, fasted often. There were four unofficial annual fastings One was the commemoration of the capture of Jerusalem, that's in Jeremiah 52. Another was for the burning of the temple in Zechariah 7. Another was for the death of Gedaliah, Jeremiah 4 41, and finally the commencement of the attack of Jerusalem in Zechariah 8. In addition, the Pharisees were known to have fasting at fasted twice a week. To fast with a sad countenance is to have a sour, morose look about you. But it is unfelt sorrow. The Pharisees fasted with disfigured faces. They tried to look the part of fasting They did not anoint and wash themselves as usual. They remained uncombed, filthy, and haggard It is said that they were often in the habit of throwing ashes on their heads and faces and mixing these with their tears. This all served to see suffering on their faces. So much pains were taken and so much suffering would they undergo and so much that was ridiculous would they assume to impose upon God and his people That they deceive neither God nor the people. God sees through such flimsy veils. Human eyes can pierce so thin a disguise. Hypocrites overacting their part, not having genuine principles of piety of heart. Not having the genuine expression, and hence they appear supremely contemptible and abominable Never should people exhibit outwardly more than they feel. And never should they attempt to exhibit anything for the mere sake of being praised by men. In such praise as Jesus said, they have their reward. They have all they desire, the praise of men, and the pleasures of arrogant display. So our fasting is to be done in secret, while our countenance are to appear as to be quite full and satisfied For what we do in secret is our holy living, and our Heavenly Father will reward us openly. The Greek there is properly translated in the future tense. It is for God to choose when and how to reward us openly who are faithful. And finally, we are to place our greatest wants and desires and hopes secretly in heaven, where the world clashes with one another over earthly power, over earthly wealth, over earthly justice, our treasures, which include Heavenly powers, heavenly wealth, heavenly justice are to be laid up in heaven, where they await for us who finish our journeys of faith in this life. To store up treasures on earth is also to love the praise of men. For much of what we store up is to display so that others can covet. Secrets, secrets are no fun. Secrets, secrets hurt someone. In terms of the sins of mankind, that saying is true. In the kingdom of God, Jesus wants us to think of secrets as opportunities to live righteously before God. So be challenged to live secretly. Secretly give to those who are in need. Secretly give so that your right hand doesn't know what your left hand is doing. Secretly pray, secretly fast, trusting and believing that God is the only audience you need. And as you do, treasures will naturally be stored up for you in heaven. Let us pray. God, we thank you for these truths that are to be done in secret And we confess how easily our flesh is drawn to do that which gets praise from men. Help us to see secrets as an opportunity to be holy. And to trust that you, as our only audience, is more than enough. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.