In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated Remember that this is a series in which your rector is rambling. I got a lot of problems with you people We had an interesting moment in the adult Sunday School class several weeks ago now. We were talking about honoring the Sabbath day and how it is addressed in the sermons from Article 35 of the 39 articles found in the Book of Common Prayer. The conversation recognized a flaw in our Christian living. It was pointed out That if a fellow Christian had committed a felony and we knew this person, we would feel obligated to confront the person to call them away from such sin. And we could go down the list of the Ten Commandments and recognize that if a fellow Christian were worshiping false gods, making idols, Taking the Lord's name in vain, dishonoring their parents, murdering, stealing, and the rest We would confront them and call them to repentance because we would feel it was our duty to do so. But what about the breaking of the Sabbath? Would we confront a fellow Christian about breaking the Sabbath And there were crickets being heard in the Sunday school class just as there are right now. But some say the Sabbath law isn't the same as the other laws. Or is it? Breaking the Sabbath isn't like bowing down to an idol or sleeping around on your wife or lying under oath, right? Let's see what God has to say about it. Written in Exodus chapter 31, we read. You shall keep the Sabbath because it is holy for you. Everyone who profanes it shall be put to death. Whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death. Therefore, the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath. Observing the Sabbath throughout their generations as a covenant forever. It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel. That in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. Sounds pretty serious to God. But God doesn't want his people to see the Sabbath as something like a burden they have to carry. Hear what he says through the prophet Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 58. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath, From doing your pleasure on my holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight and a holy day of the Lord honorable If you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, Then you shall take delight in the Lord, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob, your father. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. From this, from this, keeping the Sabbath sounds quite wonderful. What we find in the covenant God made with Israel is how important Sabbath-keeping was to him as he repeated the commandment many times. This is from Leviticus chapter 23. Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest. Holy convocation. Convocation means gathering. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the Lord in all your dwelling places. The following is from Exodus 35. Long after the giving of the Ten Commandments, God wanted the law repeated to the people. Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the Lord Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death. The following is from the prophet Nehemiah. And if the peoples of the land bring in goods or any grain on the Sabbath day to sell We will not buy from them on the Sabbath or on a holy day. We will forgo the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of every debt. From the prophet Ezekiel, in a dispute they shall act as judges, and they shall judge it according to my judgments. They shall keep my laws and my statutes and all my appointed feasts, and they shall keep my Sabbath holy. Having repeated God's will regarding the Sabbath in so many different ways and through so many different messengers, we can conclude that it is important. So why isn't it treated the same in the same manner the other commandments of the Ten Commandments are treated? The following are current arguments against Christians honoring the Sabbath day. One argument against Christians keeping the Sabbath is how Jesus spoke of the Sabbath. The following is from the Gospel of St. Luke, chapter 6, very familiar to the Gospel reading from Matthew this morning. Now it happened on the second Sabbath after the first that he went through the grain fields, and his disciples plucked the heads of the grain and ate them, rubbing them in their hands. And some of the Pharisees said to them, Why are you doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath But Jesus answering them said, Have you not read this, what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him? How he went into the house of God, took and ate the showbread, and also gave some of those with him, which is not lawful for any but the priest to eat And he said to them, The Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath. Several points of truth are to be extracted from this section of Scripture. First, the Pharisees were referring to the book of Deuteronomy, which explicitly states, as we have already heard, that work is not to be performed on the Sabbath. Interestingly, when we were in Israel, we observed several unique ways the Israelis avoid physical work on the Sabbath. One of them is to shut down public transportation altogether. Another interesting way is to not allow the use of elevators, or at least not allow people to push the buttons on elevators. This is because starting a fire or igniting a spark is considered work. And therefore using electrical devices are interpreted to be lighting a spark. To still use elevators, they have what are called Shabbat elevators. Shabbat is another word for Sabbath. These elevators stop at every level of a particular building on a continuous basis so that the pushing of buttons is not required. In the first century, no such interpretation of the law was needed, of course, but the Pharisees were very technical in their interpretation of the law. They interpreted the fourth commandment strictly so that any physical exertion could be identified as labor, including walking certain distances. And with their self-righteous hearts, they looked for ways in which the disciples of Jesus were not obeying God's law. Their interpretation of the Sabbath work included harvesting, and the act of a person taking their hands and picking pieces of grain from the head of wheat was an act of the world. Of harvesting, at least their interpretation. Jesus' answer to their accusation reveals several very important points He first shows how necessity requires a proper response. The showbread in the temple was sacred. And yet when it came to God's anointed needing sustenance, it was allowed to be consumed by others besides the priest. Jesus was of the line of David. Jesus was the promised anointed one from the line of David. And thus the same line of reasoning applied to him as it did to David. Also, by referring to himself as the Son of Man, he is taking on the title of the promised Messiah promised from the prophet Daniel and thus declaring himself the Messiah. although in a more subtle manner than he would later. In Mark's Gospel, as in Matthew's Gospel, he records the same incident, but adds that Jesus said that the Sabbath was made for man. And not man for the Sabbath. And such means that God did not intend his people to serve the Sabbath But the Sabbath would serve his people, and this we will get to. The overall point is that Jesus honored the Sabbath as did his disciples, only Jesus did not interpret the disciples. Such honoring in a legalistic manner as the Pharisees did. Another argument against Christians honoring the Sabbath is interpreting the following words from Saint Paul, who wrote to the Colossians, and said the following as you heard this morning So let no one judge you in food or in drink or regarding a festival or a new moon or Sabbaths. The New King James rightly puts the word Sabbath in a lower case because the word Sabbath did not just refer to the weekly Sabbath, but instead referred to any day in the Jewish calendar that was set aside as a day of rest. Thus there were several Sabbath days that the Jews observed outside the weekly Sabbath. The point Paul was making is that the Gentile Christians at Colossae were not required to observe any Sabbath in the same manner the Jews insisted, making the point the same as Jesus made of the Pharisees. Again, Paul is not saying, don't observe the Sabbath. He's arguing not to do so as the Jewish people insisted. And the final argument for Christians not honoring the Sabbath, at least the final argument for this sermon. Is that Christians don't keep the Sabbath because we don't worship on Saturday. And Saturday's the Sabbath Such an argument is the primary argument of the justification of the existence of the Seventh-day Adventist Church. To respond to this, we first must recall the historical reality of the Christians and the Sabbath. When the Christian faith primarily consisted of Jewish converts, The believers would honor the Sabbath on Saturday as they interpreted the fourth commandment, and then gather together with fellow Christians for the breaking of bread and the consuming of wine. on Sundays to commemorate the resurrection of Jesus. When the gospel came to the Gentiles and the majority of Christians became converted Gentiles The Jewish traditions on the Saturday Sabbath were no longer followed, but instead the Sabbath for the Gentiles became every Sunday, where they would rehearse the gospel stories, read the letters of the apostles, and share the bread and wine. In communion. Now, the logical argument of making the Christian Sabbath Sunday instead of Saturday was because there was no evidence That the exact seventh day, identified as Saturday on our present-day calendar, was the exact day that God identified as the original seventh day or Sabbath day. Well, the Jews identified as the seventh day could have been the seventh day of creation, or the third day of creation, or any one of the seven days. Thus, the exact day identified as the Sabbath is impossible to identify, allowing for Christians to identify Sunday as the Sabbath day. In Scripture, the day is also referred to as the Lord's Day, for that is what Saint Jaw called Saint John called it when he described his vision in the book of Revelation, where he was taken up in the Spirit on the Lord's day. Thus, Christians have gathered for Christian worship on Sundays since the days of the apostles, and Christians have referred to the Lord's Day as their observance of the Sabbath since that time as well. What I am wanting you to conclude is that Sundays for Christians are to be our Sabbath day, the day we obey the fourth commandment. But I am not going door to door, visiting your homes, if you don't worship Jesus every Sunday I'm not going to be deriding you for mowing your lawn on Sundays or going to a baseball game. What I will tell you Is how fundamental honoring the Sabbath should be for every Christian. The most obvious point to make is that God, if God Needed to rest on the seventh day. If God needed to rest on the seventh day, what arrogance it is for us to think that we don't need to rest on the seventh day We are created in God's image. And if you don't follow his example, we will not continue in his image, for we become our own God. Who chooses our own schedule, and such is not sustainable because that is not how God has designed us. We need the Sabbath. It was created for us, which means for our benefit. And we need all the benefits we can get. The second point to make is how the honoring of the Sabbath day establishes a necessary priority in our lives. When we use the Sabbath day to worship our God, our Savior, we are obeying the first and second commandments as well. We are placing God as first priority in our lives. And we are not choosing an idol to worship in place of him. And beloved, there are so many activities the devil wants us to participate. In besides the worship of God. And you may not see it as an idol, but instead it is a mere sports season or a scout excursion or necessary recital But it shines like an idol, just as those in the days of Pharaoh. What I want to motivate each one of us is not what we shouldn't do on the Sabbath. But the beauty on what we are able to do on the Sabbath. We are able to stand, kneel, and sit in the presence of God. And that presence is like no other. For Jesus taught us that when two or more are gathered together in his name, he is uniquely there. That unique presence is different than when each of us is alone. And even though he is with us individually at all times, he is with us in a special manner when we gather in his name. And that unique presence is amplified at the reading of God's Word, at the preaching of that same word, and next, even more uniquely. When we break bread, which is his body, and share the wine, which is his blood. You may ask me To be more specific in the matter, Jesus is uniquely present, and how exactly is the bread, his body, and the wine, his blood? And I can answer that with no reservation by saying, I don't know. When we try to know, when we try to explain it, we will likely fall into superstition, which is believing more than what the Bible teaches. Or we could fall into heresy, which is to believe what the the opposite of what the Bible teaches. Or we could simply sound like a fool who is trying to say something while really saying nothing. Instead, we can embrace the idea of mystery. Mystery is accepting a truth we cannot fully understand, at least in this life. Remember that the Bible tells us that we see through the glass dimly. And glass in the first century was not what it is like today. Things looked oddly shaped and the colors were fuzzy. The Bible also tells us that we are under the sun, meaning that our vantage point to see reality is very much limited. So we are to accept our limitations and accept what Jesus tells us. When we gather, when his word is read and preached, when we break bread and share wine, we are uniquely blessed by his presence. Making them a means of grace given freely to us. But gathering for Christian worship on a Sabbath day isn't the only beautiful part of honoring the Sabbath. It is also gathering with friends and family after worship and sharing a meal and sharing about your weak past. And sharing about plans for the future, and telling humorous stories, and updating one another about family achievements and family prayer needs It is watching children play together and including them on telling old family stories. The Sabbath is also quietly sitting alone or sitting with your spouse and reading a book Playing a game, enjoying some form of entertainment, while your body and mind rest, being prepared for another week Another week of to-do lists, car trips, work meetings, school meetings Church meetings, phone calls, emails, tragic news on the television, money gained, money lost, groceries to buy, bills to pay, relationships to maintain, and I became depressed writing this all down. Honoring the Sabbath takes us away from all that needs to be done and all that we think needs to be done during the week. It gives us time to be like God, which is to rest the seventh day. I told Bobby Lynn last Sunday night That I felt like I had had preached what I preached last week was an infomercial on the studying the Bible. Well, this also sounds like an infomercial on honoring the Sabbath, and I accept that I preach this out of conviction that the Sabbath was made for you. Amen. Let us pray. My gracious and heavenly Father, we are convicted because we at times so lazurely approach your fourth commandment, not treating them as not treating it as the same as the rest. And yet what we have said here from your holy word is that we need to honor it. It is a gift from you to us, and we receive it. In Jesus' name. Amen.