In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Maybe seated. Continuing our series, The Ramblings of a Rector, The Screw Tape Letters is a book written by C. S. Lewis. That portrays a senior demon riding to a junior demon, giving advice on how to be a successful tempter that leads people away from Christ. From Christianity. It can be a tricky book to understand because the reader can get confused when the devil is called father. By the demons, and God is referred to as the enemy. So I hesitate to use the stories as an example because I don't want you to be confused. But the topic today makes it necessary to refer to that book. In chapter 16 of the Screw Tape Letters, The man that Wormwood, that's the name of the junior demon, was to be tempting, had started attending a Christian church. Screwtape, the senior demon, writes to Wormwood to help him pull their subject away from attending church. The first advice about the temptation is to make the new Christian, quote, a taster or connoisseur of churches. The goal is to prevent the new Christian from becoming unified with fellow believers. To do that, the demon must tempt the new Christian. To find faults with the parish he is attending, and the fault finding will result in the new Christian seeing himself As being more righteous and more wise and more insightful than the people with whom he is worshiping Such attitude will eventually result in the new Christian looking for a place to worship that is more suited to his high level of style and faith, only to repeat the cycle again at the next church. The second approach for the demon to misguide the new Christian is to get him to choose A church that is continually watering down the faith so as to make the Christian life less difficult. What the demons fear most Is for the new Christian to come under the leadership of a pastor who truly believes the gospel. And we can speculate it did not take long for the imagination of Lewis to come up with the temptation of making the new Christian a taster or connoisseur of churches. Because it happens so very often, making the demons quite successful with such temptation. In fact, I know of a preacher who was co-teaching The screw tape letters in a Sunday school class and was the teacher of this very chapter, chapter 16, in the book about hopping from church to church. And a couple of months later, the same minister hopped to another church. You don't need to make these things up. Of the many metaphors used to describe God's people, the church is a bride We see that clearly in the Old Testament as God used the prophet Hosea to marry a woman of fallen character to symbolize how he believed his people, Israel, were unfaithful to him, him as a husband. And they as his wife in relationship. In the New Testament, the metaphor for God's people being his wife is very positive. And it got me to thinking how people treat God's bride when they focus on being critical of a local church and then pull away from a church only to go to another church That represents God's bride, and do the very same thing there. Imagine if your mother was widowed. And there came to her men after men who would pretend to love her and want to care for her, only to break her heart by leaving her without reason. And this happens again and again. Or let us say it's your daughter. The same type of men keep calling on her only to leave her when she has fallen for them. Would you stand by and watch your mother or your daughters suffer, or would you protect them by scolding the men who mistreat them? Well, in a way, this sermon is a scolding of people who mistreat the bride of Christ. Each metaphor used in Scripture to describe God's people, it's helpful to understand the many beautiful complexities of our relationship with God. The scriptures say we are a city. We are as a body. We are a nation. We are a family. We are a house. We are a temple. And as I said, I want us to focus today on the fact that the people of God and our relationship to God is as his bride. I focus on the bride metaphor because being a city or a nation is not as relational as the church being God's bride. And as I refer to the church in this sermon, I'm speaking of the local church as it represents the church universal. Consider the following passage. Again, from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 31 through 32, in the context of a husband and wife being united as one, we are taught that God sees himself and his church as one. Thus all that what is required of a man to be toward his wife is described by St. Paul. He says, for this reason A man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. This mystery This mystery is profound, but I'm speaking about Christ and the church. It also means that the bride, the church, is to do all that a woman is assigned to do for her husband. For Jesus. So we read, Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything. That God sees himself united as one with his church should be profound to us But we can understand it using a husband-and-wife model, but we cannot fully understand how that unity works. And thus he says it is a great mystery. When we read Ephesians 5, verses 25 through 29, we can see the earthly relationship of a husband and a wife be used to express God's relationship to his church. It is as if Paul is weaving in and out the husband and wife metaphor to describe how God cares for his people. This unity that God has with his bride is further revealed in St. Paul's conversion on the road to Damascus, you remember in Acts chapter 9. We see how angry and determined Saul, soon to be called Paul, was acting, breathing threats, the scripture says. It means that his verbiage was angry and hostile, so hostile. That murder was done to Stephen as he stood by. And everyone who refused his rebuke and condemnation were his enemy. And Paul strategizes to hate for Christians by getting a letter from the highest of authority in Judaism, the high priest, which allowed him to bind and carry away those who are called of the way. They referred to because Jesus said he was the way to God. And Paul was even given authority to go into the synagogue in the city of Damascus where Christians were still worshiping and bring them back to Jerusalem to be persecuted And on the way to Damascus, a dramatic event occurred like no other. Saul, again soon to be called Paul, was brought to the ground by the presence of Jesus And the following words from Acts chapter 9 were said. As Saul drew near Damascus on his journey, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him, Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? Who are you, Lord? Saul asked. I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting, he replied. These words of Jesus show him standing by his bride, by his church And explaining the unity he has with her by stating that to persecute the church is to persecute Jesus. As the Reverend Dr. Erlinson points out in his book, Love Me, Love My Wife, Jesus isn't staying seated at the right hand of the Father, but is instead deeply entwined with his bride. So that, as Dr. Ulysson put it, Jesus is saying, in essence, to Paul, hurt my wife, you hurt me. Persecute my wife, and you are persecuting me. Whatever you are doing to the church, you are doing to me. Beloved, I am quite certain That we rarely consider that how we treat the local church is how we are treating Jesus. We need to do some examination regarding what we are doing or not doing to the church and recognize that what we are doing or not doing is also what we are doing or not doing to Jesus. Allow me to identify a few things. Are we speaking poorly about the church? If so, we are speaking poorly about Jesus. Does that mean the church is perfect and therefore should not be criticized? Absolutely not. St. Paul did a lot of criticizing while also treating the church as a beautiful bride of Christ. Are we neglecting the church, meaning we are not serving her by using our gifts and being present when she gathers? If we are neglecting the bride, are we neglecting Jesus? Are we providing for the church? If our offerings are not given to the church, then we are not caring for her basic needs. The bride becomes skinny and weak when she is not provided her basic sustenance. We are not providing for the church, we are not providing for Jesus. But you say the church does not always act like a family. True enough True enough. No argument here. But let us be honest. Families sometimes don't act like families. But you see the church doesn't always act like a bride, to be sure. The church can behave like a spoiled bride, like an unkept bride. But our Lord Jesus does not abandon his bride when he behaves, when she behaves poorly. He said we have read that he's working in himself. A glorious church. He's still working in the church. He's working for it to not have a spot or a wrinkle. Or any such thing to be holy without blemish. And so those very spots, those wrinkles that you see on the church today, only show that God is still working on her While still identifying Himself as united with her. What is unfinished is where God is still working. What I have observed for almost 26 years serving as rector here now is how the people use and misuse the bride of Christ. I will put it in terms of what the philosopher Aristotle described regarding friendship. The first friendship he said was pleasure. Such friendships are based on the enjoyment and pleasure that individuals derive from each other's company. These are often fleeting friendships dependent upon shared activities and shared interests. Examples include friendships built around hobbies or social events. The second friendship is virtue. And such friendships are the highest form of friendship, characterized by mutual respect, admiration, and a shared pursuit of virtue. These friendships are based on the goodness of the individuals involved that are the most enduring, the most fulfilling. They involve the deep connection, the desire for the other person's well-being and growth, which is which are great descriptions of what Christian relationships in the church should be. Because Jesus said, the world will know us by our love for one another. And I repeat it. The world will know. The unbelieving world will know. The non-Christian, the anti-Christian world will know we are Christians by our love for one another. They will not know we are Christians by our music. They will not know we are Christians by our sermons. They will not know we are Christians by our buildings. They will not know we are Christians because of our social programs. No, none of it. It will be by our love for one another. But here's a problem. And Aristotle's third definition of friendship is usually what we find in the modern Christian church. The final form of friendship, according to Aristotle, is friendship of utility. These friendships are based on what each person can give for the other, their usefulness to one another. These are often transactional relationships ending when the benefits no longer present. Examples include business partnerships or relationships built on convenience and church memberships built on convenience. And such friendship is found when people use the church. They use the church to find a spouse and then pull the spouse away from the church. They use the church to raise their children in a safe environment until their children are grown. They find another bride of Christ to fit their way of living. They use the church to save their marriage, to help a wayward teenager, to grow a business, to make political connections And once they have gotten what they wanted, the church is abandoned. Abandoned for something more shiny that will meet another need. Beloved such ought not to be said or described of us. I offer this negative example as a warning against mistreating the bride, the church. A. W. Pink was given a great theological mind. His most famous work is titled The Sovereignty of God. Although originally from England, he tried pastoral work in the United States in four different states in the 1920s, never staying long at any church. His experience soured him against the church so much that he withdrew from most of society. And here is the summary of his last years. Quote, he labored faithfully for his remaining twelve years of life, writing and producing the periodical while he lived, a virtual isolation, not even attending a local church. He justified this behavior by explaining that the above uh that the ad admonition, excuse me, not to neglect the assembling of together today does not mean that he should, because the places where he would attend are full of goats. On Sundays, he spent his time pastoring his flock of faithful readers by writing letters and answering questions concerning the Bible and theology. Would-be visitors had traveled great distances to his home, were discouraged, and usually turned away, not being allowed to see him. The townspeople knew little about him except each day at a certain hour he took a walk through the town. Beloved, such judgment of the bride of Christ is not fitting for anyone who claims to be following Christ. Instead of judging the bride of Christ, we should be finding ways to care for her. And ways to care for a bride are first to be sure she looks her best. And there are many of you who do that and have done that. It is just a year ago we finished this beautiful sanctuary. Another way to care for the bride is to speak well of her, speak well of her to others, that she should have a good reputation. This includes growing her reputation and helping others get to know her, which is a great place to plug that we need someone to help us in our streaming of our services So, if you were willing and able to do that, we would appreciate it. Another way to care for the bride is to protect her. And I'm sure those of you who saw it were horrified last week to see a shooting at a church. And it reminds us that the devil wants us to either deny the faith or for us to be dead. And he will enter willing hearts that want to do evil things to God's people. And we are to be ready to defend the bride of Christ from such men. What is best, what she needs, what the bride of Christ needs, is for us to be thankful. Be thankful for her. Be thankful for all the ways that she bothers us and all the ways those botherings sanctify us. Consider when the culture squeezes in on us so that our faith in Jesus is scorned and our freedom of worship is removed, who will we need the most? Consider when social, political, and natural calamities occur and we need help. Besides our immediate family, we need the church. We need the people who fear the same God. We need the people for a caring hand, a warm meal, and fellowship sweet. The bride of Christ is there for each of us, and we are to be thankful for her. And I close with this. Yesterday was the official installation of Bishop Jenkins to lead our diocese. In the service, we sang the hymn, The Church is one foundation. The third line of the hymn states: Mid toil and tribulation and tumult of her war, she waits the consummation of peace forevermore. Till with the vision glorious, her longing eyes are blessed, and the great church victorious shall be the church at rest. Thus, regardless how we treat the Bride of Christ, she will be victorious. Thus, it's better to be on her good side when she is. Let us pray. The Father. We thank you for the image. We thank you for the mystery. You, the bridegroom, and we the bride. Father, help us always to care for her, always to provide for her, always to protect her, that she might be without blemish. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.