In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Please turn your Bibles to the Gospel according to St. John chapter 14, starting at the 22nd verse. Judas, Judas, not the bad Judas, but the faithful Judas, didn't get it. But neither did the bad Judas get it. What they did not get was the plan of salvation that God had ordained in the life, death, resurrection and ascension of his son. Judas, not the bad Judas, did not get it. And so he asked Why Jesus would not show himself to the world in the manner Jesus had shown himself to his disciples? Behind such a question is the belief that if Jesus showed himself to the world in the same manner that he showed himself to his disciples, that the whole world would believe. Of course they would, right? Well, no. After all, Judas, the bad one, witnessed it all and did not believe. And behind the question is also the expectation that Jesus was going to reveal himself to the world and thus cause a great upheaval in the world. which would include the overthrow of Rome and the independence and the sovereignty of Israel as its own nation But none of what was expected was going to happen, because none of it was God's plan of salvation, and God's plan of salvation was not understood by anyone. But the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. And we know this because Saint Peter even says that the angels longed to look into the plan of God, but it was hidden from them. Misunderstandings. Seeing things from afar. Thinking that God could do it differently. As a new father, I never thought I understood everything that it took to be a good father I just know I wanted to be a good father, and by good I don't mean by the secular definition or the secular standard, but by biblical standards. And one of the ways I wanted to be a good father was to help my son, my firstborn son, to overcome sinful traits that are so common within our fallen condition. And a few of those traits are selfishness, being disrespectful, and being ungrateful And I concluded that those traits were being exemplified in my son, my firstborn son, when he was not eating what was placed before him on his tray when he was a toddler. By not eating what was placed before him, he was, I concluded, only thinking about himself. He was not obeying his parents who were telling him to eat what was in front of him, and he was being ungrateful to God for what God had provided to him. And unfortunately, prodding and spanking did not solve the problem as my firstborn son was trying to display self-sovereignty by not eating. And so I did what every parent I thought would do in order to rescue my son from being selfish, from being disrespectful, from being ungrateful. I forced food in his mouth, and I forced his jaw up and down until he would eventually swallow Now to qualify, I am not necessarily recommending this as a preparenting practice. I am merely Using it as an example of how sometimes it is hard to understand what another person is doing and why they're doing it. If you were in the dining room when I forced my son to chew his food, or if you have watched that scene on a video feed You would not get what I was doing, and you probably would have called somebody on me. But I assure you that my motive in doing what I did to my firstborn son Who may or may not be scarred from that faithful dinner experience. My motive was to discipline out of him selfishness, disrespect, and ungratefulness. And I testify that it worked, for from then on, every meal my son ate what was given to him. And was he no longer selfish, disrespectful, or ungrateful for the rest of his days? I'll let Katie answer that question. But my point of the story is to help us see that if A new father who is a fallen creature and ignorant about so many things is going to be misunderstood by bystanders who themselves are fallen creatures and ignorant Well, how much more is a perfect man going to be misunderstood by those who are fallen, by those who are ignorant? And so Jesus, God the Father, the Holy Spirit, had a plan that we needed to understand in a better light. And Jesus, knowing we needed to understand it in a better light, teaches us. He taught his disciples. He taught his disciples the very moment Judas, not the bad one, asked why Jesus was not revealing his true identity to the world. And I would like us to imagine as as far as we are able that we are part of this original audience That heard Jesus teach in response to this question that Judas posed to him. I want us to do some imagining because The teaching is longer than usually is recorded, and we preachers tend to steal away some of the original intent of the teacher. We tend to break it up into small sections and spend a long time talking about it where Jesus his teaching needs to be seen as a whole. Now I I admit I can't speak to all of the nuances that Jesus taught in this section. Um we've already uh dissected some of it in previous sermons. But I want you to remember that this context that we read this morning, the end of chapter 14 and and and 15, are in the same context of the Last Supper. It's in the same context of being post-Last Supper. It is a teaching that follows Jesus, breaking the bread, offering the wine, pronouncing Judas as his betrayer, Judas the bad one And then prophesying about Peter denying him and the coming presence of the Holy Spirit. It is still then in the upper room that Jesus continues to teach at the end of John 14. And Jesus is answering why he did not manifest himself to the world as he did to his disciples. Jesus said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and will come to him and make our home with him. From this we learn that Jesus wants his manifestation to be done one-on-one. He wants to know his followers, and for them to know him, and for them to know him is to know the Heavenly Father. And this has always been the Father's plan. He has always wanted a people to love, and the people who would love him back. And we are to embrace the profound statement that God loves each of us. He does not have to, and in fact we deserve quite the opposite, but there it is. God the Father, God the Son, loves us and wants to be with us. When studying Genesis 32 this past week on Wednesdays, I could not get over the fact that God wants to wrestle with us. He wants to wrestle with us so that we might follow him, so that we might call him our God, as he did for Jacob. He wants to wrestle us and hear he wants us to know he loves us. He shows that love by wanting to be with us all of the time. It is remarkable, I say, simply and truly remarkable that God loves us in this manner. Jesus said He who does not love me does not keep my words, and the word which you hear is not mine, but the Father's who sent me. And so a true manifestation of Jesus is to understand that obedience to God's word is an expression of our actual love for Jesus. And an actual faith in the Father of Jesus. Surely you've heard about that love language thing? What's your love language? If you want to know the love language of Jesus, It's obedience to the Father's commands. Actions are to match up to our words To love the Father is to love Jesus. To love Jesus is to love the Father. To obey Jesus is to obey the Father, and to obey the Father is to obey Jesus. Separate, but one. Jesus continued. These things I have spoken to you while being present with you But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and bring to your remembrance all things that I said to you Now this, this is the revelation, the manifestation of Jesus that all of his disciples need, that you and I need. We don't need the world to see Jesus as he truly is in order to believe in him. For we are blessed to have believed without seeing, without touching But we are still in need. We need the Holy presence of the Holy Spirit in our lives to teach us, remind us of the teachings of Jesus, and then to apply those teachings to our everyday lives. You see, that's where many Christians miss it. They understand the teaching of Jesus to a point, but they do not apply it to their lives. Thus the manifestation of Jesus continues in us and through us every day. When we allow the Holy Spirit to strengthen us, to be obedient. To show us when Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God, that that means that money is not to be a priority in my life. That's the application. And when Jesus said, love your neighbor as yourself, that that applies to my mother-in-law, that that applies to my difficult boss, not just to the friends that I have in my life. And if you are wondering what that voice is that tells you to be more kind to a stranger, to give up your seat to an older person, to give more in the offering plate. It is the voice of the Holy Spirit speaking to your conscience, which is your soul, calling you to apply the truths of the gospel of Jesus in your individual lives. Jesus continued, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you, not as the world gives to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. You have heard me say to you, I am going away and coming back to you. If you loved me, you would rejoice because I said, I am going to the Father, for my Father is greater than I. And here is what we need to know, even though some may see it as a bad plan, Jesus leaving. But that view is obscured by ignorance. For Jesus leaving grants us the gift of peace. And so we desperately need peace. For we are not at peace with God when our sins are not forgiven. You're guilty and in misery, and it is only Jesus who can relieve us of such guilt and take away our misery because he became sin and death for us so that we don't have to be either And we need peace with ourselves for we can finally forgive ourselves. Forgive ourselves for the foolish behaviors we have done in the past. Behaviors we've chided ourselves for for so long. We can conclude that if Jesus can forgive us, then we can and must forgive ourselves. And we need peace for the future. From our vantage point, the point of being under the sun We cannot know all of the conflicts and disappointments and diagnoses and trials we experience are going, how they're going to resolve themselves to a happy end. And so the present power of the Holy Spirit says to us, peace. Peace, because all that is our lives is under the loving sovereignty of a heavenly Father. Peace. Peace, child. And let us not overlook that Jesus wants us to compare the peace that he gives To that that the world offers. And what peace does the world offer? It offers peace where there is no peace. It offers peace to be who you want to be, to be free, to give into your compulsions, your immediate desires, and to call what was once considered evil, now it is good. Such supposed amoral living is to grant peace from the guilt that religion places on people. And the devil has played a wicked hand with this type of thinking. He has trapped many a fool into indulging in their most primitive and animal desires, and the result is making them a slave to the same. Consider instead of having an identity of being created in the image of God as God intended Such identity has been in exchanged for people that want to be known for their sexual desires When someone says I am a homosexual or a bisexual or a transgender, he or she or it is identifying their God-given image Which is God Himself to be nothing more than a sexual preference. Did you know? Just how bad this has gotten. Did you know? That New York City now protects 31 gender identities, including gender bender, two spirit Third sex, gender gifted, pangender, whatever these might be Where is the peace in such convoluted self-imposed identities? There is no peace. And the world promises peace by way of political and thus governmental protection Israel, we remember, fell into this trap too many times, as it trusted in other nations to protect them, trusting in their armies, trusting in their horses, trusting in their chariots. Time and time again, God would warn them not to trust in horses and in chariots, and time and time again Israel would look for peace from anyone but God the Father. Well, I want all Christians to vote in this upcoming presidential election. And I want us to be wise when we do vote, as we consider the ramifications of voting for this candidate over this other candidate. But notice, please notice People of God. Notice that each candidate wants you to believe that peace can be found in other places than God Almighty One candidate will want you to have peace, knowing that every bill you have will be paid for and every program will the every mead that you have will have a program for it And that all the politicians in Washington are thinking about you and caring about you so that when you go to bed, you can have peace each night. Another candidate will tell you that you can find peace because you are going to get better jobs, you are going to get greater opportunities for greater wealth. And while the military is hunting down and shaming ISIS Shaming them back to the caves of Afghanistan. While all of this is happening, you can go to sleep, trusting in again the government to grant you that peace. That is the peace the world says it can provide, and that peace is no peace. Beloved, consider where God Almighty placed Israel on that global map. Consider that when God chose that strip of land he chose for Abraham and his descendants, that it was couched in between two of the greatest empires the world had ever seen. Mesopotamia in the north, Egypt in the south. The Promised Land was a trade route. Anyone who controlled that trade route, well they controlled a lot But Israel, being couched by true greater nations, could not be in a more vulnerable position. And thus they needed to depend on God every day. God needed to be their peace. God needed to be their protection. And when he wasn't, they were overrun. And they were overrun a lot. Any nation that puts its trust in anything but God Almighty will not find peace. And the people in that nation will not find peace. That is the peace the world offers. In November, I will prefer one candidate over another. Because I want to preserve whatever we have left that is holy and wholesome. And I vote for the sake of my children and my grandchildren. But I do not, and no Christian should believe that we can have peace because of who we vote for. Jesus said next. I will no longer talk much with you, for the ruler of this world is coming, and he has nothing in me, but that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father gave me commandments, so I do. Arise, let us go from here. Jesus wants us to be aware that the ruler of this world, the devil, does indeed have moments. He does indeed have his influences. We are to recognize that when and where there is evil, where it persists, the devil is indeed present. When men have gone after gratifying the flesh, the devil is involved. When the least among us is unprotected in the womb, when the eldest among us is treated as irrelevant. When our wives and daughters are offered as shields against an enemy, when two identities of being man or woman is not enough, the devil is having his way. But Jesus said, He has nothing on me. Jesus overcame him in that great battle in the desert. Jesus bound that strong man. Satan has no jurisdiction regarding what is of the Lord Jesus, and therefore he has no jurisdiction over us. Because of Jesus, we too can say that He has nothing on me. Let us be reminded that this teaching moment started with Jesus answering the question of Judas, not the bad one. As to why Jesus did not manifest himself as he did to the disciples. Instead, Jesus said that it was best for him to be manifested one-on-one. Jesus makes himself and the Father real to any person who calls upon his name. And Jesus manifests himself to those who show they love him by obeying the commandments of his father. Next, Jesus is manifested or revealed to each of us by the Holy Spirit, reminding us of his teachings and applying them to our lives. And Jesus manifests himself to each of us by giving us peace. Peace from guilt. Peace from fear. Peace the world cannot give. And finally, Jesus manifests himself by his authority over the devil, who has nothing on him and thus nothing on those who believe. While others may want to see Jesus perform miracles, maybe even bear devil stunts, to wow a crowd. Jesus says that the transforming manifestation and thus the heaven-bound manifestation start by loving him. Sounds like a pretty good place to start. Let us pray.