In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you to turn to 1 Timothy 5, picking up at verse 17. Best to follow along as I reference each of these verses. First Timothy five, verse starting at verse seventeen. If you want to hurt a minister, If you want to make him feel low and a failure, if you want to hurt my feelings, tell the minister that under his preaching and teaching you are not getting fed. The phrase being fed accepts the metaphor of the Word of God, of the Word of God as food. So to say that you are not being fed under the teaching and preaching of a man would be an accusation that the pastor is not doing as Jesus instructed Peter, which was to feed his sheep. The responsibility of an ordained minister to preach and teach the Word of God well is addressed in verse 17 of 1 Timothy 5. It is clear from verse 17 that an elder or presbyter or priest, whatever title you want to give him, Who rules well is one who labors hard in preaching and teaching the Word of God. Of course, there are several different ways a minister can preach and teach When it comes to preaching, the minister can choose to do what is called expository preaching, which is to take a particular section of the Bible we can call text. And break them down to understandable interpretations and practical application. Another manner of preaching is topical A preacher can choose a topic such as marriage and use a number of different texts from the Bible to make points he thinks need to be made. Another manner of preaching is what is called jumping off. This is where a minister reads a text. And then uses it to jump to what he wants to get off his chest or how he wants to influence the congregation, with the original text either being wrongly interpreted or simply forgotten. A great deal of megachurch preachers use this method and use it repeatedly. And another matter of preaching I'll mention is therapeutic preaching. Which is where a minister chooses a text from the Bible that is non-challenging and soothing. His goal is to make the congregation feel better about themselves and the world around them. This has become very popular since the pandemic. The ideal manner of preaching and teaching for me is to preach and teach the whole council of God, which means that every book of the Bible should be read and taught and preached. so that the Holy Spirit is given opportunity to speak to every soul that would care to listen and be made whole. I continue to try to do that even with 25 years behind us. The phrase double honor, as verse 18 makes clear, and the use of honor in verse 3 also indicates, is financial payment. However, it is not a text that any preacher can justify as to why he should be paid well It is a passage that simply follows the pattern of the practice of the apostles in the book of Acts, who wanted to focus their efforts on preaching and teaching and not on everyday problems. I have joked with some of you in the past that when I am asked a question about where something is to be placed in the church such as toys for Operation Christmas Child or food for a reception, I put my hands up, I say I know nothing about it at all I do around here, all I do around here is preach and teach. I say I joke, but a joke has If it has any humor in it, is to include a type of truth. I purposefully stay ignorant about certain things because I need to focus on preaching and teaching. Also, while some ministers focus their attention on being paid to preach, the real responsibility is to labor in the Word of God and in doctrine well. in order to be worthy of such pay. Some say that verse 18 is dear to every pastor's heart. But it is important in what lies not only in the being made at the moment the churches should support our pastor financially, but that Paul cites the Old Testament Believing that the principle taught was still in force under the covenant of Jesus Christ. In truth. Such happens a good many times in the New Testament and is proof, if proof is needed, that the law of God, even in its details, are not counseled when the church moved into the revelation of Jesus Christ. There were many changes of form, to be sure, but the principles enshrined in the law of God are eternal, rooted as they are in the nature of God. And this is not the only place where Paul cites the same verse to make the same point. The second citation The laborer is worthy of his wages, is in the color red in your pew Bible. It is in red because it actually is a statement from the Lord Jesus from Luke chapter 10, verse 7. And such is evidence that the Lord's teachings as we have it in the Gospels was well known among the Gentiles by the time Paul wrote this letter to Timothy. An elder, an elder is not to be a lover of money, as Paul said in chapter three, verse three. But the work of the ministry of the word is important and demands a man who does it conscientiously. So he is to be paid his due. Christians have often fretted about thinking that a man who is getting paid for such holy work would have divided motives. Some groups, like the Brethren, have, in part for this reason, declined to have full time ministers and have left the preaching and pastoring up to the layman, usually with predictable results Bobby Lee and I attended such a church many years ago now, and it was about 20 people sitting around in a very casual setting with casual clothing And when the top of the hour came, someone asked, So whose turn is it today? A young man in jeans and flannel shirt got out of his seat and took his Bible to the portable podium and began to teach. And not very well, I need to add. Somebody with training and time to prepare is truly needed. Also, you might want to know that our diocese has attempted to recommend salaries to be paid to ministers according to their experience and education But the truth is, in each matter, in the Reformed Episcopal Church, most churches can't afford to pay a cost of living full-time salary Which requires the minister to be effective in growing a parish in order to receive any form of income. Now I used to think that addressing the subject of money was a very uncomfortable topic for ministers, but I don't think that anymore There is a social media outlet that exposes ministers and churches practicing what is called money grabs. An example, recently a mega church pastor in Ohio started a series of sermons on increasing the offerings to their church to 10x. Whatever that means. The stage, and we call this area a chancel, but they call it a stage, which tells you something It was decorated with what looked like a space control center, and the pastor was dressed in a NASA jumpsuit. He took passages of scripture completely out of context, such as from Joshua, where the people were to enter a new land that they had never been before. And he compared that to giving money to the church where you have never been before. He then showed a video. of a couple who testified that they had pledged to give eighty-five thousand dollars to the new church project, and the pastor told them that that was not enough Then they pledged to give a million dollars because they wanted to reach the 10x plateau. The video was supposed to motivate the congregation to give 10x while expecting God to bless them in return. Historically, the church has called such offerings as simony Named after the person of Simon in the Bible who tried to buy the power of the Holy Spirit from the apostles It is very, very troubling to not only hear such teaching, but that people would actually believe it. The love of money is indeed the root of all kinds of evil. But what of an elder, priest, a pastor? Perhaps especially a preacher who does not perform his duties acceptably. What of them? And alas the situation has occurred far too often in Christian history. In verse 19, Paul first explains what is to be done when an elder is accused, and then what is to be done if he is found guilty. No charge about an elder is even to be received unless it is substantiated by two or three witnesses. The two or three indicating that the testimony must be plausible and serious enough to be addressed. This is also an Old Testament reference, and is to protect people, and in particular protect ministers from people who are vindictive or untruthful. The fact is, ministers are particularly susceptible to slander because of the influence they have, and especially today, within a culture that loves to litigate. And let us also remember that any minister that is effective in his preaching and teaching God's Word, so that God's people continue faithful, any minister that does that is going to be a target of the devil. The counter to that is that God is a defender of the righteous. So let us also say that these instructions about accusing a minister of the gospel also applies to social media. Slander is posted much more easily and freely than accusing someone to their face. On the other hand, if the sin is actually proved, Paul instructs in verse 20 that the man is to be rebuked publicly. No doubt, if the rebuke doesn't work, more severe punishment would follow. The phrase, in the presence of all, is a reference to the whole church. The rest is likely a reference to the remaining elders. Public rebuke can be helpful. To bring a man to see his sin for what it is, in its destructiveness, and it can be put a healthy fear. Into anyone who is tempted by the same sins. And there is to be no favoritism, as verse 21 states. Such favoritism practices continue to be revealed as ministers have too often looked out for fellow ministers at the expense of the church and at the expense of God's righteousness. It was just a few weeks ago that the Archbishop of Canterbury resigned. Resigned because it was revealed that he had a long standing relationship with a minister who was found guilty of sexual abuse with minors, and the archbishop turned away from the truth for many years and thus chose partiality. Such is a great shame and a personal affront to the Lord Himself Nothing, nothing is more destructive in and outside the church than sinful ministers who get away with their sins. Many respects. This is the story of the Protestant mainline churches. They have been destroyed by ministers who have sinned overtly and unrepentantly. And have been kept in their offices, teaching their people to do the same. But we know, we know it goes beyond Protestant mainline churches. As such behavior of covering up the sins of ministers has been exposed in the Roman Catholic Church and recently in conservative Baptist churches and in mega churches. So both concerns must be kept in view. This is a quote from Augustine from the fourth century. He said Here is a dilemma which often occurs. If you punish a man, you may ruin him. If you leave him unpunished, you may ruin another. The seriousness of what Paul is teaching is underlined by the directness of verse 22. Paul invokes his own apostolic authority, the present God and his angels, to command Timothy to treat elders in the way he has described. Neither going beyond the evidence nor falling short of it. The reference to the laying on of hands is clearly a reference to ordination For that is what is described as the practice in the Book of Acts. One important and sensible way to avoid future problems, of course, is not to rush to ordination. But to make sure that the man in question is both qualified and spiritually and emotionally ready to assume the responsibilities of the office. If ordination is given too hastily, Timothy will find that he has a share. A share in the sins the minister later commits. Because, as we all know, the only solution to a great many problems in life is not to have gotten into them in the first place. It also speaks to the spiritual nature and danger of sin For just as Achan's sin in the book of Joshua had an effect upon the whole people of Israel, so does sin in the church, in the local church. Sin that goes unchallenged or sin that is simply ignored. Verse 23 next seems a little bit out of place. Paul tells Timothy to drink a little wine. The best explanation I have read is that Paul means to ensure that Timothy doesn't misunderstand what it means to keep yourself pure. It doesn't mean the asceticism being taught by the false teachers in Ephesus. And Paul has already warned that a minister should not be a drunkard. So he is in no way advocating the abuse of wine. But I looked up this week the medicinal use of wine, and here's what I found. Red wine contains antioxidants called polyphenols. That may help protect the lining of blood vessels in the heart. Researchers say people who drink a moderate amount of red wine have better gut health. And reservatrol, an antioxidant found in grapeskin, has been linked with fighting inflammation. This is no excuse to go home and drink a glass of wine In general, the use of wine as medicine does not have enough studies behind it to be conclusive. Verse 24 is a necessary proverb to remember if we are going to be just and loving to one another. Some people's sins go before them Like a woman who is nine months pregnant and unmarried, while the man who impregnated her shows no evidence of his adultery To say some people's sins follow later refers to the day of judgment in which those sins hidden will be exposed. This is similar to what is said in Psalm 50, where God says regarding the sins of his people These things you have done, and I kept silent. You thought that I was altogether like you, but I will rebuke you and set them in order before your eyes. And the next, the principle in verse 24 is stated in verse 25. The same is true for good works. Some are obvious and some are hidden, but all will be revealed. Whether it be hidden sins or hidden good works, God knows all. And that is to be good news for us. It tends to scare us, but it's good news for us For it should stop us from sinning in secret. For there truly is no such thing as secret when God is ever-present and all-knowing And it should give us hope that all will be judged in a just manner in the end. But this section of scripture is primarily about addressing the conduct of ministers. It addresses how to reward them when they do the hard work of ministering the Word of God in their preaching and teaching. And it instructs the church on how to discipline a man who fails to do the work he is ordained to do. And what to do if a minister has committed an egregious sin. Overall, it can be said that the purity of the church is the responsibility of all its members. We are responsible for the sins we commit, which can be things we ought to have done and things we ought not to have done. And we are responsible for the sins of others when we see them in sin or know of their sin. We have a blueprint in Matthew chapter 18, where Jesus instructs us as individuals to go to a brother whom we have seen sinning. And help him towards repentance. If he refuses, we are to bring another witness. If he refuses again, then we are to bring him before the church. If he refuses, then he is refusing to be a part of God's body and is no longer welcome in the church until he repents. Beloved God wants his church, his bride, to be pure. What we are never instructed to do when we know of sin, when we witness sin, is to do nothing. He has given every power needed to overcome sin and every instruction needed when sin is in her midst. It is up to us to do the work. The purity of the church is the responsibility of all its members. Let each of us take up that responsibility. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious God, for these instructions given to Timothy, the desire to make the office of a minister holy and righteous, we thank you for it. We pray, dear Lord, that as you raise up men, they would take hold of that standard and live it till the end. And if there be any sin amidst us, may we pursue Purity. May we pursue that your body, that your bride be not sulfied. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.