Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You do well to turn to Genesis chapter 21, which was our first reading this morning. And I want you to be aware that I will be preaching this sermon in two parts, and they may not seem connected. The first will be shorter than the second. And I've chosen to proclaim Genesis 21 in this manner because the lesson to be learned in the first part is simply too important to pass over before the primary lesson of the chapter. The first lesson focuses on Sarah, but in a different way than last week. Not only is Sarah a model of faith, as Hebrews proclaims, and a model of obedience, as Saint Peter describes She is here a model of humility. To see this, I would like you to examine Sarah's reaction to the birth of Isaac. While remembering her response to the angel's words to Abraham that she would give birth to a son in her old age. I am referring to the verbal exchange that occurs in Genesis 18, where Sarah, after hearing the words of the angel, laughs to herself And says, within herself, shall I surely bear a child since I am old? We remember that her laugh was unlike Abraham's laugh, whereas he laughed to express joy and awe, Sarah's laugh is one of doubt. The angel, knowing what Sarah had done, questioned Abraham as to why Sarah doubted, and then proclaimed that nothing is too hard for the Lord When confronted by her laughter, Sarah denied it and then lied and said, I did not laugh. The angel responded factually, saying, No, but you did laugh. The subject is then dropped, and we hear no more about Sarah's doubt. And I would say on a side note, whether we be children or adults, If someone confronts us with the truth, no matter how embarrassing, it is always best to confess rather than to deny. In Genesis chapter 21, where the birth of Isaac is described, Sarah and laughter are once again part of the story, only this time in a much different manner. Sarah conceived, she gave birth to a son, and Abraham called him Isaac, meaning laughter, just as the Lord had instructed. Sarah's response, as recorded in verse 6, was as follows. God has made me laugh, and all who hear will laugh with me. It is Sarah's testimony that the laughter of doubt she initially had was now a laughter of joy and awe, just as her husband had laughed. She is also now willing to accept what she could not admit initially when confronted by the angel. She was wrong to laugh at first, and now she is able to laugh at herself, at herself, for doubting. She is able to laugh in a joyful manner because the Lord had favored her while she was undeserving. This musing with humor by Sarah can be compared to Mary, mother of Jesus, who has said Of her after hearing the pronouncement about her newborn son, she it is told us that she pondered all of these things that she witnessed in her heart. Sarah's son was not given the same praise and proclamation as Jesus, but their contemplation regarding what God had done was profound and quite humble. True humility is a gift from God, and all who receive it no longer concern themselves with what others think about them. They are no longer ashamed of their sin, for God has blessed them. God has forgiven them. God has turned their laughter of doubt into laughter of joy. He has turned their moments of embarrassment into moments of honesty and openness. When the Bible speaks about freedom in Christ, It is speaking about an openness and honesty about who you are, who you really are. As a person, and the willingness to allow others to see who you are, sins at all. Sins and all People are able to be open about their lives because they care first, and primarily, about what God says about them. God's blessing told Sarah that he had shown her favor. His favor was an act of mercy. And then those who confess Jesus Christ as Savior have been shown that same favor, that same mercy. And thus they may know, you and I may know, the same freedom in which she laughs, the same godly humility. which includes the ability to laugh at oneself, can be known to all And this may seem odd, but I have at times envied those who have been publicly embarrassed because of sin. Their sin being publicly revealed. I watch such people being forced to cling to the mercy of God and his love for them as their means of identity and their means of self-worth. Because they have been stripped of all pretensions God has to be. He has to be their identity. I'm convinced that such identity is true freedom. There is no easy way to segue from that point to the next, so I'm simply going to leave that truth hanging and move on. We now come to the second point, which proclaims the birth of Isaac. And I am paralleling that birth, that birth of the second birth of every man Who would follow Jesus Christ? Isaac is the second birth to Abraham. Jesus is the second Adam as God's son And each of us needs to have a second birth. Each of us needs to be born again. The birth of Isaac is a birth of sonship. Isaac is the firstborn under the covenant of Abraham, which I have argued. in many different ways over these 19 years is the same covenant we have with Christ. Thus he is born a son of the covenant. Jesus said, of all who followed him, that we too, that we too are sons of God. Sonship is what we are afforded when we are born into the kingdom of God. How Isaac's birth parallels that of our second birth, if we follow Christ Jesus. It is first seen in the fact that he was born outside of the common course of nature. Born outside of the common course of nature. The Bible says, as you know, that Abraham and Sarah were both as good as dead. For we remember Abraham was 100 years old and Sarah was barren past the age of Calburth, way past the age. Similarly, the Bible says that all men, that includes females of course, when they are born into this world, are born into sin and under the curse. It is to be understood that all persons are born spiritually dead, where the Bible says the wages of sin is death. It also says that all have sinned. And we put those two truths together and it forces us to conclude that we are born dead in our sins. King David in Psalm 51 describes this truth when he laments, In sin did my mother conceive me. And by this he means not that his mother committed sin at conception, but that he himself was a sinner at conception. Jesus describes the dead state of men when he said, No one can come to me unless the Father draws him. Now the the Greek word translated draw in most English translations, well that word is actually drag. And thus it could read, no one can come to me unless the Father drags him. Drag is appropriate when we're talking about moving a dead man. In order to move a dead man where you want to be, and you're doing it by yourself, you have to drag it In order for any man to come to a saving knowledge and confession of Jesus Christ, he must be dragged to the right place and then awakened by the Spirit of God. St. John describes such an awakening as a new birth. When he said that men who are born of God are not born of blood. Not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but born of God. Jesus said the same in his conversation with Nicodemus You remember it, a man must be born again to enter the kingdom of God. The concept of new birth or being born again implies that there has been an initial birth. And we take that to be our physical birth. But because we are born spiritually dead, we must be born of the Spirit. Only can God do this for it is out of the common course of nature. Just as Abraham and Sarah having a son was out of the common course of nature, God must do it. The descriptive of being born again makes sense to persons like me who had a conversion experience later in life. For me, it was as if a light came on in a dark room. It was as if I was seeing life through new and clearer and hopeful glasses. It felt like I was given, as the saying goes, a new lease on life. It felt like I had been born again. For others, it is not so dramatic, especially for those who grow up in the faith. Yet there is a need for all to be born anew, born out of the common course of nature. For some, that birth occurs at baptism. For others, it occurs at confirmation. For others, it occurs outside of a formal venue and in the privacy of one's daily life. Such births are marked by a new attitude, a greater understanding of a personal commitment that causes the person, young or old, to say within himself that the faith of his parents Will be his faith. And it will be his face, faith for the rest of his days. There does not need to be an altar call, as some traditions would insist It doesn't even have to be dramatic, but it is needed. All who follow Christ must be born again An understandable question in response to what I have just said is, well how how do you know if you've been born again? Well the Bible provides plenty of tests Simply calling Jesus Lord and Savior and meaning it, that's evidence enough. Publicly confessing Jesus as Lord is another Attending to the teachings of Holy Scripture and receiving the sacraments is another. Exhibiting the fruits of the Spirit, still another. With the outward evidence, we can include what the Apostle Paul describes as God's Spirit, confirming within our own spirit, so that we might call him God Abba, Father. Which means a very intimate father. The second similarity of Isaac's birth to our own is the mark of circumcision On the eighth day of Isaac's life, he was circumcised just as God had commanded. And in a similar matter, similar spiritually Those who are born again are baptized, for as St. Peter instructed, repent and be baptized, everyone. And the Apostle Paul describes baptism as spiritual circumcision. It is the cutting away of a sinful heart. Specifically, he said of Christians, in him, Jesus, you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands. by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism. in which you also were raised with him through faith and the working of God who raised him from the dead For the children born to Abraham, the ritual was a literal mortification of the flesh. It is by the flesh that men walk, rather than by the spirit. It is the flesh that must be put to death. Jesus chose out of love to mortify his own flesh. as a perfect atoning sacrifice that men would no longer have to do so to themselves. Instead, we are baptized. Which is the washing away of the flesh that Jesus put to death. Whereas circumcision physically marked you as sons of Abraham So baptism marks you spiritually as sons of God. This is the mark that is upon those for whom Jesus will return as Revelation describes. Whereas the sons of disobedience are marked by the number of the beast, the sons of God are marked by the baptism in the name of the triune God. Also, just as the dead skin cut away at circumcision was tossed out, we who follow Christ, who have been baptized, are to toss out the sins of the flesh. Sins such as fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which we are told is idolatry. Well, the third similarity between Isaac's birth and that of our own is the manner that he is greeted by the world. After he was weaned from his mother, Isaac was honored with a celebration marking his maturation. At the celebration, he was mocked by the son of the bondmaid, the son of the flesh, Ismael. He that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the spirit. As it was then, so it is today. Christians who are immature, who remain upon milk, are not bothered by men of this world, men of the flesh. It is when they begin to feast on solid food, becoming stronger, that they become a threat. The men of this world mock men of God because they are jealous of the favor that God has upon them. Ismael knew that Isaac was the true heir, and that he would always be regulated as a servant within his father's house. In like manner, the Pharisees saw that Jesus was able to perform miracles that they could not. He was loved and praised by the people, and they were not. He was wiser and more knowledgeable than they were, and at times made them look foolish. They knew he was favored by God and they hated him for it. Today the men of this world continue to be jealous of the men of God. They see joy and peace in a man's life, and because they had none themselves, it makes them angry. They see Christian families that genuinely love each other, compare such families to their own And they know they do not have such love. This is why they rejoice when Christians fall. When Christian families fall apart or when Christian men suffer, men of this world smirk because they want Christians brought down to their level The men of this world, men of the flesh, also mock men of God because of the guilt that they feel. A righteous man causes an unrighteous man to examine his life and see for himself what he really is. The unrighteous surround themselves with other unrighteous people because such company makes them comfortable in their sin. A righteous man forces an unrighteous man to acknowledge a higher standard of morality and acknowledge how woefully short he himself is from that standard. The unrighteous cannot live with the righteous. Ishmael cannot live with Isaac. They must be separated. The Pharisees could not live with Jesus. They could no longer be with him in the same synagogue or city or even the same geographical region. They must be separated from him by death. His death. And Jesus warned that the way in which he was treated would be the way of his followers. You will be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, Jesus said, and you will be hated by all for my name's sake. He reminds us a disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master The meaning is that if he experienced rejection, mocking, and persecution at the hands of men, so too would those who followed him receive the same. And so many Christians have, and many Christians will, and many are, suffering, suffering because their righteousness stands out. The summation of the second point is that in the birth, circumcision, and weaning of Isaac, we have a description of every Christian's experience. Those who are sons of God are born again by unnatural means. They are then marked as sons of God, inheritors of his kingdom, and they are mocked by this world. This is the life of the Christian. It is to be the life of every Christian. And I suppose we can bring the two points together now by noticing that within the Christian life, even with the unrighteous mocking us, But we can laugh. We can laugh with inner joy that we are not our own. Our identity is not found in what the unrighteous say or think about us. It is found only in God who gave us new birth. And because of that new birth, we will be laughing, laughing through the end of time. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful Father, we are grateful that we have eyes to see this reality and this narrative, to see our own individual lives and our need to be born again in the life. of Isaac, the birth of Isaac, and the reaction of Sarah, truly powerful messages that you carried out in Jesus. May our faith be increased all the more, knowing that as we walk, we walk in the manner that you have directed. Father, I thank you for helping me get through this sermon. In Jesus' name. Amen.