In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. I very much encourage you to turn to Revelation chapter 8 in your pew Bible or your personal Bible. Revelation 8, taking up at verse 6, we're going to get into the weeds, folks. We're going to get into the weeds when it comes to understanding this vision. I have started walking again, trying to get my body in shape for bathing suit season. I am doing my best so that when I am on the beach, fellow swimmers won't try to roll me back into the ocean having mistaken me for being washed ashore In my walking back and forth from my home to the church, I once stepped over a small bird. It was likely a young robin. It was on the road, dead looking, as if it had never learned how to fly. As I stepped over it, I hardly paid notice until I realized That the dead bird that made little difference to me had the attention of our Heavenly Father Jesus used birds as an example of how if the Heavenly Father feeds them, how much more will He provide for our needs? It is quite profound to think upon the fact that what we might consider unworthy of our time and attention is cared for and counted by the God of all creation. As I was struck by such a realization, I began to ponder what had likely happened to the bird. It is possible that it was tossed from its nest during a storm the night before. This got me to consider the irony of its death. It is counted by God, and yet God is the one responsible for the wind. and the rain that tossed it out of its home, leading to its death on the roadside. There is a theological argument against such a conclusion For it could be countered that because humanity brought sin into the world and thus corrupted creation, it is actually man who is responsible for storms and resulting of dead birds. But God is sovereign over what man does and the results of what man does, so God is still responsible in some way. Such irony bothers the emotions of many, leading them to conclude that either God does not exist because a loving God would not be the cause of such irony Or the God that does exist is evil, making the universe a vehicle for him to inflict pain upon his own creatures. Neither one of those conclusions matches up with Scripture. It is likely that what is ironic to us is consistent with God's moral and loving character. What I am hopeful we understand from our study of this rest of chapter 8 in Revelation is the care that God has for his creation, even though, even though he is the cause of the events that transpire at the blowing of each of the seven trumpets. As I explained two weeks ago, I do not believe we can understand what occurs at the blowing of each of these trumpets as chronologically successive from the seven seals open previous. The events occurring at the opening of each seal are contemporaneous with the events occurring at the blowing of each trumpet. They may not be exactly parallel, but they most certainly occur near the same time. I have been trying to persuade you in this study. That the breaking of the seals does not start these events, but reveals these events, reveals where and are and will be. It is the same with the trumpets and the bulls to come. To understand what is occurring, we must keep everything in context. Meaning that the seven trumpets blown are linked theologically to the seven seals. In fact, the seven trumpets are a part of the breaking of the seven seals rather than being separate. Also, we discussed last two weeks ago, excuse me, we discussed two weeks ago, we must recall the meaning of the blowing of the trumpets. Comparing the events at the beginning of chapter 8 caused us to recall the battle of Jericho Trumpets announce battle. And each of the first four trumpets that are blown here announce battle. The four trumpets, like the four seals in the first four seals in chapter six, are to be understood as one unit They are distinct from the last three trumpets. First the four, then the last three. The first trumpet sounded brings hail and fire mixed with blood. The falling of hail and fire are the exact description of what occurs, remember, in the book of Exodus at the seventh plague over Egypt. The target, however, of this hail and fire is not limited to one nation. It's not limited to Egypt, but one-third of the earth. At the blowing of the second trumpet, something similar to a great mountain, whether it is an actual mountain or what mountain it is is not clear, but it was on fire and cast into the sea. The result of such a catastrophe is a third of the seed turning to blood. Now that should cue your memory To realize that that reference to water turning to blood takes us again back to Exodus, the book of Exodus, and Egypt. In that play, which we read about this morning, the great body of the Nile was made blood, and fish of the Nile died The body of water turning to blood at the second trumpet is a third of what is on the earth It boggles the imagination to consider the stench and destruction blood in the Nile must have caused. And here we have a third of the earth's water. And remember that the earth is primarily made up of water. The underst Excuse me. Understandable result of such water turning to blood is the death of men on the sea and creatures that live in the sea. And again, to imagine the stench. At the blowing of the third trumpet, another third of the earth's water bodies is corrupted by a star from heaven. The star falls as a lamp, meaning that it can be seen falling. The star has a name, wormwood. Wormwood is a bitter plant that produces oil which can poison water. Bitterness is symbolic of sorrow and disaster. Literally, it results in death for all who would drink it. And again, this takes us right back to the book of Exodus. For something similar occurred when Israel was walking through the Red Sea, walking for three days and finding no water. When they finally came to a body of water, they discovered they could not drink it because it was bitter. The people as We come to expect complain again to Moses. The Lord instructs Moses to cut down a tree and to cast it into the water to make the water sweet The meaning should be available to our faithful minds as we remember Psalm 1. Jesus is the tree planted by streams of water which yields fruit in good season. He was the one cut down as a sacrifice, and he turns the bitter into sweet. For all who drink from him, he is the living water. At the blowing of the fourth trumpet, a third of the light of the sun, moon, and stars was taken, so that a third of the light of day was taken as well. Again, back to the book of Exodus, back to the suffering of the Egyptians, back to the darkness that fell over Egypt, as recorded in the book of Exodus. The darkness covered the area of Egypt only at that time, and in this way it covers a third of the earth. It is evident from the comparison of the catastrophes that occur after the blowing of each of the four trumpets and the account of Israel's exodus from Egypt. That our God wants his people to understand something about what he is doing here in Revelation 8 Just as in the days of the Exodus, when God was delivering his chosen people out of the bonds of slavery and into the new land, that he would provide all that they needed to do so He is doing the same in the last days. He is using his creation to bring forth judgment upon the wicked in the earth for the purpose of delivering his people from the bonds of sin. The use of the fraction one-third is evidence of God's purpose You will remember that the breaking of the sixth seal and the release of the fourth horseman, we recall that the rider was given authority to harm one-fourth of the earth Here, there is given authority to harm one-third. It is a small fractional increase, but an increase nonetheless. One commentator attempts to make the argument that a fourth of the earth being harmed by death was a natural occurrence He argues that a fourth of a population is always dying and being replenished, even the beasts of the field and the fish of the sea. I looked up the annual rate for deaths to birth in 2022, and births almost doubled the number of deaths, so that commentator is is wrong. But it is interesting still to notice that the fraction, one-third, is a definite increase from the fourth horseman. The higher fraction is a verification that the increase in catastrophe and death is part of God's redemptive plan. And I can't say that enough. The increase in catastrophe and death is part of God's redemptive plan. And as increase occurs, whether in the lives of the first century church, whether in our lives or the lives of our children's children, we are to understand such increase in a different light, in a different light than the unsaved world While they see such a catastrophe purposefully, purposeless, excuse me, purposeless and undeserved, we see it as redemptive. We see God doing something. Now, verse 13, our last verse, is a controversial verse in this chapter because the translation of the word angel. Manuscripts are equally divided with half containing the word angel and the other half having the word eagle. As Job describes, the eagle is a creature that hastens to its prey. The appearance of an eagle announces swiftness and certainty of woes to come. Translating the creature who cries out the woes to come to be an eagle also fits with the warning of Jesus as recorded in Matthew chapter 24. Jesus there is warning his disciples about false Christs who will do signs and wonders to lead people astray. When someone tells us that the Savior is in the desert, so go and meet him, or that he is in a secret place, so go and meet him, we are told not to listen. Jesus said, For as the lightning comes out of the east and shines even unto the west, so will the Son of Man be. For wheresoever the carcass is, there will be the eagle gathered together. The appearance then of an eagle at this point in John's Revelation communicates that there is a carcass. It is dead. What we learn from these verses is that there will be days when violence, death, and destruction will increase upon the earth. Because division refers to the fraction one-third, however, we know it is an increase, but an increase that does not overwhelm. There are still two-thirds not affected, meaning that God is not doing away with all of mankind. He is not giving us more than we can endure. Because the vision is similar to the plagues recorded in Exodus, God's people can go to that story, believe it or not, that story of Exodus, for comfort. Because there was a greater cause than the plagues themselves, which was Israel's relief from bondage, there is comfort. There is comfort in the midst of plague. Because the plagues that came down upon Egypt did not harm the Israelites, there is comfort. You remember they lived in the land of Goshen The land of Goshen was given light while Egypt was in darkness. The cattle of Israel were healthy while the cattle of the Egyptians were infected. The hail and fire fell upon the Egyptians, but not upon the Goshans. God thus spare the Israelites from the more difficult plagues. But such sparing should not lead us to conclude that the Israelites did not suffer during the plagues. They too depended upon the Nile for their water, and they too had to dig elsewhere for a fresh source, just as the Egyptians did. They too had to endure the stench from the blood of the Nile, as well as the stench from the frogs that piled up. And most important to note, the Israelites had to suffer repercussions of the first nine plagues whenever they went into Egypt. The flies bothered them. The frogs bothered them. The hail bothered them. The locusts and darkness bothered them when they were in Egypt. Because this world is not our home, and because our promised land is heaven Means that being where we are now, we are in our own type of Egypt We are like the Israelites, traveling from Goshen to Egypt during the plagues. And because we are in Egypt The events occurring with the blasting of the first four trumpets will not elude all Christians. Because we are in Egypt, the catastrophes represented by the blowing of the trumpets occur around us Repercussions of the plague-like events are visited upon those in the land. And we are in the land. However, What we are to gain from John's vision is a confident perspective regarding the events in the world around us. Christians are never to be a people who panic. No matter what happens around us, we are never to be a people who panic. Certainly we mourn when lives are lost. Certainly we bear arms to defend our home and our country. And certainly we defend the defenseless around the world when we can. But we do these things out of out of fear for the end, not out of fear for the end, because we know no matter how bad it gets. No matter how many towers fall, no matter how many nations are corrupted, no matter how many markets crash, no matter how many dictators place Christians in their gun sites. No matter how many plagues or pandemics occur, we are to have faith that it is part of God's plan and God's eye is upon us. Simply because a sparrow falls does not mean that the bird is out of God's care. So it is with his people and much more. What we are faced with almost on a daily basis is the difficulty we have reconciling God's people suffering and God's caring for his people. When we say that God watches the sparrow, we do not mean that he is simply a casual observer He identifies with his creation, and most importantly, he experiences life with us, the good and the bad. Some of you have heard this example before, but it still stands out to me I was in a counseling session when I was very green in the ministry. A young woman was having difficulty being intimate with her husband. I could not find a way to help her until she decided to share with me what had happened to her when she was 16 years old. She was raised in a Christian home and said she felt very close to God in her young teenage years. Her older sister was more rebellious and adventurous. When the parents were gone for a long weekend, the older sister went to a party where there was drinking and drugs and decided to take her younger sister with her. The 16-year-old Christian girl found herself in a world she had never been before, and she did not want to be there. Within the context of drinking and carousing, she was raped by a boy a couple of years older. After she told me the story through tears, she ended with a piercing question: Where was God when I was being raped? As I said, I was young and I struggled for wisdom. It took a while, but it came to me where God was. God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. He was taking on the sins of the world. He was identifying with the poor, with the weak, with the downtrodden. In other words, Jesus was being raped as well. And I know that sounds shocking and scandalous to say it in that way, but we truly can come to no other conclusion When Christ took upon him the sins of the world, he identified with the priest who offered the sacrifice, he identified with the sacrifice itself, and he identified with the people who needed the sacrifice. He identified and still does identify with the victim. St. Paul said it plainly in his letter to the Romans, we suffer with Christ. It is a joint suffering resulting in us also sharing in his glory. As we read the catastrophic events described at the blowing of the first four trumpets, We may wonder what is to become of God's people. Some want to believe we are raptured into heaven before it all starts. But there is no rapture here. The first century church, suffering as it did, was not raptured. The Christians during the many plagues were not raptured. The Christians under Stalin were not raptured. The Christians in the Holocaust camps were not raptured. Christians in terrorist attacks today, we're not raptured. Christians in pandemics, we're not raptured. Whatever would happen to us or those who witness such calamity as described here in Revelation 8, we know at least this. His eye is upon us. He identifies with our suffering, and that identification is enough to save us. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God You give no greater example, no greater example in that you suffer with us even today. And for that, we give back to you ourselves, for that is all that we have. May you be honored as we worship you this day in Jesus' name. Amen