Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I know with age the memory fades. Have we sung that song before? That was new to me. She smiles, yes. Begin with a little narrative this morning. The two teams on the field that Saturday afternoon were equal in size and strength and skill. They were not bitter rivals, but because key players knew one another, the victor would thoroughly enjoy the moment while the loser would surely taste bitterness. The home team had a sound lead going into the second half, but a few mistakes led to the score being tied at the end of the game. In the first overtime, both teams scored, and both teams missed their extra point In the second overtime, both teams scored touchdowns and two-point conversions, leading to a third overtime. Where the visiting team scored first and then failed on their extra point try. If the home team scored a touchdown on the next possession and Scored their extra point, the victory would be theirs. The home team got the ball down to the opponent's four-yard line. It was third down The coach sent in the play. Trips right, rifle right. Rifle is a quick screen to a wide receiver. Because the play had been called earlier with little success, the receiver that was to get the ball decided that he would run a slant route instead. When the quarterback looked to throw the rifle pass, no one was there. He then spotted the receiver running a slant route and Only it was run in the drop zone of an outside defender who easily intercepted the pass. Game over. Home team loses in triple overtime on a play that wasn't to be what it was. Of all the team sports to play, football provides the greatest need for teamwork And as such, plays can become disasters when just one player does his own thing. In other team sports, teamwork is certainly needed for success, but it is usually teamwork that requires adjustments in the middle of a play. In basketball, teams run plays, but the plays are never done without someone improvising. Lacrosse is the same, soccer is the same. But with football, a specific play is called, and even if the play is changed at the line of scrimmage, it is still the same play for all the players. And when there is improvisation needed, it is usually known improvisation For example, when a pass play is called and and the defense lines up in a particular coverage that would impede the receiver's route. The receiver knows and the quarterback knows the adjustments. They've already been planned, they've already been practiced. If a running play is called and a and a defense aligns itself differently than expected, The offensive linemen make different calls to one another to change the way the play is blocked. If a player doesn't understand the call, doesn't understand What the call is supposed to have him do, or doesn't care to hear the call, the play is not going to work. And I often think of the lessons the game of football teaches when I observe and participate in church ministry. That has people running their own plays instead of running the play the director has called. And no, I'm not talking about St. Stephen's My observation is more on the diocesan level or in the denomination level. And my football analogy will serve well as we learn about Ignatius of Antioch. In this third installment in our series, Summer of the Saints, Ignatius was another second-generation Christian after the apostles He is thought to have been a disciple of John the Baptist. I'm sorry, John the Baptist, John the Apostle. He is thought to have served the church as bishop of Antioch in the city of Antioch, and thus he was called Ignatius of Antioch. Ignatius died a martyr's death having been eaten by lions, although it is not verifiable whether him being fed to the lions was inside or outside an arena. Before his death, Ignatius served the persecuted Christians around the world by writing to them letters of encouragement and instruction And it is from his letters that we get to know the most about him. And what stands out to me from the seven letters that are available to us Is first the dedication Ignatius had to the hierarchy of the church and the need to obey said hierarchy. And second, his call for Christians to be stalwarts in any society in which they were citizens. The Christian call to be stalwarts, to be firm, to be steadfast The unwavering citizens of a society is primarily found in Ignatius' letter to Polycarp, who was a co-laborer, and we will touch on him very soon. The call for Christians to be stalwarts in the societies in which they live is akin to the teaching of Jesus, where he describes his followers to be salt and light of the earth We heard that in our gospel reading. We know salt to be both a preservative and to adding flavor. We know light as a beacon in darkness to expose what is true and to expose what is real. Christians are to preserve what is holy and righteous, what is morally upright and virtuous for societies in which they live. The United States and some of Europe are still being blessed by the residual effect of the dominant Christian ethic that permeated those cultures for hundreds of years. The farther away we go from such an ethic, the more shameful our culture becomes Hear these instructions for Christians to be strong in their faith. Ignatius said this, stand firm, as does an anvil which is beaten. It is the part of a noble athlete to be wounded and yet to conquer. And especially we ought to bear all things for the sake of God, that He also may bear with us. Be ever becoming more zealous than what thou art. Weigh carefully the times. Look for him who is above all time, eternal and invisible. Yet who became visible for our sakes, impalpable and impassable. End quote Because of these instructions, we should be reminded of the words of Jesus in that high holy prayer, where he prayed to the Heavenly Father. That his followers would be in the world, but not of the world. In order for Christians to stand firm, we must not be influenced by the ever-changing spirits. that tried to lead us to trust in anything except for God. Our standards are of old And our God is the God of ages past and the future that lies ahead. And he does not change, and therefore, neither does his standards of right and wrong. of truth and falsehood, of what is holy and what is unclean. It is necessary, during these troubled times in which we live, for Christians to be unmoved. Regarding the moral standards God has established for all people. It is for us to remain steadfast So that when people of the world get tired of chasing their tail, get tired of reaping a great deal of pain from what they have sown. Get so diseased that their bodies no longer feel pleasure. Get so lowly of conscience that they can't stand aside of themselves. And if they dare at that moment to seek God and turn from their sin, the church, the Christians, are to be there to turn to and model. Model the way of mercy, healing, and holiness. Consider if we don't remain stalwarts for the societies in which we live. Who is going to exemplify truth in teaching and living if Christians do not? The answer is no one. It really is up to us to preserve a semblance of a society that can retain a common sense of decency and decorum toward our fellow man and toward ourselves. And we need such societies for the gospel to be heard so that God's kingdom can be established, because that's what Christ came to do. Ignatius also understood that for Christians to be the stalwart of the societies in which they live, it must begin with the husband and the wife. He wrote this, quote, speak to my Christian sisters that they love the Lord and be satisfied with their husbands in both flesh and spirit. In like manner also exhort my brethren in the name of Jesus Christ that they love their wives, even as the Lord the church. Now these words are the same, written by St. Peter, written by St. Paul. For Christians to be a preservative for society, we must lead in being examples in our homes. And that does not mean that there is not sin in our homes, that there's not disappointment in our lives. Of course, there is. It means that no matter what our circumstance, no matter what sins are committed, no matter what disappointments come our way, self-inflicted or otherwise We remain true to our marriage vows, to our baptism vows, to our duty to be the husband and wife and parents God has instructed us to be. And don't listen to the devil. Don't listen when he tells you that because you struggle, that you cannot fulfill your duty or your vows. Rebuke him and such lies, and keep on trying. Stay in the fight. Keep trying until your days on this earth are done. And if you do, and if you do, The devil will stay under your feet, for that's where Jesus placed him. In his continuing instruction on marriage being a foundation for a good Christian witness to the world, Ignatius turns our attention slightly by saying the following, quote. It becomes both men and women who marry to form their union with the approval of the bishop. That their marriage may be according to God, and not after their own lust. Let all things be done to honor God. End quote Such words are not familiar to our hearing. We don't often think of ecclesiastical hierarchy having any involvement in choosing who we marry, our husband or our wife. But Ignatius expected as much from Christians and much more when it involves the authority of ecclesiastical officers. The mentioning of the authority of a bishop then leads Ignatius to address the issue of ecclesiastical authority to a greater extent. He says this next. Give ye heed to the bishop, that God also may give heed to you. My soul be for theirs that are submissive to the bishop, to the presbyters, and to the deacons. And may my portion along with them be in God. Have you ever considered that the manner you treat your bishops Your pastors, your deacons, will be returned to you in the manner that God treats you. If you haven't considered such, please know that Ignatius considered it and believed it. In each of the seven letters we have, as Ignatius the author, we find a section in every one of them. dedicated to how Christians are to treat their ecclesiastical authority. To the Smyrmayans, he instructs Christians to do nothing without the bishop. Specifically he said, Let no man do anything connected with the church without the bishop. Let that be deemed a proper Eucharist, which is administered either by a bishop or by one to whom He has entrusted it. Wherever the bishop shall appear, there let the multitude also be. Even as wherever Jesus Christ is, there is the church. To the church at Philadelphia he said essentially the same. To the Trollians he instructed that their submissiveness to their bishop is as the same as their submissiveness to Christ. To submit to their proper bishop, their proper presbyter, their proper deacon was to protect them from false teachers. To the Magnesians he said the same, and to the Ephesians he said the same. And again, such teaching is foreign to our ears. It is, however, the same instruction St. Paul gave when he said that we are to be imitators of him, following him, for he, our leader, follows Christ. It is the same as is taught in the letter to the Hebrews, where it says, if you remembered, obey those who rule over you and be submissive. For they watch out for your souls as those who must give account. Let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you. American Christian ears don't hear such a connection between our obedience to our bishops and other clergy and our obedience to God But the second generation Christians did. They saw the connection. Now I now bring these two themes together for us that I'm highlighting from Ignatius. Christians are to be stalwarts, the salt, the light, the unchanging truth for each society in which we live. And in order to do so, we must be submissive to our ecclesiastical authority. In the history of the Christian church, the ability of Christians to be stalwarts of their respective societies has been repeatedly undermined By laity who disrespect and refuse to submit to their church authority Sure, and I I give this, sure. We have different denominations because we have many different personalities with certain types of appreciation for certain types of worship expressions. Sure. But many of those denominations sprung up because of people who were unwilling to submit to the ecclesiastical authority over them. And yes, there have been good reasons for Christians not to obey certain leaders because those leaders were ungodly. I get that too. But I submit that the majority of denominations that have arisen in North America and Europe were because someone wanted to be in charge instead of submitting to their church authority. Lament with me this morning. Lament with me about the damage that has been done to our Christian witness because so many people in the church refuse to submit to their church authority. Lament because our contribution as Christians Lament because of our contribution as Christians to the fact that abortion is considered a right and sex outside of marriage is thought to be normal in our society. And you say, how have we Christians contributed to such sins? It is because We have divided ourselves in multiple ways that the Christian church has no voice that is heeded or even paid attention to. Answer this. What is the Christian Church's view on the topic of abortion? One denomination will say they are against it. Another denomination will say they're for it. Another denomination will say nothing for fear of offending. One independent church will have one pastor against it and another for it in certain circumstances, with the biggest independent church in town never speaking on the topic. How can an unbelieving people who don't know moral truth find any type of moral compass if the church has no voice to lead them Lament with me how times have so drastically changed from the turn of the 20th century unto today. I was just reading a book that was describing at the turn of the 20th century that a local town had headlines in their local paper About a new Christian church being built. And there was regular updates, front-page news of a new Christian church being built in the town of Fort Dodge, Iowa And there were editorials about this new building that this new building was going to serve the entire community well. That is what happened in 1915 in Fort Dodge, Iowa, and many towns across America. But no more. It seems that the only time a Christian church gets a headline is when there's another scandal that's revealed. As the prophet Isaiah said, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I live amidst the people of unclean lips. But what is to be done? The problem is rather large and we are rather small compared to the problem. Yes, we are small. But the Lord our God loves the small things. God uses small seeds to grow large plants. He uses a small group of men to spread his gospel over all of the world. God uses small things. He uses a staff He uses a jawbone. He uses a young boy's lunch to do big things. Thus he can use us. We will have a new bishop soon enough. And we will be challenged to submit to him. And that means to follow his lead when he says, go this way. It won't be easy to submit, but we must, for in such submission we are trusting God. We are obeying Him, just as Ignatius taught We are a relatively small parish in this community, and yet if we stand firm in the faith And that means firm in the moral truths of Holy Scripture, even while all moral truth is crashing down around us If we stand firm, we will be used of God to guide the lost to the truth as God reveals it. Regardless of how confused our culture becomes regarding morality, if we remain the stalwart of South Carroll County, God can use us to guide the lost To the light, to the truth, to eternal life. You see, folks, God has already called the place We're just supposed to run them. We're supposed to do as we have been instructed. We are not to run our own plays. We're not to make up new ones. were to do what he has already installed. To run the plays God has called, and to do so as a team. Is the only way, the only way we will make a difference in our small corner of the world. Amen. Let us pray. Our God, our help in ages past, our truth for that which is to come. We thank you for not changing We desperately need to understand that we too must stand where you do. Father, help us to be used by you. To hold on to the truths that you have revealed. To do so, ever ready to speak the truth as the world seeks it. As we ask and pray in Jesus' name. Amen.