In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you to turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 10, we will spend most of our time there, verses 1 through 13. I begin by sharing a story with you that few have heard before. I am neither proud nor embarrassed by this story. I graduated from seminary with honors as my grade point average achieved Magna cum laude status. I'm not bragging because I follow that up by telling you that I graduated from college with no honors, sitting in the back of class whenever I could. And my college counselor looked at my transcripts and he said, Well, I have always said anything above a C grade is wasted effort I thought it was a great line, honestly. But back to my story. I took a class in seminary titled Pastoral Counseling. The professor was training us on the latest methods of counseling, only putting a Christian spin on the techniques. He rarely brought the Holy Scriptures into the curriculum. Toward the end of the class, he gave us an assignment. We were to choose any book on counseling and write a review. This was great for me because I had just bought a book titled Psychobattle by Richard Gance. The book takes a harsh view of modern counseling techniques and instead challenges the reader to approach psychological issues from a biblical standpoint only. My report was highly in favor of the book, and when I received my written review back, the grade I received was a C I immediately set up a time to meet with the professor to discuss the grade. In summary, he said to me that if I agreed with what the book said. That I had disregarded all that had been taught in the class. I scrambled in my brain I then said that I thought the assignment was to write a review as if you were the author of the book, thus writing from the author's perspective. He looked surprised and said, well, if that is the case, then I can see why you wrote what you wrote. And he changed my grade to an A. Now again, I said I am neither proud nor embarrassed about that story. And my reasoning is that I have learned to play the game of higher education. And that game is still going on as I learned while teaching at the university. If you give them what they want, they will give you what you want. It is not about truth, not about knowledge, not about learning, but is instead about indoctrination. I have come to the conclusion that higher learning is neither higher nor is it learning. Most institutions should be abolished, but I state that as just a subjective opinion As G. K. Chesterton put it about a hundred years ago, it is not the uneducated that I fear, but the poorly educated. I told you this story because I read a lot of psychology in St. Paul's letter to the Corinthians, and in particular in chapter 10, as we read the Epistle Lesson. The modern definition of psychology is the study of the mind and behavior of a human being. The origin of the word, however, is different It is that addressing the psyche or the soul of a person and what can be known about a person's soul. First, let's have some background about the Epistle lesson. In chapter 9 of 1 Corinthians, St. Paul teaches how to approach the subject of eating meat offered to idols. Corinth was a city that worshipped many gods by means of offering sacrifices, and then such meat would be available to buy and consume in the public market. Jews, of course, would have nothing to do with such meat, but it became a question of whether Gentile Christians could eat such meat Paul uses the question to talk about freedom in Christ, and yet there is a principle to care for those who might be offended. The concern for those possibly offended was not in regards to their feelings, as it is in our culture today, but about offending the faith of others. Offending the faith. Paul talks next about making himself a slave for the sake of others, even though he is free in Christ. And then he adds to that metaphor that he treats his Christian life as if he is running a race so that he might win, and the win is a heavenly reward. It is with that discipline of training his body to live a disciplined life for the sake of a heavenly reward. that he begins to use the history of the Israel people as an example of a warning of how not to run the race. What I want us to keep in mind is that the primary purpose of all of these metaphors and references is so that the Christians at Corinth would receive their heavenly reward. This means that we need to get out of our heads The idea that God is as a taskmaster with a clipboard making marks every time we sin with the plan of making a case against us when it comes to final judgment. We also need to get out of our heads the idea that God is somehow crushed in spirit when we sin, as if our sin takes something out of him or away from him. We likely get this from bad preaching that says that our sins put Jesus on the cross. No, Jesus put himself on the cross for us. And while he needed to do so because our sin has condemned us, our sin never takes away from God. Anything from God. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. What God cares about regarding our sin is what it does to us and what it does to our fellow Christian. With those truths in our psyche, within our souls, we look at Paul's words in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. In verses 1 through 5, he describes the Israelites who were delivered from bondage in Egypt And describes how they had a type of Christian experience and that they were baptized when under the cloud Which represented the presence of God, and baptized while walking through the Red Sea, as it was walled up by God, and the ground they walked on was dry. For those of us who believe that God made the heavens and earth out of nothing, it is not hard to imagine this miracle. And so Israel, Paul explains, was baptized, all ages baptized, and it wasn't by the mode of immersion. As one writer put it, the Israelites were baptized without immersion, while the Egyptians were immersed without being baptized. Also, the Israelites experienced the second sacrament, which is Holy Communion, in that they ate spiritual food, which was manna from heaven And they drank spiritual drink, which came from the rock that Moses struck. And then St. Paul mixes his metaphors by referring to Jesus as the rock, who was not only strong as a rock, but was also struck. But even though all of these good things happened to those Israelites, even though they walked with God through baptism and through holy communion, They still do not walk as God had commanded and therefore were judged in this world And this reminds us of the Protestant warning stemming from the Latin ex opere operato, meaning by the works performed. It is a caution that the effectiveness of the sacraments are not in the partaking of the sacrament only, but require faith, faith from the one whom is receiving the sacrament. Sacraments are a means of grace to us when faith in Christ Jesus is included, not just the work itself. According to verses 6 and 7, the simple problem with the Israelites, even after receiving the sacraments, was that they lusted after evil things. We remember the story to be that when Moses remained on the mountain for a significant period of time, the people complained, and then they concluded that Moses was dead. And that God wanted to be worshipped in a similar manner that the Egyptians worshiped their false gods. And so they put their gold together and molded a golden calf. And then they worship the same calf while performing sexual acts as they saw the Egyptians doing. From this we are to be well warned about negative influences all around us They call us to do as they do. And it is easier to be like them than it is to break away and to live a life of sacrifice. But breaking away every Christian must do. The word sexual immorality in verse 8 and following covers all sorts of sexual sins. We moderns get focused on homosexual acts, whereas sexual immorality includes fornication, adultery, and others. And the citizens at Corinth were regularly confronted by sexual immorality. It was freely practiced as a part of their religious and culturally accepted behavior. For the Christian to act differently was a call to come out from among the sinners and to be noticeable saints. The mention of serpents was how God judged those Israelites who committed blatant sexual immorality. The murmuring describes, those were complaints against Moses and Aaron. God punished those guilty with a plague which is described to the Corinthians as an angel of destruction. Paul then teaches that all of that which occurred to the Israelites is now to be understood by the Corinthians as being an admonition not to do as they did. That point takes us back to what I said earlier, which is that God wants us to receive a heavenly reward. We are told elsewhere that God has no pleasure in the death of a sinner. God wills, he says, for all persons to be saved. But he also respects the will of individuals and respects it enough that those who choose to be against him, they will get what they desire. It is out of love that we are warned that if we think we will not be tempted to go after our lusts, That such is like thinking that we stand by ourselves. And to think that way will end up in us falling. Which is to fall into the sin we think we are strong enough to stand against. And with that We are to understand that we can indeed endure temptation, not by ourselves, but because God will be there for us, ensuring that no matter how hard the temptation He will make sure it is not more than we can endure, and he always promises us an escape. A key phrase to understand where God is when we are tempted is God is faithful. In the context of us being tempted, it means that God will do his part. He delivers us from evil just as he told us to pray. He is watching over us to be sure we are not overwhelmed by temptation. He will indeed, without a doubt, without question, provide an escape for us. Evidence that God wants to be understood by us to be benevolent We have from our gospel reading, where we are told of two men who react to their promised inheritance quite differently. The youngest wants his inheritance while his father is still alive, thus treating his father as if he were already dead. The father had provided everything the youngest son needed to live comfortably in this life, and yet the young man wanted more. He wanted to pursue his lusts. The oldest son stayed behind, doing as he had done before, for he was dutiful and proud to be dutiful. When the youngest son spent all his money, and he had been reduced to the lowest of servitude to stay alive. All the while his father waited for him to return, for there was always opportunity to return. Once the young man understood the benevolence of his father, he returned to be a servant only to be received as a son, as an inheritor. That is how God sees all who are his children. It is why God calls all of his children, male or female, to be sons, because we will all, regardless of our gender, be inheritors. But the story Jesus tells isn't about the young son only. There is the older son who stayed behind, but for the wrong reason. He stayed behind because he thought he was earning his inheritance and thus the favor of his father. But his father always had favor for him because he was his son. Not because he didn't go off whoring or spending his inheritance, but because he was his son. In verse 28, Jesus says that the older son was angry. His anger was self-righteous. He believed he deserved the celebratory meal. Such a celebration should have been about him being loyal to his father. While he is angry, his father is always giving opportunity for the son to come to the celebration. And to get out of his self-righteous ways. And remember how the story ends. The father refers to the younger son being alive again. Being found after being lost. And as far as we know, the Father is still outside, outside the celebration Waiting for his oldest son to repent of his anger and come in and celebrate. God is still waiting. The author of the book I mentioned at the beginning of the sermon is Richard Ganz, as I said. In chapter 11 of Cycle Babel, he tells the story of a man named Harry. Who came to see the doctor in order to help him stop his countless sexually immoral escapades while he worked as a traveling circus acrobat? He had recently become a Christian, and a major reason for becoming a Christian was to be delivered from his sexual temptations. What he was coming to Dr. Gance about actually was to complain that Christianity was not working for him. He explained that although he was living a celibate life, his desires for sexual satisfaction were as strong as ever. He believed he could not continue as a Christian if the desires were not removed. In summary, he thought Jesus would remove his sexually sinful desires, and when that did not occur, he concluded that Christianity did not work for him I hope you can see the similar thoughts of both Harry, the acrobat, and the oldest son in Jesus' parable. Both think that life should be about them. The oldest thought that if there was to be a celebration, it should be about him. And Harry thought that Christianity and the power of the gospel should be about him and how his desires needed to be eradicated. Such is what modern psychology promotes. It feeds the soul, the psyche, with the lie that life should be about you. And thus you can create your own realities and your own perceptions of God or gods as long as it feeds your feelings. Modern man says that modern self is king, and yet Christianity proclaims that Christ is king and there can be no other king. But when we make ourselves our own king, we follow after our own lusts, and in the end, that results in hurt and guilt, embarrassment, and painful memories. But when Jesus is King, we have everything at our disposal to be overcomers of sin inwardly and sin outwardly. Upon reflecting on his patient Harry, Dr. Dance shares what he had learned since. He says this, I came. To see that the glory of our faith is not that we have no desire to sin, but that we do not have to act on those desires. I also came to learn that it was God who gave us the power to say no to sin. It was God who made us both to will and to work his good pleasure. Philippians Chapter 2, verse 13. And so I close with one final example from our study of pilgrim's progress. Christian, our main character, tries to convince a man named Ignorance that he cannot rely on his own strength to be righteous. And that he has misunderstood why he is to place his faith in Jesus alone. The next quote from Christians summarizes the main error of this character, ignorance. Christian says to him, your beliefs make Christ a justifier of your actions, but not of your person. You think that your person is justified for your actions' sake, which is false. Indeed, it is false. Jesus wants to justify your person. And we only need to ask him to do so. And then let him. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, for the power to overcome sin, for the power to say no to sin. For the ability to live as you have called us, we thank you, knowing that it is your work. It is your desire, it is your will. May we match our wills to yours. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.