In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Today, we begin a series of sermons based on the pastoral epistles, or more specifically. St. Paul's Letters to Timothy and Titus. This sermon is an introduction to those letters. And I trust you will find it to be more interesting than the word introduction. We begin with some basic information. We confirm that these letters were written by St. Paul, because first the letters claim to have been written by St. Paul. Further, the first letter mentions Timothy as Paul's known companion twice in 1 Timothy 1:2 and chapter 6, verse 20. What is more, the critical and direct manner of the book as it is written is Pauline, along with the likes of Galatians and Colossians. Finally, the doctrinal content is Pauline with its stress on sound doctrine. The primary reason why Paul's authorship is questioned is because of the content of these letters. Critics say that the vocabulary is different from his other letters, but an obvious answer to that is that the subject matter is different. What is consistent with Paul's letters is his concern for right doctrine. And that is stated in 12 different places in these letters. A serious problem with modern scholarship is the approach to biblical texts that do not agree with the scholar's morality. If a moral teaching or doctrinal teaching does not agree with a scholar's moral or doctrinal belief, they question its authority, and they do that by questioning authorship. Remember that one of the clearer criteria for a letter or a gospel to be accepted as part of the Bible was apostolic authorship. So if a liberal scholar can prove to himself and those who will listen to him that Paul did not write these letters, then their content can be dismissed. But it doesn't stop there. If authorship cannot be disproved, these same liberal scholars question the motive of the author. And this will we will see most clearly in the weeks ahead. We'll wait for you to get that. The date of these pastoral officials begins with 1 Timothy, and it is believed that Paul wrote 1 Timothy from Macedonia between A. D. 65 and A. D. 66. During his release from prison, it was in between his first imprisonment and his second imprisonment. So who was Paul writing to? Well, the original audience and direct audience was, of course, Timothy, who Paul called his son in the faith. Timothy was Paul's personal representative, as stated in chapter 3. He was often Paul's companion, as we see in 2 Corinthians 1. Philippians chapter one, Colossians chapter one, and first and second Thessalonians chapters one respectively From Acts chapter 16, we learn that Timothy had a Greek father and a Jewish mother. His grandmother was named Lois, and his mother was named Eunice, as told to us in 2 Timothy. He was converted to Christianity through Paul at the city of Lystra, as we see in Acts chapter 14 and again in Acts chapter 16. He was young and timid early in his ministry, and Paul mentions that in 1 Timothy 4 and 2 Timothy 1. Timothy also appears to have often been sick as described in 1 Timothy 5. Yet he was one of Paul's most trusted associates. And while these two epistles were to Timothy, they were about how some false teachers believe in myths. Stressed genealogies and tried to impose their ascetic tendencies on these new Christian converts. It is believed that the false teachers were pretend Jewish converts who also denied the future resurrection. taught contradictions between the Jewish and Christian revelations, and engaged in endless and aimless disputes about words. They also denied Christ's humanity, which is at the root of one of the most widespread heresies the church had to address And also, while this was written to Timothy, Paul was well aware that the content would be distributed amongst the Christian churches. Because his other letters had been distributed, meaning he was writing to the church as a whole. What was the exact purpose of these letters? Well, there were a number of reasons for writing 1 and 2 Timothy and Titus. Number one, Paul wanted to encourage Timothy to oppose those false teachers. Number two, he desired to furnish Timothy with written apostolic credentials of his own authority. Number three, he wished to exhort Timothy to diligence in the ministry of Christ And number four, he wanted Paul, I'm sorry, Paul wanted to instruct Timothy in church conduct But an overriding purpose, an overriding purpose of all three letters is the subject of sound doctrine. And that is where we will focus our attention this morning. As stated in these letters, the concept, the concept of sound doctrine or right doctrine, is mentioned twelve times. It was a concern and remains a concern today. And by sound doctrine, the Bible means reveal the truths that confirm the teachings of Jesus And that will always be true, regardless of the year, the place, or the culture. And it is the idea that sound doctrine exists That goes against the spirit of our age. Modern sages and internet influencers talk of each individual person having his or her own truth. And use phrases like, speak your truth. And the implication is that truth comes in many different shapes and sizes. But if truth comes in many different shapes and sizes, then there are truths that will inevitably contradict each other. To anticipate those contradictions, the modern sages and influencers came up with the idea of individual truths, with the belief that you cannot argue with a person who insists on their own truth. For what is real to them is real to them. And unless you are them, you cannot question it. Of course, that line of argument is delusional. If I were to say that my truth is that I am the president of the United States, and such was true because it's true to me. And everyone should treat me as such, which means that I should be able to live in the White House, collect my $400,000 a year. sign bills into law, have a secret service duty protect me, although I don't know how well they're doing these this lately, and sleep with your writing But that is absurd, you say. Of course it is. Just because you claim an individual truth doesn't mean everyone around you has to do your bidding to help keep up your delusion. That is one of the reasons why announcing your preferred pronouns and expecting others to adjust to your preferences is not only presumptive, but will also lead to the absurd. To prove that truth exists, meaning that there are universal truths that exist, regardless as to whether they are recognized by some people or not, we can look to the rules of logic. There are three primary rules that I remind you of to confirm that universal truths exist. The first rule is called the law of identity. It states that if something is true, it is true for all persons, in all places, at all times. For example, if the globe is a sphere, then it was a sphere a thousand years ago, and it is a sphere now. It cannot be flat to you and a sphere to me, and both of us are speaking the truth at the same time. That there are objections to this and they are little legitimate objections. What if things change? What if something catastrophic happens to the Earth that no longer makes it a sphere, such as a very large asteroid hitting the Earth The answer is that it would not change the identity that the Earth is a sphere when saying it was a sphere before the asteroid hit. If an asteroid hits the planet and anyone survives, they simply could not state that truth anymore that the Earth was a sphere. Another objection is stating an error. For example, this is just an example. If scientists say that the earth is warming, And it is warming, and its warming is caused by human modern living, and such warming is a danger to the existence of the planet. And if we don't do something, we will all be underwater within twenty years. And that truth twenty years later doesn't happen. Then how was that truth a truth? Again, just an example. Made it up. I made it up. Well the simple answer is that that truth was never a truth It was always a falsehood not properly identified, meaning that the identity of what then was believed to be a truth was actually a falsehood and always was a falsehood The second rule of logic is the law of excluded middle. This law states that a statement or a truth or a falsehood is either true or false with no third option. If a statement is made that says sodomy is immoral, such a statement is either true regarding its morality or false regarding its morality. There is no third way or third option or something in between moral and immoral. Also, we can examine it another way. You can say that sodomy is moral And that statement also doesn't have a third option. It is either a true or false statement with no ambiguity possible. And finally, the third rule of logic is the law of non-contradiction. And this rule really breaks the mind of the rebellious because it insists That if something is true, it is true for everyone. If something is false, it is false for everyone. If stealing is an immoral act, then it is immoral for all people. It cannot be immoral for me, but not immoral for you. Truth, in other words, does not bend the knee to your unique circumstances. Thus, statements such as God exists or God is real Are either true for everyone or false for everyone. Such statements cannot be true for me and false for you. If truth could contradict itself, then no scientific discovery could be made, no morality could be agreed upon. No societies could be governed. No conversations between human beings could be trusted or useful. But how you ask, how does the unbelieving or the pagan mind get away with defying these rules of logic? If they are laws, then they are to be obeyed, right? I answer first that I set out to prove that truth exists, and these laws help us see its existence. But laws being in place never guarantees that they will be followed. When teaching ethics for a college course I had to study the subject matter more deeply than I had in my college days. And I learned that philosophers have labeled the method of getting around these rules of logic They labeled it utilitarianism. It would be helpful for your own sanity to know about the practice of utilitarianism Because it is how some people, many people, approach moral dilemmas. Have you ever asked yourself, for example, how a politician Who is Roman Catholic defends and even supports laws that allow for abortion to be legal and for abortions to be eagerly sought after When the Roman Catholic Church has a clear and anopolitic stance against abortion? The answer is utilitarianism Utilitarianism states that the primary goal of any moral or political position is the greater good. What is the greater good is that which is what is best for the most amount of people, they say. And what is good for the most amount of people is to be pursued at all costs. There are, you know, nuances to utilitarianism. One is called rural utilitarianism, which states that While the greater good is the priority to pursue, there are some rules that need to be followed, such as respecting other people's individual rights. But the other more popular nuance followed today is titled act utilitarianism, which means that any act or action done is acceptable As long as the goal is the greater good. Such an approach to life also is known by the phrase: the end justifies the means. The primary critique of utilitarianism, whether it be rule or act, is who is to say what is the greater good? By what standard is the greater good determined? It appears to this preacher that the greater good for Western politicians today is whatever will get them elected. But thanks be to God, the Christian Church has an anchor, or better yet, a foundation stone by which we can determine what is the greater good. The greater good for the Christian church is, of course, the establishment of God's kingdom on earth as it is in heaven. The means to establish God's kingdom on earth is by placing our faith in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And the one reason we should do that is That Jesus claimed ownership of truth. Jesus himself is sound doctrine. Allow me to remind you of the many verses in the Bible that connect Jesus to truth and connect truth to Jesus. John alone in his gospel is determined that when we think of truth, we think of Jesus. In John chapter 1, verse 8, Jesus is called the true light. In John chapter 1, verse 17, we read For the law was given through Moses, grace and truth came through Jesus Christ The Greek word, in all of John's uses of the gospel, of the word truth, excuse me, in his gospel, is the same word. And to give you a sense of how the Greeks use that word, I lifted a quote from an article about the Greek word elithea, meaning truth. Quote, Parmenides refers to truth, Elethea, as revealing, unrevealing. For ancient Greek philosophers, Alethea uncovers the structure of human reality, making it the opposite of illusion. In other words, knowledge does not come from idleness, but from proactive engagement with human reality. And we can say, we can say that no one addressed in his teaching and showed in his actions more care about human reality than Jesus. So the Greeks thought that the concept of truth was something to actively pursue and actively engage. And so when Jesus says to Thomas, when asked that Jesus show the place where he is going, Jesus said in John 17, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one can come to the Father except through me. So notice how going the way is to be active. And when active, going the way, we are to go after truth, and Jesus Himself is that truth. So Jesus, knowing how the Greeks used the word truth, refers to himself as the truth, meaning that to follow him is not to be idle, but to have a proactive engagement with him. And then there is this most famous quote from Jesus from John 8, verses 31 through 32. If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Before saying this, Jesus had established himself as truth personified. Thus, the one who will set you free is Jesus. And that is why we believe in Jesus. It is not because of archaeological discoveries, it is not because of how we were raised, it is not because Christianity is a part of our American heritage. We believe in Jesus because he speaks the words of everlasting life. No one has ever spoken like him. His words give life to the soul. And his actions, his actions display a perfect man and a perfect sacrifice for sin. Having faith in Jesus means having faith in his sacrifice, which was giving up his life to pay for our sins. There is no other truth that provides forgiveness of sins and a clear conscience, and that is how he sets a person free. In Jesus, old things pass away, and all things become brand new. In John chapter 18, you will remember verse 37, Pilate, who was given the responsibility to condemn Jesus or release him, Asked Jesus if he is the King of the Jews. The passage then reads, Jesus answered. You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born, and for this cause I come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. And Pilate said to him, What is truth? There is, of course, undeniable irony in Pilate asking such a question when the truth is standing before him. And the same can be said to so many churches who have abandoned Jesus as the only way to the Father. And treat their so-called Christian faith as one of many religions, all of them being the same in their hearts and eyes. And the same can be said for Western culture that has a Christian heritage with no appreciation for how it has helped create the prosperity that they enjoy. But we, we happy few, we band of brothers, can answer Pilate's question, what is truth? Truth is Jesus. Jesus is sound doctrine. And he is what we will uphold. Let us pray. Gracious and Heavenly Father, we accept this revelation of the truth of Jesus, of who he was, and what he said, and what he did. And as we accept that truth, may we not put up with false teaching and false doctrine. May we stand, even if we stand as one of many, may we stand on that truth. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.