In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. We interrupt our series of sermons on the book of Judges to answer the following question. Can the authority of the Bible be trusted? I wrote that introduction three weeks ago. God has had other plans. But I come back to this question because of how important it is. This past year and a half has forced us to examine who and what authorities do we trust. As stated several weeks ago, That what has been revealed is that very few people trust the church as an authority in their lives. This is very sad indeed. As I also stated, the church will be the judge of angels. This point was made by Saint Paul when he rebuked the Corinthian Christians for suing one another instead of being able to solve their differences. If we cannot judge between one another, how can we expect to judge angels? That is an obvious rhetorical question. It is further ironic that Christians do not look to the church as the authority, let alone unauthority. For one of the last instructions given by Jesus was for the church to have authority. So that when the church binds something on earth, it would be bound in heaven. And when the church looses something on earth, it would be loosed in heaven. And still, very few look to the church for guidance, direction, even small decision making. And in case the devil is tempting you to think that I am preaching such a point in order to gain some type of authority in your life, well, first of all, I'm not the church. And second of all, I hear this as me needing to heed my bishops more and more. I ask that each of us would examine ourselves regarding what different authorities we allow in our lives and why. Who do you listen to for news and information? And why do you choose that particular source? Who do you believe when it comes to disagreements between sources? And why do you believe one source over another? By what standards do you make your decisions to trust the resources you trust? The toughest challenge to answer, honestly, is this. How much does the authorities you trust say what you want to hear? And is that why you choose them? If you choose authority sources that already sound like you, well, you've made yourself your own authority. All of this discussion and questioning about the authority, about authority, leads us to question, the one at the beginning, can the authority of the Bible be trusted? My daughter Christiana emailed me about two months ago saying that she was concerned about raising her children and not having the answers that would help them stay in the faith. She did not feel prepared to answer. She'd been reading the Mama Bear Apologetics, which Some are studying this summer, she came to realize that if her children asked certain questions, she didn't have certain answers Now I was a bit disappointed in hearing this. I uh felt confident that I had answered such questions that she was having in confirmation class. She responded by pointing out that she was 12 years old when she took confirmation class and doesn't remember a whole lot on the topics. But I gave her notes, especially notes on the Bible and its authority, and I thought she would keep those notes. I'm sure all of you who have taken that class have kept those notes. You know where they are right now, right? Yeah. I recognize that uh my idealism is a bit weak And so this issue about the authority of the Bible needs to be reiterated. It needs to come up time and time again. We need to be strengthened in our understanding of how important it is to know the Bible can be trusted. We forget. We need to come back to simple truths. We need to realize that the devil continues to say, just like he did to Eve, did God really say? And I think upon this young lady Hazel, how she's been marked by Christ and now a A target is on her back by the devil and he she's going to go through life with people in her life questioning the authority of the Bible Do you really believe that book? It's written by men, you know. It's really old. You can't trust the truths they're in. She's going to hear this time and time again. Will she be ready? So let us begin. The first reason that the authority of the Bible can be trusted is because it says so itself. When it says that the words therein are inspired by the Holy Spirit. Hear these words again from St. Paul to Timothy. All scripture is God breathed and is useful for instruction, for conviction, for correction, and for training and righteousness. So that the man of God may be complete, fully equipped for every good work. Next is from Saint Peter. He said Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture comes from one's own interpretation, for no such prophecy was ever brought forth by the will of man. But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. This proclamation of Scripture about itself is not just in the New Testament, for we have passages such as Psalm 1, Psalm 19, where we read, the law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart The commandment of God is pure, enlightening the eyes. But the magician The logician responds to this argument making the point that simply because the Bible says it is the authoritative word of God does not make it the authoritative word of God. That's known as a circular argument And circular arguments can be proven invalid. A proper response to such a rebuttal is acceptance that a circular argument can be proven invalid, but only If that argument stands alone. If there are other valid arguments, then the circular argument can stand. So what are the other arguments? One other argument is that a great deal of the Bible was written by primary sources. A primary source is someone who was an eyewitness to the events that transpired, to the words that were spoken as well. We do not have this, of course, with the book such as Genesis, which is said to have been written by Moses by use of oral tradition and being inspired by the Spirit of God. But it can be said about the book of Exodus, which was written and experienced by Moses. It can be said about 1 and 2 Samuel, which were written and experienced by Samuel. It can be said about the books of the prophets who experienced the events, heard the words of God, and wrote them down. In the New Testament we have these testimonials. This is from the Gospel according to St. Luke. He said, Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that had been fulfilled among us. just as they were handed down but to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. With this in mind, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, I too decided to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus. that you may know the certainty of the things you have been taught. And then again from Peter, 2 Peter chapter 1. For we did not follow cunningly devised fables when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. And then from 1 John 1, verse 3, the Apostle John said, that which we have seen and heard, we declare to you, that you also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. And again from Peter, this is from his sermon in Acts chapter 2. Peter challenges the people hearing him preach. He said, Men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man attested by you To you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did through him in your midst As you yourselves also know. They saw Jesus, they heard Jesus, they knew. Being their own witnesses, that what Peter preached to them about Jesus was true. And still another argument regarding the authority of the Bible. Is the numerous prophecies spoken in the Old Testament that were fulfilled in the New Testament? We have the prophecy that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem We have the prophecy that the Messiah would be born in the line of Judah. We have the prophecy that the Messiah would spend a season in Egypt We have the prophecy that the Messiah would heal the sick and give sight to the blind. We have the prophecy that the Messiah would be preceded by a prophet in the likes of Elijah. We have the prophecy that the Messiah would be rejected by his own people, that he would be sold for money, that he would have his clothes torn from his body, and those clothes would be gambled over. That his body would be disfigured and that his hands and feet would be pierced. We have the prophecy that the Messiah would be resurrected from the dead, ascend into heaven, and seated at the right hand of his Father. But you say that such evidence is still not enough for all of it is internal, meaning that it's what the Bible says about itself. What evidence for the authority of the Bible is found outside of the Bible? Such is called external proof. What we can first look to are the many archaeological discoveries that confirm a great deal about what the Bible describes. For example, there is the Myrnita Stele, which is an inscribed stone from the 19th dynasty of Egypt that describes the Israelite people. This comes from the 13th century BC. And corresponds quite well with the earliest possible archaeological evidence of a settlement of an Israeli people as a tribe in Canaan. And next we have on the northeastern shore of Mount Ebal, just to the north of modern-day Shechem Neopolis, on the west bank. Israeli archaeologist Adam Zerdl discovered a site dating to the early Iron Age, the period, again covering the late 13th and early 12th century BC. Zirdal suggests that there is a cultic site that is uncovered, that is likely an altar. Erected by Joshua on Mount Ebel, recorded in Joshua chapter 8. Zerdo suggests that it served as a central cultic site. For the earliest Israelite settlers in that region east of Canaan. Next are the many discoveries within the old city of Jerusalem. Among the most noteworthy finds that are relevant that were found during the Iron Age remains come from marking the city of David. The original beginnings of the city are there, fortifications, water systems, houses, and even a possible palace. It is believed even today that on the site of the old Temple Mount, you can find evidence of the first Temple Mount. And as we were so privileged to visit, it is believed that what is called Herod's Tower now was likely David's original Palace, and it is uncovered that during the time of Herod he would take those who had been arrested down to the very bottom depth. It's likely where we stood was the same place Jesus stood the night he was arrested. Next are fragments of a monumental inscription written on basalt in Aramaic. These were discovered outside the gate of the Iron Age Tildan in northern Israel in the mid-1990s. It is written there of a king, an Aramean king, boasting of killing the kings of Israel of the house of David. Most scholars believe that this inscription was written under the orders of Hazael around 840 B. C. And describes his victory over the kings of Israel, most likely Joram, son of Ahab, and the house of David, most likely Ahaziah, son of Joram. As such, it is seen as the earliest mention in the extra-biblical text of the name David, specifically referring to the kingdom of Judah, the house of David, some hundred and fifty years after the time. While there are numerous discoveries worthy of mentioning, I close my examples with the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls. These are still being rescued, studied, and preserved today. These ancient texts verify the accuracy of the translations of our day, showing that the sacred texts of Holy Scripture were not carelessly written and collected, but were painstakingly written, copied, and cared for as if they were the very words of God. The many archaeological discoveries repeatedly confirm the historistical accuracy of the many historistical narratives told in the Bible It can also be said that there are no historical narratives in Scripture that have been proven false by archaeological discoveries. And while the absence of proof is really no proof, when the people argue that the Bible narrative is false, they also do so without proof. And this brings us to the most important proof that the authority of the Bible can be trusted. It is not enough to say it is authoritative because it says it is, as we have admitted. It is not enough to say it uses primary sources. It is not enough to say that many of its prophecies have been fulfilled. It is not enough to say that the archaeological discoveries have verified its veracity What is enough is the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus himself is the most valid proof that the Bible is the Word of God. It is the sinless character of Jesus that causes us to trust him. He was a perfect man who became a perfect sacrifice for the sins of man. It is the words of light that he uttered that causes us to listen to him and listen with ears to hear. It is his humility that caused us to have faith that he was who he said he was and was able to do what others witnessed him doing. And because Jesus was all that he was, when he speaks of Abraham, speaks of Moses, speaks of Elijah as real men, living out a true faith, we believe him. When Jesus refers to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the reign of King David as historical, that is how we understand them as well. Because Jesus accepted the Old Testament as inspired by God and thus true, then we do as well. And because Jesus of the New Testament is spoken about as his words of truth, that he had words of eternal life. And because Jesus said the Holy Spirit would guide us into all truth, the result is his people writing down those truths, what he uttered, what he taught, what he proclaimed. I am more convinced of the power of this argument that the authority of the Bible can be trusted based on the person of Jesus. Because of how popular it is today to challenge whether Jesus ever existed. According to this argument, if Jesus can be doubted As a historical figure, then all of Scripture should be doubted as well. But we have evidence outside of the Bible that Jesus existed. The Jewish historian Josephus mentions Jesus as a historical figure twice in his writings around 93 A. D. The Roman historian Tacitus, from his work about 116 A. D. , tells of the burning of Rome around 64 A. When he said Nero blamed the persons commonly called Christians who followed their founder named Christus, who was put to death under Pontius Pilate. Other mentions are similar in referring to the person the Christians pray to, the person that they worship, the person that they follow. Is such enough evidence that Jesus existed? Is all of this enough to be confident in the authority of the Bible? Perhaps the true struggle is not determining whether the Bible is a trusted authority, but whether we want to allow it to have authority in our individual lives. The struggle is common. We are tempted towards sin, and we are tempted to live in sin. We are tempted to live a life according to the desires of our flesh. But the Bible tells us we should not. It warns against such a lifestyle. When we choose to live according to our flesh, the message of the Bible brings guilt to our conscience. But we don't want guilt. And we still want to live out our fleshly desires. And so we find reasons not to allow the Bible to speak guilt into our lives. We doubt its accuracy. We deny its authority. We hear the argument that it is written by men. And that sounds like a good enough reason to reject it entirely. But it is not. The Bible is a perfect example of Jesus. For it too is fully of God and fully of man. At the very least, each of us needs to be honest when we doubt the authority of the Bible in our lives. There is more than enough evidence for us to be confident that it is from God. My charge to each of us is to allow it to have full authority in your life and watch the Holy Spirit make you more and more like the man who gives its authority. Amen. Let us pray Our gracious and merciful God, we thank you for the confidence that we can have in the Holy Scriptures. There is much that has been said this morning, but we all confess it comes down to your Son, Jesus, our Savior and our Lord. May his authority always reign in our hearts and in our consciences, that we might trust him and thus trust in his word. This we ask and pray in Jesus' name. Amen.