In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I think when we were confessing our faith, some of us were reciting the Nicene Creed. And some of us were reciting the Apostles' Creed. I think that was happening. I'm surprised it doesn't happen more. Uh I need it right in front of me in order to remember the words uh for each. I guess this is first world liturgy problems that we're noting here. Turn with me if you would to the Gospel according to St. John, chapter 4 and chapter 5. We'll get into both of those chapters. Today, you will be well served to follow along of these stories of healing. In the ethics class that I teach at the university, I introduced students to Kohlberg's Theory of moral development, Goldberg's theory of moral development. The premise of the theory is that there is a universal developmental sequence that all people go through in developing their moral structure. It goes across all cultures according to the theory. The theory is actually based on observation, watching what people do. Stage one is punishment and obedience orientation, where decisions are made based on the understanding of authority. and authority's ability to carry out physical consequences. A child obeying because he does not want to be spanked is an example. Stage two is the relativist orientation, where a person is pragmatically driven, being concerned, primarily, with self-interests that satisfy personal desires. If good is to be done, it is for the purpose of good coming back to the person in return. Stage three is the good boy, nice girl orientation. Where a person tries to live up to the expectations of others while searching for approval Stage 4 is the law and order orientation, where a person is concerned about maintaining social order. It is obeying the law because the law keeps our society in order. It is concerned with the duty of all citizens. Stage 5 is the social contract orientation, where laws are understood to be a means for a greater end, towards a greater end. Laws are to be examined, formulated, and even changed for the greater good. And the final stage, stage six, is the universal ethical principle orientation. Ethical decisions are made with personal ethical principles and logical understanding of the consequences both for the individual and for the universe. Now none of these stages, mind you, are exclusive to one another. We are, as a sinful race. A combination of many motivations regarding why we obey rules and laws and why we disobey the same. And many people, many people get stuck in one of these stages described, never maturing out of them, so that they might be motivated for a greater good. for someone else besides themselves. I reference Kohlberg's theory here because of the two stories we are looking at from John's Gospel As they have a number of different motivations that are described. And these motivations will tell us A bit about ourselves, that is to say, who we are and who we identify with, then it will be a call for us to repent of certain motivations while embracing others. Recall, please, that John is very particular regarding what stories he tells. He only chose seven miracles of Jesus to describe, and he did so keeping in mind the juxtaposition of each of the stories Not just in relation to each other, but in relation to the discourses of Jesus, that is, the teaching moments, the conversations that Jesus had. And so we mention the juxtaposition of the story of the woman at the well and the Samaritan people who believe Jesus to be the Messiah. Recall that Jesus stayed with the Samaritans two days, and many believed, it says, because of those two days he stayed. And it says that they believed because of Jesus' words. Now that reason, because of his words, is very important. It is important because of what they needed in order to believe in Jesus and what they didn't need. They needed Jesus to reveal himself through his teaching and by simply being among them. That is to be compared to what the Galileans needed. After the stay of Jesus in Samaria, we are told that he goes back to the region in which he performed his first miracle, turning the water into wine. Apparently, having just arrived, Jesus is contacted by a government official, likely a servant of Herod Antipas, for the purpose of healing this official's son. The response of Jesus speaks to motive. As soon as he hears about the request, he talks about motive. The reference to you people is to the people of Galilee. Jesus reveals their moral development. They are stuck at stage two, as they are pragmatically selfish. If it is about them, it will benefit them, then they will follow. They will believe if they get something out of it. But if it does not benefit them, then it makes no difference to them. And so Jesus calls them out. He calls them out of their motivation, their infantile motivation. He confronts their motivation. But notice how the nobleman is undeterred. His son is dying, and that is what he cares about most. The nobleman then is motivated for himself and for another And that is where most of us find ourselves, is it not, when we pray for a loved one? We want them to be healed for their own sake. And for the sake of our hearts, we don't want to watch them suffer. We don't want to feel the hurt of losing them. Jesus refused the man's request to go down with him to see the man's son, and incidentally the request to go down is topographical, as Cana was 1,500 feet below Capernaum in elevation. But the refusal of Jesus to go down is not a refusal to heal the boy. Jesus does what the centurion said that Jesus could do. You remember that story? He only needed to say a word, and the healing occurs. A key point in exchange of this nobleman and Jesus is that the nobleman, it says, believed the word of Jesus. His believing is a result of him spiritually maturing. He trusted Jesus. And that is no small thing. It is very well could be an eternal thing for this man. We don't know, of course. Was the faith of this nobleman a saving faith? Or was it just in the moment of crisis? And once his son is back to full strength, will they forget all about Jesus and go on with their lives as long as their health is given to them? Crisis faith is an immature faith. It too is stage two in moral development as it is concerned primarily with self-interest. Christ's faith is so very easy to practice, for it provides a quick bandage to stop the bleeding. Many of us notice Christ's faith after 9-11. People came to church to pray, to hear hope. They were earnest about faith giving them an answer, answer to their soul, for the world was too confusing. They needed a void to be filled. They needed the why questions to be answered. But such faith did not last. Once the threat faded into our memories, and once we were assured that the president was going to take all the military might we had and hunt down those terrorists. Well, people put their trust in chariots and horses while their need for God faded. Christ's faith leads us to start attending Bible study more frequently or worship on Sunday more regularly. Christ's faith prods us to open up the dusty Bibles in our homes and read, looking for anything that gives hope to our souls. Christ's faith gets us on our knees and has us praying for longer periods and more earnestly than other times in our lives. And don't get me wrong, there is truly nothing wrong with Christ's faith. If it is a beginning point for us. And Jesus knew knew this for this nobleman. The man needed Christ's faith to wake him up to the possibilities of knowing God. And so the boy became sick, but not sick outside of the knowledge of the Heavenly Father. The boy's sickness grew worse, but still not outside of the will of the Heavenly Father. And once Jesus heard of the boy's sickness, even though the motive of the people was to see miracles and the motive of the nobleman was a crisis faith. Jesus knew the will of the Father and thus proclaimed healing for the boy, and the boy was healed. You see, beloved, God knows what motivates us. He knows that death and fear of death, those are motivating subjects, motivating topics. When Jesus warned that people who were not allowed into the kingdom of God would experience weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth That was to be a motivating factor, to motivate them at the first stage, the fear of punishment. And it is perfectly legitimate as a motivation to turn away from sin. But it is a beginning point, not an ending point. And John tells us that the beginning point of the nobleman led to a belief in Jesus that spread to his whole family. And then John John tells us that it was the second sign Jesus did in Galilee. And by saying such, he is noting that there is a goal An end goal here of this boy being healed, beyond good wine being served at a wedding, beyond this boy having health. The story of the boy being healed from the jaws of death is then right next to the story about this paralytic man being healed. Now notice in chapter 5 the setting is much different. And obviously it's a different time. But John wants us to hear these stories back to back. He wants us to compare them And John doesn't specify what feast is being celebrated in chapter 5, verse 1, but since they are back in Jerusalem, it has been guessed that this is the Passover again. So it's much later than the previous story. And this mention of the fifth colonnade likely describes the division point between the two pools, and that has been excavated today, and we know where those two pools were. And verse 4 is controversial, for it does not appear in some manuscripts. It appears that a scribe put it in later to express the belief that was had at the time. And regarding the man, it appears that he was lame and that he was not able to walk. And the mention of 38 years May be a reference to the time Israel was wandering in the desert, or it simply could be that he was lame for a very long time. Now the motivation of this man is to be noted. He was quite desperate and he was quite depressed. His only hope was a miracle from heaven based off of a legend that had no accounted record of being true. We don't know if anyone was ever actually healed because an angel stirred up the water. There's no record of that And to add to his problem, he could not even tempt fate, fate of this legend, because of his inability to move quickly. And that Jesus quickly tells the lame man to walk after the man explains his dilemma, so shows us that Jesus is telling him, no angel is needed here from heaven. Only the Son of God, who is from heaven and will return to heaven, is needed. And all the Son of God needed was to say a word, and the man was healed. Now the word immediately is used to assure the reader, you and I, that it only took the words of Jesus to act out this miracle in all of its fullness. There was no slow growing of muscles or time for the straightening of bones and the stretching of ligaments. It was instant. Jesus can do that, you know. And note that nothing about the character of the lame man has been revealed to us yet. Nothing about his motivation or his maturity level has been revealed except that he wanted to be healed and he was desperate. And when John mentions that the day of healing was on the Sabbath, well that sets up an inevitable conflict. The Pharisees. They were the police force against Sabbath breakers, and they watched for violators. At least violators according to their interpretation of Sabbath law. And their interpretation was that no one was allowed to carry around his sitting mat around the temple. Because that was working. And God's people are not to work on the Sabbath. Now we are going to assume Assume in the name of the love of God that these legalistic Jews who questioned the once lame man did not know he was once lame. We're going to assume that And so confronting the man for carrying his mat seems a little understandable. But then the man tells them that he is carrying his mat because the man who healed him told him to do so. And notice that the legalists of Jews completely gloss over that they were just told about the man being healed. They ignored that a miracle man was among them. They didn't care if the lame could walk. They didn't care if the blind could see. They only cared about their narrow interpretation of Sabbath law. That is remarkable. Next, we have Jesus running into the once lame man again and instructing the man to understand what a blessing it is for him to be healed, and that the man should See that he sins no more, or something worse would befall him. Come upon him Now we have already heard Jesus say in other places that people are not necessarily sick or injured because of specific sin committed. But the word necessarily is useful because of what Jesus implies here, which is that some people do indeed get sick because of sins they have committed. St. Paul confirms this, you remember, when he warns the people in taking the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner. It is the responsible Christian, the mature Christian, who will ask the Lord to search his heart to see if there be any sin therein. Interestingly, I heard the Reverend Colvin, missionary, who we will have visit us in January, he made the comment that perhaps the Thriving of ISIS is the result of the apostasy and false moral teachings that are going undisciplined in the Christian church. Such as a fair question to ask and seek the Lord regarding. What occurs next in our story. Forces us now to question the maturity of the healed man. As soon as he learns that it was Jesus that healed him, he goes and tells these legalistic Jews And then they follow up and try to persecute Jesus. And we could read into this and conclude that the healed man was an immature man, and that he was only concerned about getting in trouble with the Jewish leaders. Or maybe he was mature enough to want to be thought of as a good boy. But either way his actions do not seem to care about what it means to tell others about Jesus. And then there is this motivation of the legalistic Jews. The maturity level of these placed them at stage four. Which again is law and order. This is where a person is concerned about maintaining social order. These men are more mature than the heeled man or the citizens of Galilee, but they're stuck on stage four. In fact, they are so very stuck that the law and order, or their interpretation of the law and of the law and order itself, has become an idol to them. Their legalism is such an idol that it blinds them from seeing the Messiah, the Messiah they say they are looking for. But that is what legalism does. Legalism blinds persons from seeing their own hypocrisy. That is why legalists so easily strain the gnat and swallow the camel. It is why they try to take a speck out of someone else's eye while they have a board in their own. Legalism helps a person see the sins of others more easily while increasing the blindness to their own sins. Legalism also breeds jealousy. Legalism doesn't like other people expressing their freedom. Legalism doesn't like people having a good time. Legalism wants everyone to stay under the weight of the law, for misery does indeed love company. Well, we have seen the motivations of people in these two stories, been able to place them in these stages of moral development. Except we haven't examined one person. What was Jesus motivated by? And we can assume he was at stage seven of his moral development, which as you remember the stages only goes up to six. So we give Jesus the seventh stage. And that stage of moral development At that stage, a person is motivated by the coming of the kingdom of God. The primary reason Jesus healed the nobleman's son was a sign for the people to know that the kingdom of God, Jesus, was among them. His healing of the lame man within the temple walls was a sign to the people that the kingdom of God had come, even come to those who were against its coming. And because Jesus was motivated by the kingdom of God, so too are his followers to be motivated. You and I. We are to be motivated by the kingdom of God. Now this has struck me really like a lightning bolt a few weeks ago. While we were in Sunday school, the Reverend Bowles was talking about what St. Augustine was motivated by when he was evaluating the history of Rome. He was concerned, motivated about how God was bringing forth the city of God. The kingdom of God, as I'm using it. And that's when I heard the message. It's all about the kingdom of God. Why do I want my children to believe? Why do I want them to have spouses that believe and children that believe? I want it for them as individuals, sure. But the true motivation should be the kingdom of God. I am to want the kingdom of God to come. Why do I want all of your marriages to survive and thrive? It is for you, certainly, but most importantly, it's for the kingdom of God. Why bother with a school? Do you know how much hassle it is to run a school? Ask John how much of a hassle it is to run a school. Why do it if it's that much of a hassle? Why do I prepare sermons every Sunday for crying out loud? Why not just go through the motions, read the paper, and tell you what I think about it? Why not? Why bother to show that we care? Have concern for the sick, the hurting, the lonely. People will get mad and leave us anyway, so just go ahead and walk us through the motions. What's the point? What's the big deal? Why continue? Why bother? Why bother indeed? Well, you know the answer to these questions. It is because of the city of God. The kingdom of God. That's why we do it all. For his kingdom to come, for his will to be done. The kingdom of God is to be our motivation. Sure, you and I can be motivated by fear of punishment. By wanting to be considered a good boy or a good girl, or because we want good social order. But all such motivations must grow up. All such motivations must move to the last motivation, which is for the Christian to see the kingdom of God, to see God's will be done. That was the motivation of Jesus, and I put before you it is to be ours as well. So let it be our motivation. Let us grow up and care most about the kingdom of God. Let us pray.