In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. May be seated. Turn your Bibles to John chapter eight. We're picking up at verse twenty-one and making our way through the rest of that chapter. Question. What is the primary difference between Orthodox Christianity and both the Jehovah's Witness Faith and the Mormon faith? Ask it again. What is the primary difference between Orthodox Christianity and both the Jehovah's Witness faith and the Mormon faith? Challenge Identify a scripture, chapter and verse, that has Jesus clearly identifying himself. As God, clearly identifying Himself as God, answering the first question and meeting the challenge Are both necessary for each of us to be responsible Christians By responsible, I mean that we should be able to do as St. Paul instructed us to do, which is that we are to have an answer To the hope that lies within us. An answer to the world who objects to what we believe. Let us say that you are at work and someone starts talking about Christmas. And why our culture recognizes such a holiday. And what does it actually celebrate? And that conversation leads someone to say, well, all religions are the same. And you, because the Holy Spirit won't let you be silent about such statements, you find yourself responding by saying, no, they are not. Which then leads to the necessary question directed at you. Well, how are they different? To answer that question, you must know what makes Christianity different from all other religions, even those religions that claim some type of identification or ownership of the person of Jesus, like the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Mormons. The answer that Christian, true Christians, the answer is that Christians believe Jesus is God. Yes, the Son of God, but God. A very likely question and a reasonable question that would follow if you are able to state that, well, Christians believe Jesus is God. A follow-up question might be, where does the Bible say that? Now that question is much easier to answer as we can read, and maybe you can even recite from the opening of John's Gospel. Jesus is the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. There you go. And you might, if you anticipated such questions, turn to Colossians chapter 1, and there Paul states that Jesus is the image of the invisible God. And by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, and that it pleased God the Father that in Jesus the fullness of the divine fully dwells. Pretty good answer. But let's say this person, that's not enough for them. They want to know: do you have a verse that says Jesus claimed to be God. Not what someone else said about him, but that Jesus said it himself. Do you have a Bible verse for that? And today we are talking about that Bible verse. It is John 8. 58. Where Jesus says, before Abraham was I am. Before we unpack the passage read, passages read today from John. I want you to have a chance to appreciate how important such a statement is by Jesus before Abraham was. I am. Any pastor worth his calling has fears that there would be people in the congregation in which he serves that have heard him preach for years. And still, they do not know the fundamental teachings of Christianity. Well, here is one of those fundamental teachings. Jesus is God. There should be no equivocation about that truth. There should be no fuzziness about such a statement. Jesus is God. Last week, I asked you to embrace the idea of the phrase, that's what it's all about, that that phrase should apply to the authority of Jesus to forgive sins. Well, this week I ask you to embrace the truth that what is essential to the Christian faith, essential to the Christian faith, meaning that if we don't have it, we don't have Christianity. What is essential to the Christian faith is that Jesus is divine, that he is God Almighty. And before we get to John 8. 58, we need to be led up to that verse by the words that Jesus exchanges with the Pharisees here in John 8. And as we examine these words, I want you to notice something that I would say is not discussed enough, maybe not at all, in Christian circles today. And that is that the words chosen by Jesus, the words here, as recorded by John, purposefully push certain people away. Purposefully. Jesus seemingly, knowingly offends certain people with his words And this is similar to the words he chose in John 6, when he stated that his followers must eat of his flesh and drink his blood. People got offended then. Yet Jesus didn't apologize, nor did he soften his words. And he doesn't soften them here. This then is a stark contrast to how Jesus is presented by the most popular and wealthy preachers in America today. They present a soft Jesus. They present a non-offensive Jesus. And this should lead us to question whether they are actually presenting the true Jesus at all. And I don't mind committing to you to say they are not, but I will allow you to come to that conclusion yourself. So we begin at verse 21 of chapter 8, and we immediately see Jesus to be confrontational as he tells these Pharisees they will die in their sins. This is to say that they have no hope and that when they get to the grave, when all that is left is their bodies, their sin will still be with them. The Pharisees got stuck, however, on the statement Jesus made that they cannot go where he is going. They didn't pay attention to the dead and sins part. They wonder what he meant by going where they cannot go. And they wonder then if Jesus is talking about killing himself. Now that might seem like a strange reference, but remember that Jesus had mentioned that they wanted to kill him. And they denied that. So they think that they're putting two things together. Oh, he must be talking about he's going to kill himself. Make himself a martyr. What will be stated clearly later is that where Jesus is going is to the Father. And the Heavenly Father cannot be, cannot receive the Pharisees because they don't know the Father Now, what could be more offensive to a religious leader than to say to his face that he does not know the God he claims to worship? And Jesus knows that is offensive to them, and he says it anyway. Jesus explains in verse 24. The greatest sin of man under the new covenant, under the revelation of Jesus, is the sin of unbelief. Something so simple to believe Jesus as the Messiah is rejected over and over again by people of all walks of life every day, and it is a sin that will one day be rectified. And when the Pharisees continue to show their ignorance by once again asking Jesus who He is Jesus essentially states that he is who he has been saying he is, and then he tells them that there is much more of their sin he could speak about and condemn, but here's the reality. Jesus didn't come to condemn the Pharisees, but to reveal the truth to the world. So he cannot spend much more time answering their repeated questions, especially when they don't listen to his answer. In verse 28, we hear Jesus say that he and the Father are one. But he doesn't do so overtly. He says that when he is lifted up, which we know to be his cross and to be his ascension, Then they will know I am He. The He is the Father. That is the context of the conversation. But they don't hear it. And I would say not many do. That many believe that what Jesus was saying, that's what the scripture of John tells us, many believed on him when he was talking, that tells us how powerful his words were. These people, of course, didn't stay long, as we know, they leave him. But it makes obvious the power of what Jesus was saying. And what he was claiming about himself and about the Heavenly Father. And this leads to Jesus giving hopeful words to these Jews who believed him at that moment, at least. He encourages them to follow him and to experience true freedom. And they too, like everyone else, struggle to understand that he's talking about spiritual freedom. And their response about being sons of Abraham and thus never being in bondage seems quite ignorant. What are they talking about? They're ignorant to their own history and their own present-day situation. Many Israelites, children of Abraham's blood, had been enslaved, and in Jesus' day, they were all under Roman rule. Obviously, sin causes a lack of self-awareness. Jesus then goes on to express the great hope of the gospel. He has the authority to forgive sins, and they turn to him, he, the Son of God, and can find freedom. Freedom from the bondage of sin. And that is what it means to be truly free. But Jesus knows the hearts of his hearers, and thus he knows that they, in the end, will seek to kill him. And so he says the same to their face. And with his words he has said to his listeners That they were enslaved to sin, destined to die in their sin, murderers, ignorant of the Heavenly Father, and children of the Father of Sin Beloved, try writing that on a Christmas card. Dear Thomas family. We hope you have a Merry Christmas, but we know you won't because you do not know God. And because you do not know God, you don't know Jesus, and thus you have no hope for your sins, are not forgiven. Instead, you will be worshiping and obeying the devil, being a slave for this year and the coming year, regretfully, the Jorgensen family But beloved, this is what Jesus just said to them. Putting it that way, we might wonder why Jesus was so harsh to these listeners. It appears Jesus was harsh because these listeners were made up of Pharisees. Pharisees who believed in themselves and thus thought that they had this religious thing all figured out. It is the self-righteous that Jesus addresses harshly, without apology. In verse 41, it appears that the listeners were picking up that Jesus was speaking about spiritual fatherhood. They retort, their retort, excuse me, is one from the Old Testament that had ignorant nations claiming that Israel's God, their father, had deserted them, making them bastard nation, a bastard nation. But Jesus makes it clear that to be related to Abraham, a person must be related by faith. The works of Abraham were to believe in what the God of heaven spoke to him. And now the God of heaven speaks Jesus. And those who know Abraham Are those who have faith in what God spoke? Those who claim to know Abraham and have no faith in Jesus do not know Abraham. In the verses 42 through 47, we hear Jesus speaking as plainly as a human being can speak, and he still is not understood. He tells them that they do not understand because they don't want to understand. And they don't want to understand because they are dead in their sins. They are blind, they are deaf, and they are dumb. It is hard for us to understand where or how the human will and the will of God interact when it comes to such blindness and deafness and dumbness. We can be assured in this case all of them were involved. I read this section, this verb verse 42 to 47. As Jesus verbally grabbing them by the robes at the chest, pulling them so that they are face to face, and saying, Look! Your father is the devil. That makes you a murderer. And it makes you a liar. And it makes you an unbeliever in the one true Lord and God. And then pushing them down. And I believe his hearers took it in the manner I am describing because now they go on to insult him. To say that a pure Jew had the blood of a Samaritan, that was a put-down. To say Jesus had a demon was the most vile thing they could come up with. It wasn't original. Jesus had already told them they were children of the devil. But they wanted to insult him in the same vein. Now Jesus brushes off the ad hominem argument about being a Samaritan, but he acknowledges the demonic accusation. And he is gracious in it. He is kind. He is loving. And he offers them again hope. They've just insulted him greatly. Most assuredly I say to you, he says, if anyone, anyone, any one of you keeps my word, he shall never see death. But that hope that he's offering them is quickly ignored by these arrogant listeners as they think that they have an argument that will win the day. They can confirm that Abraham is dead. Abraham and the prophets, they're dead. That means that if they are, as Jesus said, they are, which is believers in him, and they are dead, then Jesus is telling a lie, saying that they believe in him. Those who believe in him will never taste death. Well G John, our gospel writer, recognizes repeated themes in the ministry of Jesus, and one of those themes is listeners who only think in terms of the material world. Remember Nicodemus couldn't understand spiritual birth versus natural birth. The woman at the well couldn't understand spiritual water and physical water. The apostles couldn't understand spiritual bread, only physical bread. And these listeners couldn't understand spiritual authority, only political authority. And here, they cannot understand spiritual life, but only life in this world that ends in death. By Jesus referring to Abraham, seeing his day, and being glad, Jesus is wonderfully uniting the old and new covenants, showing them to be the same with greater revelation for the latter. How much of Jesus' day Abraham understood is a mystery to be revealed in heaven, but at least we can know that Abraham had a faith to know that God would fulfill his promises. And that promise will be fulfilled, we find, in Jesus. I want you to, as you read these arguments back to Jesus, put a little bit of a slant on how they're being stated. It is as if, but we got you, we got you. Abraham was alive a long time ago, and you are now only 50, you're not even 50 years old. See, you don't know what you're talking about. Well, such lines uttered to Jesus truly do sound infantile and bratty. In comparison then to what Jesus says in response, majestically I might add, most assuredly I say to you, before Abraham was. I am. That phrase most assuredly is a double affirmative. To be sure that everyone hearing would know how important it is to hear what's about to come next. The phrase, I say to you, places the hearer on alert so that they can know that they are responsible now for the knowledge that they are about to hear. The verb was refers to Abraham as it confirms a historical time with temporal, temporal connotations. The verb am has no temporal connotations. It refers to a state of being in an ultimate sense, a never-ending sense. Such a statement is indeed the same that was given to Moses when Moses asked God on that mountain, whom shall I say is sending me? In the Greek it is pronounced ego ami. No claim made by a man could be either more blasphemous or of a greater revelation. And while we are calling this the greatest of revelations, consider that in John chapter 4, when Jesus was speaking to the woman at the well, he used the same phrase, I am he. When he revealed himself to his disciples in the midst of that storm in John 6, he used the same form, I am. In this same chapter, John 8, we already went over it. Verse 24, Jesus used the same phrase, I am All of these will lead us to what Jesus then said more plainly than he could have said. And it is because of what he said that they picked up the rocks to stone him. It is because of what he said that the hearers were willing to disregard Roman law and take justice into their own hands. not caring about the consequences. It is because of what he said that every human being who hears those words has to decide whether to pick up a rock or pick up a cross. And to be indifferent about it, that's to pick up a rock. Hear how central the deity of Jesus was to the early Christians Saint Ignatius, a contemporary of St. John, our gospel writer, he wrote the following. Let my spirit be counted as nothing for the sake of the cross, which is a stumbling plot to those who do not believe. But to us salvation and life eternal. Where is the wise man? Where is the disputer? Where is the boasting of those who are styled prudent? For our God, Jesus Christ, was, according to the appointment of God, conceived in the womb of Mary, of the seed of David, but by the Holy Ghost. Justin Martyr from the second century wrote, Nor to know that the Father of the universe has a son, who also being first begotten, word of God, even God. Saint Irenaeus, the Bishop of Lyons in France, also of the second century, wrote this concerning Jesus. And to raise up anew, all flesh. of the whole human race in order that Jesus Christ our Lord and God and Savior and King. Question. What Christian doctrine is most attacked and denied by the religious and the secular? The importance of said doctrine is revealed on how hard the devil attacks it. Liberal scholars deny it only to accept Jesus as a social worker. Da Vinci Code conspiracy theorists deny it because they want a Jesus who is a sinner just like them. Muslims deny it because they want to be ruled by the sword. Heretical groups deny it because the devil is their father and they believe his lies For the Christians, for believers in the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, it is the central doctrine. Jesus is God. And here we can apply that wonderful old Saying, he said it, I believe it, and that settles it. Amen and Amen. Let us pray.