In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. I have a confession to make to you of sorts this morning. I have been a renegade preacher For the past 22 years. The ideal Anglican preacher oversees morning prayer every day with the readings coming from the lectionary. And then at night, oversees evening prayer with readings coming from the lectionary. For example, if you turn in your book of common prayer to Roman numeral 42, page 42. You will see the readings assigned for morning prayer on the week of the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity, which is this week And on the next page, Roman numero 43, you will see the readings for evening prayer of the same week. If these services are followed and all of God's people attend all services, we would hear the entirety of the Bible read in one year. For Sunday worship, something else is to take place. If you turn to page 232 in the Book of Common Prayer, You will see that there is a collak, which simply means prayer, and then there are two readings: the epistle reading and the gospel reading, and these are called propers. These readings are to be read each year on their assigned Sunday, and then the sermon is to come from those two readings. Thus, there is a great deal of idealism that precedes the Book of Common Prayer If followed as it is written, God's people would be hearing all of the Bible read each year and would be exposed to the same themes of the scriptures each week. Such idealism, however, doesn't match the culture of America. We don't attend morning prayer and evening prayer every day We have televisions after all, and they demand our attention. That is said in jest My assessment as a pastor is that most professing Christians are relatively biblically illiterate, and thus I consider it my calling to expose You to all that the Bible teaches, all of the stories it tells. For example, I took the time to read to you three chapters from the book of Judges. and preach about those passages because I anticipate that when you come to such chapters, you find them so strange that you gloss over them until you get to books and chapters you more easily understand. I anticipate such because I have done the same. My point is that I have chosen to preach through entire books of the Bible so that you can hear how passages of Scripture You're attempted to gloss over can be understood and applied to your Christian life. Over the years, we have covered a good number of books of the Bible, reading every word. Today is a change. I will not be a renegade, at least from now until the end of December. We will be hearing sermons that will incorporate the collect of the week and the propers assigned for specific Sundays. Today, as I said, is the 16th Sunday after Trinity. And so we will be looking at the epistle reading from Ephesians chapter 3, beginning at verse 13. And then from St. Luke, the gospel reading, chapter 7, beginning at verse 11. And so if you would turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, we're going to walk through that passage. We must consider that when Paul tells the Ephesian Christians not to lose heart, that when he wrote that, he was himself in jail. For a person to tell you not to lose heart when he himself has a reason to lose heart, well that message is very powerful indeed. Paul lived his whole life after conversion with a passion to bring salvation to his own people, the Jews. What placed him in jail, I remind you, was when, on a strategic visit to Jerusalem, he had the opportunity to preach to a vast crowd on or near the Temple Mount. According to Acts chapter 21 and 22. But the opportunity ended in disaster Because the Jewish crowd could not stand the idea of the good news of the Messiah being extended to the Gentiles A riot ensued, putting Paul in a legal dilemma, from which he used his right as a Roman citizen to appeal to Caesar At the writing of this letter to the Ephesians, Paul was imprisoned in Rome awaiting for his trial before Caesar. And there, because he knew God wanted Gentiles to share in the good news of the Messiah, he wasn't afraid to preach that truth. But what does it mean to say that his tribulation is their glory? That's what he writes. His tribulation is their glory. The answer is that their glory must be a reflection of the dignity of St. Paul in the midst of suffering and a reflection of the glory of the gospel itself. Paul was being used and probably in a greater way than he even imagined. This Roman imprisonment produced the letters of Ephesians, Colossians, Philippians, and Philemon. And they all most certainly have had a place in the eternal plan of God. In the same manner, each of us has a place in the service of God's eternal plan. Knowing this and working towards it is a great guard against losing heart, as he says, do not lose heart in the midst of tribulation. Paul next prays on the basis of Paul's prayer was his knowledge of God's purpose. This means he confidently prayed according to God's will. Paul prayed in the posture of bowing his knee. This position of utmost humility was in contrast to the normal posture of the day, which was to stand and raise up your hands. Thus consider others who prayed while kneeling. Solomon prayed on his knees, first Kings chapter eight. Ezra prayed on his knees, Ezra chapter 9. The psalmist calls all of us to pray on our knees, Psalm 95. Daniel prayed on his knees, Daniel 6. People came to Jesus kneeling, Matthew 17 Stephen prayed on his knees, Acts chapter 7. Peter prayed on his knees, Acts chapter 9. Paul prayed on his knees, Acts chapter 20. And the other early Christians prayed on their knees, Acts 21. Most importantly, Jesus prayed on his knees, Luke 22. St. Paul directed his prayer to the Father, who is presented as the planner among the members of the Trinity. Prayer is usually directed to the Father through the Son by the empowering and direction of the Holy Spirit. And remembering that all God's family is called after his name, Paul showed that his mind was rather taken with this idea of the essential unity of the body of Christ. God is father of both the Jews and the Gentiles. Such unity is not manufactured, but is instead a spiritual reality. Paul prayed for God's will, which is what it means to be according to the riches of his glory. The prayer focused on being strengthened in the inner man, which is the character of each individual. Such strength is needed when considering the tribulations that lie ahead. There is an inner man, an inner person within each of us, and that person is who we really are. When such a person is exposed without being strengthened by the Holy Spirit, we can see ourselves weakening under pressure. Paul next asked that Jesus would live in these believers, just as Jesus promised. When he said, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our home with him. This is the fulfilled promise of the Holy Spirit filling each believer. Of course, it is through faith that Jesus dwells within us. As one commentator said, quote, The indwelling is, from one side, the sovereign gift of God, from the other, it is a matter for the simplest and most personal reception by man. And then the form of that reception is just this: faith, reliance, submissive trust, not animated action, not exalted aspiration, but acceptance. Paul next asked that all this would take place as they were rooted and grounded in love. As Charles Spurgeon stated, two expressions are used. Rooted, like a living tree which lay hold upon the soil, twists itself around the rocks and cannot be upturned. Grounded like a building which had been settled as a whole and will never show any cracks or flaws in the future through failure of the foundation. Paul next prayed that they might be able to understand together in community, that's important, in community, every dimension of the love of Jesus. Paul wanted them to know it by experience, that love by experience and not just in words. By saying that that love has strength, that length, excuse me, by saying that love has length and depth. Is showing that it is objective. It is not something you feel, but something that is. However, he is also using such phrasing metaphorically, as such love does not have limitations, it really, truly cannot be measured. Paul asked God to fill these Christians unto all the fullness of God. The word unto is a better translation than the word with. Paul wanted Christians to experience life in Jesus Christ, the fullness of God, and to be filled to their capacity with Jesus. Even. As God is filled to His own capacity with His own character and attributes. And what we are filled with spills out of us. And so the prayer includes asking that God would spill out of these Christians, of you and I. The prayer is followed by a glorious doxology that we will return to in a moment. What is striking is how bold St. Paul's prayer is. He expects God to answer it, and he expects it because of what he knows about the character of God. He knows that God wants all of what he prays for. But how does Paul know the character of God and know it to be so benevolent? That is answered by the story told in our gospel reading. Turning back to the Gospel of St. Luke chapter 7, picking up at verse 11, we see mentioned the city of Nain. which was in the region of Galilee, in the boundaries of the tribe of Issachar. It was about two miles south of Mount Tabor and not far from Capernaum. There are three miracles recorded in the Gospels describing Jesus raising people from the dead. The three noted, however, do not mean that those are the only ones that Jesus raised from the dead. We are told by John that Jesus did so many miracles that it was not possible for them to write them all down. There are a few points that we must underline while examining this miracle. The first one is that there were many witnesses to what Jesus did. For this occurred after Jesus had preached the Sermon on the Mount, meaning that many people heard that Jesus did indeed have the words of eternal life. Thus his crowd was growing. It was becoming large The fact that many people would see his miracle, his miracles, and hear his teachings, and still not believe, is quite mysterious. It appears to be a coincidence, but we in faith know that it was providence that Jesus would be confronted by a burial procession. He went to the city of Nain. We're not told why. It was simply because the Father instructed him to do so. He encountered a burial procession because the father wanted him to. Nothing was done by chance. Of all that Jesus encountered, what was most notable in the procession was the mother of the young man who had died. We are told that a widow, that she was a widow, excuse me, and now alone at the death of her son, as he was her only child. We are to remember that widows were to be provided for by their sons. Having now no son, she was not only alone, but likely financially destitute. I would normally take a story like this and insist that the main message Jesus is showing us by raising this young man from the dead. Is that he is pointing to his own resurrection and the resurrection of all that will believe in him. That is, after all, the main message to receive from the story of raising Lazarus from the dead. But what Luke has us focus upon is why Jesus raised the young man. Look at verse 13. Jesus saw the woman and had compassion on her. Luke underlines this compassion of Jesus in verse 15. By noting that after the young man became alive again with the proof of him sitting up and speaking, we are told that Jesus himself presented the young man to his mother. Jesus took him to her so that she might personally receive the blessing from him. And we are also to notice that no one asked Jesus to raise the young man from the dead. No one praised such a request. No one asked for a miracle. And yet Jesus was ready and willing to do it for one main reason: He had compassion on the mother. Thus we have the answer to the character of our Savior and the reason Saint Paul is so confident that Jesus will pray to the Father. on our behalf that we might be strengthened by the Holy Spirit in the inner man and that we might be rooted and grounded and loved It is then from the knowledge of Jesus having compassion and the faith that God will fill his people with himself That St. Paul breaks out in a song of praise that is one of the more glorious worded songs in all of Scripture. How is it one may ask that God can do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think? The answer is that God, by definition, is that by which nothing greater can be conceived. Thus He can do those things that we cannot conceive. He is the Alpha and the Omega. He is all-powerful, all-knowing, and in all places at all times. Consider that you can ask for every good thing you have ever experienced, and God can do above that. You can think of or imagine things beyond your experience, and God can do above that. You can imagine good things that are beyond your ability to name, and God can do above that. Hear what Charles Spurgeon had to say about Paul's language. Quote, he, Paul, has instructed here in the Greek an expression which is altogether his own. No language was powerful enough for the apostle, I mean for the Holy Spirit speaking through the apostle. For very often Paul has to coin words and phrases to shadow shadow forth his meaning, and here is one. He is able to do exceeding abundantly, so abundantly that he it exceeds measure and description. End quote. While name it-claimant preachers want to use such phrasing as a defense for why God should do our bidding and why we should ask for worldly goods. We are to recognize that God has already done more than we can ask or imagine. For many of us, we didn't ask for or imagine our salvation. Well, being dead in our sin, we didn't know we needed God or that we were even lost until he dropped the scales from our eyes and showed us the cold, dark hearts that we had. That we are presently experiencing the love of God and the love of being in God's family is also more than we have asked for or imagined, and aren't we grateful for it? According to the power that works in us. This means that not only is God not far off from us, but he is within us and working to make us holy. When we are baptized, when we confess Jesus as our Savior, it is then that God starts a work within us to make us more and more into His image. He doesn't wait until we are in heaven to purify us, but he does so now and continues as we cooperate with him. The things Paul prayed for in the previous verses, spiritual strength, the indwelling of Jesus, experiential knowledge of God's love, and the fullness of God. All of it belongs to us as children of God in the present. However, they must be received by believing prayer And can be furthered in the lives of others by our prayers for them. And finally, to him be glory in the church by Jesus Christ. This is the only fitting response to this great God. And we emphasize that it is to be done in the church. It is to be done in every age of the church. This is where we are to see ourselves as connected to the church historic for what has been done in the past by the church, giving glory to God. It's also to be done in the present and the future. I once again emphasize how important tradition can be, for they connect us with the church of the past age and allow us to be a link for the church in the future. What Paul's doxology shows is how the love of God, understood and applied to the Christian life, results in expressions of beauty. Beauty in our individual lives and in our corporate life. Beloved churches sing better when they corporately receive the love of God The countenance of an individual, Christian, brightens and endures when the love of God is fully received. All of us need more beauty in our lives, and to experience it, to experience beauty inwardly and outwardly, is to experience and believe in the love of God. Through Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and merciful God, the depth and the power of St. Paul's words we recognize to be truly inspired by knowing the love of Christ, the compassion of Christ. His desire for us to be healed and whole and full. For this heart, we thank you. May our hearts be full and may our Beauty increase as we dwell upon the love you have for us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.