In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. He be seated. We'll be looking at both the Romans section, Romans chapter 13, and I'm sure many of you are curious about this in light of all that we've had to do in regards to our government. And then we will be looking at Matthew chapter eight. In order to begin to understand Romans chapter 13, We must see it in light of what we learned from the chapter that immediately precedes it, and in specific the end of chapter twelve. We sometimes get mesmerized by the chapter numbers and forget that these are texts that succeed one another in a continuous narrative. There at the end of chapter twelve, we are taught that Christians are not to avenge themselves They are never to avenge themselves, but leave room for God's wrath. He will repay. Vengeance is his. Other factors needed for understanding Romans 13 is the history of Israel For most of her history, Israel was subject to powers, governments, and empires far greater than herself. In the era immediately before the New Testament, Israel's greatest feat as a people was accomplished under the Maccabees, who led a resistance movement, what we moderns would call a guerrilla struggle. Against their Greek oppressors. But how does that square with Romans thirteen? At the time of the writing of the New Testament, the Jews were subject to the Roman government They were not free to practice their faith, but depended solely on the Roman Imperial Empire to give them that permission. And then on such would be the case for the Christian Church, as it would have to make its way in the world quietly, being careful not to offend unnecessary powers that be By the end of the first century and thereafter, the number of Christians executed by the state for no other reason but that they were followers of Jesus Christ grew grotesquely. It is with these truths in our minds that we can now look at the passages in question, chapter 13, beginning at verse 1. What is fundamentally taught in this passage is that the rights of an individual are a second priority for the Christian. What is to be regarded more than personal rights are duties of Christians. And what is also fundamental is that those duties are founded on theological realities. The reason Christians must obey the state is because it has been instituted by God. Thus, its authority derives from the Christian's own Heavenly Father. Verse 2. Because all governing authority comes from God, to resist it is to resist what God has put in place And whatever punishment we receive is simply getting what we deserve. Verse 3. To avoid punishment is to avoid fear of governing authorities. And to avoid fear, you must do good. Such is not complicated. Verse 4. The term sword is a metaphor for any punishment handed down by a governing authority. Some people believe it is a justification for capital punishment. But the main point is that God uses governing authorities to exercise his wrath. Verse five The conscience is usually overlooked, and yet it is remarkably necessary to consider for much of our physical and social health is related to our conscience. If we are doing what we should not be doing, we are jeopardizing our well-being. Verse 6. It should be no surprise that taxes should enter the discussion regarding obedience to the state, because from the very beginning taxes have been a chief means By which states impose their power upon their citizens while also being the chief complaint of those citizens against the government. The Revolutionary War, after all, was ostensibly about taxes. But the same argument wages today. As someone once said, if our forefathers thought taxation without representation was bad, they ought to see what it is like with representation. Verse 7. There may be even here an echo of the Lord's remark, rendering Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. We know that Paul was thoroughly familiar with the substance of the gospel accounts and the words of Jesus. He would have had those words echoing in his mind. Now, the great irony of this whole section of Scripture is that St. Paul would soon find himself in jail by the Romans for doing the very thing he says not to do. For Paul did disobey his governing authorities by preaching the gospel. This then must take us to Acts chapter 5. Where the Jewish high priests and the elders of the Sadducees placed Peter and the other apostles in what is called the common prison. But the Holy Spirit broke them out, and they went straight to the temple to teach the crowd about Jesus. When they were discovered to be out of the jail, they were once again captured and told not to teach about Jesus, which brought this reply, we ought to obey God rather than men. And that is the crux of the matter, is it not? The context of Paul's instruction allows us to summarize his teaching about Christians obeying governing authorities in the following manner. Christians are to lay low when it comes to matters of the state that would interfere with them preaching, teaching, and obeying the gospel. This doesn't mean that Christians can't be involved in state affairs. Not at all. Again, the context is not pursuing vengeance, but instead returning evil with good. And then trusting God will enact vengeance, which he does many times through governing authorities. And because God controls governing authorities, we should obey them, which allows us to keep a good witness before them. All of that makes sense until Until a governing authority forbids what God commands. If you wonder how this can be lived out, I have an example for us. In a letter written by a man named Wang Yi, a Christian pastor and now a prisoner in China, sentenced to nine years for preaching the gospel. He asked that this letter be read if he could not be found, for it would mean that the state had arrested him. The translation is a bit broken and it's a little bit lengthy, but it's really good. He says, according to the teachings of the Bible and the mission of the gospel, I respect the founding powers of God in China. Because the King of Waste and the King of Kings are all in God. To this end I obey God's arrangement of Chinese history and institutions. As a pastor of the Christian Church, I started from the Bible and had my own understanding and views on social, political, and legal fields, what is justice and the governance of goodness. At the same time, I am full of disgust and hatred for the Chinese government's persecution of the church, the deprivation of human faith, and the freedom of conscience. However, the change of all social and political systems is not the mission of my calling, nor the purpose of the gospel being given to the people of God. Because all the ugliness of reality, the political injustice, the arbitrariness of the law show that the cross of Jesus Christ is the only salvation that every Chinese must have. It also shows that true hope and perfect human society does not exist in any institutional and cultural changes of the earth. But simply how humans' sins are forgiven by Christ and have the hope of eternal life As a pastor, my faith in the gospel and the teaching of the people and the blame for all sin are out of Christ's command in the gospel Out of the unmeasurable love of the glory king. Everyone's life is so short, and God is so eager to command the church to lead and call anyone who is willing to repent, to repent. Christ is so urgent and willing to forgive all who turn from sin. This is the purpose of all the work of the Church in China. It is to witness Christ to the world, to witness the kingdom of heaven to China, and to witness the eternal life of heaven to the short life of the earth. This is also my pastoral call To this end, I accept and respect the Chinese regime as a temporary ruler allowed by God, as the Lord's servant John Calvin said, The ruler of evil is God's punishment for the wicked people, and the purpose is to urge the people of God to repent To this end, I am willing to obey their law, enforcement, behavior physically, as if obeying the Lord's discipline and training I also believe that the persecution of the church by the Chinese communist regime is extremely evil in crime. As a pastor of the Christian church, I must sternly and openly blame such sins. The calling also requires me to violate all human laws. that violate the Bible and God in a non-violent form in peace and patience. Christ my Savior also asks me to joyfully bear all the costs of the transgressing evil laws. But this does not mean that my personal and church disobedience is a political act, in any sense of activism or civil disobedience. Because I have no intention of changing any of the Chinese systems and laws, as a pastor, the only thing I care about is the disobedience of faith, the shock of sinful humanity, and the testimony of the cross of Christ. As a pastor, my disobedience is part of the gospel mission. The great mission of Christ requires our great resistance to the world. The purpose of existing is not to change the world, but to witness another world. Well said. Clearly, what Pastor Yi accepts is the sovereignty of God. What Pastor Yi has faith in is that God is sovereign. And he's going to accomplish his perfect will. And that means suffering under an unjust political system, trusting that all of it contains God's love And this is where we can transition now to our gospel reading. What is remarkable about the two characters highlighted in the two stories of healing in Matthew chapter 8? Is the faith that both of them have. The leper has faith that it only takes the will of Jesus to determine whether he can be healed. Which is an acceptance of the power of Jesus to heal when and how and where he wants to When Jesus proclaims his will, he then touches the unclean man. And as Matthew describes, the leper is immediately healed, on the spot. That the leper was to tell no one is similar to our discussion last week, and that it was not yet Jesus' hour. We recognize that when too many people would witness the power of Jesus, they would want him to publicly claim his messiahship, and Jesus still had much to teach and much to do. We know that the centurion described next had even more faith than the leper, for Jesus said the same as it was greater than any Israelite that was following him, even greater than the apostles. A centurion was an officer in the Roman army, and as their title gives away, he was a commander over a hundred men. The centuria is Latin for 100. Various paths led to becoming a centurion. Some were appointed by the Senate or the Emperor, or elected by their fellow soldiers. But most were enlisted men promoted through the ranks after 15 to 20 years of service. As company commanders, they held important responsibilities, including training giving out assignments and maintaining discipline in the ranks. When the army encamped, centurions supervised the building of fortifications, a crucial duty in enemy territory. They also escorted prisoners and procured food and supplies when the army was on the move. As his words displayed, this centurion talking to Jesus knew what it meant to be under authority and to be the one in authority. And if he can, if he can get, this is his thinking, if he can get what he wanted when he wanted it, so too could Jesus and much more. He understood that Jesus didn't have to touch the leper to heal the leper. He didn't need to touch the tongue to give a man speech, or to touch ears to give a man hearing. Jesus did those things to demonstrate to his followers what he was healing. But in truth, he simply needed to will it to be so, and it was so. And as I said previously, this is a belief in the sovereignty of God, and specifically the sovereignty of Jesus, who was and is the God-man. This is why believing that Jesus is fully God and fully man is so important. For if it were not so, then Jesus would be a simple magician. And it would be his father doing the healing. But the centurion understands that it is the sovereignty of Jesus that is doing the healing. Thus, you and I are to have faith in the sovereignty of Jesus. That word sovereignty comes from the Latin having various pronunciations but with a consistent meaning. It is to be the superior ruler. It communicates that there is no one who can be above said ruler. The power of the knowledge of the sovereignty of Jesus is one of the more comforting doctrines that we can embrace. Consider what it means for each Christian. First, nothing can happen to you that is not the will of God. Nothing And that is comforting because God loves you and He wants to do good for you. But not all things are good right now, you say. All right. Well, remember the quotable verse from Romans chapter 8. All things work together for the good, for those who love God and are called according to his purpose. Thus, a wise person said, if things are not good, then God is not done. When in Tacoma, Washington, two weeks ago. Bobby Lynn and I were driving alongside the inlet waters of the Puget Sound when I received an emergency alert on my phone. That there were conditions for a tsunami to hit the Puget Sound and for everyone to stay away from the shorelines. Well, we were driving along the shoreline. I thought it ridiculous to imagine a tsunami hitting the Puget Sound, but later there I found that was recorded an eruption of a volcano in the Pacific Ocean near Tonga. And though I thought it ridiculous to be hit by a tsunami, still my mind played out what it would be like to get hit by a tsunami on a shoreline in Tacoma, Washington. And my following thought was: well, if that is how God wants me to depart this world, then that is what's going to happen. And that thought was comforting to me. After all, what does Psalm 139 mean to Each of us, when the psalmist says, Of all of us, your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. And these words by Job speaking of all human beings, quote, Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with you, speaking to God. And you have appointed his limits that he cannot pass. And these words recorded by Jesus, you remember in Matthew chapter 6. And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? And from Job again. In his God's hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. Are such passages humbling? Yes. But they are also comforting, for they tell us that we do not control our lifespan. They tell us we don't have to be anxious about tsunamis. They tell us we don't have to be anxious about blank. Put your concern here. And please step away from all the questions that naturally come up when we talk about God's sovereignty Yes, you should still pray because God wants a relationship with us. Yes, you still make decisions, but never outside of God's will. And no one knows exactly how that works. Yes, there is a permissive will of God and a sovereign will of God, and it is a sovereign will that cannot be thwarted. The point still is that God is sovereign. Jesus, our Savior, is the superior ruler over all nations. All governments, entities, all big tech, all political parties, all laws and regulations, all religious institutions. He's sovereign over them all. I recently listened to a podcast that warned against using Google and other big tech listen as they are listening to our conversations and trying to influence how we think. Yeah, probably. But Jesus is still sovereign. Beloved, humanity today, especially in the West Thinks that we are quite important, thinks that we are influential, so much so that we could even change the weather. But we are not. We are none of those things. For nothing we do is outside God's will. And so we trust him. We trust him no matter what he said, what it some excuse me. We trust him no matter what is said on the news or what threatens us. We trust him. We trust in Jesus. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious God, we are reminded of the man who stood before Jesus and said, I believe, but help my unbelief. No doubt there are people here who are struggling with the idea, Lord, that nothing can happen outside your will, even their very lifespan. Father, give them faith and trust in you, that indeed they can put their full trust in you that no matter what happens, it will be for our good because you love us. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.