We don't want to know the highest full warriors. Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Happy New Year. For those who are fairly new, To liturgical services, you should know that the first Sunday of Advent is considered the first day of the church calendar. The purpose of the church calendar is to tell the story of God's salvation through Jesus Christ by marking certain dates in a calendar year that tell us Of what God has done to redeem his people. The four Sundays before the birth of Christ are days to look forward to the first coming of God in the person of Jesus. culminating in the celebration of Jesus being born in Bethlehem and thus the incarnation of God fully realized. What is curious to me are the chosen lessons given to us in the Book of Common Prayer for this first Sunday of Advent. Why did the church leaders choose Romans chapter 13, 8 through 14, and Matthew chapter 21, verses 1 through 13? Why did they choose it for the first Sunday of the church new year? There is no clear answer other than that most of the selected teachings were handed down by Saint Jerome, who lived in the fourth century. So when we read and examine these Bible readings, we are doing so with 1700 years of Christians doing the same. So let us look at the sins St. Paul lists in Romans chapter 13. He begins with adultery. Adultery is defined as sex outside of marriage. Any sexual intimacy with another person outside of marriage, outside of a marriage covenant, is considered adultery. And what results do we see from adultery? Guilt and shame on both sides, as one side is in the wrong, and the other figures that she must have done something wrong. Adultery also results in loss of trust and loss of intimacy. Loss of trust and intimacy result in divorce. Divorce results in loneliness. Loneliness leads to illness, both mental and physical. They still say that in the West, 50% of marriages end in divorce. With up to 40% of those being ended because of infidelity. Next is to kill To kill is to murder, which is the taking of an innocent life. To be a murderer, a person must take on a godlike complex That sees himself as the authority over another person's life. Such is deranged egoism at best. Then there is the thief. To live the life of a thief, a person must distrust everyone because he cannot trust himself, because he is aware that he is a thief. Such a person cannot believe in his own private property because he doesn't believe in the right of private property of others. Then there is the liar. To be a bearer of falsehood, a person must get used to building untruths upon untruths, for a lie is easily revealed by simply one truth. A life lived by lies causes false realities that cause a person to remove himself from the real world, becoming detached from honest and needed fellowship with other human beings. And then there is coveting. To covet is to not be satisfied with just one thing, but soon all things. To allow coveting within the heart means that it takes root and grows, and soon nothing is enough. Nothing satisfies. Everyone has a better spouse, a better home, a better job, better kids, better opportunities, even better hopes and dreams. There is no happiness experienced in a covetous life. What leads you and I to such things as Paul described is first to live like you are sleeping. It is to treat your life experiences, life experiences as though they are but a dream and will soon be forgotten. It is to lazily live, which is to not be aware of how we are mentally and then morally influenced by the world around us. It is to adopt the ethics of the world with no awareness that you have done so. What leads us to such sins is to treat life as one brief opportunity to enjoy the pleasures of the flesh as much as possible. Get it while you can, they say. Love the one you're with, they sing. Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die, they yell. And you can do it without much thought It is the easiest thing to do, to give in to what you desire to do in the moment. It takes work, however, to cast off the sins that we so easily fall into. It takes effort to put on the armor of light, which is the very presence of Jesus in your life. That must be done. To fight off the temptations of the devil so readily and willingly he places before us. To put on the armor of light requires the removing of what was dark within and around us. And that armor must be put on daily, for the battle against the sins of the flesh are daily, and in some ways just a click away. But let us now stop and back up and re-examine those sins listed. What do we think the reasons are for God to command us not to practice such things? Is God to be considered the ultimate killjoy? The ultimate party pooper? The greatest wet blanket known to man Because he does not want us to enjoy the pleasures of this life. If we think in such a way, if we think at all in such a way, we are greatly, greatly mistaken. God, beloved, is not affected in any meaningful way by the sins we commit. And that's a profound statement that I've never heard anybody else say. Our sinning does not change God's will. It does not change His plan of salvation. It does not change His sovereignty over all of creation. Our sins do not change God's glory. He is never tainted by our sin. Any sin that mankind practises changes nothing about God, except Except for resulting in a heavy heart as he watches us destroy our own lives and destroy the lives of others. That point is why I started by listing the sins that St. Paul lists and then describing the negative outcome of practicing such sins. Think of it this way. God knows the human condition. He knows how depraved we can become. He knows the earth and the laws that govern it. And because he knows these things, he places warning fences around parts of our lives where the danger is. Consider an example regarding the commandment not to steal. A people who do not respect the private property of one another will result in social chaos. It's inevitable. And another example, a people who do not guard against covetousness will be a society that is unhappy and bitter, and the result will be stealing and murder. Again, God knows our fallen human condition and what we need. He knows what we need to protect ourselves from ourselves and from one another. And there is good news that shows God is not a killjoy, for he says that you can run around within the parameters of the fences he has put up. Enjoy yourself within the parameters. But alas, most men and women want to be their own God. And that means to have no boundaries placed around us. Soon Augustine stated in his grand work, The City of God, that men reject Christ because they want to pursue pleasures of the flesh without having their consciences challenged. Beloved, he stated that in the early fifth century. And you and I know that the rejection of Jesus as Savior and God today It's for the same reason that St. Augustine described all those years before. Now we turn to our gospel reading, Matthew chapter 21. And in that gospel reading, we have a narrative given of events that transpired, which is different than the teachings by Jesus. But the events do teach us a number of important things. And so we walk through chapter 21. In verse 1, we read of Bethpage, which was a Jerusalem suburb, a site which today is not exactly known. But at most, it must have been no more than two miles away from the city of Jerusalem, traveling from east to west. Because Jesus had walked all the way from Galilee, he obviously did not need a ride for the last two miles. In fact, this is the only occasion in the Gospels where Jesus is recorded to travel in another way besides by foot. From what takes place in verse 3, we can assume Jesus knew the owners of the animal, for as in the Gospel of Luke, we learned that the disciples were in fact stopped by the owners of the animals. And the disciples said what Jesus told them to say, and the owners were satisfied. The citations in verse five are from Isaiah sixty two, verse eleven, and Zechariah chapter nine, verse nine. Matthew tells us that Jesus rode into Jerusalem on a donkey precisely to fulfill these prophecies of Israel's coming king. The important point of the prophecy here is that the king is gentle as he comes riding on a donkey. It is a picture far removed from what the politically motivated wanted of Jesus. We note That he does not ride a war horse like Julius Caesar did when he conquered Rome, but instead rides on the foal of a donkey, which represents humility. In antiquity, a king would not normally enter his capital on a donkey, but on a steed, or perhaps marching at the head of a column of troops. Jesus had a very different view of what the Messianic king would be and do, different certainly than his contemporaries. Who were, we remember, waiting for a powerful man to lead them in victory against these Roman oppressors and throw them out of the country. Physically, the text gives a picture of Jesus surrounded by people as he rode down the road that led from the summit of the Mount of Olives to the bottom of the Kidron Valley and then up again to the city gate. Some of these people had been walking with him before he began to ride the donkey's cold, and some of the people had heard of this arrival and came out of the city to greet him. There was great noise and happy excitement as they greeted the miracle worker. And by their reaction, we can know that they began to believe that he would proclaim himself king and deliver them from the Roman army. Hosanna to the Son of David means hail to the Messiah and indicates that the people were ready to proclaim Jesus the one whom the prophets had told them to expect. For them, the day of Israel had been waiting for for centuries, had at last arrived. The next citation is from Psalm 118, verse 26, and that is followed by another acclamation. Verse 10 describes a city stirred up by the commotion caused by the entrance of Jesus. The people were asking one another, what is this all about? Remember that there would have been thousands of Passover pilgrims jamming the streets of the capital, many of whom had come from quite a distance, even from foreign lands. They would have not known as much about Jesus, and Jesus was much less familiar a figure in Jerusalem as he was in Galilee. Though by this time, it is doubtful anyone had not heard of this miracle worker from Galilee because he had just raised Lazarus from the dead a few days earlier. Answering the question of who Jesus was by stating a prophet from Nazareth may sound anticlimactic, coming after a crowd was shouting Hosanna to the son of David But we remember that Moses had foretold of the coming of a great prophet in Deuteronomy 18. And the arrival of that prophet was a significant part of the expectation of many Jews Who were looking for a fulfillment of these Old Testament promises of the Messianic Age We can view the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem in at least two ways. For it was at least two things at once. It was first a public declaration of his messiahship, which was a grand gesture that challenged the Jewish religious leadership. We know before this that he had repeatedly attempted to keep claims that he was the Messiah quiet, so as not to provoke a confrontation with the priests and the elders before it was time Time meaning when he would be crucified. But the narrative Matthew gives, Jesus is openly receiving the adulation of the crowds, letting them proclaim him as the Son of David at the top of their lungs. He came into Jerusalem as a king and was in fact daring the religious authorities to do something about it. His hour had come. There was no longer any need to quiet the witness of his lordship. But at the same time, the manner that Jesus entered the great city revealed that he was not the Messiah that the people were expecting. Meaning that he had not come to do for them what they thought the Messiah would and should do. That he had come to give his life as a ransom for their sins. Not to lead them in victory over the Romans in the field of battle. He entered Jerusalem as a king, to be sure, but as a meek and lowly king. Riding on a donkey, not a war horse, at the head of a little company of disciples, ordinary men, all of them, to commit to a battle of a different kind. That battle is a spiritual battle, and it is being waged for you and within you and within the church as a whole. It can be simple to take a passage like Romans 13 and all the sins that are mentioned and make the point that Christians need to stop sinning in order to be ready for Jesus to come. But that creates a false picture of God. It is important that we no longer view God as a taskmaster that has a clipboard marking down each time you break a commandment. He doesn't need a clipboard and he is not keeping score. He has fought and is fighting to change his church. And each person in his church from the inside out, so that his commandments, which are his righteous character, Are willfully followed as naturally as we love our spouse and love our children. That the people wanted an earthly king without Show that they did not know what was going on within, within each of them, and within them as a people. They needed a king to change the very nature of who they were. And that is what Jesus came to do. This is why Jesus used language like new birth and new life. Provides us images of what needs to happen within For while the body ages, the spirit is made new when it surrenders itself to Jesus as Lord and Savior. For such newness allows our spirit to quickly cast off, to quickly cast off works of darkness. Cast it off with disdain of such works. And we are not just renewed once. We are not given new life as a one-time thing. New life is always available when sin is acknowledged and turned away from, along with a confessed faith in Jesus, a confessed faith in his blood sufficiently washing away our sins. That Jesus does battle within to make things new is where he is dangerous. For he disrupts what we are used to about ourselves and about the world around us. What we are presently is what we are most comfortable with And when he makes us new, people may not recognize us, and some may not like the change. The change may reveal the works of darkness they are wearing, and they might not be ready for such to be revealed to them. Again, this is where Jesus is dangerous. I remind you of what St. Augustine said. Men reject Christ because they want to pursue pleasures of the flesh without having their consciences challenged. Jesus challenges the conscience, which is from within, so that we can cast out darkness that is without. And he does so not because he needs it, but because we need it. Our lives, our families, our communities, our country, our world needs the works of darkness cast away And for the light of Christ to be put on. And so we begin this new year, contemplating within the commandments of God that He has given for our good. And appreciating the battle, he continues to fight within us for our good. Accept it, beloved. We are in a battle for our souls and the souls of humanity. And it begins within. Let us pray. Our gracious God We thank you for your commandments, as they reveal your character, as they reveal a standard that is best for us, and we thank you for the victory of Christ. That we can hail him our King, and we pray for your will to be done that He is King within and without, so that your commandments are loved by us as we walk in them. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.