You don't put a lot of nobles on other people. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Please turn to the Gospel according to St. John chapter 5. That was a long, longer gospel reading this morning, but I I couldn't break that section up. So very important all the words that Jesus spoke. I begin by asking a rather obvious question, perhaps not so obvious to everyone. Why are you a Christian? Why are you a Christian? I ask that assuming that you are a Christian. And I assume that you are a Christian because you are here worshiping Christ. If you are not a Christian simply visiting this parish, I ask, why are you interested in Christianity? What is it about the faith If we were to do a comparative religious study, what would we find? Are all religions the same, as most say today? Is Christianity like all the other religions and thus deserving of the same critiques of all other religions? What about Christianity compared to Islam? The Islamic religion has been getting most of the headlines of late. Most of the headlines are not favorable, but then we are told that that's the bad part, not the real Islam. We are told that Islam is a religion of peace. We are told that Islam simply believes that Allah is God and that Muhammad is his only prophet. But to honor the God of Islam, it is necessary for believers to do good works. The good works include offering prayers at specific times in a day making a pilgrimage to Mecca, fasting on specific days, and giving money annually to the poor. Those who want to seek additional blessings are to pursue a jihad or holy war against those who do not believe what the Islam faith believes. Hinduism is the third largest religion in the world and includes the pursuit of higher ethics, the value of hard work, the control of one's emotions. and being free from worldly concerns. Interestingly, it also includes persecuting those who don't believe as Hindus believe. Then there is Buddhism, which isn't really a religion, but a philosophy toward life. It looks to be in harmony with creation. with our fellow man and harmony with the universe. And then there is Judaism which is looking for a messiah while trying to obey all of the laws that God has revealed to Moses. And then there are those pretender religions, and you'll notice that most of them are pretenders for Christianity. These are corruptions of the major religions, things such as Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism. Which both acknowledge the person of Jesus of Nazareth, but deny he is one with God. And so ask again, comparing these major religions, why are you Christian? Now maybe you can only answer that in terms that that is all that you've known. You never really had a choice. It's just what you've been brought up to understand to be true. Maybe you would say that you are Christian because you were born and raised a Christian, and that's nothing more to do than that. Maybe you have never even given another religion a try But in saying that, I realize I'm making it sound as if having faith is similar to ordering a meal in a restaurant. We might say to the universe waitress, I'll have a God with no judgment on it. I would like to work to earn my salvation, and I would like a drink upon demand grace to wash it all down. Well no religion allows us to order in such a way, except for the universalists next door, they might have something like that to offer. When we are confronted with the words of Jesus, these words that he speaks in John chapter 5, we are required to admit That there is no possibility to mix the Christian faith with other faiths. We are forced to accept that either Jesus is exactly who he says he is. Or he is to be completely and utterly rejected. And the Christian faith then should be judged as faulty and false to its very core. Now before this third discourse of Jesus recorded by John begins, John sets us up with a statement that has no equivocation. There's no ambiguity here. The Jews, he tells us, sought to kill Jesus because Jesus claimed to be equal with God. Which is a claim that he is God. That is how John understood Jesus. It is why the Jews wanted Jesus dead. It is what defines Christianity. Jesus claimed to be God. And that claim sets up every person who has heard of Jesus to make a decision. Did you know that the belief that Jesus was a prophet sent by God is a required belief of the Muslim faith? Islam teaches that Jesus was born of a virgin, that he performed miraculous feats. But that he did not die, as the Christians believe, but was actually taken by God into heaven. And we might conclude from all of this that Muslims and Christians are very close to agreement. But in truth, they are very far apart. For Jesus was much more than a prophet, and he was certainly no Muslim, as the Muslims claim he was. The very large divide between Christianity and Islam, and Christianity and Judaism, and Christianity and Hinduism, and all the other knockoff religions that claim some connection to Christianity. Is the one fact that Jesus claimed to be God. But to bolster the truth that Jesus is God Jesus next explains the close and very unique relationship that he has with God the Father. And the point of this explanation is for those who would hear to know that Jesus should be honored. Hear this now. He should be honored in the same manner that men should be honest. Honor the Father. That's quite a statement to make. To come to this conclusion, Jesus presents to them four steps. Which are each introduced by the word for, or because. First, he says, whatever the Father does, Jesus the Son does the same. Second, the bond of love is perfect in confidence between the Father and the Son, as the Father loves the Son in the same manner the Son loves the Father. That God would show greater works through the Son is for unbelievers to understand and marvel this to be true: that the Father loves the Son as the Son loves the Father. Third, the unity between the Father and the Son is made evident by the greatest of issues, which is life and death. For the Father raises the dead. He will not leave Jesus in the grave. He will raise up all who trust in his son. Fourth, the right judgment is given to the son by the father. The father commits all judgment to the son. Here you go, son. You do it. Of course, this right of judgment by the sun is good news and bad news. It is good for those who believe in the light and the light that he brings. It is bad for those who reject him. And all of this brings the hearer, you and I, to the necessary conclusion that he who does not honor the Son is not honoring the Father as God. To honor the Son is the same as honoring the Father as God. Now all of these truths are followed By a warm and personal appeal by Jesus for the people to believe Jesus repeatedly gave such appeals as he continues to do today, speaking to the hearts of man. The hearts to say, believe and live. Truly, truly, he who hears his word and believes that the Father sent him receives the promise of eternal life. The three verbs used in the imitation have a have a present tense about them, so that hearing, believing, and possessing are all present in the moment realities. For the believer, once he or she believes, eternal life starts now. And this statement in the New King James, most assuredly, or very, verily, verily, as the King James states, or truly, truly, as other versions use, make this majestic claim. Those who are spiritually dead can now hear, and those who respond in faith will live, which makes it a majestic claim indeed. The ability to give life to mankind is because of the unity of the Son and the Father. For the Father is the source of life, and he gives that life to his son, who then gives it to you and I who believe. The ideas of life and judgment under a new order are carried even further as Jesus proclaims life giving power over those who dwell among the dead. And Jesus brings in both the reality of his mercy, and that every person is responsible for his or her deeds done on earth, done in the flesh. We will all give an answer. And this is just as David said, he cannot even go down to the grave and escape, for God is there. And to assure his hearers that he is doing everything according to the law of God and the will of God, Jesus reminds us then of the testimony of John the Baptist. And the people received the testimony of John the Baptist. But Jesus goes farther as he always does. He does not claim his relationship to the Father that it was certified by John the Baptist. He goes farther. He points the hearers to the works the Heavenly Father was doing through Jesus, through him. Those works were the were the outward manifestation of Jesus' activities both in the supernatural and the natural. To reject those works, which will soon include the cross, was to reject the witness of the Father within the Son. The final witness of Jesus being the Son of God and thus equal with God and thus God are the scriptures. Jesus tells them that when they search the scriptures, when they search the word of God given to Moses, they will find ascribed therein Jesus. The holy scriptures testify of Jesus. He is the seed that will crush the serpent's head. He is the life of Seth. He is the prophecies given to Abraham. He is the angel that wrestled with Jacob. He is in the ministry events of Joseph. He is in all the promises given to Israel fulfill. What I want us to come face to face with After examining this third discourse, as Jesus elaborates fully here about himself, is what the main point is being made. Remember that the Jews were ready to kill Jesus because he was supposedly guilty of blasphemy because his blasphemy was proclaiming to be God. Instead of backing away from such a claim or explaining it in less provocative of manners, Jesus doubles down. He tells his hearers, those who already wanted to kill him, that he and the heavenly father are inseparable. You can't have one without the other. And because he and the Heavenly Father are inseparable, that any honor that they wanted to give to the Heavenly Father was to be given to Jesus the Son as well. Wow, what a claim. What a test. And Jesus has the testimony to these facts. The testimonies were John the Baptist, the Father. And the Holy Scriptures. And so this discourse, if I may, this discourse is a drop the mic sort of moment. When the hearer has to come to a conclusion, and according to Jesus, that conclusion has eternal consequences. Well, this discourse reminded me of the trilemma many of us have heard about. The Trilemma was made most famous by author C. S. Lewis, which he popularized in his BBC radio broadcast during the Second World War, and popularized it in his writings. It is sometimes this trilemma is sometimes called the lunatic, liar, or lord, or mad, bad, or god argument. It takes the form of a trilemma, a choice between three options, each of which is an option regarding who Jesus was and who Jesus, of course, is The argument, interestingly to me, was not new to Lewis, for it can be found in the writings of St. Augustine and some other fairly well-known preachers in their day The argument was widely cited in various forms in the 19th century. It was used by an American preacher, Mark Hopkins, in his book, Lectures of the Evidence of Christianity. It was also used by a Scots preacher, Rabbi John Duncan, in 1859, and he said this. Christ was either deceived, either deceived mankind by conscious fraud, or he was himself deluded and self-deceived, or he was divine. There is no getting around out of this trilemma. Other preachers have used something similar as well, and even G. K. Chesterton used something similar in his book, The Everlasting Man. By following this argument, I read directly from Lewis himself, from his book Mere Christianity. He said, I'm trying here to prevent anyone saying the really foolish thing that people often say about him, meaning Jesus. I'm ready to accept Jesus as a great moral teacher, but I don't accept his claim to be God. That is the one thing we must not say. A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said would not be a great moral teacher He would either be a lunatic on the level with the man who says he is a poached egg, or else he would be the devil of hell himself. You must make your choice. Either this man was and is the son of God, or else a madman, or something worse. You can shut him up for a fool, you can spit at him and kill him as a demon, or you can fall at his feet and call him Lord and God. But let us not come with any patronizing nonsense about him being a great human teacher. He has not left that open to us. He did not intend to Now it seems to me obvious that he was neither a lunatic nor a fiend, and consequently, however strange or terrifying or unlikely it may seem I have to accept the view that he was and is God. End quote That Lewis was responding to those who presented Jesus as a moral teacher only is a necessary point to underline while examining this argument. Surprising to me, there are some Christians who don't like this trilemma argument. According to Bart Ehrman, he said there could be a fourth option. Legend And Lewis, of course, denied accounts of Jesus being a legend akin to mythology, stating, I have read a great deal of legend and am quite clear that they are not the same sort of thing. N. T. Ride, a leading New Testament scholar, has commented that Lewis's argument, based on a simplistic understanding of the incarnation in Judaism. doesn't work as history and it backfires dangerously when historic critics question his reading of the gospels Another criticism raised is that Lewis is creating a false trilemma by insisting that only three options are possible. Philosopher John Beverasulis comments, quote, he deprives his readers of numerous alternate interpretations of Jesus that carry with them such odious implications. For example, it is logically possible for Jesus' claims, if any, as to his divinity, to have been merely good faith mistakes. Resulting from his sincere efforts at reasoning, as well as for Jesus to have been deluded with respect to specific issues of divinity. This is also agreed upon by William Lane Craig, an apologist. And yet I find it interesting that a well-known atheist The late atheist Christopher Hitchens sees some positivity to the trilemma argument He argues that Lewis's contention is right, but offers a different interpretation. Hitches writes, I am bound to say that Lewis is more honest here, absent a direct line to the Almighty, and a conviction that the last days are upon us. How is it moral to claim a monopoly on access to heaven, or to threaten waverers with everlasting fire, yet alone to condemn a fig tree, persuade devils to infest bodies of pigs? Such a person is not divine. He would be a sorcerer and a fanatic. And so now we can count six options. Jesus was either a lunatic, a liar, a lord, a legend, a sorcerer, or a fanatic. But note, none of these objections, none of them, none of these objections address what Jesus said about himself. Rejecting or accepting what Jesus said makes all of the difference. If what he said is true, if what he said is true, you cannot respond with half of your heart. You cannot respond with half of your will. You cannot respond with half of your emotions. If it is not true Then just walk away, be done with it, if it is not true. Whatever a person decides, let it be understood that because of what Jesus said, it is either all in or all out. That is what the words of Jesus about himself force us to decide, all in or all out. I trust, you will say with me, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Amen and Amen. Let us pray