In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Our text is from the Gospel according to Saint John, chapter 12, beginning at verse 9. It is rare. It is rare when both a novel and a movie A movie made to represent the same novel have the same artistic impact Harper Lee, may God rest her soul, her novels Who Kill a Mockingbird and the movie titled with the same have equal artistic impact. And my favorite point in the book and in the movie is the final scene in chapter 21 of the book. As you are aware, it is tradition in a court of law for people of the court to stand as the judge enters or leaves the room. In order to show respect to that judge as the one and only arbiter of the law in the room. But people of the court never stand for attorneys as they enter or leave the room. Attorneys do not have the same legal authority as judges By the end of chapter 21, Judge Taylor has read the jury's tragic, unanimous, guilty verdict on poor, innocent Tom Robinson. And Atticus, the white lawyer defending a black man in the Deep South, proceeds to exit the courtroom by taking the South exit. The exit choice is noted by Scout, his daughter, as she looks upon him, taking what she calls the lonely walk down the aisle. Amidst the courtroom of spectators. Now, since Scout, Atticus's daughter, whose real name was Jean Lewis, kept her eyes glued on her lonely father She failed to notice that all of the people in the so-called colored balcony had risen to their feet. It wasn't until Reverend Skyx called it to her attention saying, Miss Jean Louise, Miss Jean Louise, stand up. Your father's passing. The scout was naturally very surprised by the behavior, since this was not the first time She had been in a courtroom during her father's career, and she was well aware that no tradition exists for standing for an attorney as he leaves the room The surprise tone in Scout's narrative so shows that she was well aware of the symbolic meaning of the Negroes getting to their feet, the importance of that moment. Not only does the action of the Negroes rising show their respect for Atticus, it shows that they saw Atticus as the true symbolic arbiter of the law, not Judge Taylor. And through his cross-examination, Atticus had proven to the court, including proving to Judge Taylor, Tom's innocence. Judge Taylor had the legal authority to dismiss the case when the physical evidence showed that Tom Robinson could not have committed the crime he was accused of. But the judge chose to go the way of what was expected of him. And so the people who knew the truth stood when Scout's father was passing. If judges are considered the symbolic arbiters in court in courtrooms in these United States I think it is fair to say that Jesus of Nazareth should be understood to be the only true symbolic arbiter of the law in all of creation and beyond. Thus it was most certainly appropriate for the multitude that was coming to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover, as recorded in John's Gospel, chapter 12. To put down palm tree branches, and to cry out as Jesus passed by Hosanna. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, King of Israel. Certainly, if the King of Israel is passive, it is most appropriate to stand up. If the Savior of Israel is Pasan, it is most appropriate to sing his praises. And if it is the King of Kings of the Lord of Lords, the great I am, Pasin, then it is most appropriate to stand, to cheer, to sing his praises. A passing Jesus is a present Jesus. And it will be my task on this Palm Sunday to increase our faith about the passing presence of Jesus in our lives. And that will be a call for you to stand when Jesus is passing, when he is present. John tells us that when the events of this first Palm Sunday occurred, the disciples did not understand what it all meant. They didn't understand the palm branches being laid down. Probably seemed like a bit too much fuss being made. They didn't understand how quoting the words from Psalm 118 by the people applied to that moment and applied to Jesus in that moment. We didn't understand that Jesus riding into the city on a donkey was Jesus entering symbolically as a king, coming in peace. They didn't understand that all of this took place to fulfill what was prophesied about Jesus, to verify to them that Jesus was the fulfillment of all that was promised of the Messiah. Jesus was everything that the Father intended him to be at that moment and beyond. It was only after Jesus was glorified and these events were remembered that it was seen as God's plan fulfilled. Understanding and then believing in the presence of Jesus among us will cause us to stand, for to stand is to pay attention To stand is to be ready to listen, ready to relate, ready to obey, as a servant should. Jesus is passing, beloved. Jesus is present, first of all, when we gather together for corporate worship. In the book of Revelation, chapters 4 and 5, we hear first of the four creatures, and then the elders. And then the many creatures, numbering ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands of thousands, singing to the Lamb, who is Jesus, at the center of their gathering. That is why tradition encourages us to think of our worship as heavenly. We go somewhere else. For when we worship corporately, we are gathering around the throne room in heaven, where Jesus is. Where he sits, and we join the course that has already begun and continues We worship with the saints in the presence of Jesus. Crucifers lift up the cross. Ceilings are elevated in the church so that crosses on the wall are elevated. Our chancel is elevated, and we are called to come up to the feast because we are to understand our worship to be occurring in the presence of Jesus, who is seated in heaven. Because we are in the presence of Jesus at our worship, there is nothing selfish. Uncharitable, lustful, prideful, or hateful to be in our hearts Because Jesus is in our midst in a unique manner like no other time when we ascend to his throne for worship. He tells us that if we come to him offering a gift, and that gift could be songs of praise, words of prayer, our wills And we remember that a brother or sister in Christ has something against us, we are to leave our gift. And be reconciled to our brother or sister, and then come back to worship, and then come back to heaven Jesus will have no gods before him. And when we hold on to our pride, When we hold on to our uncharitableness, our selfishness, our pettiness, then such is acting as our own God in the moment. And it needs to be repented of and thrown out. It cannot come to the throne of heaven. When Jesus is passing, we are to stand. We are to stand. Next, Jesus is passion. Jesus is present when we agree together. When we agree together. Now you might have expected me to say that Jesus is passing, that Jesus is present in our midst when we pray together. But the verse Christians commonly use to refer to the presence of Jesus in their midst, that when two or more are gathered in my name, when they pray, we think it's when they pray. But it's not actually referring to prayer only. The promise of the presence of Jesus is in the context of describing how to save another Christian who is caught up in sin. You remember from Matthew 18, Jesus explains that if you see a person in sin, you are to go to them and tell them that they need to repent. And if they refuse, then you're supposed to bring a witness to help the person bring them to repentance. And then if that doesn't work, you're supposed to bring them to the church. And if the church presence doesn't help them, then you are to cast them out as an unbeliever, Jesus says. In that context, Jesus then instructs, again from Matthew 18, he said, Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound. in heaven. And whatever you loose on earth shall have been loosed in heaven. Again I say to you that if two of you agree on earth about anything that they may ask It shall be done for them by my Father who is in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, I am there in their midst. Did you hear the context? The context then is for Jesus to be in the midst of us, to be passing. When the authority of the church is being practiced, and when people of the church are in agreement. Oh yes, it can be prayer, that's true. But it can also be what the church declares, such as declaring that a man is outside until he repents. And the power is in the agreement. When two or more agree That something is to be done, that sin is to be forgiven, or that mercy is to be withheld. Jesus is in the midst of that agreement, and thus he assures it to be so. Well, there are too, too many Christians today that understand their personal relationship with Jesus to be what is ultimately important. There are teachings like this here from Jesus, from Matthew 18, showing that it is the authority of the church, not of an individual, to bind and to loose. When it's Jesus and me only, I have no authority to bind or to loose But when I am in the church, the body of Christ, the house of God, and we agree together, we combined and we can loose. We can bind the unrepentant and we can lose the humble and meek. It is in the church in agreement that Jesus is passing, that Jesus is present. And we should stand up. Next, where Jesus is passing, where Jesus is present Is amidst the least among us. Remember in Matthew 25, Jesus tells us the parable of the sheep and the goats. You recall that the sheep were on his right and the I called them sheep, the sheep were on his right, and the goats on his left. And he tells us that the sheep who cared about the hungry, the poor, the sick, and the imprisoned. They were the ones that Jesus was with. When they took care of such forgotten people, Jesus shared a secret. They, those needy, were actually Jesus. And the sheep were taking care of Jesus. Jesus was passing in the lives of those in need. This moved me to consider how we as a parish try to take care of the least among us. We contribute to food banks. We have Easter outreach We have Christmas outreach to the poor. We visit the sick among us. We bring food to those who are weakened by illness or childbirth or because of the loss of a loved one And we do it all in the name of Jesus, and all of it is good. But I read an article recently that challenged who we should understand to be the least among us. Consider this. In Matthew's same gospel, chapter 10, Jesus sends out his disciples to preach the gospel, and he instructs them to take no extra clothing. They are not to have a place to lay their head. They were to have no means to procure food. They were required to depend on Jesus. Who would then move people to support their cause. And their cause was the gospel. And such men who preached the gospel were thrown in jail after Jesus ascended into heaven. Thus, the least of these very well could be, the least of these that Jesus very well could have been referring to Was anyone who ministers the good news of Jesus Christ? It could very well be, and especially be, those who are missionaries for the sake of the gospel. Those could be the least among us. They are the ones we should be providing for and visiting, for they are Jesus. Passen. They are Jesus passing, they are Jesus present, and we should stand up for them. Finally, for this Palm Sunday, I want us to understand That Jesus is passing, that Jesus is in the midst, that Jesus is present in the bread and wine at Holy Communion. Jesus is passing. Jesus is present among us like no other time while we partake of Holy Communion. The presence of Jesus with us when we eat the bread and drink from the cup is uniquely special to that time only. Now, if there is anyone listening to me who has a Roman Catholic radar gun And thinks you just heard a ping go off from this pulpit, as if I just preached the Roman doctrine of transubstantiation Please know that you did not hear a ping go off, and I preached no such thing I am in full agreement with Article 28 in the 39 Articles of Religion that the doctrine of transubstantiation cannot be proved by Holy Scripture and does indeed lead to many superstitions. That being said, we must also not fall over to the overreacting side. that is more of a Gnostic side that says that there is nothing special or unique about the bread and wine once it has been consecrated for holy use Bishop Ray Sutton, Bishop of the Diocese of Mid-America for the Reformed Episcopal Church. Gave a lecture to a number of Anglican clergy last summer titled The Real Presence. In that lecture, Bishop Sutton challenged Christians, not just Anglicans or not just clergy in general, but all Christians. He challenged them to consider the words of Jesus. As recorded in John's Gospel, when he said, Unless you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you cannot be my disciple. He challenged that that statement, that bold statement by Jesus, necessarily refers to the partaking of Holy Communion, that rite that Jesus would institute some days later. Do this, Jesus commanded to his disciples. Do this And that that do this, that we are to do, is eat of his flesh and drink of his blood, in the form of bread and wine at Holy Communion. The logic is that because Jesus said the bread was his body, and that the wine was his blood, We are to understand that at the very least, at the very least, that Jesus is passing when the bread and wine are presented. Jesus is presence And where Bishop Sutton got me when he was challenged us is when he said That if there is not the real presence of Jesus at Holy Communion, then we have the real absence. And no one of faith wants the real absence of Jesus. And the beauty of this position of believing in the real presence of Jesus, a passion of Jesus, while we partake of Holy Communion, is that we do not attempt to explain what Scripture does not. We don't have to come up with a doctrine of transubstantiation that is not proven by Holy Scripture. We simply take Jesus at His Word and allow room for mystery. Glorious mystery. The passion of Jesus is to remain a mystery, and a mystery about such things is good, for we can simply marvel that Jesus' passion We can marvel at his presence and we can stand up. If there is any doubt about the presence of Jesus when we break the bread and eat the bread, and when we offer the cup and drink from the cup, Consider what St. Paul told the Corinthians when he warned them that no one should partake of Holy Communion in an unworthy manner. Because when someone had done so, they had not been in good standing with Christ or with his church. Well, some of them had fallen ill and some of them had even died. Because they partook unworthily. Now, beloved, if there is the power of a curse when eating unworthily How much more is there a power for blessing for us when we eat while in good standing with our fellow man and with the Lord? Beloved Jesus is passion when we take the bread and the wine, and the sinner and the saint are to stand up. Maybe you are like me and that you have wondered what it would have been like to live in the days of Jesus and to see him as those people did. Would you know Jesus, the Son of God, was passing when he was on that road to Jerusalem on a donkey? Would you know that the great I Am was passion when others were laying down palm tree branches and singing Hosanna? Would you have stood when Jesus was passing? But we can never know what we would have done. But we can know now because Jesus is passive. Jesus is present in our corporate worship as we go to where he is. Jesus is present as we agree together to bind the unrepentant and the devil himself, and we loose the humble and repentant. Jesus is present in the lives of the least of these, and that includes those who minister in his name And Jesus is in the midst of the bread and wine, as it is consecrated, as it is consumed in faith, believing that such is grace to us, needed grace to us. Beloved Jesus is passing in so very many ways among us. So let us stand up. Stand up for Jesus' passion. Let us pray.