Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity that we have to gather here in the House of Worship. To sing songs and to offer up prayers unto you, to hear your word and to sing it, and later on to partake of the body and blood of your Son. And we pray that as we Do all of these things and participate together, that we would bring honor and glory to your name. We pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. As we heard this morning and as Pastor Jorgensen mentioned a little bit here with regards to the candle It is the third Sunday of Advent. It's called Gaudete Sunday, the day when we light the pink candle on the Adventry, sometimes it's referred to as Pink Candle Sunday God means rejoice. This day reminds us of the joy that is to come and serves amid the season of penance as a kind of a break. When we recall the hope we have because of the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Filling us with a sense that a time is getting short, and soon our joy will be complete in the celebration of our Savior's birth. In John's mind, incarcerated as he was, time was getting short. And his earlier joy in anticipating Jesus' messianic advent, his coming, had given way to restlessness and uncertainty. Our gospel reading from Matthew 11 today centers on John the Baptist and his imprisonment by Herod Antipas in the hilltop fortress of Macarius. rising even today as it does on the eastern shore of the Dead Sea. And while the Bible does not give us its name, we learn of it from the Jewish historian Josephus. Macarius, the name means black fortress, was one of a series of hilltop strongholds established by Herod the Great, the father of Herod Antipas of this evening's story. It afforded seclusion and safety in times of political unrest, as did Herodium, and a more famous palace and fortress that you are aware of, Masada. On top of Macarius, Herod the Great had built a palace and a courtyard. The palace was breathtaking in size and in beauty, according to Josephus. And it is in this palace, possibly in the courtyard, where the dance of death by his stepdaughter Salome or Salome, the daughter of Herodias, was played out. Today, the royal courtyard where Salome did her entertaining dance has been partly reconstructed by the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The stones where biblical figures once walked, John and Herod the Great and Herod Antipas, are visible once again. A couple questions we might want to ask. Why was John incarcerated at Macarius? And how did things end up for him there? Familiar as you are with John's life in the early chapters of the Gospels, we know that John's ministry was characterized by proclaiming both a message of repentance and baptism for the forgiveness of sins, and a foretelling and heralding the news of the coming one. The one who was greater than he, the one who would bring a baptism of fire and of the Holy Spirit, and the one who held the winnowing fork in his hand to exercise judgment During John's ministry, the gospels tell us that many of the common people heard him gladly and responded to his call to repentance. But what you might not be as familiar with is that John was a direct and no-nonsense kind of guy. A man who called sin a sin and a sinner a sinner. Like his predecessor Elijah had done. And so he also called out and took to task the clergy and the rulers of his day. And one ruler in particular was Herod Antipas, the governor of Galilee and Perea, for unlawfully marrying his half-brother Philip's wife, Herodias. And it was this charge, this accusation against Herod and Herodias that eventually led to John's imprisonment at Macarius, the black fortress. And while the Gospel of John makes only a passing reference to this imprisonment of John, the other Gospels tell us more. Luke states, but Herod the Tetrarch being rebuked by John about Herodias, his brother's wife And about all the evil things Herod had done, added this to everything else, he locked John up in prison. Matthew and Mark give us considerably more detail, explain that Herod's wife Herodias wanted John put to death, but could not do this on her own Herod personally desired to execute John as well, but ultimately protected him because he was afraid to harm John, knowing that John was a righteous man. And fearing that the crowd, what they might do to him, Herod, because they regarded John as a prophet. As you can imagine, the sort of public condemnation did not sit well with Antipas or his unlawful and awful wife Herodias. And so in order to shut him up, Herod shut him up in Macaris to get his accuser out of the public eye. Poor John, it must have seemed like the reincarnation of Ahab and Jezebel, who were the sworn enemies of the prophet Elijah. Two prophets, Elijah and John, hounded and hated by powerful women. Which calls to mind the predicament of Sir Thomas More in the 16th century, who likewise was sent to prison for not condoning the marriage of Henry VIII to Anne Boleyn. Of course, Henry and Ann did not take kindly to Moore's non-support of their marriage. Moore said the marriage was wrong, called it a sin. With the same result, he too lost his head. But I hope, like John, kept his soul. So here we find John languishing in prison after defying his ruler. Standard procedures for that time would have meant that John would have had a lonely and mostly isolated experience in his prison, aside from a few conversations with Herodantipus and sporadic visits from his disciples. He would have lived in a small, sometimes extremely cramped, dirty, and deteriorating space. As bad prisons go, though, Macarius was not alone. For comparison, there is a prison in Rome that was contemporary with Macarius. It was called the Mamertine or Mamertine prison. It was described as the house of darkness. And most likely you've never heard of Mamertine, but of his pasan pro prisoner prisoner as you have For did tradition has it that it was the prison where later on, possibly, both Peter and Paul were holed up While they were awaiting trial. Its neglect, its darkness, and stench gave it a hideous and terrifying appearance, according to the Roman historian Seleuce. So you have the Black Fortress for John? And possibly the house of darkness for Peter and Paul, man who proclaimed the truth, and were willing to die telling it In the environment of the Black Fortress, I wonder, was John hoping for a pastoral visit from Jesus? Wouldn't you, if you'd been in John's place? John would have longed to see Jesus, but he had to be content with hearing of his work through the sporadic visits of his followers. John's earlier confidence in Jesus seems to be wavering in our passage. He's now questioning whether Jesus is the one. He could see no definite sign from the perspective of his limited context and knowledge that Jesus was the one whom he had expected. And of whom he proclaimed to appear with a winnowing fork in his hand, in order to burn the chaff with unquenchable fire. Was it just that things weren't progressing as quickly as John had expected? Was it the arrest itself that had thrown him off? Had he not expected that? Was it Jesus not quite living up to the fiery character that John had envisioned? Or was it just the normal effects of imprisonment taking its toll on John? Deprivation, depression, and disease would be common in John's situation. Jesus did not seem to be the type of Messiah that John had proclaimed, nor was he the type of messiah. the people were expecting. Both John and the people were expecting looking for a military type of ruler who would drive out the Romans and restore Israel to the glory days of King David. Have you ever been in a situation where people or events did not live up to the hopes and expectations you had for them? Work, health, retirement, family, friendships And you were left discouraged, confused, questioning? If so, you can probably understand why John would be confused His expectations had not been met according to his expectations. Uncertain times can shake us up and cause us to question our expectations and our faith. And as the months dragged on, and they think John was Macarius for a year to a year and a half, but as they dragged on, John started having second thoughts. In modern parlance, have I backed the wrong horse? Was Jesus truly the one who had come after John, whom he had boldly proclaimed was more powerful than he? Was Jesus the one, or should John and all of Israel look for another? So wondering if he had backed the wrong horse, he sent two disciples here direct from the horse's mouth himself, so to speak. And when his disciples arrived, they repeated John's question. John the Baptist has sent us to you to ask: are you the expected one? Or do we look for someone else? In response, Jesus did not preach a sermon about belief. Jesus simply continued to perform miracles Then he told the two disciples to return. Go and tell John. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed. And the deaf hear and the dead are raised and the poor have good news preached to them Which were the expected acts and the deeds of the Messiah as spelled out in the book of Isaiah, for instance, in chapter 35 and chapter 61. These deeds shed light on who Jesus was. And even more so. And as for the raising of the dead, as he had done for the widow of Nain, Jesus' actions went beyond what the prophet's words had foretold. Yes, John, I am the expected one, the one whom you have foretold and to whom you pointed others to. These deeds prove, demonstrate, shed light, John, and who I am. Interesting though, Jesus left out one significant messianic work in his response to John. The Messiah would set the prisoners free. And now possibly we begin to see another unmet expectation of John. He'd heard that Jesus was doing the works of the Messiah. But then why was he still languishing in prison? Why was he not set free Jesus' answer to John confirmed that he was the Messiah. But his silence regarding the prisoners being freed indicated whether John fully understood it or not that John would remain in prison. Jesus perceives that John's question is most likely doubt fueled by lack of consistent and reliable information. That was skewing and clouding his thinking and his expectations, which highlights even more the importance of John sending his disciples straight away to Jesus. John knew that Jesus would tell him the truth, and that it was only to Jesus he could go for his answers. Is there a mild rebuke to us here in this passage? Do we often run to and fro seeking to life's, seeking qu answers to life's questions rather than first seeking out Jesus? To hear what he has to say to us through his word? You know, some have said that John did not have doubts. They believed that John wanted the question asked in order to help his disciples believe in Jesus. But John was the one who had doubts, as indicated by Jesus' words. Go and report to John. John's disciples may have had doubts. Because their leader was having doubts. But the message of Jesus was for John. To strengthen his weak knees, to strengthen his faith, with the added assurance that he was the one. John was made of the same flesh and blood as we are. Jesus' words to John and to us was reminded that the scriptures had foretold two comings and two advents. of the Messiah. The first Advent, as outlined above, and the answer of Jesus to John, was that the Messiah would come with mercy. Healing and the proclaiming of good news. This first advent to secure our redemption by way of the cradle to the cross. And that is what John is hearing about, and that is what John is realizing now. But that at the second advent or the second coming, he would come as a conquering king. At that advent, he would indeed clean house to bring about the full consummation of his kingdom. John's expectations had been skewed because he allowed the latter coming, the second advent, to cast a shadow over the first. The coming crown to obscure the present cross. As it were, he was looking through the lens of a telescope where the distant things dwarf the things that are near. But I wonder, have we skewed the life of Christ from the opposite perspective? As through the lens of a microscope, where we only see the now and the near. And neglect and minimize the far and the not yet. And though John's hand wavered As do ours at times, we take hope in the expectation that the one born in Bethlehem is truly a Messiah, the anointed one. This is what the scriptures foretold, and this is what the scriptures promised. The one that John had foretold and promised was the one Messiah, the one who brings forgiveness and salvation to all who come to him and believe to him to be the one. On the day when John lost his head at Macarias, at a young girl's bequest, he died a man who I believe fully understood and knew what Jesus' mission was all about. And that he, John, had indeed accomplished his mission as well. For John could look back, remember that Jesus was the one born in Bethlehem. The one pointed out by John himself to his disciples, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. The one spoken by the Father, this is my son, listen to him. The one confessed by Peter, you are the Christ. To be able to answer yes when you and I are confronted with John's question about Jesus, are you the one? Is to have a truly experience what the Advent season is all about in his promises to transform Our lives, and yes, our expectations. Advent is a season that prepares us to gaze on the whole life of Jesus Christ From cradle to Calvary to the final consummation. It is all of one piece, all of one fabric, and it's all about one life. The vision of life that Admin gives us is twofold. It looks back to the first coming of Christ in Bethlehem, and it looks to the future when Christ will come again. And in between that which has come and that which will come again, in between, you and I never stop seeking and looking to Him to complete His work in us. To paraphrase the interaction between Herod the Great and the wise men, where is the one who is born king of the Jews? The answer is why he's right over here. He's closer than you think. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the two advents. One we can celebrate in the past and give us the heart and the joy to do so, and the second Advent that will come in the future. And may we do all that we can to be prepared and to prepare others for that great and glorious day as well And as we look forward to Christmas Day and celebrate the birth of Christ in Bethlehem, the house of bread, we pray that we might feed upon you. And that you will guide and direct us to be the people you want us to be between both your Advents. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.