In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to Genesis 40 as we continue in Genesis. Genesis 40, quite a few years ago I preached on the subject of the necessary tensions in holy scripture regarding such doctrines as predestination versus free will of humanity, and God's sovereignty versus human responsibility Yes, we can say that God predestines those who would be saved, and yes, we can say that God calls us to choose to follow Him. Both realities are taught in Scripture, and thus we are to acknowledge and accept the tension that they have with one another. The teachings are also true for God being sovereign over all things, including the wills of men, and God warning us that we are responsible for the choices that we make. That too is intention in Holy Scripture. Now such tensions in Scripture were identified By the Reverend Dr. Robert Rayburn, a Presbyterian minister, and I confess I am indebted to him Because since reading his teachings, I have been able to reconcile my struggle with certain passages in the Bible by recognizing the purposeful tension that God has placed in his holy word. My inability to reconcile certain passages that seem to contradict was caused by me being under the sun and seeing through that glass dimly. Apparent contradictions will not be able to be explained on this side of heaven, and that must be acceptable to us. And one of those apparent contradictions is the description of us made by Jesus in John chapter 17, where it is recorded the prayer of prayers. Which is God praying to God, or Jesus praying to the Heavenly Father. In that prayer, Jesus says the following I do not pray that you should take them out of the world, but that you should keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. And so we can summarize this part of the prayer by saying that Christians are to be in the world, but not of the world. That is a position of tension. And that was the position of Joseph in Potiphar's house and of Joseph in prison. In Joseph's life of being in Egypt and yet a child of the covenant, in that we find the Christian life. The Christian life is a life of tension, and we need to acknowledge and adjust our approach to life to fulfill our Christian journey. One of those tensions in the Christian life is the pursuit of success in this world while not being concerned about worldly wealth. Joseph was successful outside of prison as a slave and inside the prison as a convict. What he was assigned to do, he did well, and what he touched was successful. The writer of Genesis wants us to know that the success of Joseph was caused By God's presence with Joseph, and we identified that last week. But that must have also included Joseph working hard and using the blessings and gifts God had given him. Christians are to work hard for their daily bread. Christians are to have a strong work ethic where our work is done for the glory of God. Christians are to use their earthly gifts as good stewards. And when we work for God's glory and when we use our gifts to his honor, we are going to be successful in this world. That is nothing to be ashamed of, but instead we are to be grateful to God for that principle in life The United States continues to be blessed because many of our founding fathers practiced the principle of hard work to the glory of God using their gifts to honor God, and there is a residual effect of that still in our culture, even though most of our citizens do not recognize it. The principle of hard work and earthly success is in tension with another teaching of Jesus who instructed his followers not to be concerned about their daily bread or the clothes that they wear, but to seek first the kingdom of God, saying that all things needed will be provided to us. Yes, we can seek first the kingdom of God by working hard at our vocation, and we can be blessed in an earthly manner because of such work. But it is very easy to get our eyes off of the kingdom of God and onto worldly wealth, material things. We are easily susceptible to temptation of seeking our daily bread and the trappings of a material life. It is required of us to continually examine our hearts and minds to see if we love the world more than we love God. We need to be able to say always that the Lord gives and the Lord takes away, and blessed be the name of the Lord. Another tension of the Christian life is how we are blessed to have spiritual knowledge while being earthly bound. Joseph was given the ability to interpret dreams. Dream interpretation is knowing the mysteries of God. Because of his ability, Joseph could know the future. And when others knew of Joseph's ability, they would look to him for wisdom. As Christians, we know the mysteries of God. St. Peter describes the gospel, the truth of knowing the time and suffering of salvation through Jesus. He knows these truths that Peter says angels longed to look into, longed to understand. We then are privileged people to know the plans of God that angels and prophets did not understand. We are able to understand why the human race struggles to do right by its own conscience and by the laws of God. We know the human condition to be sinful and thus guilty before God. We know that human beings, because of their fallen nature, are prone to sin. We know of our sinful pride, anger, lust, greed, envy, and malice, person to person, we know. We are aware of how debase a person can become. We of all people should not be surprised by the sins of human beings, even the sins of our own children. What we are capable of doing can be identified as pure evil. And with the knowledge of our sin nature is also the knowledge of how we can be forgiven, of how we can be people who are changed. In Christ Jesus, a zebra can change his stripes. Because of what God has revealed to us in Jesus, we have the knowledge of how the conscience can be freed from guilt. Because of the Holy Spirit in the lives of believers, we can resist temptation and therefore not be the person we once were. We can change. Our character can be made different. It can be made more like God. Every day can be new in Christ. All things can pass away, all things can become new. We have this knowledge from the testimony of our own lives and from the lives of one another. The truth of Jesus can and does set people free. The gospel works, and you and I have the knowledge that it does. But St. Paul said to the Corinthians. That the truth of Christ Jesus was a stumbling block. Stumbling block to the Jews because they could not understand how God could become man And foolishness to the Greeks because they could not accept a God who would sacrifice himself. So the unbelieving mind doesn't care what we know They do not think it's worth knowing. They don't respect what we claimed to be essential to our lives. But they come to us. They come to us just like they did Joseph when life doesn't make sense. They come to us when they don't know who to talk to or how to interpret life. They hope what we have is an answer, just as they hope Joseph had an answer. They come to us because we are different, and that is how God intended. They come to us to know the future, their future. And we know the future. Not in detail, but in a general trajectory. The future contains a time when Jesus will return and raise up all who have died and judge all according to their faith. And those who believe will receive eternal life, and those who reject Christ will be thrown into the eternal fire. That is the future we are to speak of, even when no one is listening. That we know the future plays into the tension that we have good news and bad news for the world. Joseph knew the good news of the butler's dream and the bad news of the baker's dream. That is living intention. Such attention has been lost to people who claim to be Christian, but who have focused on attracting crowds rather than preaching and teaching the gospel. Preachers and teachers who focus on the good news of Jesus only reminded me of an episode of the Andy Griffiths show. The best television show ever. It is when Aunt B is feeling sad and lowly because of a recent death of a friend. She is listless and without energy until a handsome man named Colonel Harvey comes to town hawking a tonic that will fix all ailments Aunt B buys two bottles, and by the time Andy gets home, she is singing and happy-go-lucky. Andy the sheriff is suspicious of the salesman, but his permits are in order. Later Andy has the elixir analyzed and finds it is eighty-five percent alcohol. As the uh bumbling deputy Barney Fife describes the elixir was why Aunt B and her friends were so tiddly. Tiddly The medicine man who sold Aunt B and her friends, the tonic that cures all ills, is very much like a preacher who speaks the gospel in terms of wealth and health and happiness without telling the truth of suffering and eternal damnation Aunt B's initial sadness was brought on by the reality of her mortality. The alcohol allowed her to forget about her mortality and to focus on how she feels in the moment. It is curious how anyone would receive the good news of Jesus without understanding the bad news that every human being is sinful and destined for hell unless his or her sins are forgiven. Without the reality of the bad news, the good news makes little sense. That Jesus loves and forgives us and gives us new life only makes sense when we understand our sin and understand our guilt. The only way the good news of Jesus makes sense is if we are aware of our need of our sin to be forgiven. What the positive health and wealth preachers put forth that provides any type of good news is how the world has let us down. It is the environment in which we live that is to blame for our sorrows. And it is the positive mental attitude that Jesus can give that will help lift you out of your environment. That is 85% alcohol truth. That allows us to escape the real truth and brings us to feel good in the moment. But such moments pass and we are still in our sins. Instead, we have been gifted to know the truth. Our individual sins are real and need to be atoned for if we are going to find any freedom for our souls. Our sinful natures are real as we cannot escape from falling short of God's standards and even our own standards. The good news is that Jesus paid the penalty for our failures by dying on the cross, by rising again, which was the overcoming of the penalty of sin. This is the real and true good news that we confess as true gospel believers. All other preaching and teaching is a lie. And all who preach and teach are liars, destined for hell themselves. Surely the revealing of the dreams of Joseph didn't win him any friends, and the butler himself forgot Joseph, even though his interpretation of the dream was good. And that is what Christians are to expect. Even when we speak the truth, it will likely not be appreciated. But speak it, we must The reality that Joseph trusted the butler and the reality that he forgot Joseph is another tension in the Christian life. We desire to trust humanity and yet we accept human failing. Joseph deserved to be remembered for he helped encourage and provided hope for the butler But it was not initially reciprocating. We might think we deserve the faithfulness of friends, and yet friends fail us and even betray us. We might think we deserve honest and openness from our family members, and if they lie to us, withhold from us for selfish ambition. We might think that we are owed fairness and justice from our governing authorities, and yet they continue to convict the innocent and ignore the guilty. These are realities of what it means to live in this world. And we must escape these realities while not being of the world. Which means not being a product of the world, which means the world cannot produce us. Thus, while others betray, Christians are to be loyal. While others lie, we are to be truthful. While others are unfair and unjust, we are to be fair and uphold the virtue of justice. Such character will likely not be rewarded in this life. But that's not our goal. Finally, the tension of the Christian life is revealed in Joseph, as he knows that God knows the future, but he still needs to live in the present. Joseph knew the end of the baker's life. He knew it was near. And he believed that what man intended for evil, God would make for good He knew that, but he had to wait. He had to wait in his cell. He had to serve under the jailer. He had to be in consignment, waiting for God's timing. And isn't that what Christians do every day? Do we not know the future in terms of our heavenly hope and that God will judge all men and make all things new? And yet we wait. We wait in the confinement of our bodies and in the limitation of our minds, waiting to escape this world and to be delivered to a new world to come. Joseph was a slave who lived in Egypt, but was not of Egypt. Just as Christians are in the world, but not of this world. The following content is from a letter to a teacher by the name of Diognetus. Diognetus. The writer is unknown, but the writer is writing a description of Christians from the 4th century, likely the 4th, 5th century. And it reads as follows. It's a little long, but painted. Christians are indistinguishable from other men either by nationality, language, or customs. They do not inhabit separate cities of their own, or speak a strange dialect, or follow some outlandish way of life. Their teaching is not based upon reveries inspired by the curiosity of men Unlike some other people, they champion no purely human doctrine. With regard to dress, food, and manner of life in general, they follow the customs of whatever city they happen to be living in, whether it is Greek or foreign. And yet there is something extraordinary about their lives. They live in their own countries as though they were only passing through. They play their full role as citizens, but labor under all the disabilities of aliens. Any country can be their homeland, but for them their homeland, wherever it may be, is a foreign country. Like others, they marry and have children, but they do not expose them. They share their meals, but not their wives. They live in the flesh, but they are not governed by the desires of the flesh. They pass their days upon the earth, but they are citizens of heaven, obedient to the laws They yet live on a level that transcends the law. Christians love all men, but all men persecute them Condemned because they are not understood, they are put to death, but raised to life again. They live in poverty, but enrich many. They are totally destitute, but possess an abundance of everything. They suffer dishonor, but that is their glory. They are defamed, but vindicated. A blessing is their answer to abuse. Deference their response to insult. For the good they do, they receive the punishment of malefactors. But even then they rejoice as those receiving the gift of life. They are attracted by the Jews as aliens, attacked, excuse me, by the Jews as aliens. They are persecuted by the Greeks, yet no one can explain the reason for this hatred To speak in general terms, we may say that the Christian is to the world what the soul is to the body As the soul is present in every part of the body, while remaining distinct from it, so Christians are found in all the cities of the world, but cannot be identified with the world. As the visible body contains the invisible soul, so Christians are seen living in the world, but their religious life remains unseen. The body hates the soul and wars against it, not because of any injury the soul has done to it, but because of the restriction the soul places on its pleasures. Similarly, the world hates the Christian, not because they have done it any wrong, but because they are opposed to its enjoyments. Christians love those who hate them just as the soul loves the body and all its members despite the body's hatred. It is by the soul enclosed within the body, that the body is held together. And similar similarly, it is the Christian detained in the world as in prison that the world is held together. The soul, though immortal, has a mortal dwelling place, and Christians also live for a time amidst perishable things While awaiting the freedom from change and decay that will be theirs in heaven. As the soul benefits from the deprivation of food and drink, so Christians flourish under persecution. Such is the Christian's lofty and divinely appointed function, from which he is not permitted to excuse himself. May such a description be able to be written of each of us. Let us pray A gracious and merciful God, for the example of Joseph living a life in Egypt but not being of Egypt. So we find ourselves living in this world, and as you prayed, not being of this world. So may we live like that May we continue to be challenged to live like that, that what is written of us may be the same that was written to this teacher, that as Christians we really are different, and heaven is our home. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.