In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our reading our reading from Judges didn't go as far as we will be going this morning. We get into chapter 2. This is The start of a series of sermons on the book of Judges, using typology as an interpretive method The book of Judges seems to be perfect for such an endeavor, and yet there is something daunting about the book that makes me concerned. The book, as you have read it no doubt before, is rather depressing and in many ways salacious Never does the author, whoever he might be, some believe it was Samuel, never does he clearly teach us a lesson from the depressing and salacious narratives, but implies the lessons in the manner that he writes. That last point is important for it means that much is required of the interpreter. We have to pay attention. We have to stay awake. For some of you, that can be hard. We have to pay attention to the details of the story to understand the gospel found within. A brief history is needed. We are looking at a time around the 13th century BC, a long time ago. Joshua had just died. The Late Bronze Age was giving way to the Iron Age, meaning that there were few large nations, but many smaller tribes and villages that made up the region. The land of Cana, the promised land, housed many small tribes. There is a general type that can be understood from the book of Judges as a whole, and by type, by type I mean likeness or similarity. Types are not the actual person or the actual truth, but are likenesses that prepare us for what is to come. Recall the types we studied from the book of Leviticus as we noted how the different offerings commanded were types of the offering of Jesus that He made for us for sins. As a whole, the Book of Judges is a type because of the stories are cyclical. The cycle goes as follows. Man falls into sin. Man suffers the consequences of his sin. Man cries out to God. God sends forth a man to save him, or in one case, a woman And then man overcomes. The cycle is repeated over and over in the book of Judges, and is also the overall story of salvation From the beginning of mankind, when Adam and Eve fall into sin all the way to the coming of Jesus Christ as the Savior of mankind to defeat all of God's enemies. Hence, each story of a deliverer in the book of Judges is a type, is a shadow of Jesus Christ. Another general type is how each of the judges used by God delivers the people that he uses by God to deliver the people from their enemies. Just as the patriarchs in Genesis reveal a characteristic of the coming Messiah, remember Abraham was a type of faith, Isaac a type of quietness. Jacob a type of wrestling with God, Joseph as a type of Jesus descending and ascending. So too do the leaders and judges resemble aspects of how we are redeemed by Jesus. These types, of course, are, again, woefully inadequate, and that is part of the lesson of the author. We are to see that although God raises up men, and in one case a woman, to deliver Israel from their enemies, the leaders raised up are only successful for a time, and eventually Israel falls back into sin. Toward the end of the book, we will read the author saying that there was no king in Israel, seemingly implying that if there was a king in Israel, they would not continue to fall into sin. Such a conclusion should not be jumped to so quickly, for we should remember from 1 Samuel that although the Lord allowed Israel to have a king, that is not what he preferred. He personally preferred to be their king. He wants to be the God of his people. For the writer of judges to say then that at that time Israel had no king We are to get a double meaning. Israel had no earthly king, nor did they follow the Lord God as their king. What this all reveals, of course, even the narrative of Samuel, is that there needs to be a king over Israel, who is greater than all the judges and greater even than David. He is to be the king of kings. The king was born to a virgin and revealed to the magi. Also, the entire book of Judges is an example of personal helpful typology. The nation of Israel is a type of each of us who claim to be Christian We repeatedly move towards sin, only to be rescued by our Savior, only to fall back into sin we thought was behind us, only to be saved once again by our Savior. People can talk about their salvation as if it is finished, declaring a time and a date that they were, quote, saved. But the Christian life is actually a series of saving moments. As our Savior rescues us from ourselves, again, and then again and again. These are times of sanctification that all of us need and will continue to need this side of heaven. Now that is enough for a general introduction to the book of Judges. Now we will examine the first chapter and go briefly into chapter 2. This section should be treated as a whole, for it gives a general message using a number of separate stories. Upon careful examination, we notice that the beginning of this book is similar to the end of the book of Joshua The last nine chapters of Joshua contain the same general stories as we find in this chapter, only in Joshua they're of a more positive tone. The negativity of judges tells us right off that the author intends for us to focus on something different than we had before in Joshua. The tribe of Judah is chosen first as a fulfillment of the prophecy of Jacob to lead the Israelites against the Canaanites. Judah goes to battle with the tribe of Simeon, of whom we learned from the last census was actually the smallest of the tribes. Their victories at first are dominant. A brief description of Adonai Bezek, which likely refers to the Lord or King of Bezek. Is useful in describing God's judgment upon a ruler who treated his defeated enemies like dogs. So now he too is to be treated in the same manner. In the midst of the description of Judah's conquest over pagan tribes and in specific the Canaanites, we are given the story of Caleb and his daughter. The story may seem benign, and yet it is the fulfillment of what God had promised Caleb, you remember, and his descendants. For being one of the only two spies of the twelve that were faithful when scouting out the promised land. The description of Judah's conquest picks back up in verse 16. They, of course, conquer again and at this time seem invincible until they come up against the people with iron chariots. The inability to drive these Canaanites out because of the iron chariots should not be understood as if we can simply appreciate how difficult it must have been. For in Joshua chapter 17 it is recorded that the people came and they told Joshua that they feared going against these particular Canaanites because of the chariots. And Joshua responded there and said, Though they are strong, you can drive them out. Well, they did not drive them out. The faith of the tribe of Judah failed, and they allowed pagan people to remain in the land God promised them. The author is now beginning to describe the failures of the Israelites to take over the promised land as they had been instructed. These failures will mount on top of one another as the narrative unfolds. The Benjamites are the next to fail, followed by the tribe of Manasseh. Because of the difficulty in driving these determined tribes of Canaan out of the land, the stronger tribes of Israel decided to accommodate by forcing the people into labor. This forced labor served as an answer for the moment, but was an obvious mistake, as the author implies by such a phrase as never drove them out completely. Never drove them out completely. And continued to live among them. We must understand that forced labor is not a replacement for extinction If pagan people are allowed to remain alive, then their pagan practices remain alive with them, even though they are enslaved. The angel of the Lord described in chapter 2 as appearing before the people verifies the failure of Israel to take over the land as God had required. The mention of Gilgal is significant, for that is where the conquest of the Promised Land began. It is where Joshua first met the angel of the Lord who appeared to him before the battle of Jericho. And where Israel was circumcised after entering the promised land, that angel would appear at the same place. Reminding us of the promising conquest that began there and Israel then quickly failed. It will, I hope, give us perspective to learn more about these Canaanites and their culture. For it occurs to me that we might have a hard time stomaching what the Lord commanded Israel to do. If a modern-day reporter was on the scene, he would certainly use the word genocide to describe what Israel was commanded to do to the Canaanites. And that word falls under the category of immoral in our modern culture. It is likely for some of us not only to question God's directive to commit genocide on the Canaanite people But conclude that if it was up to us, we would have taken a different approach. Hence, we would be more upright or righteous than God We don't come out and say such things forthrightly, but our thoughts give us away. Let us then understand the Canaanites Though we think of them very negatively because of how the Bible describes them, they were actually a very accomplished and sophisticated people, relatively speaking. It may surprise you to know that we owe our alphabetic system of writing to the Canaanites, who combined the Mesopotamian system With the Egyptian hieroglyphics inventing a more simple form of writing. Canaanites were also exceptional and exceptional engineers, as evidenced by their building of fortified cities. They were gifted artisans creating jewelry of all types from gold and silver. They were metallurgists. I don't use that word very often. Casting tools and weaponry from bronze as well as iron chariots mentioned in the text. We could go on, but the Bible shows that God is not impressed with their sophistication. What is interesting to the Lord is the wickedness of the people. They were idolaters and notoriously wicked when practicing their idol worship. As Deuteronomy describes, the Canaanites burned their sons and daughters in fires as they sacrificed to their gods. It was for this reason that Israel was commanded to exterminate them. And still, even with this wickedness known, it is difficult. From the view of our modern sensitivities, to understand how God could command his people to completely destroy another people It is important, however, to remember that God's command for this destruction came only after hundreds of years of witnessing their wickedness. God, you remember, is patient. He is slow to anger. He is abounding in love. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all would come to repentance. It is not as if God had rushed to judgment upon the Canaanites. It is quite the opposite. Another reason for their needed destruction is the obvious effect this culture had upon God's people. The effect led to the destruction of the Israelites by the hand of the Assyrians, 722 BC, and then the Babylonians in 586. Whether we can stomach God ordaining the destruction of a people or not, wickedness such as characterized by the Canaanites always leads to destruction and death. And God will not be mocked. Whatsoever man sows, he will also reap. We see this truth written in bold letters over the world today as it ever was. Judgment can come upon a wicked people by the hands of another nation or by a natural disaster. The point is it will come. The events of this past year, the pandemic, must be mentioned for the number of lives that have been affected. Please understand, I have no specific word from God that states that this pandemic is a form of punishment for wickedness. What I do know is that every man should fall on his knees in humility when such a thing like a pandemic occurs, and acknowledge that we are sore dependent upon God for everything. Without warning, what we do and how we live could drastically change, and what man could stand before God and say that such is not fair. Fair according to whom? What is fair is death for our sins. That these types of trials do not happen more often. Means that we are all benefactors of God's patient grace. There is much that is good in the world today As less people are impoverished and less people are malnourished, percentage-wise more than ever before But again, God, as revealed in the Bible, ignores cultural or political achievements of people and focuses on their moral and spiritual life, and that is what determines his judgment. His end goal is to move people to repentance. Instead of concerning ourselves with the fairness of God judging a people like the Canaanites, It will be more valuable to evaluate our situation today. We also live in an advanced culture that dazzles the world with scientific and commercial achievements. And the wickedness follows closely, much like it did in Canaan. We are a culture that is devoted to its gods of sex and mummy. That pornography, abortion, and overall hedonism provide. Sin is now a source of revenue, mainstreamed and judicially defended. Computer language easily has had the same effect as the Canaanite alphabet. Probes to Mars are just as impressive as iron chariots. All of this goes on while for over a generation we have allowed babies to be barbarically chopped up in their mother's womb. How I ask rhetorically, is such a practice any different than offering our sons and daughters to the fire for the idols? We, of course, had no command or to exterminate the pagan people around us like Israel did. We are to be like Christ to the world. Thus we are not a political nation. We are scattered as Christians from all corners of the earth. We must live with and among the pagans. Because we live with and among them, we are also in just as great a danger from the Canaanites around us as Israel was in the Promised Land. Their failure to drive out the Canaanites is our failure to keep ourselves unspotted from the world It is not easy, of course, to be in the world, but not of the world as Jesus prayed. We all know it's not easy. It is a matter of thousand temptations a day in which we are the day in which we are called, in our own way, to be faithful to God's covenant. To heed his word, to count on his power on our behalf, to drive out the Canaanites before us, our own personal sins. Where Christians fail is where Israel failed. Instead of driving out the worldly influence, we accommodate. Like the Israelites who made the Canaanites their slaves, instead of destroying them, we allow worldly influences into our lives, thinking that we can tame them, that we can control them. We can't. Each of you knows very well some of the places where the world has got a grip on you and where you are accommodating You know very well how the wealth or sophistication or sensuality or humanistic outlook has influenced you. And still, there are many ways that the world has influenced you that you are not aware of right now. What this amounts to is a downward spiral. Greater than you can imagine, one that absorbs you and your children to the point where you gradually become more worldly, more Canaanite, then Christian. The book of Judges provides typological lessons on two levels. The first level is that of the corporate body. In the text, it is Israel as a people who fall into sin, a body of people. God delivers them as a body of people. The second level is that of individual, for each of us can see ourselves in the behaviors described. As we study this book, the Lord is going to place a finger upon areas in our lives, both corporately and individually. Where we have accommodated, allowing the world to influence our lives both as a church and as individuals. When God does place that finger, It is for us to confess the sin of accommodation and purify ourselves in the blood of Christ. Let us start doing that today by receiving the body and the blood. Amen.