In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You would turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. We are covering this portion that was read, verses 1 through 5. It was received in the mail. It was a package of olive oil accompanied with a letter. Which read, use this holy Bible anointed oil. James 5, 14 says, to turn God's healing and prosperity on in your life. Are you sick in your body? Use this holy Bible anointed oil. Are you sick financially? Use this holy Bible anointed oil. Open this holy Bible anointed oil. Do not waste a drop. Jesus is represented by this faith oil. Make a cross on your forehead with it. And then by faith go into your room by yourself and take the money out of your wallet and make a cross on each bill so that God will heal your money problems. Take your checkbook, anoint it with this holy Bible anointed oil. Then write the largest check you can and anoint it with this holy Bible anointed oil and send it to me. I need your support This is important to you. When you anoint your money with this holy Bible anointed oil, make a cross on each bill and send it to me, and God will bless you. Don't waste a drop signed a man of God for 50 years. And you probably didn't receive such a letter in the mail. But many Christians have, and many Christians have done exactly what this man of God for 50 years suggests to be done. Stories of ministers abusing their office do not normally come in the mail, but today they do seem to be a part of our regular news cycle. It seemed for a while that we would hear story after story of Roman Catholics' records being uncovered of claims of abuse by Roman Catholic priests. But it just doesn't happen in the Roman Catholic Church. In February of this year, the Houston Chronicle uncovered 20 years of sex. abuse and cover-up within Southern Baptist churches with over seven hundred credible victims. That is a travesty. It is an affront to the bride of Christ. With so-called Protestant ministers taking advantage of gullible Christians financially and sexually And Roman Catholic priests acting out their perversions on children, this hardly seems a time to preach about a proper perspective from God's people towards ministers of the gospel. But on second thought, it may be the perfect time. Within the institutions like the Roman Catholic Church, priests were more likely held in too high esteem than making them seem as if they were incapable of doing harm. On the other hand, some Protestant ministers are not regarded highly enough as their words are treated as if they're just like anyone else's. In the independent traditions, the esteem for a minister is based mostly on his charisma. The people are motivated by the personality of the man rather than the truth of his words or because of the office that he holds. From the words of the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 It is there that we receive a redemptive view of a minister. This view moves us away from judging that which we cannot judge and preparing ourselves for the day that we will be judged. And 1 Corinthians chapter 4. St. Paul continues his thesis that disunity caused by Christians choosing one minister over another is nonsensical. It is nonsensical in that a minister is merely a man. This is what we talked about last two weeks ago from chapter 3. And Paul uses that phrase, a mere man. The description of a minister being a mere man is more fully developed here in chapter four. As a mere man Is described as a servant of Christ and a steward of the mysteries of God. A servant, by definition, does the bidding of a master. In this case, a master, a be master, is Christ. The distinction of Christ being a minister's master is vital to the survival of a minister. A minister of the gospel must serve Christ. For if he becomes a servant of another man or of a congregation, he begins to do the bidding of the other man or the congregation. Whether it be a man or a congregation, he is to do the bidding for Christ. I'll take this example Let's say a minister wishes to teach and preach on eternal judgment, believing that God wishes to enkindle within his parish a greater fear of eternal damnation and a greater hope for heaven As this teaching progresses in sermons and Bible studies, a number of parishioners become irritated as the weight of God's word begins to crush their complacency. They in turn complained to one another, complained to the parish council, complained to the vestry, for someone to get the minister to redirect his teaching. If the minister complies, due to the complaints of the people, he is not doing the ministry that Christ has called him to do, as he understands it. And if he does the bidding of Christ, he will be rejected by the will of the people. He must trust then that the bidding of Christ is what is best for the people, whether it be their bidding or not. Well such a scenario is why the polity of a church matters A congregational church where the congregation has the authority to hire and fire a minister at will Is only asking for trouble to be brought upon itself, for the bidding of the people may prevent them from hearing the word that God wants them to hear. Under an episcopal form of government, a minister's position as pastor is determined by bishops, not the laity. Although a local pastor like ours chooses to call a minister, that church cannot turn around and uncall the same minister because they do not like what he is saying Hence the minister is free to do Christ's bidding without the concern that his paycheck will not be forthcoming because he's made some people in the congregation uncomfortable. There is, of course, means within the Episcopal government that allows a parish to submit complaints to their bishop if their minister is not remaining true to God's word. This is not only available, but it should be done to preserve the purity of the gospel. Well, along with being a servant, the minister, as I said, is also a steward. A steward is one who cares for and distributes. In the case of a minister, he cares for and distributes the mysteries of God. The word mysteries means truths once hidden that are now being revealed Jesus spoke this way to his disciples from Luke chapter 8. He said, Unto you, his apostles, his disciples, is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God. In the first chapter of St. Peter's first epistle, he describes these mysteries as hidden from prophets and angels, although the prophets and angels longed to look into those mysteries. Because a minister is a steward of God's mysteries, he is given certain gifts by the Spirit that allow him to illuminate the Word of God into the lives of the people of God, the people he's been given responsibility to care for. He is not given such illumination because he is a more perfect man or has more perfect brain matter, but only because of the office he holds. Hands are laid on ministers at ordination to pass on the gift of the Holy Spirit that he might more effectively minister God's word. I have personally experienced occasions where the Word of God has come to me in times of counsel and teaching, and I have been able to apply it directly to the need of a person to whom I am speaking with. Not because of anything other than the office that I hold. And I believe such words are granted me, again, not because of my abilities, but because of the Holy Spirit. and the office of a minister. As a steward, no glory is to be given to any minister when a word is spoken well or spoken at an appropriate time. A steward, again, merely cares for and distributes what is owned by someone else. These mysteries are God's. He alone is to receive the glory. The most important requirement to be met of a minister is that he be faithful to the stewardship he is assigned. The judge of his faithfulness is to be no other than God. The faithfulness of a minister is accomplished by being the servant, the steward we have just described. And ministers can become entangled in many other activities that would tempt him to be pulled away by his primary duty. He may become involved in the finances of a church. He may become a contractor for a building project. There are many things that could draw his attention away. The apostles recognized this early on. If you remember, there were squabbles going on in the early church, and we find this story in Acts chapter 6. And the other disciples were trying to figure out these squabbles, and it was taking them away from studying Christ's words and teaching them to the people. And so they got together and they chose certain men that they might worry about the needs of the people so that the apostles could worry about working and serving the Word of God These men eventually became official officers, and we know them today as the office of deacon. The disciples did this again so that they could give themselves, the scripture says, to prayer and ministry of the word. A minister is thus faithful when he preaches and teaches and counsels the Word of God. Now, a difficulty relating to the faithfulness of a minister is the subjective rather than objective criteria that he lives by. If he is a servant to Christ first and a steward of God's mysteries, how does anyone else know that he is being faithful to such a service and such stewardship? Now going back to our prior example of a minister teaching and preaching about eternal judgment, we can imagine some in the congregation who would question whether Christ was bidding him to address such a topic. Maybe he's wrong. Maybe he didn't hear Christ. How do you how do we know he is doing Christ's bidding and not his own? The preacher has one of a few callings that has quite a few people believing that they know how he needs to perform his task. I know that to be true, for when I was a layman, not even considering pursuing the ministry, I used to second-guess the content of my pastor's sermons every once in a while I would say to myself, I wouldn't have said that. I would think to myself, well, he could have said this Or he's being a little bit too soft on that point, or he's being a little bit too hard on that point, or he forgot about this exception to his third point As you can see, I understand how some people listen because I have done the same. What I needed to learn Is that the men I was critiquing knew that there was a different approach to take. They knew that there were qualifications to make Yet they chose to mention or not mention them according to the direction they best understood, having received the message from their master, who is Christ. You and I may say he is mistaken, but such outside judgment cannot matter to the man who is trying to listen to his master, who is Christ. The apostle speaks personally to the Corinthians as he shares his own perspective on how others judge him. See that in verse 3. He refers to their judgment as a very small thing. He's saying it doesn't matter. I can think ill of you, and you can think ill of me, or we can think ill of one another, but what matters is not how we judge one another. If I was to walk into your place of business and tell you that your work on a current project Or proposal is unsatisfactory, or if I was to tell you that your calculations on a particular project were incorrect, you would likely look at me with some surprise, shake your head, and ignore me You would do so because you know that I do not know all I need to know to make such a judgment about your work. And this is what Paul is saying The people of God, the local magistrates, and even his own judgment is inadequate to the task of knowing all there is to know to judge him in his ministry. Of his own guilt, the apostle is not aware. Has he been an unfaithful servant? Has he been too soft? Has he been too bold? Has he compromised? Has he been overbearing? He does not believe he has, but he confesses that he does not truly know. What he does know is that even if he is free from personal guilt, That freedom of guilt does not save him. It does not justify him. This got me thinking, I I recall watching a Kery Grant movie years ago called Bringing Up Baby. In one scene, Catherine Hepburn is accusing Kerry Grant of speaking falsely. And he responds by stating Quote, privately I do not believe such to be true about myself. And I loved the line privately when I heard it. Privately, I have an understanding about my service to God and the stewardship with which I am responsible. When someone disagrees, I must be respectful and take inventory If I cannot agree with the person who disagrees, I must confess I cannot see all things, but I know privately I do not believe such to be true about my character or my choices. This is what Paul is saying. Privately he knows nothing against himself, and he is trusting that God, as the final judge, will reveal all truth in the end. And those of you who are enjoying our study of Job, we recognize that Job makes the same point to his friends who insist that he he must have sinned to deserve his suffering. Privately, privately, he knew nothing of a sin that deserved what he endured. Now the final admonition along this subject is that we participate in no judgment before the time until the Lord comes. It's in verse 5. It is important, of course, to keep this admonition in context. For the apostle is not telling us to cease from judging anything. We make judgments as part of everyday life. We judge what we are going to wear, what we are going to eat, what we're going to say. And we get mixed up when Jesus said, judge not lest you be judged. His meaning is not that we don't judge someone who is practicing wrong behavior. Of course we're to judge that and say it's wrong. We are to judge when someone has sinned, for it is important to call sin. What we cannot do is make judgments regarding another man's heart. Is one man being faithful to his calling and another not? If there is nothing outwardly to point to such evidence, then we are not to judge. If the polity of a church is set up properly, a man who is living an unfaithful life outwardly will be and should be subject to judgment over him. We may think that one man is better to follow than another because he is more faithful. But that type of judgment we are not to get into. Because we cannot see it. We cannot see the heart. And that's where the church is divided, and that's where Paul is correcting them Although judgment cannot and should not be made of one person to another, this does not mean that there will not be a time of judgment. The apostle makes it clear that there will be a day when the Lord comes to this earth and places all men before him, and the things unknown will be known, the things hidden will be revealed. This promise is to put fear and hope together in the heart of every minister and of every person. The fear is to drive us to repentance and to drive us to obedience. The hope is to be placed in the mercy of God by the blood of Christ. A minister must be keenly aware that his judgment will consist of his faithfulness as a servant and as a steward. And all persons must be keenly aware that the Lord will reveal the innermost secrets of their heart. Too often we can spend an eager amount of time and energy criticizing and judging others while overlooking our own sin. Applying St. Paul's concern here in 1 Corinthians 4 to the present state of the church It is important to see that there is most certainly time to judge clergy when clergy have sinned publicly, either by sinful behavior or sinful teaching. There are false teachers who claim giving them money in sea faith so that they can live a luxurious lifestyle is God's will. I even ran across a teacher who promised that he could help people get out of credit card debt by charging their credit cards $1,000 and sending it to him. Amazing. Amazing. You can't make such a thing up. And yes, there are perverted preachers who use their position of authority to take advantage of vulnerable people. It is all true, it needs to be exposed, judged, condemned in this life, if possible. Outside of such blatant sin, Other judgment that takes place within the church is unnecessary and out of place. Instead, it divides Christians, and such division is Supporting the devil's cause. It may surprise you to know that in the end, God is not looking forward to judging and then condemning. But God instead is looking forward to praising his people. He's looking forward to praising their heart. Those who have focused upon God's judgment and not judging others are the ones he will praise with those precious words, Well done, good and faithful servant. Enter your rest. Be it known, dear parish, that God is looking, looking for people He can praise with those words. A minister is no more than a steward. He is not to be treated as untouchable. He is not to be judged by another man when he has only been a steward. Our energy to judge is to be focused upon God's judgment. For in the end, that is the only judgment that will matter. Let us pray. Our Father, we want to pray as is the concern of the Apostle. that we let nothing divide us that would be one man, one person judging another. But Father, we do say, all of us say, that if there is sin that needs to be revealed, may it be revealed. And if there is judgment of another man, let us repent and put it aside. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.