In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated Turn in your Bibles, uh, Genesis, we're gonna be covering actually the entire story of Jacob and Laban And at first reading the story, it may seem like it's simply a disagreement, two conniving men, infighting family members But it is much, much more than that. When I was a boy, about the age of ten, A neighbor boy, my same age, and his younger brother, were making faces and ugly sounds at me as I walked by their house And I reacted in an angry manner by taking some tomatoes that were in a nearby garden and throwing them at the boys and hitting their screen door. I didn't realize their father was home He came to the door and yelled at me, informing me that he was going to tell on me to my old man. Gonna tell your old man Well, that was the first time I had ever heard the descriptive old man. So to get my dad on my side, I thought I was telling on our neighbor by telling him that he he said you were old, Dad He laughed it off and made me go clean up the mess on the screen door. The Christmas before my 18th birthday My sister had become a born-again Christian just six months prior, and she gave me a Christian rock album. If you don't know what an album is, it's a circular piece of vinyl. It's quite remarkable advancements there. The album was by a group named Tetra And one of the songs on the album was Kill the Old Man. The title of the song seemed Rather drastic, as I did not anticipate I would need to kill my father if I was going to become a Christian. I soon realized that there are several usages for the descriptive old man. The first is a label for a father, anyone's father. A father can be called an old man whether he's in his twenties or in his 80s. The only requirement is that you need to be a father. The second use of old man is simply for a man who's past his prime. I will not give a particular age, but I believe I am numbered of those who is past his prime. The biblical use of old man is different than the first two. Of course it is The biblical old man is the man or person that used to exist, but no longer. He is the man that a person was before becoming born again. He is the man that a person was before he knew Christ as Savior. Thus, every Christian has an old man. The old man's power of persuasion and the memories he provides depends upon when a person was converted Even little babies among us have an old man. It is also called the sinful nature. Even if they've been buried in baptism, they have an old man. They will not have the memories of their old man like I will have memories of mine, but they still have an old man. Romans chapter 6 verse 5 describes what happens to the old man of every person who is baptized in Christ Jesus. Having identified with Christ at baptism, our old man was crucified with Christ in order that the body of sin might be done away with. That Christians should no longer be slave to sins. The wording of the passage is interesting. The old man is dead. He is crucified. But his full demise is still in question in this life. Ephesians chapter four, verse twenty-two assumes the continuing influence of this old man. He says that you put off, Paul says, concerning your former conduct, the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. Colossians chapter 3 verse 9 is a command to live differently than the old man. Do not lie, Paul instructs to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds. From these three passages and from the story of Laban and his relationship with Jacob's family, we will see. That the old man in each of us who have been baptized in Christ, that old man is dead. He is powerless. In his position, but his ways still linger. And by position I mean that the old man does not reign as he used to, but his influence is still present. We must therefore continue to work, whether we have walked with the Lord for one hour or 80 years. We must work to kill the old man. But what does all of this have to do with Jacob and Laban? Notice that Jacob desires to get out from under the influence of Laban just as each Christian desires to get out under the influence of his or her old man Jacob learns from Laban's sons and from his own observation that Laban is unhappy with Jacob's success and believes that Jacob has taken what is his. The Lord speaks to Jacob, calling him back home. And he does the same for all who follow Christ. He calls us away from the sins of old. He calls us away from our old man. As Jacob explains his reasoning for moving away from Laban to his wives, we are to identify with what makes living with our old man so difficult. The first thing we learn of our old man is that he is unreasonable. He is unreasonable because he is never satisfied. Jacob explains to his wives that he faithfully served their father, but the response of Laban was anything but gratefulness. Laban changed Jacob's wages ten times. Nothing satisfied him. He agreed to a deal with Jacob, but did not fulfill his end. He agreed to another deal and once again failed to pay. Time and again, Laban made an agreement and then changed the agreement when it did not come out to his advantage. Our old man, like Laban, is never satisfied. He always wants more. He tempts us in the following manner. He says to us, do it just once, and you will be satisfied. And so we do what we are tempted to do once, but afterward we come to know that doing it once makes us want to do it again. The simple bargain has changed. Another bargain is made, but couched in different language and in a different context, and so we think the outcome will be different. But it is not. The old man wants us to do the things we used to do. He wants us to become angry at the drop of a hat He wants us to hold grudges and become embittered by those who have wronged us. He wants us to lust after what is not ours. thinking that we can get away with it because no one knows what goes on in our minds, right? The deal is that if we withhold forgiveness Our personal pride remains intact, forgetting that that same pride has never earned us anything of value. The old man also wants us to satisfy our cravings. After all, he tells us God would not give you those cravings if he didn't want you to satisfy them. We remember those days of satisfying our flesh with fondness, not recalling how we were slaves to our own flesh. The old man makes a deal with us. You can satisfy your flesh and remain a Christian, he convinces us. The deal sounds good, but it is inconsistent with our Savior's wisdom when he tells us that we cannot serve two masters. Once that inconsistency is revealed, the old man has another deal. He always has another deal. Leah and Rachel side with Jacob's explanation, which does not say much for their old man Laban. Neither daughter perceives herself to be a daughter to Laban because their father treated them as goods to be sold. Their response is not an insult to Jacob. Laban has treated him like a hired hand, paid for by the labor, paid for because of the labor with wives. With his wives firmly behind him, Jacob sets out to rid himself of the old man. He was able to do this because there was already three days of separation between the camps. Again, this is like the Christian. We already have separation from our old man because of baptism, but still we must work to get further distance away from his influence. While Jacob's family packs and leaves, we learn that Rachel was busy stealing and hiding away what are called household idols. We will soon learn why this was a mistake. But before that discussion, it must be said that the old man will not allow us to leave quietly. Laban certainly checked in on his closest family from time to time, and when he had gone out to shear his sheep, he learned that Jacob and his family had departed. That the old man does not let us go quietly is frustrating to us. We think that because all things become new after we have been converted to Christ, that we should not have to deal with the troubles that we dealt with before. But Christianity in this life, on this side of glory, is not like that. Jesus never promised a life following him would be easy. What he promised was eternal life for all who journeyed through the valley of the shadows of death And remain faithful when coming to the end. If any man preaches that the Christian life is nothing but joy, wealth, and health, he is a liar and a thief. The way to the kingdom of God is narrow, and few travel on it. Victories are small and incremental for the Christian life. They are but a taste, a taste of the ultimate victory that awaits us in heaven. Until we reach that heavenly shore, the old man follows. Laban pursues Jacob and after seven days catches up to him. Laban's intentions are obvious. He wants his household idols back. He also wants his extended family back. He wants to continue to use Jacob's standing before God so that he himself might be blessed. God knows the intentions of the old man. And because of that knowledge, we should be comforted God is well aware of our struggle with our old man. In the case of Laban, God appears to him in a dream, verse 24. And warns him not to speak to Jacob in a good way or a bad way. The literal meaning is that he should not speak to Jacob with a peaceful greeting or a bitter reproach. He is not to praise Jacob or use bitter words. For the Christian, God sends the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, to intervene with our old man. The Spirit bears witness to us that we are not controlled by the old man, but instead we are children of God. The Holy Spirit helps us in our weaknesses, teaching us to pray and have confidence in the new man, the man that God has made us. The Spirit helps us to know that we do not face the old man alone. He is there for us. When Laban meets up with Jacob, he questions him as to why he left in secret. He then puts on, we'll call it heirs. The old man, Laban, speaks to Jacob as if he has nothing but good intentions His soul properties are now referred to as his daughters. Finally calls them his daughters. He suddenly becomes a caring grandfather Who wanted to send off his extended family with wealth and with blessings and have the opportunity to kiss his grandsons and granddaughters, which he never did before. The old man. The old man's ways are very old indeed. His ways are as old as the serpent. For he puts on a different character in order to deceive. Where the old man Laban has Jacob, where he is able to accuse him in truth. And that's due to the fact that Rachel did indeed steal the household idols. Household idols are to be understood as statues representing the gods, not the gods who control nature, but gods that are family ancestors. These were at first to memorialize and honor ancestors, but were soon turned into idols that were looked to for guidance and protection, and every family had them. Now I said that Laban's accusation was true, and so it was. And this is where each of our old men has a bit of a hold on us. He knows our sin. He knows what we have done. We all have sins that our old man knows about, but our closest loved ones do not. And if he can use that knowledge to exploit us, to get us back to obeying him, he will. He threatens to expose us. Early church fathers, such as St. Ambrose, believed that Rachel did not take the household gods for herself. But for the sake of her father, that she might help him to trust in God alone and not trust in the family idols. Such a conclusion you should see is very charitable to the character of Rachel. If we can agree with such an assessment about Rachel, there's another point to be made. The old man, no matter how you try, the old man cannot be converted. He is by his nature the old man. You can take away all of the idols he currently worships and he will find others to replace them And this is where many Christians fail because he continues to believe that some things of his old man can be salvaged. And this is where Ephesians chapter 4, verse 22 instructs us. If we believe that there is something about our old man that can be changed, that can be converted. Paul counters with the instruction, he says, put off concerning your former conduct, because the old man which grows corrupt, the old man grows corrupt. He does not rejuvenate. There is no life in him that can be restored. He only grows corrupt and cannot be saved. So put off, Paul says, your former conduct or the ways of the old man. That is the only option for a Christian. Well, after giving a tongue-lashing to Laban, Jacob is able to do just that. He is able to put off the old man. Finally separating from him. And so I asked, what have we learned here? What have we learned? We've learned that I was a delinquent child when I threw tomatoes at my neighbor's home. We have learned that the phrase old man in Scripture refers to our human nature before we are born again. We have learned that even though the old man has power over us after our baptism, every Christian is followed by his old man being tempted to walk in those old ways again. We have learned that the old man cannot be satisfied and we should not even try. Once he gets you to follow your old temptations, he will want you to follow again and again. The old man wants to make deals, but each deal is a trap that leads us to another deal, and then another deal, just as Laban made with Jacob. We have also learned that when we begin to leave the old man, he does not let us go quietly. He lives on because we let him. And if we listen to him, we give him more days to live. Notice, please. How the instructions in Ephesians require us to be active in denying and killing our old man. We are to be active. We are to be doing something about it. It tells us we are to put off the old man, which is to stop him from continuing on. We are to put on a new man, which is to live by the power of the Holy Spirit, enabling us to keep the old man quiet. We are to put away lying and instead speak the truth. We are not to let the sun go down on our anger. We are to no longer steal. We are to speak edifying words. We are to let all bitterness, wrath, and anger, clamor and evil be put away, not apart. We are responsible to do this, each of us to do it and do it again and do it again. And we are to be kind to one another, which must include forgiving one another And finally, we have learned that the old man cannot be redeemed. We can do nothing to help them, and we should not want to. It is the new man, the new man we are in Christ that we are to nurture so that he might mature. The less influence the old man has upon us, and the more corrupt he becomes to us, the better off we are. Just as Jacob had to work to separate himself from that old man Laban, so too do we need to work to separate ourselves from our old man. From the newly baptized to the oldest parishioner among us, we are all commissioned today to putting off the old man. It is a lifelong process, but one that is necessary to do if you want peace with yourself and more importantly, peace with God. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God We thank you for this picture of what it means to put away the old man. And as we've seen this type, this shadow in Laban and Jacob, May we recognize it in each of our individual lives and take that challenge to put him to death each and every day. It is in Jesus' name that we pray, and all of God's people said, Amen.