In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated Remind you that this series for the summertime is titled The Ramblings of the Rector, which basically means that I gotta get a few things off my chest. Let's begin with a quiz. And don't answer out loud. Because I'm not trying to embarrass anyone today. Rule number one for public speaking If you want people to like what you are saying, you need to make them feel good. And you won't feel good if you are embarrassed. Truthfully, however, my goal is not just for you to feel good, but for you to feel good because you feel challenged. So let's start the quiz. True or false? Jesus taught using parables because he wanted what he was teaching to be more relatable to his listeners. Answer false. In Mark chapter 4, after Jesus tells the parable of the sower, his disciples didn't understand the parable, and so they asked him what it meant. Before Jesus tells them, he says the following, quote, the mysteries of the kingdom of God has been given to you. But to those on the outside, everything is expressed in parables, so that they may be ever seeing, but never perceiving. And ever hearing, but never understanding. Otherwise, they might turn and be forgiven. The latter part of the verse is a quote from Isaiah chapter 6. Jesus uses the words of Isaiah in the context that he was in. in which consisted of people who were truly seeking the kingdom of God while others were seeking to destroy his ministry and have him put to death Thus, those who are willfully blind will not see the truth, and those who do not seek the truth of the teachings of Jesus will never understand him and never believe him to be the Son of God, so they receive his teachings in parables they won't understand. So if you answered that Jesus told parables in order for his teachings to be more relatable, it is actually the opposite of what you thought. Quiz question number two. We all know that the fifth commandment of the Ten Commandments says for God's people to honor their father and their mother. And God promises that if they do, that their days will be long in the land the Lord God gives them. But Jesus said the following. If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters, yes, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. Is this a contradiction and thus a proof that the Bible contradicts itself? The answer is a cold no. And the reason should be obvious to every Christian, but sadly it is not. The answer is that the fifth commandment comes after the first commandment, which commands that God's people have no other gods before him. And that word before means anywhere in the vicinity of him. The first commandment, beloved, is read into all the other commandments that follow it. If you break any of the last nine, you have also broken the first. Therefore, to love a family member more than God. Or even in the same manner you love God is to have another God before him. And to do so means you cannot be a disciple of Jesus Quiz question number three. The first letter of John chapter three, verse six, reads. Whoever abides in him, and him is God, does not sin. Whoever sins has neither seen God nor knows God. But then we have passages like Ecclesiastes 7, verse 20, that says the following: For there is not a just man on earth who does good and does not sin. Are these another example of the Bible contradicting itself? It could be answered that the Ecclesiastes was written before the time of Jesus, and therefore men could not be made righteous or obedient until their hearts were set free by the gospel and the very presence of the Holy Spirit But that's not an answer that holds up because John seemingly contradicts himself when he wrote previously in chapter one of the same letter. What we hear every Holy Communion service saying, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar, and his word is not in us. Thus we must ask. Did not John know that he wrote in chapter 1 in the same letter what he wrote in chapter 3? Did he just push send without proofreading his letter? The answer is actually more simple than some would think. The Greek language which John uses has tenses like our English language, past, present, future, although the Greek has more nuances in its tenses. Without getting into more detail, the point of John in chapter 3, verse 6 is that a person who knows God is not to continue in their sin. He or she is not to be living in sin and still claiming to know God. Thus, a person who does know God and sins Responds by confessing his sins and does not stay in his sins Now hopefully you're asking what is the point of my quiz and why I am asking the questions the way I have asked them The point is that many of us don't know our Bibles well enough. The point is That when the devil places an apparent contradiction in the Bible before our eyes and ears, wanting us to conclude that the Bible isn't trustworthy, We are more likely to listen to such demonic prompts because we don't know our Bibles as well as we should. And beloved, beloved, a sermon once a week is not enough. It's not enough. You must understand that if you do not know your Bible, the devil will use the oldest trick of temptation on you. He will say, just as he did to Eve in the garden, did God really say? Really say not to eat of every tree of the garden? And that phrase, Did God really say, has led millions astray Because they find a reason to live according to their flesh, because they are now convinced that God didn't say what the Bible says, and therefore there is no God. And I get to be my own God of my own life. So, so in order not to be led astray, I want to challenge you to better know your Bibles. We are blessed to live in the time that we do, because we can have more and more confidence that the Bible is the very Word of God, and therefore worthy of our study of it. And one of the reasons why we can have confidence that the Bible is the Word of God is archaeological discoveries. They keep being uncovered. Two years ago for Adult Sunday school, we watched a documentary series about archaeological proofs of the Bible's validity. We saw evidence of the location of King David's tomb. We saw evidence for the place where God came down and spoke to Abraham We saw evidence for the sulphur that rained down upon Sodom and Gomorrah. We saw evidence for the destruction of the walls of Jericho. We saw proof of the tomb from which Lazarus was raised. We saw proof of the hill of Golgotha, where the cross of Jesus was planted. And just this past year, the great stone of witness placed by Joshua has been identified Along with the place where Jacob saw the vision of angels descending and ascending. And the city of Ai has been identified, which is the city overrun by the Israelites after they won the battle of Jericho. It is. It is all very exciting. And not because we need such discoveries in order to believe, but because they are fascinating verifications of what the Bible tells us What the Bible tells us regarding how God has interacted with His people in history. And they do help us trust that what the Bible describes did indeed occur with real people in real time. Another reason we can be confident that the Bible is the very Word of God is its historical veracity. Historical events in the Bible can be verified by other historical documents outside of the Bible There are ancient Egyptian texts that claim that Egypt had conquered a people called the Israelites. And there is a letter written to the Egyptian pharaoh, written? Written at the time of Joshua, coming from the land of Canaan, that asked for help because a people known as the Haburi Or Hebrew people were conquering tribes in the land just as Joshua had done Tacitus, a Roman historian, wrote in 116 A. D. of a man named Christus, who was put to death by the Romans under Pontius Pilate. Jewish historian Josephus mentioned Jesus and his followers, describing Jesus as a wise teacher and a doer of wonderful works. A second-century Greek philosopher named Celsus identified Jesus as a doer of good works by sorcery. Pliny the Younger, a Roman official sent to the province of Bithynia in what is now northern Turkey, about 110 A. D. , was bothered by the Christians Although Pliny had extensive governmental experience, he had never been involved in a trial involving Christians. So when it came time to question some of them, he wrote to Emperor Trajan for advice. He wrote this. I do not know what crime is usually punished or investigated, or to what extent. He was uncertain whether those admitting to be Christians should be punished, or if they had to be charged with a crime as well. Meanwhile, he asked the accused if they were Christians. To those who confessed, he asked a second time, then a third, when even after threatening punishment, they still confessed to be Christians. Pliny ordered that they be punished. He said, quote, For I did not doubt that whatever it was they admitted, obstinacy and unbending perversity certainly deserved to be punished The seeming lack of respect toward Roman authority seems to have angered Pliny more than anything He likened this Christian attitude to a kind of contagious insanity or mental disorder that would inevitably result in crimes against the Roman state. He closed his letter warning, quote, this contagious superstition is not confined to the cities alone, but has spread its infection among the country villages. Trajan, the Emperor Trajan, incidentally commended Pliny for his actions. The Christians were even called atheists, sorcerers, and cannibals. They were called atheists because of their worship of one God rather than the many gods worshipped by the Romans. They were called sorcerers because of the way they prayed over the bread and wine they consumed at Holy Communion. They were called cannibals because they proclaimed to eat and drink the body and blood of Jesus. All of these writings verify That what became of Christians within the Roman world was exactly what Jesus told them would come about. But along Along with the confidence we can have that when we study the Bible, we are studying the very words of God, we are also to realize that Jesus and only Jesus has the words of eternal life. And that phrase, that phrase, words of eternal life, comes from John's gospel. Now we called it, we call the setting. Jesus has fed over 5,000 people. Jesus explains that in him doing so, he is reminding them of the bread God gave his people while they wandered in the wilderness. And the people say to him, Lord, give us bread always proving that many people were following Jesus, not because he was the Messiah or that he was teaching them godly words, eternal truths. No, they were following him because they wanted a free meal. And a free meal continually And Jesus then reveals to them that the bread in the desert that fed the nation of Israel, and the bread that fed two over five thousand people, was bread that pointed to himself. For he revealed to them that he was the bread of life. For just as he is the living water, so he is the bread of life, so that whatever the souls of men need, he is the provider. And after saying all this, the people started doubting him and exchanging doubts, for that is what doubters do. They influence others to doubt. And so they murmured about him, saying that Jesus is just an ordinary man. And they can prove it. They can prove it because they personally knew who his father and mother were. Jesus responds by talking crazy, at least that is the perspective of the doubters. He talks about himself being able to give them eternal life But to receive eternal life, they must believe his words. And to show they believe his words, he tells them. He tells them Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. And then he added, Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up at the last day, for my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. It was then, it was then that the doubters had heard enough. They said to one another that the words of Jesus were too hard to understand. And John says that many of those who followed him went back home and walked with him no more. And Jesus sees them walking away and does not go after them. He lets them go And then he gives his closest disciples a chance to leave as well by asking them, do you too also want to leave? And Peter answers in the most humble and articulate manner possible. Lord To whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And such is why we should follow Jesus No one before him taught in the manner he taught. No one blessed the poor before Jesus. No one taught people to care for the least persons in a society before Jesus. No one propped up humility as a virtue before Jesus. No one before Jesus gave warnings to the rich that their wealth will make them spiritually poor. No one before Jesus taught that salvation was realized. By having faith in a man, a man who is God. No one helped disciples understand that in the most simple things you can find the kingdom of God. No one before Jesus. The kingdom of God is like a mustard seed. The kingdom of God is like a lamp. The kingdom of God is like a fig tree. The kingdom of God is like a lost coin, a lost sheep, a lost son. It is like virgins burning oil. It is like a hidden pearl. It is like a banquet feast. The kingdom of God is all of these and so much more. The Bible, beloved, has the words of eternal life, which means words for in this life and words for heaven. It has words of hope, such as confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe on him in your heart that God raised him from the dead, and you will be saved. It has words of warning, such as some will say, Lord, Lord, and I will say, Depart from me, I never knew you. It has words of joy, such as the Lord is gracious and full of compassion. It has words of desperation such as, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It has words of peace, such as Jesus saying to his disciples after the resurrection, peace to you. It has words of chaos such as, in those days men will cry out for the rocks to fall on them It has words of direction for all of our lives, such as, be anxious for nothing, but let your request be made known to God. And be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. And return to your first love. And seek first the kingdom of God. And pray without ceasing. And love one another. And set your affection on things above. Today, we acknowledge the important doctrine of the Trinity, and yet many Christians are poorly prepared to defend said doctrine when ignorant Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons Come to your door and tell you the word Trinity isn't in the Bible. It truly is a moronic point to make. Because the doctrine of the Trinity is found not in the Word itself, but all over the Bible. It is in the word Elohim. Which is a word God uses for Himself, and yet it is a plural word. It is in the account of creation of man when God says, we We will make man in our image. It is in the visitation of the angels to Abraham, the wrestling with Jacob. The persons of Joseph, Moses, David, Elijah, Elisha, and in the words of the prophets. But this would be more readily known by Christians if we better knew our Bibles. Beloved, study the Word of God. Study the Bible. Be in Bible studies with learned men. Don't be in a Bible study that just reads a passage and says, what do you think? Be in a Bible study with learned men. Attend Sunday school and learn from those ordained to teach. Read your Bible. Read your Bible for stories, for devotion, for information. Whatever the motivation, read and study your Bible. Amen. Let's pray