In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Follow along with me as we cover that chapter. 1 Corinthians chapter 8. As many of you know, I love chocolate chip cookies. Better stated, I love homemade chocolate chip cookies. I can give up dieting And eat when I'm not hungry, when my beloved wife cooks a new batch of her special recipe and method of chocolate chip cookies. And I cannot divulge what those special things are. Years ago I analyzed my love and devotion for chocolate chip cookies. I once thought I actually loved the chocolate chips, and the dough was a necessary evil. This, however, is false. The dough, I have come to realize, adds flavor to the chocolate chips and holds them together for a perfect order. Each on its own, the dough and the chip is good, but much better when they're placed together And please, please do not ruin a chocolate chip cookie with any type of nut. Can I get an Amen? This example, believe it or not, segues to our text, where the Apostle Paul addresses another issue that the Corinthians had written him about. The apparent question they asked was what the congregations should do regarding the controversy as to whether it was appropriate to eat meat that was first offered to idols. This problem was very common for the Corinthians as the city market was filled with meat that was first used to worship idols. The meat offered to idols was consumed by the offerer, then by the priest, and then the priest would take what was left over and sell it on the open market to subsidize his income. Why eating such meat would be questioned was primarily for two reasons. First, some were concerned That buying and eating such meat would be, in a spiritual way, participating in idol worship Second, a part of the worship of idols was the belief that eating the meat used in worship is a consuming of the power of that spirit of that idol Thus, there was a concern about the spiritual power within the meat. It is easily assumed from the content of the apostle's response. That the Corinthians added to their question comments about their knowledge of idols, stating that they did understand that these idols Representing gods, because those gods did not exist, the idols really didn't mean anything. The possible logic of their thought process was that If an idol represents a god that does not exist, then the meat offered to something that does not exist And is therefore not actually meat offered to an idol or a false god, it's just meat But to answer the question, the apostle appeals to what will we refer to, or I will refer to this morning as Christian maturation. A particular problem is placed before the apostle. He addresses the problem while at the same time addressing issues of Christian maturity. It can be easy, and all of us are guilty of this, to focus on the example of the particular problem. and not learn the general lesson or the the principle of the problem that needs to be applied. And the example I just I previously gave shoots the point Upon hearing my love for chocolate chip cookies, you may disagree with me entirely, and you do so on the basis that you don't like chocolate chip cookies. You may be one who insists that chocolate chip cookies need walnuts. Others may insist that the whole cookie experience is not complete without a nice cold glass of milk. And upon taking such positions, my point of emphasis has been lost to you because the focus has been placed on the particulars of the example and not the general truths. If we get caught up with the particular issue of meat offered to idols, we lose the general lesson of Christian maturation. Lessons can be bogged down by qualifications that answer the what-if questions. What-if questions, there is no end to them. The purpose of my chocolate chip cookie analogy was to show the relationship between knowledge and maturity. One can be good without the other, but when they come together, something is created that is better than good. Knowing truth and practicing truth without maturity makes the knowledge incomplete. And here's a key ingredient. Christian maturity adds love. It adds love to the truths that are known and then practiced. The Christian life is always one of maturing, never arriving on this side of heaven. And I want to say that again for emphasis. The Christian life is always one of maturing on this side of heaven. When we learn something about Christ, a part of every lesson is that there's always something more to learn. Those who are truly educated, truly educated, are humbled by what they do not know It is not until we are glorified that we will be able to know all truth, or at least spend eternity learning all truth. This is all a preface by the apostle before he answers directly the question posed to him. The Corinthians must understand the benefits and weaknesses of knowledge by itself. They must be challenged to add the love of God to their understanding, which will enable them to make mature decisions regarding such issues as offering meat to idols. The apostle is providing what many refer to in a negative way as a pastoral answer. Such answers come in the form of essays rather than yes and no. Ask a pastor a question, oh, here we go. And it is understandable that a parishioner would like a yes and no answer. However, without understanding the why. We have a tendency to become like Pharisees. We become legalistic. Questions such as: Should a Christian woman wear a bikini bathing suit in public? Should a Christian mother work outside the home? Can a Christian attend a football game on a Sunday without breaking the Sabbath? Today we can add, can Christians smoke weed? It's a popular question. When these are answered with a yes or a no, it appears to create a law for all of us to abide by when there isn't a law. Yes and no answers do not take into consideration the many possible variables. To provide an elongated answer helps establish principles which respect possible variables. So we look in verses 4 through 6. The apostle breaks down what the Corinthians know. We know, he says. And what they knew is that an idol is nothing. And what he means by that is that the idol is a non-entity It is only what it is made out of. There is no personality or power behind the idol. The only power an idol has is what the worshipper ascribes to it. It is the same logic that some have applied to guns and other weapons. The only danger lies in the one who handles the weapon. The only authority in an idol that it holds over men is the power that men give to it. To take this thought further, excuse me, we see, we must see, I believe, the great irony of idol worship. If idols only have the authority that is prescribed to it by men, then what we end up worshiping is an idol that is very much like ourselves. Man with his personality gives life to idols. And this has been revealed in how some indigenous tribes would use totem pole-like images that have carved heads of different animals that carry certain virtues that the particular tribe wants to emulate. The ideal person that is brave, loyal, and such is who that people want to be or who they think they are. Thus, the personality of our idols is self. When a man worships an idol, he is either worshiping himself or what he desires to be. Even though idols are non-entities, the apostle recognizes the spiritual forces behind idols. He recognizes not the gods these idols represent, but the demonic forces behind them that call them to false worship. And these so-called gods are demonic, and they are real, and therefore they must not be underestimated. They also must not be overestimated, for above them is the one true God, God the Father God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, have the position of reigning above these false idols or so-called gods, for they are the creators. The Trinity is the creator, the sustainer of all life, including the demonic. Sadly. Even though the leaders in Corinth, or at least the writers to Paul, understood the true nature of idols, these so-called gods, but some in the church did not. Not everyone has the same knowledge, and that results in frustrating conversations. It disrupts unity. It might easily be assumed that all who attend this church understand the principles of historic Anglican liturgy. And might also be understood by those on the outside that each of us understands the episcopal form of government that we practice. But such assumptions would be wrong. Would you like to have an experiment? How about an assignment? Let's have each of us write a 500 words or less paper about why the Anglican liturgy found in the Book of Common Prayer is more biblically responsible than other modern worship orders Ready go. Or how about a 500-word or less paper on why the episcopal form of government is to be preferred as opposed to the congregational or presbyterian? Ready, go Personally, I didn't know these differences until someone held a grade over my head and threatened to flunk me until I studied these issues. So let us be honest and admit that we choose a parish based on relationships with other believers We also base our decisions to be a member here or elsewhere on personal feelings we have about the services or the minister. The majority that have come through our doors and chosen not to make our fellowship their home Base their decision on what they like or what they don't like as opposed to what they know Formalism as we practice it, for many, communicates a dead faith. I know it does because that's exactly what it spoke to me when I was a new convert. Ignorance, or more gently stated, immaturity, causes us to make decisions based on what we like or how we feel, not on what we know. Because there were those Christians in Corinth that did not understand the issues of idols fully, they responded to it immaturely. Some could not disassociate the meat offered to idols with the idols themselves. They believed in their conscience that they were participating in idol worship by eating the meat offered to the idols. Paul refers to these Christians as weak. Their weakness was in their conscience. And this weakness, however, does not remove them as having a personal relationship with Christ. They are still Christian. They are still members of Christ's church. The conscience of a person is a powerful deterrent and should not be cast aside lightly. The Holy Spirit speaks to every Christian, guiding him or her to all truth. Those messages, however. Are deciphered through the past experiences of a person and lingering guilt of past behavior The voice of God can be muddled and interfered by that guilt. The apostle knows the truth should be obvious Whether a person eats meat offered to idols or does not eat meat offered to idols does not matter either way. Neither way is a sin. He may sin, a Christian may sin if he acts against his own conscience Understand that if a man goes against his own conscience, he will find it easier to go against God's law. If a man's conscience is not heeded, neither will he heed the voice of God. And those two statements are hard for some people to accept, but life experience verifies them. If you go against your conscience, your conscience becomes hardened, and the voice of your conscience is harder to hear. This flows over to your ability to hear the Holy Spirit as he too becomes harder to hear. How not to treat Christians with a weak conscience can be seen in this following example. A church was attempting to move from drinking grape juice for Holy Communion to drinking wine, something we will be talking about at our next annual meeting. The pastor was convinced that when Christ took the cup of wine and said, Drink this in remembrance of me, he was implementing wine as the most appropriate symbol for his blood. Therefore, the pastor reasoned, wine should be what the church uses just as Jesus commanded. Upon the first service where wine was used, the elements were taken to the nursery workers. The two women in the nursery stated that they could not drink the wine, for they did not consume alcohol. The response of the pastor's wife, who happened to be in the room at the time, was stated bluntly. Jesus drank wine, and he told us to do the same, so get over it. Now, the knowledge of the pastor's wife was and is irrefutable. True, Jesus did drink actual wine. True, he did tell his disciples to do the same. And true, it would be best if the young ladies got over it. However, there is something obviously missing within this knowledge. What is missing is the love of God. In verses 9 through 13, the apostle recognizes the knowledge of the Corinthian leaders and the freedom that knowledge brings. This, however, is not where a mature Christian stops. A maturing Christian adds to his freedom responsibility. A maturing Christian takes into account the weakness of his brother in Christ. This, my friends, is adding love to our knowledge. Christian maturation is the process of understanding all the facets of our faith. Understanding both freedom and responsibility within the faith. That's following the example of Christ. As much as I am to obey the command the Lord gave Peter, which is to get up and eat, Even eat food that was once considered unclean, I am also to obey the Lord's warning that if I cause a young one, an immature one, to stumble Well, it's better that I had a stone cast around my neck and thrown into the sea. Christ takes issue with those who tempt and lead astray the weak and the young. He takes it personally, and so should we. The mature in Christ give way to the weak. It is as Christ has done. He refused to regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. He took on the form of a servant. He added love to his knowledge, and that made him most lovely. Complete devotion to Christ includes sensitivity to the conscience of a brother or sister. It includes a denial of our own freedom for the strengthening of another's weakness. Okay. All of this sounds good, but the question has still not been answered. Which is it, Pastor? Can we eat meat offered to idols? Can Christian women wear bikinis? Can Christian mothers work outside the home? Can men go to football games on the Lord's Day? What about whether it is acceptable as a clap in church? Can divorced Christians remarry? Is it a sin to drink hard drink? Does the Bible forbid Christians seeing rated R movies? Does it? Is it? Can we? I mentioned the question, should Christians smoke marijuana? Because we should be wrestling with how we are to apply God's law to certain behaviors, we should try to answer that question. More dilemmas of a similar nature are going to be placed before us. We need, as a church, to have answers. Well, I'm not going to answer that question about marijuana smoking today, but stay tuned. It can be answered, and the principles in 1 Corinthians 8 can be used to help us answer the question. My best answer to all such questions and the many of their type: if the chips are knowledge. And the dough is love. I think we need more dough with our chocolate chips. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for the courage of Saint Paul to address issues that are pressing in the moment for your people. We confess today that we have them and we wonder, but we thank you for the model here of taking what is true and what we know and applying that love. Father, help us to be mature in you and toward one another. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.