In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn if you would to Genesis chapter 16 in your Bibles. Our reading, our first reading. Came from Galatians 4, and maybe you're wondering, I thought we were doing a series on Genesis. And we are. I wanted us to hear how St. Paul interpreted Genesis 16. I want to take a look at the chapter a little differently by contrasting two different ways to interpret the stories that are told therein. The first way is what we could call the moralistic way, and by that I mean we could examine the moral lessons contained in the story. This is the approach that we take with fables. We look for the moral of the story. So, what are the moral lessons to be learned from Genesis chapter 16? Well The chapter begins with Sarai, Abram's wife, concerned that she has yet to bear a child. Because she and Abraham are getting along in years She decides to give her servant Hagar to Abram, and the child Hagar bears will be considered a child of Sarai and of Abram. That's the plan. From this, the first moral lesson is do not commit adultery. Or as a commentator has taught, at the very least, the couple was guilty of the sin of polygamy. Practicing polygamy isn't wise. After Hagar becomes pregnant, we are told in verse 4 that Sarai is despised in Hagar's eyes, meaning that Hagar looked down upon Sarai because she was pregnant and Sarai was not. The moral lesson here is the danger of the sin of pride. We should not become prideful for something that God has blessed us with. We should be kind to others who are not as fortunate as we are. When Sarai recognizes that Hagar looks down upon her, she realizes her mistake of letting her husband sleep with her maid. She next confesses her sin, well, sort of, and decides to take her anger and frustration out on Hagar. All the while, Abram is described as a bystander. He gets to have sex with a woman that is not his wife, and his wife blames herself. When the women start fighting, he leaves the issue to his wife, allowing her to pass the judgment. When Sarai is given the authority, she beats Hagar, who naturally runs away from the abuse Now I can see at least two lessons here. First, Abram should take greater responsibility for his home. He is to lead rather than follow his wife's every suggestion The second lesson involves Sarai. She is not to be bitter, for bitterness results in anger, and that's expressed in an ungodly manner. She sinned in her anger by physically abusing Hagar, and that was wrong. You see how easy it is to find moral lessons in the Bible? When Hagar was alone in the wilderness after having fled from Sarai, she was visited by an angel who tells her to go back home to her mistress, promising that God will bless her with a son. The angel even goes as far as to name the son. Hagar's response is one of faith. She believed what the angel told her, and she obeyed. The lesson here could be, well, first, the importance of being alone so that God can speak to you and you can hear him. It could be that God takes difficult situations and turns them into something good. It could be that submission to authority works for the greater good. All of these are important lessons. And so we could end our study of Genesis 16 by learning all of these valuable moral lessons. And yet it should be obvious that something is missing. The Bible is not Aesop's fables. It is the story of God redeeming his people. Thankfully, a reading of Galatians 4 helps out to reveal that Serai and Hagar represent more than their individual selves As do Ishmael and Isaac, which are yet to be born. So let us go back and look at the characters and the situations they find themselves in and see if there are deeper lessons. Commentator Andrew Jukes states that women in Scripture can be symbolic of the affections of the human will. The affections of the human will. Applying this to the story here, Hagar can be seen as the natural self-will. And Serai is the submissive spiritual will. And these two are parallel to law and grace. As the the apostle explains to the Galatians Hagar and her offspring are symbolic of the law, which is our natural will, and Sarai and her offspring are symbolic of grace, which is symbolic of submission and our spiritual will. Where Abram finds his trouble is that although he is a man of faith, and his wife Sarai is that means by which he is to go through, that means of grace for God's promise to be fulfilled There is temptation to force the issue. Enough though, even though, excuse me, even though we are people of faith We can force God's promises along by our own works, which are our efforts to aid the cause. Interestingly, the attempt to add works to faith is not peculiar to Abram or his day. You remember Cain tried to earn God's favor? Moses will try. So will Saul, so will David, so will Solomon, and others. Even we who uphold the doctrines of sol fide, faith alone, sola graptia, grace alone, even we are guilty of adding works to our salvation. Let me give you a few examples. In the Christian circles I was in prior to coming to the Reformed Episcopal Church, It was required of all members to abstain from the consumption of alcohol and tobacco. We were also forbidden to attend a movie theater or a dance hall. Not that they even had dance halls anymore. If one were to look in Scripture for a condemnation of such behavior, he would find warnings against drunkenness, a call to moderation, and a warning against evil influences. But there would be no specific words against such things listed. And yet many I knew placed their confidence in their salvation because of what they did not do. And it was rarely examined how such abstinence could be works-oriented salvation. Another form of adding works can be in the manner a person dresses or doesn't dress. I know a time in certain Christian circles when women wore only long dresses and long hair, believing that that was the only way a Christian woman should show femininity. I know of Christian circles that believe homeschooling is the only way to go to educate your children. I know of families who place great pride and extra pride in the size of their family Yet to do so is to be no different than Abram and Sarai, for it is adding works to faith. The Anglican branch, our branch, in the 39 Articles of Religion, Article 14, condemns what are called works of superarrogation Such works are besides or over and above God's commandments and are believed to be incapable of being taught and practiced without arrogance and impiety. The adopted article was a reaction to the many Roman Catholic doctrines that teach righteousness by doing extra works. As we have seen, however, it does not have to be a Roman Catholic doctrine. Many fundamentalists and Calvinists have unwanted similarities with the Roman Church And as was said, similarities with Abram and Sarai. The only relation that works and grace have is that works must follow grace. What that means is that we obey the law and perform works because we are saved, not to be saved. If the order is reversed, works before grace, trouble is the result. We learn from the apostle in his epistle to the Romans that when the law comes first It brings forth sin and then death. He explains that when the law comes, he wants to do the very thing he's told he should not do. His next actions then bring about guilt. The result is sin and then guilt when Abram and Sarai put the law first. Remember that Hagar is symbolic of the law and Sarai of grace. The law, or Hagar, mocks grace or Sarai. The law can mock in this way because it can require that which man cannot attain. Sarai cannot attain a child on her own. Hagar, like the law, hangs that truth over Sarai. In response, Sarai feels guilty first because she cannot bring forth a child by her own will, and second because She tried to do so in an ungodly manner. Her extra work failed her, and now she has to deal with the consequences. Now, before we get to the manner of how she deals with the consequences, we are to note that God, interestingly to me, does not condemn anyone in this story. No condemnation is spoken about. Sarai is the woman who represents a means of grace, and she is married to the man of faith, Abram. But because of her decisions, she experiences difficulties in life. She begins to reap what she has sown. I believe Sarai to be a good example of our many brethren in Christ, in the fundamentalist camp, all the way to the Roman Catholic camp. These people are believers in Jesus Christ. They confess Him and have been baptized in the name of the Triune God. They are Christian. And yet, because they too often add works to the law, to their salvation, they experience difficulties in this life, difficulties caused by their legalism or their ritualism. Sarai's response. Sarai's response to her difficulty is also common to us. Her response is technically known as antinomianism. Anti-nomianism is a mouthful word that means a rejection of the law in its entirety. Sarai, who is still a means of grace, is married to faith, loses sight of what she is and attempts to cast out the law, cast out Hagar completely. She first abuses it and then drives it away as if by doing so she is not bound by it. But she is bound by Hagar, for Hagar is her bondwoman. Sarai is responsible for the fruit of the work she attempted. The law which Hagar represents cannot be thrown out. The law is good, the scriptures say. It is good if it is used lawfully. Where Sarai has erred is the exalting of the law out of its proper place. And here we have another example of an extreme within the church. And we first described those who believed that they could add works to their salvation. And now there are those who believe they can throw out the law altogether. Those who attempt to throw out the law, they are a variety in and of themselves. These antinomians ignore the Old Testament laws, believing that Jesus would have us not be concerned about Regulations of property rights or a due process or just punishment or Sabbath restraints Ironically, these who preach such things as ignoring the Old Testament law, they always have the exception of tithing. That law, that's in place, all the others should be removed. Another group of antinomians throughout the law, believing that Jesus would have his followers, concern themselves most importantly with brotherhood, unity, coexistence. While believing that the laws of Scripture are a product of man in his environment being influenced by all of his prejudices The teaching says that such moral laws restrict people from being happy in this life. And so they are rejected as old-fashioned and irrelevant. People in this group have abandoned the traditional morals that the Bible clearly teaches while still claiming to be Christian. And what both Antonomian groups share with Sarai is the attempt to cast the law out. But as we see by the words of the angel, God does not want the law cast out. He wants it in submission to the Spirit of grace. He therefore instructs Hagar to go back to Sarai, to go back and to go get back to grace and submit. The law is perfect, the psalmist says, reviving the soul. The law in its proper place is perfect in what it is supposed to do. It is to lead a man or a woman to Christ. The law allows us to see God's standards and compare it to where we are, and notice that we fall woefully short The knowledge that we fall short then causes us to conclude that we need a Savior. Thus, to cast the law out is to cast out what would convict us and lead us to Christ. Hagar in obedience goes back to Sarai, confirming to us that the law has a place under grace. Even as she does, so, however, difficulties are not ended, for there is a son to be born, who, as the angel prophesied, will be a wild man. Having every hand against him, even while he dwells among his brethren. This is not good, and yet it is according to God's will. When men look to the law for their hope, look to the law for their salvation, meaning that they look to their obedience of the law and their own works to earn God's favor, the law becomes wild. It becomes wild in the sense that its standards cannot be obtained, and it is wild because it is never-ending. By never ending, I mean that men add on law on top of another law, on top of another law ad infinite. We see from this that it is all too easy to take the road of the Pharisee as we trust more in our own man-made laws and move farther and farther away from understanding, even believing that it is by grace. We are saved through faith, not by our own works. We do not have the time to list all of the laws we add, but I will mention a few. A number of years ago I preached on idols of our day, and included in that series was a sermon on ceremonialism. Ceremonialism was the placing of faith in the customs and traditions of the church, believing that when we do them, we are then more pleasing to God and thus more righteous. I bring this to our attention again because we have spent time this morning pointing out the errors of certain Christian camps, and yet to examine what could be our own. As much as I am in favor of more ritual, so that our senses might be more engaged and attentive, better focused as we worship. I am also careful to realize that we are just as apt to put our trust in those things in and of themselves, not what they point to. The Latin phrase ex opera is literally translated from the work worked. From the work worked. It is used to describe that a ritual practice in worship is only done because of the work of Christ, not our own. But reformers fairly criticized that the worshiper, practicing his ritualism, his ceremonialism, seemed to be trusting in the ritual itself rather than Jesus to whom we are to place our faith. This can be what we do with our rituals. The story of Abram, Sarai, Hagar, has a dramatic number of tense moments. The moral lessons within can be good and helpful if we're only seeing the Bible and the Christian faith as just another option for what kind of moral standards we want to emulate for our lives. The greater lessons for Christians, however, is to understand the relationship between law and grace and our works versus the work of God. Such lessons about our redemption, such lessons help us to think and believe rightly about God. As Abram and Sarah reveal, even as a people of faith and grace, it is hard to wait on God and let him do his work on his own time and in his own way. In our haste we add works, righteousness to his grace, which actually mars and covers his grace. Even the elect can be misled to trust in their own resources instead of waiting on God. What results from the effort is fruit, but not fruit of the promise. What results is a seed, but not the seed. Ishmael is a seed of Abram. He is a wild seed. And his descendants, understood today to be mostly Islamic, will be a constant thorn in the side of God's people. Thus not only has the work efforts of Abram and Sarai been to no avail, but actually has caused them pain. And so does the same happen to all who put their work before grace, who put law before gospel. And this is the lesson, the most important lesson from the text. The law can lead us to grace, but when grace is taken over the law, then our works of the law must become submissive to the covenant of grace. And this is to be more than a moral lesson to us. It is what we believe. We believe we are saved by grace through faith. And that not of our own works, but our salvation is a gift of God, lest anyone should boast. Let us pray. A gracious God, we thank you for this important story of Sarai and Hagar. And how it all reveals very well your plan all along to save your people by grace through faith May that always be kept before us, and may we be mindful whenever we try to put our works in front of grace that is not to our benefit nor to your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.