In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Maybe seated. Well first thank Nathan for his good words, and we will fled as a church to pray for him, his family, his ministry. We continue our series this morning on the six foundation stones as listed in Hebrews chapter six, verses one through three. According to the Urban Dictionary, cooties are highly contagious as they breed inside young boys and young girls. They can be released by a boy touching a girl or a girl touching a boy. As the one who gets cooties gets it. By being touched by the opposite sex. When I was a child in elementary school, we would yell that a certain girl had cooties And then we would run away, but in truth we were hoping that she would chase us and touch us if possible. It is interesting that the Urban Dictionary continues its definition by the following statement about Kudis. Cooties are diseases that the opposite sex has that gives you a reason not to be around them When you get older, cooties become known as SDDs. That was news to me And the innocency of childhood is quickly swept away. Now the subject of Tutis seems applicable as we come to our fourth foundation stone. We have heard about repentance from dead works, faith toward God, doctrine of baptisms, and now we come to the laying on of hands. While the first three initially make sense as foundational beliefs to be established in every Christian life This fourth foundation, the laying on of hands, does not seem to have an obvious purpose. After all, the laying out of hands is how you get cooties. And some people have such a strong belief in the danger of cooties, they won't shake other people's hands, they won't use public utilities, and they won't even handle doorknob handles handled by others. We say such people are suffering by obsessive compulsive disorder, having the fear of the germs of others, where we just simply know they don't want to get cooties. Now the laying on of hands can also be associated with superstition, as pagan worship seems to have practiced the laying on of hands in their rituals, at least according to Hollywood. The truth is that the laying on of hands is quite unique to Holy Scripture. And most depictions of pagan groups laying hands upon a person is actually taken from Holy Scripture And the first thing we need to know about the laying on of hands is its relation to the third foundation stone, which you recall is the doctrine of baptisms preached about last week. I mentioned a few weeks ago about the presence of parallelisms found in these foundation stones. Whereas repentance from dead works communicates something similar to faith toward God, and thus is a parallelism. So does the doctrine of baptisms communicate something about the laying on of hands as a parallelism? And we see this more clearly in the book of Acts, where people are baptized in water and then have hands laid upon them so as to be baptized in the Holy Spirit. As rituals in the church became more structured, the rite of baptism became associated with the laying on of hands. At first by the sign of the cross being placed on the forehead for a person recently baptized, and next the laying on of hands over the head of a person With the prayer that the Holy Spirit might dwell in the heart of the newly baptized. And later still, when the church instituted the ritual of confirmation. which was the affirming of a person's earlier baptism, hands were laid upon those being confirmed in order to seal Their baptismal vows. Thus the early Christians knew the relationship of baptism and the laying on of hands. They went together. And so the laying on of hands is a foundation stone related to the doctrine of baptism, or baptisms. But it's even more than that. Throughout the Holy Scripture, both the Old and New Testament Tell of the laying on of hands as a weighty symbol. A weighty symbol that passed along blessings Passed along miracles, wholly separated persons to service, and imparted gifts of the Holy Spirit. In regards to blessings, we recall Jacob, the patriarch, laying hands upon Joseph's children, blessing them, and prophesying over them. It was the high priest who was instructed by God to raise his hands over the people and bless them. And Jesus, of course, as we read, took children in his arms, and it says, put his hands on them and bless them. And then, interestingly to me, Jesus takes on this position as a high priest. At the end of the Gospel of Luke, before he ascends, the scripture says that he laid his hands upon those who followed him and blessed them. We are also aware of the many times that Jesus placed his hands upon those in need of a miracle. He laid his hands upon the deaf, the blind, and those with various diseases, and he healed them all. Thus far, then, the laying out of hands is used in Holy Scripture to impart something good from one person to another. And it it is a physical act. As a physical act, it is acknowledging that the physical world that God created is just as important As the spiritual world. Because the laying out of hands involves one human being touching another human being. For something good to occur, a blessing from God or a healing, God is using that physical touch, transferring his grace, a means of grace. And we are to conclude that the physical world is a means by which God communicates his gospel. You might anticipate from my sermons past where I'm going to go with my next point Once again, we have the opportunity to understand the physical world as important and necessary. As God has chosen it to be used to save sinners and to redeem his creation. It is then necessary for me to bring up the subject of the heresy of Gnosticism. Recall that Gnosticism is the belief that the spiritual world is the most important, and that that means the physical world is less important, or maybe even not important at all. Historic and modern-day Gnostics either deny the pleasures of the flesh or indulge in pleasures of the flesh, for to them the flesh is meaningless. According to them, the flesh, the physical world doesn't matter. Only the spirit of a person and the spiritual world has eternal value, according to the Gnostics. Now I remind you that Gnosticism is a heresy because it denies what God said about his creation at the time of creation when he looked upon it and said It is good. Gnosticism also blasphemes the Savior, Jesus, who took on human flesh, making himself a man. And remaining a man, a physical man, even to this day. Gnosticism Also does not understand the future salvation promised by God, who said that there will be a new heaven and a new earth, a new physical earth that is fully redeemed Just as the souls of the chosen of mankind will be fully redeemed. God wants to redeem the physical world. But Gnosticism is a sneaky heresy. It is a sneaky heresy because it is not so obvious. Consider. Consider a couple makes a seemingly innocent decision to get married in the open, such as in a park or at the beach. Why get married outside of the church building? Is it because the church building doesn't matter? Is it because God is spirit and he can be anywhere and thus he doesn't need to be represented by a church building? If the answer is yes, then please understand that such thinking is a form of Gnosticism. Think differently by understanding a church building as a covering, as a physical covering that represents God's people and the protection provided by God's people. Which is the church. The church has been referred to as an ark for Christians. An ark like Noah's Ark. And that is why the central part of the church building that you're sitting in now is known as the nave, coming from the Latin word navis, which literally means ship. God's people are to consider themselves in a ship that is sailing to the heavenly shore while the world drowns in sin around them. To be saved, a Christian must be within the ship, within the nave. I realized by using This example, I may be alienating some of you who were married outdoors. I am not questioning the validity of your marriage or your marital vows I'm simply pointing out that we can think like a Gnostic without realizing it. Now consider another example. What do you do with Bibles that are torn, worn, and have bindings that no longer hold the pages together? Are such Bibles to be simply tossed in the nearest garbage can? Perhaps for some reasons our consciences cannot explain we are uncomfortable tossing a Bible into a garbage can. And what is it that stops our conscience? Perhaps it is the Holy Spirit telling us that what was specifically set aside by God to be used by God, a Bible, is not something that you physically mistreat. Such would be a conviction against Gnosticism. On a side note, um For our conscious sake, Christians have either burned old Bibles in a ceremony or buried them as symbolic seed. Well, consider this next example. You are in charge of the sacristry on a particular Sunday The service is over, and you come upon the Holy Communion plate, and there is bread left over, and there is wine left over in the cup. Is it natural and without any prick of your conscience to throw the bread into the garbage and to dump the wine down the sink? For a person of faith, such would not be natural, because you had just witnessed The minister of the gospel pray, prayers of consecration over that same bread and wine. You saw people receiving that bread and that wine with faith in their hearts and eating with Jesus until he comes again waiting for him. The people eat and drink with faith, that the bread and the wine are a means of grace to them. How they are a means of grace is unknown. We don't say. We don't try to explain the value of the bread that is broken in the name of Jesus, or the effectiveness of the wine that is poured out in the name of Jesus. For we see them as holy mysteries and rest in such mysteries. What we do know is that it is not a mystery if that bread is thrown out and treated like a mere snack, and the wine poured down like any other beverage. Our understanding of the dangers of Gnosticism may not be keen, but we know that leftover consecrated bread and wine should be treated differently. That is why the extra is consumed or ceremonially poured out to the birds of the air and to the ground from which man came. What I am arguing is that the people of God, the people in which the Holy Spirit dwells, when they stop and consider, inherently know the dangers of Gnosticism. Such examples lead us to the next purpose in Holy Scripture about the imposition of hands. The next purpose is for the setting aside or separating something for a holy purpose. The blessing of the bread and the wine at Holy Communion are the first obvious example. The first furnishings used in the tabernacle of Moses, such as the offering table and the utensils. The Ark of the Covenant, the lampstand and its utensils, the altar for incense and the altar for burnt offerings. We're all to be consecrated, set aside, hands laid upon them for a holy use And so the church does the same today as it sets aside holy places in this sanctuary. Sanctuary, literally meaning holy place. And we set aside all the utensils in the sanctuary. Hands have been laid upon our lectionary for it to be used to read God's Word. Hands have been laid upon this pulpit, so it is used to preach God's word. Hands have been laid upon the communion table, so that it is set aside to be used as a holy furnishing to bless the bread. and the why. Thus we don't use the lectionary to read a false script. We don't use the pulpit to proclaim a lie or fables. And we don't use the Lord's table to open a bag to lunch and to rest our soda. For people who have faith in Jesus, Jesus who became flesh. Who took on the form of this world, we know instinctively that such places and such furnishings are for holy use. It is unnatural to our consciences to desecrate them and to desecrate them Is to take them as simply something in which we don't abide or revere just like any other furnishing to be used for our personal use But setting aside things for God's holy use goes beyond buildings and furnishings by the laying on of hands. In the Old Testament, hands were imposed on sacrificial animals in order to set them apart for special use. Also the Levites had hands laid upon them during a ceremony of consecrating them for service in the Holy Temple. Even Moses laid hands upon Joshua during a ritual that designated Joshua as the successor of Moses. And such actions set the precedent for Christian leaders to lay hands upon church leaders so that they might be consecrated, set aside for God's holy use. Remember in the book of Acts, we read first of the six deacons that had hands laid upon them, consecrating them for their office as church leaders. Saul and Barnabas had hands laid upon them to separate them for the task of groundbreaking missionary work. And we can safely read into St. Paul's instruction, read this morning, for Timothy not to lay hands on any man suddenly. That the laying on of hands was a practice done by church leaders to separate and specifically anoint men to church ministry. St. Timothy was warned to not to anoint a man to serve in the church who had not been carefully examined in order to assure that the leadership that is passed on to such men that their character would not shame the gospel. Now I need to stay on this point, of using the laying on of hands for the purpose of ordaining ministers. For I lament that the right of ordination is not taken seriously enough in the church today. It is not taken seriously enough by laity and by clergy. Of course, I'm speaking in generalities, I don't have individuals in mind. I believe it is important that every man who pursues to formally serve the church in the office of deacon or of presbyter To do his best to be part of apostolic succession. For those who are not familiar with the term apostolic succession, please know. That it is a belief that the authority and responsibility of the formal church offices are in line with the same offices commissioned by the apostles. If I see myself in apostolic succession, the hope is that the bishop who ordained me was ordained himself by someone, who was ordained himself by someone, who was ordained himself by someone that is part of the chain, the succession that goes all the way back to the apostles. This is the hold that the laying on of hands is a continuation of the laying on of hands that started with the apostles. Now, admittedly, such seems rather difficult because there have been so many divisions within the church, and it would thus seem hard to document such succession. But the Roman Catholic Church has documentation they believe leads back to the laying on of hands of the apostles. And the Church of England has records that although break off from the Roman Church, they actually can chart The continuation of bishops through Cranmer and others who were consecrated in the Church of Rome. And so the Reformed Episcopal Church can do the same As we have charts that show a continuation of the American Episcopal Church, which was a continuation of the Church of England, which was a continuation of the Church of Rome in England Which was a continuation of the first century church where the gospel was first brought to the British Islands by none other than Joseph of Arimathea. Beloved, if the laying on of hands is a foundation stone for Christians, and if the laying on of hands was the practice of the apostles to ordain men to the ministry, It then should matter to clergy and laity that we do our due diligence to be a part of a succession of the laying out of hands. That is a chain of hands that leads to the apostles, that leads to those who are anointed by the Savior Himself. Now as I say this, I am making no determination on the legitimacy or illegitimacy of the ordination of men who cannot trace themselves back to the apostles. There are many men within many other branches of Christ's church that display gifts that I could only pray to ever have. I only state that it is within the responsibility of every man who pursues holy orders to get in line with the laying on of hands. If the laying on of hands is a foundation stone, it seems, from this minister's vantage point, that such is the least a man can do who wishes to be anointed to preach the gospel. It is the least to be done. But all of us, all of us need the laying on of hands. All of us need the cooties of the Lord. offered by way of laying on of hands, whether it be at baptism, at confirmation. Healings, blessings, ordinations. All of us need hands God's hands laid upon us. Laid upon us until he comes again. Let us pray.