Vitor, Vitor Olhos In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Turn your Bibles to First Peter. First Peter chapter five. Allow me to begin with a commercial. Are you feeling lost? Searching for meaning You need a change. Online ordination Through the Universal Life Church opens doors to a fresh start in your life. A ULC ordination is completely legal throughout most of the U. S. And increasingly internationally. The Universal Life Church offers a number of helpful tools that can help you expand your ministry and your mind. As you explore their website, you'll find a great deal of content designed to train you as a minister. Aid you in performing better ceremonies and help you to navigate and understand your world The Universal Life Church Monastery, also known as the ULC, has been serving our online church community for over 40 years. Our fundamental tasks are to promote freedom of religion and to do that which is right. Core tenets that underscore everything we do. The ULC appeals to a worldwide audience through our online church services and our overarching belief that we are all children of the same universe. Over 20 million ministers worldwide have become ordained with the Universal Life Church. The ULC is open to people of all faiths, offering everyone the religious freedom to become an ordained minister and to practice your beliefs. Those who get ordained with the ULC are empowered to take control of their own spiritual lives and to do good in their own worlds. As a minister, you have the authority to perform weddings, funerals, baptisms, or even start your own ministry. Join the active ULC community by completing your free online ordination. I took the challenge. I answered the call. And here is proof. I am an ordained minister in the Universal Life Church. I can now preside over weddings, funerals, bar mitzvahs, baptisms, and I also had my dog become ordained. George Jorgensen was an ordained minister. He also can preside over weddings, funerals, barmitmas. And you can reach us at the same number. That my dog and I can be ordained by the click of the computer button doesn't make me feel all that well about my three years in seminary What is the cause of ordained ministry becoming so poorly respected that it takes barely any effort at all to become an ordained minister? I cannot think of any other profession that so easily allows people to become certified or licensed. Even professions that pay minimum wage insist on some type of training. You cannot flip hamburgers without some training. You cannot sweep floors without some training. But evidently you can preside over weddings with no training at all. According to the Fuller Institute and the George Barna Group, a recent survey revealed that the profession of pastor Is near the bottom of a survey of the most respected professions. It was just above car salesman. Over 1,700 Christian pastors leave the ministry in the United States each month. On average, 4,000 new churches are started each year, while 7,000 close their doors. It has been many, many years since the Christian church was respected in local communities and the pastors were community leaders. I did some research, found these articles on August 12, 1883. August 12, 1883, a featured article In the Daily Ocean Newspaper in Chicago, Illinois, there appeared for the purpose of explaining the distinctiveness of a new denomination, an article about the Reformed Episcopal Church. On October 28, 1901, on page 20 of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle There appeared an article that reported that the Reformed Episcopal Church was not going to reunite with the Protestant Church until changes had been made in the Episcopal Church. That was considered important news. Even as recently as nineteen ninety-three, there was a positive article in a Delaware newspaper reporting the ordination of a pastor into the Reformed Episcopal Church in New Jersey These proved that there were years gone by when most anything good that would happen in a local community from the Christian church was considered newsworthy to the surrounding community. Now, what is newsworthy is scandal, especially sexual abuse and sexual misconduct What is news is a television preacher claiming that God wants him to own a private jet. If there is a primary cause for why the pastoral office of the Christian church is looked down upon in our culture today, we need look no further than the church itself. Peter told us in chapter 4 that judgment begins in the house of God. And so it does in regards to the pastoral office. Being called pastor has become a byword for hypocrite, a title to scoff at. We need not blame the devil for this. We must blame ourselves and thus confess our sins and turn away from unrighteousness. Men of the colour must recommit themselves to live holy lives, holy lives for the sake of the gospel itself, for the gospel first and foremost. And if a man will not repent, then he should resign and get out of the way. Churches must insist upon leaders with good reputations. And churches must have the courage to discipline men who sin against their calling. Before I continue along this line, I want you to turn with me to what St. Peter instructs in those four verses of chapter 5. And there, of course, he's addressing what it means to be called an elder of the church In 1 Peter 5, verse 1, Peter uses the word elders to refer to men who are serving as officers in the church. And I use the word officers meaning men who have been ordained to the work of the ministry It is good to remember that Peter is not writing to one physical church, but many churches, and thus the plural elders he's writing to. The word in the Greek, as you might know, is presbyter, and it is used in St. Paul's letters to pastors. as a title designated for men assigned by the apostles themselves to do the work of pastors When referencing the men who officially minister in the church, Peter then refers to himself as one of them. And this is a very humble posture for Peter to take. Remember, he was an apostle and a leader of the apostles. He was of the inner circle with Jesus. And yet he wants to be considered one of them. Peter wants those who pastor to see him as their peer. Then Peter confirms his apostolic position with the referencing of himself being an eyewitness to the sufferings of Jesus. And that mention seems to prompt him to remember the words of Jesus. That whatever a person suffers for Jesus on this earth that will be returned to them in an uncountable way regarding the glory they will experience in heaven. In other words, the suffering we endure in this life will be all worth it and much more. The instruction for the presbyters or the contraption priests, we shouldn't be offended by that word, the instruction is to shepherd the flock. Of course, Jesus used the image of a shepherd and of sheep several times when he described his own ministry. He was that shepherd that went out and found that one lost sheep and carried him back to the fold. He was the shepherd that was opposite the hireling. The hireling runs away. Jesus was the shepherd who stayed and died for the sake of his flock. As shepherds, presbyters, priests, are not to serve the sheep out of compulsion, the New King James says, but willingly. Not out of compulsion, but willing. If a man serves by compulsion, he does not have an inner call of the Holy Spirit and therefore would serve but by his own strength. And a man who serves by his own strength doesn't last very long. A man serves by compulsion. He is serving because others have pressured him to serve. Other men have called him rather than God. And that again falls short. Such a scenario would be a man building his ministry on the strength of other men and himself, and again, it would not be fruitful. To serve out a compulsion in St. Peter's Day would be to give your life as an offering For it was the leaders of that crazy Jewish sect called Christians. The leaders were the first targets for the persecution. So instead of compulsion, elders are to heed the call Willingly. And willingly would include having an idea of what you are facing when you take the call. It did not take long for the first century Christians to understand the cost, the cost that they needed to pay if and when they followed Jesus. And even though Christians today don't face near the persecution that Christians did in the first century, there is always a necessary counting of the cost for anyone who puts on a collar. The cost, again, just for a general disciple, is that we all die to ourselves. And for the minister, that's even more. The pastor is called to die to himself in an even greater stint. And where Jesus says that all who follow him must pick up their cross, the pastor picks up a cross that's significantly heavier. And you have known me long enough to conclude that I don't say that to boast or to get any sympathy. It's just an obvious reality. And my best advice I give to anyone who desires to serve the church as an ordained minister is that he must be at a place mentally and emotionally that would cause him to conclude that he can do nothing else because the word of God burns within him If he would do something else, he would never be at peace because he was not being the man God was calling him to be. Any doubts, any doubts at all, and the caller should not be pursued. Next, a Presbyter priest is not to be in the office if he is pursuing financial gain. This warning should not surprise us, for whenever there are people who are open to God, they are also vulnerable to men. And greedy men take advantage of the vulnerable. And greedy men can take all shapes and sizes and put on all different types of uniforms, and the worst being a collar. As a man of the caller, everything is to be done as a representative of Christ. And when a man takes advantage of a widow's might, he blasphemes the name of Christ. He discredits the office he swore to uphold, and he silences the church's testimony of the gospel. The world turns a deaf ear to a hypocrite. Such a man may as well have a millstone tied around his neck and be thrown into the depth of water so that he drowns instead of becoming a scourge upon the body of Christ. Now in a positive sense we are told that the minister must serve eagerly That is a positive for a presbyter, a priest, to serve eagerly is to serve for the sake of the work itself. It is to believe firmly that the ministry being done is the most important thing a man can be called to do. And therefore it is satisfying because the call cannot be any greater. And yet while a minister may feel at times that his own cross is heavier, he is also a man who receives great perks. He gets to be with couples at their most joyous times, such as preparing for marriage, presiding over weddings. Also the great joy of celebrating a child being born into a covenant home, followed by baptism, followed by confirmations. A minister finds it a great privilege to share in such joys in families' lives. And he shares in times of awe, in times of great meaning, such as at the bedside of an ill person, a loved one. At the deathbed of a saint, at the graveside of a life that profoundly touched many people Such moments allow a minister to eagerly, eagerly serve the church. Uh my next instruction is for presbyters, priests, to not lord over God's people, but to be examples to them as they are sheep. The nature of a sheep is to follow, and they best follow in herds and in step as opposed to being pulled along A godly older woman said to me many years ago now, before I became pastor here. She said, remember that God's people are sheep, not cattle. Don't drive them, but lead them. Such wisdom could not be better spoken. To lord over is to lead by force. And while doing so, forgetting that you are leading a people who have weaknesses as fallen human beings and a people who have rights. As children of the king. The instruction to not lord over God's people reveals the inherent temptation within the office of a presbyter, the temptation to love the power over people. Leadership in all circles tempts a leader to love power. For a Christian minister, the temptation to love power can be perceived even greater because the authority is of God. And people need to fear God. And the temptation to love power was the reason why St. Paul instructed that presbyters should not be new converts. The temptation to pride is too great if you're seeing yourself elevated over others who have been believers for many years. Power can indeed corrupt, and power within the church can corrupt leadership and the reputation of Christ Himself. Excuse me. I was doing pretty well so far. Well The need for humility is evident, and we will talk more extensively about that next week For now, we need to underline that a presbyter presbyter is to show God's people an example. A minister of the gospel must exemplify to the people he shepherds that the church and his ministry is not about him. It is to always be about the gospel first. It is to be about bringing glory to Jesus first and last. And if such is the focus, the humility of a presbyter will be duly noted. I see it as necessary that we conclude our study of Peter's instructions regarding the office of presbyter, of priest, in the church. With examining ourselves to how we treat the office. Consider these challenging rhetorical questions. Do men who hold the office of presbyter, of priest aspire to the office? To treat it with necessary fear and trembling? Do we treat God's people as ministers with care and gentle leadership that sheep need? in order to remain safely within the herd? Do we serve eagerly by finding what we do to be a great privilege as opposed to a great burden? Do we resist the temptation to lord our authority over God's people? Do we strive to be examples of humility to young and old alike? And then for you as parishioners, do you as parishioners uphold the office of priest, of presbyter as an honorable position Not based on the men who hold the position, but that God ordained the office himself Do you use your pastor as a spiritual father who is placed in your life by God to be God's voice to you when needed? Do you uphold the office of deacon, presbyter, and bishop so that your sons aspire to be so? In your dreams as parents, do you hope that your son will become a priest as much as you hope he becomes a professional sports star? Consider that restoring the reputation of the Christian church within communities has to include restoring our respect for the office of pastor. And that restoring begins in the church. In nineteen forty A book titled One Foot in Heaven was published. It was written by Hartzell Spence, a son of a pastor. His father, William Spence, had an undergraduate degree, and he had just finished four years of medical school, planning on becoming a physician Before he attended a revival and heard the call of God in his life to become a pastor. William Spence served God in the Methodist denomination. back when the Methodists believed the Bible to be the Word of God. And Hartzell Spence tells of the many humorous stories that occurred while his father served many different parishes, moving essentially every three years. And although the stories of the ministry of William Spence are interesting, and his son is a good storyteller, they're not all that unique. Any son or daughter of a preacher could tell many stories of sacrifice, heartache, triumph, peculiarity, all that occur within a pastoral ministry. The trouble the church has today is not that is that many young people do not aspire to the office. But that is the fault of the church, and that's the fault of the home. God is calling men to preach as he does in every generation. The question for us is, who is listening? Who thinks the call is worthy to be pursued? Can a man who thinks he is to be a businessman, to be a coach, to be a doctor? Can he be interrupted? Can a call to wear a collar be worth more than a piece of paper? The field is still ripe for harvest, and the laborers are still few. And if men don't start heeding the call, then we've got to leave it up to George. He's not going to do a very good job. Let us pray.