In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Luke chapter 5. We will be going over our gospel reading today. Luke chapter 5. According to the liturgical calendar today is the fifth Sunday after Trinity Or the sixth Sunday after Pentecost, and whichever Christian calendar you follow, it is also known as ordinary time. I realize that by referring to the Christian calendar, I have already bored many of you Incidentally, the ordinary time or the weeks after Trinity are sarcastically referred to as boring time instead of ordinary time. The reason this time in the Christian calendar is considered boring is because of the themes that are focused upon other times in the Christian year. With the first focus on the birth of Christ, we have Advent, Christmas, and Epiphany With the next focus on the resurrection of Jesus, we have Lent, Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, and Ascension Day. In between those two themes, the primary focus is on ordinary time with a lot of green to be seen. The importance of ordinary time, which is named after the word ordinal or numbered, which is referring to how we Count the first Sunday after Trinity and then the second Sunday after Trinity and so on, and I'm boring myself telling you this. But The importance of this time in the Christian year is the focus on discipleship in general. The coming of Christ and the new birth in Christ are the focus of our Christmas season. The forgiveness of sins and the hope of the resurrection are the focus of our Easter season. But the Christian life is made up of a great deal of downtime Where we live our faith day to day, with no focus other than on our relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And the chosen reading from the Book of Common Prayer for this ordinary time reflects that focus on our faith day to day. That is why we spent time focusing on the importance of forgiveness last week, because it is so very fundamental to our everyday Christian walk Christians must lead a life of forgiveness, both in seeking it from God and giving it away to others. If we do not lead a life of forgiveness, we are not Christian. For today, from our reading in Luke, we will focus on discipleship specifically as it what it means to be a student of Christ. Which is what the word disciple means, a student of Christ. It was several years ago now that I learned the truth about what it takes to be a student or a learner First, you must admit you don't know something, which requires humility. Every young student Even excuse me, even young students have a hard time admitting that they don't know something. Bobby Lynn taught at the academy here for a number of years and can remember The many students five or six years old who when she would teach them something new, they would respond, I knew that Saying it in a proud sort of manner, revealing that there was not a humble heart that was needed. To truly learn is to be truly humble. Next, a learner must receive what he or she did not previously have, and that continues to require humility, for it is taking from another what is lacking in you. With new knowledge, a person is made new, for he or she is more advanced than he or she was before. And I hope you see closely how being a d student or disciple, how closely it is to being a convert. A convert needs to humble himself before God, acknowledging his sinfulness and his need for a Savior. He then must receive the forgiveness God offers in Christ Jesus. With such forgiveness, the convert is made new, and is therefore not what he or she was before So putting this together, we can conclude that to be a student, a disciple, is to be continually made new. In the gospel reading, we find followers of Jesus crowding around him and pressing in on him, and interestingly The followers did not include Simon Peter, did not include James, did not include John. Prior to this, Luke records Jesus being at the house of Simon Peter. So We know that they knew each other, and we know that Peter had witnessed Jesus as a dramatic and effective healer. But the three lives of these future apostles had not changed in priority until the events in Luke chapter 5 described. We first must notice why the people are crowding around Jesus. They have a good motive. Luke says it is to hear the word of God. There are hungry hearts among mankind that want to hear truth, want to know truth, and want to follow truth. Jesus fed that hunger and still feeds that hunger, and people who are hungry today can still be fed when Christian pastors are faithful to preach what Jesus said and what he did. Being the creator of all things, Jesus was aware of how calm waters can be a natural sound conductor. To sit in a boat and to be pushed out a little would provide a needed sound conductor for a large group. It is curious why Luke does not tell us what Jesus taught. Perhaps he repeats it elsewhere, but what Jesus said is not the focus of this story. The focus of the story begins with Jesus seeing Simon, who was not yet called Peter, and tell him to go out into the deep and put down their nets. We know that Simon, along with James and John, were professional fishermen. They knew the lake, also called the Sea of Galilee. They knew it well. They knew that the best time to fish that time of year was at night. And they knew that if they had failed to make a significant catch at night, there was no chance of catching anything in the morning. Peter knew that, and Peter repeats that to Jesus, but Peter had something to make him a disciple. A learner. He had humility. He had humility in that he was willing to accept the instruction of Jesus, even though his professional wisdom told him differently. And Peter had faith in Jesus. And that is revealed by his response, saying, At your word. At your word. To say at your word is similar to Amen. It is to be saying, let it be so It is a phrase we would be well served to have in our vernacular on a daily basis. It is telling the Lord Jesus that although the circumstances as I see them are not in my favor, And do not appear to have a good outcome in the future. I will trust at your instruction, and therefore believe you, Lord Jesus, over what I see. To say at your word is to walk by faith and not by sight. Jesus said That to forgive, we will receive blessings at the fullest measure. And we must only respond with, at your word. Jesus says to love our enemies and we must only respond saying at your word. Jesus says not to worry about tomorrow and we must only respond by saying at your word Jesus says that he will provide our basic needs. Regardless of the stock market, regardless of how high gas prices go. Or what type of policies the administration has in store, we must only respond by saying, at your word. And Simon not only needed to have faith in the Word of Jesus, but he needed to do specifically as Jesus said. He needed to go into the deep waters. Go to the deep. The deep waters are the more dangerous waters because of what could happen to the boat and the time it would take to get back to shore. Also, the deep waters are where the wind makes the waves taller, for there are no barriers to slow it. The deep waters are more dangerous indeed while having a greater reward. Simon also needed to let down their nets. These were the same nets that needed mending after each outing because of what the water and the growth within the water would do to them. And so Simon does as he was instructed, and the number of fish was much larger than they had ever caught before. And we can know this because the nets couldn't handle the count or the weight. Not even the boats could handle the number of fish, for they began to sink because of the weight of their content. And Simon responds. Notice that he does not respond to the sinking boats. But response to the authority of Jesus and the blessings that Jesus bestowed upon him and his partners. Simon's humility is further displayed by falling to his knees before Jesus, which signaled his unworthiness to be before Jesus And then expressing that unworthiness by recognizing his own sinfulness and thus his unworthiness to be blessed by this holy man. Simon's words here are similar to those of Isaiah in Isaiah chapter six. When standing before the Lord, Isaiah said, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and dwell among a people of unclean lips. It was similar to Daniel, who when encountering a vision of God, he said, no strength remained in him, as his vigor had turned to frailty. If you ever wondered what it would be like to stand before the Lord, the Bible has stories that give you an answer. Jesus is then gracious to Simon, as God is always gracious to the humble. As Simon was in awe, and as James and John were in awe, Jesus gives them a direction for the rest of their lives, for eternity. They are to become fishers of men. So we have clearly learned through Simon the importance of humility when being a disciple of Jesus. But what about verse 11? Look at that verse again. It says that when they brought their boats to the land, they forsook all and followed Jesus. The all would include their fishing nets, their boats. Their knives, their baskets, all that was needed to make a living via fishing. And the word all may have included their family and friends. For Jesus would say later that unless his followers hate their father or mother or wife or children, they cannot follow him. He also says elsewhere that each of his followers must accept Jesus, who will die on a cross, and then they must pick up their own cross. So, how literal are we to take these requirements for discipleship? I certainly don't hate my wife Nor my children. And so am I disqualified from being a learner of Jesus? I have no physical cross that I have picked up to actualize my devotion to Christ. But the disciples, the disciples left all. It says it right here in Luke 5. 11 and in Matthew chapter 4. They left even their families behind, and they say so later in Luke 18, when Peter reminds Jesus of all that they have left to follow him. But what does leaving all and leaving quickly really mean? Well We know that just after Jesus calling the three fishermen in Luke 5, Jesus is next in a Galilean home where a crowd has gathered. So the three fishermen could not have immediately left all to follow Jesus because they were still in Galilee where they all lived. And it is further likely that the house they were in where Jesus taught, and you remember the story of some other disciples dug a hole in the roof and Lower down a paralytic man so that Jesus could heal him, scholars agree that it must have been the home of Simon Peter. For Jesus was previously there and healed Simon Peter's mother-in-law So Simon Peter did not just up and leave without a word to his family, but they did eventually put their old lives behind them and follow Jesus for three years. No doubt there was great sacrifice on their part, but I have no doubt it was an even greater sacrifice on the other end. I want to personally share my own story of leading a life behind. I have been praised by some. Who know my story regarding what I did in taking my family from Washington State to Kansas City, Missouri? and attending seminary full-time while working two jobs while my wife stayed home and cared for the home and for the children. For on the surface it does sound like a great sacrifice But it was not. Not compared to what my bride, Bobby Lynn, sacrificed. We went from a spacious three-bedroom home To a cramped two-bedroom home with the boys sleeping in the attic. We went from being 40 minutes away from her parents to 1,500 miles from her parents. She went from me helping her with the kids every day to me being gone 12 hours a day only to come home, play with the boys, eat some dinner, and study until bedtime. That was for three long years. And she had two more children while we lived in Kansas. Kansas City. And both times she gave birth, she needed to be taken to the hospital by someone she didn't know because I was working. That gave us five boys when we left seminary. For three years she battled loneliness, depression, exhaustion. When her parents arrived for the graduation ceremony, I took Bobby Lynn with me to the closing chapel service for the students. With just her and I in the car, I stopped short of the campus where we parked and we could see the bell tower of the seminary. I stopped because I wanted to thank her for her sacrifice, and we cried, and we cried, and we cried Is that the type of leaving Jesus wants of his disciples? Is it to follow Jesus going where He has gifted us to go and convicted us to go with the willingness to sacrifice and endure the cost. I think it is. A little side story. When I was a senior in seminary, an anonymous person put a brochure in my cubby, which is where we would receive our tests and our papers back That brochure was for the Reformed Episcopal Church. I had never heard of the denomination before, but someone must have heard me argue or speak my mind in class and thought I would be a good fit. I read it, I took it home, and told Bobby Lynn that this church, the Reformed Episcopal Church, is where we should be. She looked at me bug-eyed and said, I'm not doing this again. So I guess sacrifice has its limits. What we must see is that the Bible is not above using hyperbolic language to make a point. The description to leave all, the teaching that we must hate those closest to us in life, the directive to pick up our own cross. Are ways to get across to us what the first commandment of the Ten Commandments means. There is to be No God before the only true God. And if anything is before him, whether it be your profession, your family, Your reputation, your personal wants and needs, all of it must be second to the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Again, I have been praised because I picked up my family and moved again halfway across the country from Texas to Maryland to pastor this parish. But again, the real sacrificing was Bobby Lynn. She had a baby less than a year prior She had no family close, no immediate friends, and was responsible to homeschool our children all under the age of ten. And some of the people at St. Stephen's didn't like her husband As many of you know, it is hard to love people who don't love your spouse. But she has died to herself many, many times while serving her Savior through her husband and through her church. And my point is not to praise my wife. It truly is not. It is to give an example of how everyday folks like us can leave everything to follow Jesus, even if we stay right where we are. We are not part of the twelve whom Jesus told to follow him. The calling of the apostles and their destinies were extraordinary and never to be duplicated again. But their hearts, like the heart of Simon, who would be called Peter, their hearts were humble, and their faith in Jesus as the Messiah was real. So that following Jesus was first in their life. Such hearts, my brothers and sisters in Christ, well, that can be duplicated again. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for the model of the apostles. And they're sacrificial living. And they're giving of all. And we see ourselves that there are plenty of times that we're not giving our all. But we can. We know we can. And so convict us where necessary that we might truly serve you. Truly serve you as you have called us to do. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.