In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Today we began a study on the book of Proverbs. I have hesitated to preach from the book of Proverbs because I have previously thought that it did not contain the gospel, and therefore I need not preach from it. Three years ago I took the challenge of studying the book of Proverbs in a Sunday school class. And lo and behold, it became one of the more profound studies I had done. And within it, we found the gospel. And thus we found Jesus. All such discovery encouraged me that I could preach a series of sermons from the book of Proverbs. As a whole, I will say, for preparation for us That you and I are going to hear great wisdom. And by great wisdom I mean not an unearthly profound wisdom, but a wisdom that is so obvious and helpful for everyday living. Part of a minister's responsibility, calling, is to become aware of the secret sins of his people. is also to know and recognize the public sins as well. And what I have concluded over the years is that many Christians get into trouble in their lives because of those secret sins and because of those public sins, but even aside from sins, because of foolish decisions that they make in their lives. Even though we talk of all things becoming new for a person who received Jesus as his or her Lord and Savior, such a newness does not mean that that person All of a sudden becomes wise. For Christians who have walked many years with our Lord and Savior, And you know that each time that they confess their sins before the Lord, that all things become new for them, yet even for them. They make foolish decisions. They are not always wise. It is true. The people go along in life receiving one, seemingly, one bad break after another, with no apparent reason for those bad breaks. A person gets lung cancer and she's never smoked a day in her life. A person gets into an auto accident when doing absolutely nothing wrong on the road. A person can get a broken heart because of a lost love when he or she was always faithful and always loving. And these things happen, and we don't know why, and reasons for such tragedies as tribulations, trials, those reasons will remain a mystery until we get to the other side of eternity. And then there are events. Difficult, painful, and trying events that happen in the lives of people that are caused. Caused by their own foolishness, plain and simple. One of my favorite examples Is the city of New Orleans and Hurricane Katrina, now ten years ago While it was indeed a terrible catastrophe, with many people losing their lives and many more people losing their property. It remains baffling, truly baffling, that people would build a city below sea level And build it in a gulf that is perfect for funneling hurricanes. I imagine that when people Question, why would God allow such a tragedy to happen? I kind of imagine God sitting up there saying, why would you build a city below sea level? But that is foolishness on a big scale. What we need to address is foolishness on a smaller day-to-day scale. Proverbs addresses subjects like a good work ethic versus a bad or poor work ethic, respecting other people's property. Avoiding lust of the flesh. Avoiding unnecessary confrontations. Raising your children to fear the Lord Controlling your temper, telling the truth, being aware of flatterers, being wise with your money, and much, much more. And we need this day-to-day type of wisdom if our lives are going to reflect the Savior. And if we are going to be a people that are happy and free from the worries that bog so many down who do not know the Lord What Proverbs will also teach us in general is that little-used virtue of personal responsibility. Personal responsibility. It will show us how we need to own our own sins. Own our own failures. It will show us how one foolish decision or action leads to another one and then leads to another one and we can trace back where it all went wrong from the beginning and take full responsibility. Now, before we look at specific verses from Proverbs, I need to give you a few caveats. Caveat number one. Proverbs are not promises. Say it again. Proverbs are not promises. Too often people will read a verse such as from Proverbs 22. 6. You're familiar with this one. It says, Train up a child and the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. And when they hear that verse, they hear a promise. But there is no promise made Most of the proverbs we will read are maxims or general truths and therefore are not definite, not definite, but instead are true most of the time. Underlying most of the time. The second caveat: some proverbs appear to contradict each other. What we can be sure of is that the contradictions are intentional. It's not as if they weren't aware that they were contradicting each other. When, for example, we are told in Proverbs 26, verse 4, it reads, Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you yourself will be just like him. And then the verse following, Proverbs 26, verse 5, answer a fool according to his folly, or he will be wise in his own eyes. Notice the proximity of these contradicting verses. That is purposeful. Those who have lived life long enough in this world know that sometimes you need to expose the foolishness of a fool, and so you answer him. And then other times the fool is going on and on so much that if you say anything, you're just joining in with his foolishness, and so you remain quiet. The writers of these Proverbs recognize life's different contexts. Proverbs Proverbs is not situational ethics. Proverbs is situational application. And so we have, in such a situation, as answering a fool. There's also another example that I recall when I was raising my children, we had a rule, no screaming in the house. Because with five under five, screaming could occur a lot. And it disturbed the peace of the home. And so no screaming. But of course In the case of a house fire, screaming is allowed. And the wise recognize different contexts. In the final caveat, I hope you notice that I said writers, as if there is more than one author of these proverbs. And so there is. But the majority of this wisdom was recorded by King Solomon, son of King David. He was the great king of Israel who asked the Lord for wisdom, and God was so pleased by his servant that he gave him wisdom and much, much more. And these verses then are primarily proverbs given to the children of the king, so that they might live life abundantly. And so, and so the King of Kings has them here for us, so that we too might live life abundantly. We will start off this morning going through the first part of chapter one, but understand that this this overview Excuse me, this series is going to be actually studying themes and not particular blocks of passages. But today we start in chapter 1, verses 1 through 6. The verses are an introduction to the book by praising wisdom. It is necessary to remember that as we sit on this side of the resurrection, on this side of the ascension, on this side of the coming of the Holy Spirit, Pentecost Sunday today Our Lord Jesus Christ, wisdom is to be revered and practiced as we are living out our salvation. This is in no way to be understood as gaining our salvation. We are not wise to be saved. We are wise in our salvation. So there is no moralizing going on in Proverbs. We should consider that wisdom, as it is described in this book, is similar to the character of the Holy Spirit. And appropriate to say on Pentecost Sunday, for the Holy Spirit guides us into all truth, and wisdom guides us into truth. The Holy Spirit teaches us to love justice, to love mercy, to walk humbly before God, as does Proverbs. Wisdom in human life is the skill of bringing the mental idea of godliness and righteousness to our life in a beautiful manner so that our thought and our speech and our behavior resembles our Savior. Consider, please, some of the most obvious benefits of living wisely. Number one, if you live wisely, you can avoid unnecessary trials Let's say that a young man is wise and he decides that he's going to get a job and in that job he's going to get up early and be on time every day and he's going to do exactly what his supervisor tells him to do And so he lives that way for years, and he finds himself stable in a good job providing for his family. Just being wise in getting up, being on time, and submitting. Number two, being wise has the benefit of being a good witness to the world. The world sees us, it watches us, and then sees us speak at the right times and be quiet at the right times. It sees us work hard at the right times. We are joyful in the right ways. We are true to our commitments and we are consistent in our convictions. And when unbelievers see that, well, they want what we have, and of course what we have is Jesus Number three, using godly wisdom aids to the salvation of our children. AIDS to the salvation of our children. You know, there is a reason why St. Paul warned parents not to exacerbate their children. He warns in such a manner because parents can be too hard on their children. And parents can also hover too much over their children. And this could lead, this being too hard or hovering, could lead to a child resenting their parents and thus resenting God. Proverbs also provides wisdom on how to guide our children away from the common sins of mankind. One of the chief goals, and I'm sure you parrots have the same, is to keep our children away from the scars of life And sometimes those scars are absolutely necessary. The Holy Spirit has to give them in order for our children to mature But then there are unnecessary scars, unnecessary trials that we want to help our children avoid. And Proverbs helps us do that. Number four, wisdom gives us opportunities to simply help our fellow man. Christian brothers and sisters, as well as secular friends, need the wisdom of God. Many of these proverbs apply to God-fearing and non-God-fearing alike. We have wisdom to offer the world. Number five, and this is my last one on the list. The benefits of wisdom, happiness, and fruitfulness in our lives. Happiness and fruitfulness. I can honestly look back after having studied this wonderful book of Proverbs and conclude that if I had applied some of its wisdom in specific circumstances I would not have had so much trouble in particular relationships. If I would have applied some prints some of these simple principles, I could have better battled personal temptations And here's something to remember. Much of happiness in this life is achieved by simply staying out of trouble. And Proverbs helps us do that. In chapter 1, verse 7, we find why this book is set apart from the rest of worldly wisdom. While the pagan world can offer sage advice, only the Holy Scripture instructs us to fear the Lord. In the Bible, to fear the Lord means unconditional reverence for and surrender to the Lord. It is a basic attitude of willing submission in the heart based on the nature of the living God. And the covenant he has made with us, the salvation he promises us by his grace. Truly, fearing the Lord is what separates sinners and saints. And we can understand what fearing the Lord means by stating what it is not. It is not acting cowardly before God. It is not believing that God wants to squish us like a bug when we sin. No, it is being in awe of him It is being in awe that he would even consider us, that he would love us, that he would save us, that he would want the best for us. What is man, O Lord, that thou art mindful of him? Because Proverbs works upon us from within, the heeding of such wisdom in fearing God forms a character that pleases God. And in verse 8, we are taught that fearing the Lord is directly connected to having reverence for our parents. And so much of society's ills today are because of the breakdown of the family. And a major factor in the breakdown of the family is a lack of reverence children have for their parents. Personally, I believe that is the fault of the parents, but we will address that on a later day. Verse 8 also informed us about this original audience. of the original audience of these Proverbs. It was written to the Son of a King. Of course, he's not named because it's supposed to represent all of God's children, us, you and I. And to appreciate how important this book is, do you know that Proverbs is quoted in some part 100 times in the New Testament? Certainly in application for us Christians. Now for all children hearing me now, if you are somewhat awake, note the importance in this verse of both the father and the mother in the life of a child. This is a parallelism. The instruction of the father and the law of the mother are saying the same thing. The basic message, heed the teachings of your parents, both of them. Next, in verse 9, it explains how wisdom has an ascetic reality to it Just as Holy Scripture can be viewed in the lives of people as joy and hope are exhibited in a person's countenance. So too can wisdom be revealed in a person. It adorns a person. Wisdom is aesthetically pleasing. It is viewed as confidence and trust. And when people see it in us, we become in their lives a sight for sore eyes. Moving on to verse 10, we have the opposite of listening to one's parents, and here we have a straightforward instruction. We are to understand that there are necessary components when we are being enticed by sin. We're going to hear a lot about these necessary components in this book. But one of those components is other sinners. Sinners who do not know God. Many foolish decisions made begin with whom we are friends with. I heard a minister give an example about this. He was counseling with a young woman, and uh the woman had fallen again and again into abusing drugs. And he made the observation to her, you know, I've never been offered drugs in my entire life. And he wasn't saying that to be braggadocious, he was simply pointing out to her that he didn't hang around people who had drugs to offer him. But of course the people that she chose to be around had the drugs and always brought her back in And then we see this connection, another component. Sinners is one, and making our choices is another. The other component is being tempted to evil by our will. It is implied in terms of who we choose to be friends with. We make choices. Now the wording of verses 11 through 13 require us to recognize that it is unlikely that our peer group would describe their intentions so blatantly. Not even a fool would say, let's go ambush the innocent without reason. So why is he wording it this way? What's he wanting the children to understand? He's trying to get them to see through the through the outer veneer of temptation and to go and look at what is at the core of the temptation toward evil. He wants his children to realize that temptations that seem so exciting and attractive at a given moment lead to very ugly and awful things. The blatant description of what is really going on with peer temptation forces the child to see the brutality, the injustice, the callousness that these people are intending to do. And with this warning, we are to compare the devil's mode of operation. Doesn't he make things appear so benign? Even a little fun because they're daring, because they tempt fate. But what is really going on is a battle for a person's soul. And with verse 14, we hear the deceptiveness that tries to make a person believe that the devil actually has good intentions. Let us share the same purse. The devil never shares equally, and neither do his followers. If he can get a person to believe He does share equally, well, he has succeeded in convincing the deceived that good is evil and evil is good. And such a deception forces the father to be unequivocal in his warning for his son not to walk the same road as his tempters. The Father who's riding this knows that road. He himself has been on it. And then to verses 16 through 19. Here we have described where it all leads. When tempters are followed, where it all leads. When selfish gain is the end goal. The end loss is a person's soul. Consider all the decisions that you make in life. Consider which ones are the most important. The first one, of course, is to follow Jesus. That's the main one. The second one, you've heard it from this pulpit before, it's who you marry. Remember that, young ones, it's who you marry. That's the second most important decision you make. And the third one is much like it. It's who you choose to influence your life. Who you choose to influence your life Consider that the following wisdom to help children grow up, to follow Jesus, and thus not follow the wrong crowd, consider how this also applies to adults as well. As Christians, we are to have instill within us a certain identity. An identity that makes us distinct from those who do not know God There should be something different, dare I say, odd about us People might even call us weird. Weird because we do not have their same priorities. We're because we actually believe in what cannot be seen. And because of that distinct identity, we are to expect And you should tell your children that they should expect to feel different and to be treated different by their peers. Christians, beloved, are the called out ones. We do not follow the path of the crowd. We need not expect to fit in. It is necessary for godliness that we don't fit in. This does not mean that we need to be antisocial, but it does mean that when attempters come at us and plea for us to fit in, That we see the words for what they really are. They're trying to get our soul. I witnessed I have witnessed parents who don't want their children to experience feeling weird or feeling different. Maybe they themselves, by following Christ, have not enjoyed the times where they didn't fit in. And so I've watched these parents encourage their children to fit in. To have fun. To go ahead and do those things. Beloved, as I watch these parents, I also see their children going the way of the world. Now, of course, I don't know what their end game will be. None of us do. But we are to understand that our souls are at stake. Our children's souls are at stake. To be different for Christ needs to be understood as a privilege. A privilege to carry his name. So here we are. Our first lesson from Proverbs. Go the way of wisdom. Don't go the way of the world. Sounds like pretty good advice, don't you think? Let us pray.