We don't know we don't want to be going through all the time. In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated Turn with me if you would to first John, first John chapter three, beginning at verse eleven. The challenge of studying John can be best understood perhaps by contrast. Picture a scene in a movie comedy or a television comedy where a false hero tries to prove he is tough. By drawing a line in the sand, endaring his foe to step over that line or suffer the consequences. When the foe is undaunted and steps over the line, the false hero, who is actually a coward, and the audience knows he's a coward. draws another line in the sand. And says, okay, now step over that line. Well, we can predict what the foe will do. He will step over the next line and over the next line and again and again until our hero runs for his life. As you picture this familiar comedic bit, play out almost the opposite. Is what John is doing in this first epistle. We are not necessarily his foes, but he is putting us to a test or test. As if he is drawing lines in the sand to see if we are or are not his foes He has put out the social test, and then the doctrinal test, and then the moral test, and now he's back to the social test to see if we measure up And John is relentless. He has already spoken frankly about the need for Christians to love one another, and now he pushes the point even harder. It is as though John is drawing a line in the sand and telling us that we better not step over it. And when we don't, when we stay behind the line, He then has us move back farther. And then he draws another line and says, now you can't step over this line even. It's all a rather bit intimidating, we have to admit. When the Lord places it upon my heart to preach a particular book of the Bible And I should say I perceive that the Lord places it on my heart. I am not infallible when it comes to the the topics or the books that I preach through I don't know what those sermons will look like or sound like or feel like until I'm in the midst of such a series. I have had a few of you tell me that for you, these series of sermons from 1 John have been hard-hitting and yet good. And I concur with that. That is my experience. They have hit me hard in terms of being convicted of sin and provoking me to strive harder against sin and my flesh. And I can feel, and it can feel, excuse me, and it can feel while we are in the midst of confessing our sins and striving harder that we become a bit. Weary. The convictions can come so hard and fast that we don't think we can keep up. And so we want the preacher to ease up a bit. Let us catch our breath, you say. And I again concur. But John doesn't. He keeps going and he keeps on the same subject. He drives the point home over and over again. And so I ask you, what am I to do? What is the preacher to do? Do I preach God's word as it is written and at the pace it is written, or do I modify it so that you and I would feel a little bit more comfortable? Well for this preacher it is unthinkable to let to let up, for if St. John was truly inspired by the Holy Spirit And was given these messages in such a rapid succession as he presents them, who am I, or any man, to edit the Holy Spirit? I assure you, dear parishioners of St. Stephen's, that God has gifted me with the ability to speak every sermon so that no one is ever offended or uncomfortable. I could write those sermons, deliver them without much difficulty. He has also gifted me to speak. with emotion and triumph and with a whimsical spirit that I could sound quite convincing and yet say absolutely nothing He has also gifted me to match the cadence of those slick salesmen who convince the audience that there are earthly treasures, earthly fame. For anyone who calls upon the name of the Lord, if you would just ask, then God would give. All you need to do is give that thousand dollars just as a sea face. And if you do, you will see a money tree grow. You will see a health tree grow. You will see a success tree grow. It just takes that one seed. I could preach in such a manner. And yet, and yet, none of these things would I preach, for I'm convinced it is only the Word of God that must go forth. Because it is only the word of God that does not return empty. This is as opposed to the words of men, which have such a short lifespan. It is only the words of the Holy Scripture that are life-giving. I therefore cannot alter them or silence them because I or anyone else feels that the weight is a bit too much at the moment. A preacher has to be like a coach who gets his team to running and gets his team to running and they're running and running and pretty soon they feel like they can't go anymore. And yet by his words, by his admonition, by his life, he tells them you can indeed go farther. And they take another step. And they run another lap. And so it is with the church. We walk again by faith. We are convicted again and we receive God's forgiveness again. Because we can. And God wants us to realize that we can. This is necessary to experience in order to pass this social test. This passage from 1 John is fitting for Palm Sunday. It addresses what occurred on that faithful day when the words of praise were spoken. Regarding Jesus being the Messiah of the Israelites, and then just five days after. Perhaps those same people that praised him with their lips, then cursed him with their tongues Or if they heard people cursing Jesus, those tongues, those lips that praised him now fall silent. John knows this type of lip service about love, and he states in verse 18 Chapter three, my little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth. Actions of love are indeed more holy than words, especially words only. Well, the background of this instruction by John regarding Christians loving one another is, of course, that God loved us first. With our profession, when we turn to God, we know it's because he loved us first. He has already told us in this letter that we cannot say that we walk in the light of Jesus and at the same time not love our fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. It is with that background that we examine John's line in the sand, pushing us back a little bit further to be humble, to be more obedient than we were even before. In verse 11 of chapter 3, John mentions that the command to love one another was from the beginning. The beginning point John is referring to is when the good news of Jesus was pronounced. The beginning of the preaching of the gospel had its foundation in love. And it included us loving one another. It was from the beginning of knowing who Jesus was. The need for God's people to love one another is now essential to the gospel. The contrast of such love is in verse 12 with the mention of Cain and his wicked heart toward his brother Abel. Such a grave sin of murdering a brother reveals the basis of hate. The basis of hate is enemy. Cain envied Abel because God favored Abel. This is in line with the Epistle of James. The same point is made When there is fighting among Christians, it is usually because of jealousy and envy that turns to bitterness and hate. The devil tempts Christians to find objects of their hate, and so we turn on one another as if the person we are angry at has the problem, when it is the angry person that has the problem. The reality of hate is accepted in verse thirteen. The world will naturally hate us if we are true followers of Christ. Consider that it hated Jesus, who is a perfect man. It hated Jesus and still hates Jesus. even though he offers forgiveness and love and everlasting life. And if the world hates Jesus who is perfect, well then it is bound to hate us who are imperfect. And the world hates us because our sins are forgiven, and it hates us because we are still sinners. And thus we are hypocrites in their eyes. All of this can be summarized in regards to our response from the prayer book It has us praying, Lord, give them repentance and better minds. But such hate, Christians are not to have. In this reminder of how the world hates us, John is saying that it is difficult enough to suffer the hate of the world, that Christians should not have to suffer the hate from one another. I recall speaking to an ordained minister of the Christian church. Who was so frustrated by a parishioner that he started to run words against this man that were purposefully unkind and condemning, even though the man to which he spoke did nothing that was immoral or disparaging against the gospel This preacher simply did not like the man. And I was shocked by his words, and I shuddered when I envisioned the devil speaking the same unloving words right along with this man who was to represent Jesus. Let us commit to not being a mouthpiece for the devil In verse 14, we have the social test placed before us. And as I said, it's placed before us again. Recall that John is calling all Christians to test themselves as to whether they are true followers of Jesus, and here the social test is repeated to make sure He mentions passing from death to life, and that is being born again. John is then saying that those who love fellow Christians are the ones who are truly, truly born of God, born again. And those who do not love remain dead in their sins. That, good listeners, is a line drawn in the sand. This is not feel good preaching by John. It is not benign teaching. It is not health and wealth preaching. This is true, truth stated emphatically with no non-zero qualifications And to show you how aggressive John is with this teaching, may I remind you of God's definition of love that we are to have towards one another. We are to suffer with one another, which means we are to put up with one another. We are to be kind to one another without exception. We are to be humble before one another. We are to be polite towards one another. We are to seek the best for each other before being concerned of our own needs. We are to rejoice in the truth for the sake of one another. We are to bear up the burdens of one another. We are to believe the best about one another. We are to hope the best for one another. We are to endure the worst from one another. We are to forgive one another. If you do that, if you are doing that, if you are committed to doing all that love is for one another, then you can know that you are born of God. Remember this example I gave of John drawing this line in the sand and telling us not to step over it and then forcing us back a little bit farther and then drawing another line with the same instruction. Well, that is what he is doing in verse 15. He is telling us to back up some more, and then drawing another line and telling us that if we do not love a brother or sister in Christ, we are a murderer. A murderer? Really? Just because I Withhold forgiveness just because I keep record of wrongs done to me by fellow Christians? I'm a murderer. Really? How can such actions as being unkind be equated with the actions of the likes of a Charles Manson? If such reasoning is your own, then I answer such questions with a question. If John is not saying such actions are indeed A line in the stand in line with murder, then what is he saying? What is he saying? My point is that it is easy to dismiss John's words because they seem too extreme. But if you do that, you have to replace it. And what do you replace it with? But the plain meaning of what he said. I submit there is nothing else to replace it with. The plain meaning of the words is good enough. Is this preaching lacking joy? Is there no joy in what I am articulating? If you conclude that there is a lack of joy in these words, then I would ask if these words are my words only or are they the words of John? And as the words of John, are they not inspired by the Holy Spirit? And if they are inspired by the Holy Spirit, do you want to say that the words of the Holy Spirit lack joy? Is it not true that when words of truth are preached, when they are received, when there is repentance, that the response is joy, that is true joy, that is internal, that cannot be snatched away? I submit to each of you that if you repent to God for not being kind, for not being polite For not putting up with one another, for not believing the best of one another, for not enduring each other, for keeping record of wrongs, for not forgiving, for not bearing the burdens of others, if you repent from such actions, or from your failures of such actions, and receive God's forgiveness, having the burden of such sins lifted off of you, so that you are free. Free indeed. Then you will have joy that no preaching can provide. Do you hear me, good Christians, or am I whistling through the graveyard? I trust you are alive. And want a joy that is natural to the Christian life. In verse 16, we have the standard for love that all Christians are to aspire to attain. And the logic in that verse is straightforward. We know Jesus loves us. We know this by the fact that he laid down his life for us. No greater love can a person have. Then if we love, we are to act in the same manner as our Savior and lay down our lives for one another. And all of us here would say, without question, I'm sure, that we would lay down our lives for our loved ones, those who are closest to us, our spouses, our children, our grandchildren. We would lay down our lives readily. But what about one another? Would we do the same for one another that are not our closest relatives? The challenge is to know if I would lay down my life for any of you. To know whether or not we would give our lives for the sake of one another, who are not our immediate family. We are to examine our hearts. We are to examine our actions to see if we are really loving one another Recognize that the likelihood that I would ever have to lay down my life for someone like an Austin Foreman or a Matt Trail, pretty unlikely. Probably never. And so maybe I can't know But I can though. I don't need to prove it physically. I can prove it by believing the best about Austin or Matt, and each of you. I can know whether or not I would give my life for each of you, as I would my wife and my children, if I am forgiving you, if I am enduring you, if I am thinking the best of you, if I am wanting the best for you. If I'm not keeping record of wrongs, if I'm hoping the best for you, when such love is practiced, the giving up of my life for yours is already determined. And if my love is not being practiced, if that love is not being practiced, then the not giving of my life, well that's already determined as well. Do you see from these words of John how directly connected our witness to the gospel is to loving one another? I remind you of Jesus telling the world that they will know we are his followers, that we are Christians by our love for one another. John explains here that by us loving one another in the manner Jesus loved us, the world will be witness, hear this, to the atoning sacrifice of Jesus. Did you hear that? Our loving one another is a picture of dying for one another, which is a picture of Jesus dying for mankind. Oh, what power there is in loving one another as God has commanded us to do. The devil knows well the power of us loving one another. And so he works very hard to thwart such love. C. S. Lewis well captured how the devil works to thwart the love of Christians toward one another in his book titled The Screw Tape Letters. For those of you who have not read the book, it is a clever take on looking at the threats of Christianity from the viewpoint of a demon. The book is a fictitious set of letters from a senior demon writing to give advice on deception and temptation to a junior demon who happens to be his nephew. In one letter, the human being, the junior demon, is assigned to deceive. This human being has started to attend a particular church. And this has the senior demon concerned. And so Screwtape, the senior demon, advises Wormwood, the junior demon, to first get the human to be dissatisfied with his church that he is attending and to bounce around to a series of churches. with a critical spirit rather than being satisfied with the truth and the accountability he can receive from one church. And if that doesn't work, next, the devil wants this demon to deceive the human to attend another church, a church that has come lukewarm. or one that has looked for causes to stand up for rather than the gospel and the holy scriptures The senior demon then advises the junior demon on how to stir up dissension within any of the churches this human attends. The real fun, Screwtape says to Wormwood, is working up hatred between those who say Mass and those who say Holy Communion When neither party could possibly state the difference between, say, Hooker's doctrine and Thomas Aquinas', in any form which would hold water for five minutes. And all the purely indifferent things, candles and clothes and whatnot, are an admirable ground for our activities. We have quite removed from men's minds what that pestilent fellow Paul used to teach about food and other such unessentials. Namely, that the human without scruples should always give in to the human with scruples. You would think they could not fail to see the application. You would expect to find the low churchman genuflecting and crossing himself, lest the weak conscience of the high churchman, brother, should be moved to irreverence. And the high churchman refraining from these exercises, lest he betray his low brother into idolatry. And so it would have been, but for our ceaseless labor. Without that, the variety of usage within the Church of England might have become a hotbed of charity and humility. Beloved, let it be our end goal to make this church a hotbed of charity. And humility. Amen. Amen. Let us pray.