And so he died on To take place from great In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. If you haven't been able to make it to Sunday school this year, I encourage you to start. We had a good presentation by the Reverend Lamboy. In regards to where works and faith come together in the Christian life, and it fits so well with our sermon that's coming to us from Genesis chapters 8 and 9. It is difficult to contain one's excitement about such a series as this. Well, at least my excitement about this series We have discovered more in the first eight chapters of Genesis than most have seen in the entire book, and I hope that as a result Faith in all of us has increased and will continue to increase. Our faith has been given the opportunity to increase because We were able to make connections from the very beginning of man to the life and sacrifice of Jesus to our contemporary lives. Without these connections, a reader of Holy Scripture could conclude that the story of God's people is made up actually of a series of failures and corrections. It would look something like this. God created the world and mankind. Mankind sinned, so God had to kick them out of paradise and come up with a new plan to bring them back. In the meantime, man continued to sin, causing God to judge the whole world with the flood to start over, because he did it wrong the first time. After the flood, the sin of mankind continued, causing God to confuse our languages. It didn't work again Soon after, God chose one man through whom he would teach what it meant to worship the only true God. This one man was Abraham, who was like Noah before him, who was like Adam before him. Whereas each man was to be the first to begin a race of people who were true worshipers of God. He keeps trying to reinvent. He keeps trying to correct Because we too often think that God is like us and that he makes mistakes, erases his mistakes, and starts over again. It can appear to us that God just can't seem to get it right. And by seeing what we have seen So far here in Genesis, we are now aware that Adam is like Christ and that he is the first of many to come Cain and Abel are like the flesh and spirit that struggle within each man. The giants that roam the earth coming down from the daughters of men are like Colossus sin. That mankind can produce when he is left to himself. The flood is like the baptism that each man of sin must go through as he is buried with Christ. The rising Lamb that comes up after the flood is like the resurrection of every man who has been baptized, resulting in the hope of everlasting life. These stories from Genesis and their New Testament counterparts reveal that the way of salvation has always been the same. There's never been a new plan. What is drawn out in Genesis is compacted and revealed through the Son of God, Jesus Christ, our Lord. If the story of Noah and his family and the animals two by two are a type of baptism Which they clearly are, then what might we learn about the life of Noah and his family after their baptism? Well, just as a person must begin to live out his or her baptism, no longer walking by the flesh, but by the spirit. So Noah and his family learn what it means to live out their baptism in the world. And that leads us to learn what it means to walk In good works as we live out our faith. Noah's family, like all who come out of the world, have been born anew after those baptismal waters. And they must make then a transition. What they find is opportunities for true liberty, true joy, and true peace. These are opportunities because through Noah's family, they've been given new life and a fresh world. And yet still the old world remains. And that means they have to learn how to live in that old world with new life within them. Noah and his family are the salt and light of the earth, just as Christians are. And thus we have responsibilities and we have blessings. What were they to do next? Well, first the text says they went forth. The New King James says they went out out of the ark. And that's That phrase went forth is the ideal of liberty. We described the inhabitants of the ark as it went through the flood, that they were prisoners of hope They were secure for their own good, but they were still prisoners. Now they are free to roam, free to establish, free to plant, to harvest, to build, to multiply. There are no restrictions, no rules, no prohibitions for them. Those who have been baptized in Christ are also liberated. Christians are not bound by the law, as the law is no longer a burden, for it has been fulfilled in Christ, so that we who follow him are made free by the grace of God. All things are now permissible. Dietary laws are done away with. Sacrificial laws have been satisfied. Those who are in Christ are free, and we say free indeed. And yet, and yet, all things are permissible, but not all things are profitable. Freedom in Christ is only limited by the flesh of man. So the second act of Noah after having been baptized is to worship. Noah built an altar to the Lord and offered burnt offerings. In his freedom, note this, in his freedom, the first thing Noah does is worship God. This worship is not done because he has to do it. Noah understands after having been through the flood waters that it was a privilege to worship the one true living God, to know his name I fear too many in the Christian community view worship of God and their attendance to church services as a have-to. Guilt is what brings them, and if there was no guilt, they would not come. Others compare a worship service to the many activities they would rather be doing And when we in such a manner, well, the worship of God loses out. With such a comparison, worship in this life will always lose out. Guilt can only last for a short while before it loses its effectiveness. The only lasting reason for someone to worship the one true living God is to comprehend the privilege that we have to do so. For Noah, that privilege was evident by the fact that all other men besides his family were drowned in the flood waters. that he himself was left, that he himself knows the truth, made it a privilege to call upon God. The third act of Noah and his family in living out their baptism is to be fruitful and multiply. Just as God said to Adam and Eve, so he says to Noah, his wife, Noah's sons, and their wives. All of them be fruitful and multiply. The command is for practical reasons, of course The earth needed to be repopulated. The promised seed from Genesis 3 that had to come forth to crush the serpent's head. Noah's family must multiply Some Christians today, and I wish there were more, admittedly, take the command literally Today, believing that it is their godly attribute to have a large number of children, to be fruitful, to multiply. Blessed is the man whose quiver is full, says the psalmist. As the command was given to Adam and then to Noah, so today parents believe it was given to them. Amen. There is nothing inherently godly, however, by simply procreating. What Christians need to understand is that the command to be fruitful also refers to godliness. Godly virtues are referred to in Scripture as fruits of the Holy Spirit indwelling in a man and a woman. Thus, when we seek to obey the command to be fruitful and multiply, it is important and even necessary that we understand it to include both having children First step, and raising them to walk with the living God. After all, populating hell is not difficult to do. I am sure we agree that there are enough backsliding lukewarm Christians in the world And that group does not need to be added to by those who believe there is virtue in simply having a lot of children, while not taking the pains to raise them in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Yes, Christians in living out their baptism are to be fruitful and multiply. And that means to us that we are to multiply and be fruitful in a godly sense. Populating heaven is a Christian parent's primary goal. The fourth act in living out baptism Is for mankind's power over beasts to be restored. Typologically, and we talked about this last week, typologically speaking The mention of beasts refers to the faculties of man. Our emotions are like beasts. Our desires are like untamed lions. Our anger can be like a fierce bear. After the baptism of a man, the Lord gives a power over such faculties that they did not have previously. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be on every beast of the earth, says the Lord to Noah and his family. This authority over beastly desires is understood when the Apostle Paul calls Christians to bring every thought into captivity, to control it. Said authority is expected by St. James, who tells the Christian to be angry, but sin not. Control it. There is an expectation in such passages that Christians have the capability, even the power within them to overcome evil. I know very well that this is opposed to modern thinking where scientists conclude that we are nothing more than our genetic makeup. You are what you are, you desire what you desire. Behaviors such as gluttony and alcoholism, drug addiction, and other vices are simply a result of how a person is genetically disposed, so it is believed. While there is much to be respected regarding one person's genetic disposition as opposed to another, Christians cannot accept that any disposition Any disposition relieves a person of their being culpable before a God for their behavior. Christians cannot do this because Scripture does not. It makes sense that because each person is genetically different, one man could be more susceptible to drug addiction as an example to another Yet Scripture does not allow susceptibility to be an excuse for sin. The post-baptized individual has been given authority over their faculties. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. No temptation will come upon a man that he cannot overcome by the power of the Spirit of God. Each person baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost has the authority and power of the Trinity at their disposal. The beasts are given into your hand, says the Lord. As author Andrew Jukes stated, If the animal in us is not subject to the mind, it is because the mind or man is not subject to the Lord. And when we are, the reverse happens. The fifth style, lifestyle change, embraced by a person baptized and now walking with the Lord, interestingly, is the eating of meat. Before the flood, man's food was vegetation. In Genesis 1, the Lord told man that every herb bearing seed and every tree in which there is fruit is for man to eat. Now, after the flood, the Lord says to Noah, Every moving thing that lives shall be meat to you. Again, before the flood, the bodies of beasts had been consumed only by the Lord in fire. They had been his meat. Their death satisfied him. After the flood, upon the resurrection of the ground, Noah and his family walked on, the meat of animals would satisfy them. The command to eat of meat is clearly again a type. A type to what the New Testament calls meat. Recall that when the disciples were concerned about Jesus, he wasn't eating, and they were worried about him. They came to him and told them he needed to have something to eat. He responded by saying that he did have meat. That he did have meat, and that meat was to do the will of the Father. And later he says that unless a man eat of his flesh and drink of his blood, he cannot be his disciple. He followed that strange statement by saying that his own flesh was meat Recalled the writer to the Hebrews uses the idea of meat to explain the difference between simple doctrine of God and those that are of greater sustenance, deeper, more profound. He called those doctrines meat. From Hebrews 5, verse 14, we read, but solid food, meat, belongs to those who are of full age. Those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So eating meat for the Christian is more than enjoying a good steak. Added to it is to know the deeper truths of God. That is meat to us. The sixth expected change of Noah and his family after having been baptized through the flood is requiring the life of a man for taking the life of another man. The standard thus has been raised, whereas before the blood of Cain was not required for the blood of Abel. Lamech, remember, in the line of Cain would brag about killing a man, and yet nothing was required of him. Such amnesty ends with Noah. Noah's line is the spiritual line, and those of the Spirit are required proper judgment upon those who are guilty of shedding another man's blood. The justification is stated in verse 6 of chapter 9. Man is created in the image of God. And to the modern mind, the killing of one man because he killed another simply means that there are two men dead. But God reveals the value of his image. By insisting that the only thing of equal value is his image. All murder, therefore, is to be judged. Under the covenant of Christ, this is taken to a higher standard still. You remember from the Sermon on the Mount Not only can men not murder one another without having to pay the penalty with their own life, but it is now forbidden to even hate another man, for that is murder within the heart. Not only can we not murder, but we are not to verbally abuse another man, for that too is damaging a man created in God's image. Well, the seventh and final change that man is to make in his life after being baptized is really not a change in lifestyle or actions or behavior. It is simply to know what God will do. Change in life, to know what God will do God says to Noah that he will establish his covenant with him and his family after him. The token of the covenant will be a bow in the clouds. The focus of the covenant made is what God will do. I will establish He says, I will look upon the bow, he says. I will remember, he says Here is a distinct difference between thou shall not, or thou shalt, and I will. With Adam, the focus was upon what man could and could not do. It was a sort of covenant of works. Here, the focus is upon what God will do. Thus God's covenant with Noah is grace. It is one of promise, and one that is dependent upon God to perform and fulfill. The type should be obvious to us who follow Christ, for we too are under that covenant of grace and not works. Our salvation is dependent upon what God has done, what he has promised he will perform. The covenant sign for us is not the rainbow as Noah received. For in Christ, you remember, that's a full circle, literally. Under Noah's covenant, it was halved. It is incomplete In Christ it is full as it is noted in John's vision where Christ is sitting on that throne, shining like Jasper, and around the throne, around it is the rainbow. Completed. With these seven noticeable changes in the life of Noah and his family after coming through the baptismal type waters of the flood. Is a type of the joys of living out the Christian life. Noah and his sons were regenerated to things which fallen Adam never heard of. Freedom and worship and increase and power over beasts outside and within. These are freely given by God. In Noah's world sin is judged. And in Noah's world salvation is not by works, but by grace. Like Noah. Like Noah, we have much to do to live out our baptism And unlike Noah, we practice our faith, we live out our baptism in full revelation that God is the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. What we should see is that living out our Christian lives includes overcoming and reclaiming. We are to spend all of our days overcoming beasts that are vices to us. We are to reclaim freedoms such as Loving your spouse and loving her well. Raising your children to know the Lord all their days, without exception. These are not easy tasks. No, they are not. But there is a reason why Jesus will say to us, will say to us, Well done, good and faithful servants. Such a welcome into heaven only makes sense if we spend all of our days working out our salvation, living out our baptism. Noah and his family did, and we are to do the same. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, for this high calling we are grateful To know that our salvation is not baptism and done, confess our sins and done, but that we are to live out a life of faith that is both pleasing to you and rewarding to us. May this picture of Noah and his family going forth be for us how we should go forth and do the same. May it be so, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.