In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Begin this morning by looking at Luke chapter eighteen, picking up at verse thirty-one. Luke eighteen, picking up at verse thirty-one. In the therapeutic age in which we live, it is quite tempting to hear the words of Jesus from Luke 18 And wonder what it would be like to know what your end days on earth would be like, and then conjecture how you would face them. Jesus knows how the next days are going to go. And we may be tempted to wonder what such was like. This is a type of what Sigmund Freud called projection. It is unfortunate because it is also a form of narcissism Because it fails to allow someone else's story or experience to be their own, but instead has a person only experiencing an event from the hearer's anticipated experience. Saying it another way, the person who hears about the experience doesn't concern himself with what the person went through, but only thinks about what it would be like if they went through the same. Such, to be blunt, is extremely self-centered, but unfortunately encouraged by modern preachers. Who think it is more appealing to imagine what an experience felt like so that we can all have a personal feeling about something rather than simply acknowledging the difficulty of what was experienced by another. Other examples include what it might have been like for the woman caught in adultery to be told by Jesus, Go and sin no more. Or be being told to imagine what it would have felt like to run to the tomb of Jesus and see that it was empty. Truth be told, what feeling such persons had at such times is objectively irrelevant and inconsequential to the facts of the accounts. But preachers go there with an attempt to connect emotionally with listeners who are, unfortunately, being programmed to think that how they react emotionally to a biblical story is what matters most. I realize that I may have just turned some of you off to what I am preaching today because you react more to what is emotional than what is factual. I don't want to turn you off. But I am also fighting against the spirit of our day that wants you to stay emotional and go no deeper. To go deeper is to go to what is at principle. And what is at principle is everlasting. Also, emotions change from person to person, but facts do not. In our gospel reading, Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. We have heard Jesus warn. those that he healed and and those that he cast demons out of, that his true identity was to be kept hidden until the right time. The right time was according to the Heavenly Father, which was when he was to be handed over to the Gentiles, to be beaten, whipped, and hung on a cross. Jesus says here that he is going to Jerusalem to fulfill what was written by the prophets concerning him. And what was written. Honestly, we don't have time this morning, or the next, or the next, to list all that is explained by the prophets said about Jesus. It is sufficient, however, for us to name the following. Jesus was, according to the psalmist, to be a reproach to the people His bones were to be placed out of joint. Like dogs, people were to surround him. His hands and feet were to be pierced, while his clothes were being auctioned by lots. According to the prophet Isaiah, Jesus was to be despised and rejected. He was to be the carrier of sorrows and seen by his fellow man as being stricken and smitten by God. He was to be led to the slaughter like a lamb who was silent. According to the prophet Jeremiah, Jesus was to suffer all that he did so that God could make a new covenant with his people. Which was God placing his law upon the hearts of his people, making them always his people, and him being always their God, meaning that all of his people would know intimately him personally. That is the end goal. God wants to be father to those who call him father. What Jesus warns about next, no way did the apostles understand. He was to go to Jerusalem to suffer. We know from their bickering that they anticipated events would be much different. Remember that they bickered with each other about who was the closest to Jesus and thus who would sit on his left hand and his right hand. That meant that they thought Jesus would establish an earthly kingdom. Perhaps they thought it would be something similar but greater than what the Maccabees did when they thwarted the Greeks and established rule over the region of Judea, which included the city of Jerusalem, just a generation prior. Whatever their vision, they were sure it was going to be a physical rebellion and a physical rule led by Jesus. These words of Jesus of his suffering and his death were not understood until after his resurrection. Picking up at verse 35. Verse 35, there is a connection between this story being told and what Jesus said about his upcoming suffering and death. We're going to get there and connect them soon. He said, then it happened. Luke says, then it happened. This refers to what happened next, remembering that Jesus was on his way to the holy city of Jerusalem Jericho was known as a city of palms, and there is today many palms within and without the city. And it is and was approximately 18 miles from Jerusalem. Of course, there was no welfare state to fall back on, so average families in the ancient Near East who had someone blind in the home They could only afford to feed the people who could work in the household. A blind person in the days of Jesus couldn't work So begging is all that they had, and family members would take their blind and set them in places where the most people would pass by, and the road from Jericho to Jerusalem was well traveled. Verse 36, there was a number of disciples following Jesus for various reasons. And that is why the blind beggar could tell something was happening that was unique or someone special was passing by Hence the question likely to a family member or family members that have brought him there regarding what's going on, what's taking place. The they referred to as likely the family members that brought the blind beggar. Verse 38. No doubt the reputation of Jesus had spread throughout the region. All who needed healing would have wanted to be in the presence of Jesus, to be healed by Jesus. It was understood that the Messiah was associated with physical healing, and the connection of the Messiah to David was well known. Hence the cry, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. Verse 39. The scene allows us to see from the eyes of those who were following Jesus by the manner they speak to the blind beggar. Jesus was understood to be an important man, a future earthly king, and thus he would not have time, in their view, to be bothered by a common beggar. The faith of the beggar is to be underlined. He cried out all the more, not being detoured by anyone who would have him be quiet. What is more, he understood that his healing would have to be by the mercy of God. This does not mean that he understood his blindness to be directly connected to some sin that he had committed. Too often people think that way. They think bad people have bad things happen to them, and good people have good things happen to them. That was the worldview of Job's friends, and it continues in some people's minds today. But such a worldview is false. Bad people can be quite successful in this life. Good people can experience hard times. Such cannot be refuted. A saving faith like the one of this blind beggar understands his own sinful condition. He understood that just within himself was sin. Not without within. He was a sinner. And that means that he thought of himself first. He made decisions for his benefit first and last. He preferred his needs over the needs of others And because of his handicap, he was likely bitter in heart, maybe against God, against those who claimed to speak for God, because he resented God for his blindness. Having that knowledge of yourself that you are a sinner is all too rare But the result of that knowledge is crying out to Jesus, Have mercy on me. Verse 40 Hearing the man, Jesus stops walking. He is responding. He is stopping in his journey to the cross to respond to a man most people thought was cursed by God. The man needed to be brought to Jesus first because he was blind and second because of the crowd that he had to wait wait through. Verse 41. Jesus is direct in his question. And consider what options there were. He could have asked Jesus for money. But Jesus knew what he wanted, and Jesus wanted to be asked. Remember, beloved, as Christians, we are in relationship with God, which means we are to communicate with him. He wants us to ask of him. He wants to give to us. He wants us to say thank you. Verse 42. Jesus next announces his healing and then connects it to the faith the man expressed. Now let us be careful here. Too many preachers connect the praise of Jesus regarding the man's faith to a formula. That says that personal faith is the sole cause of a person being healed. Such teaching is shamefully false Such allows false teachers to claim that when they pray for a person to be healed and the person is not healed, well that means that the person that needs the healing but didn't get it, that person has failed to have faith. It's not the healer that failed, but the person who is sick or lame or remains sick or lame, that person has failed. Instead, consider the examples of people who were healed by the faith of someone else. You remember the story of the Cripple, that was lowered down from the roof of St. Peter's house, placed before Jesus. And the text says that Jesus saw their faith and healed the man. Their faith was the faith of those who lowered the man. Then there is the daughter of the centurion who was healed because of the faith of her father. Not her faith, the faith of her father. And then remember the instructions in the book of James for elders of the church to pray for the sick, anointing them with oil in the name of the Lord. And it says, James says, and the prayers of the elders. In faith will save the sick. Again, not the faith of the sick, but the faith of the elder who prays. That is the faith needed. I am sorry to spend so much time on that point, but the falsehood that is so widely repeated, I needed to counter it. Verse 43. Here is a true disciple of Jesus. The blind beggar is healed. He gives rightful glory to God, knowing that praising God is praising Jesus. Celebrating such healing and the healing itself is infectious. Now, here is the connection between why the event of the healing of a blind man and Jesus telling his disciples that he is on his way to Jerusalem to suffer and die. Remember that Jesus' followers did not know what he was describing. Luke says it was hidden from them. His suffering and death was hidden from them. To be hidden is not to see what you could possibly see until something that's blocking it is removed. For a blind man, everything is hidden from him in the sense that he is not able to physically see. And then Jesus uses the ability to physically see as a metaphor for faith. Seeing and having faith in Jesus is the same. Consider why Jesus healed the blind man. Jesus cares about the man because he is a human being, and because to heal the man teaches everyone who is following Jesus that they too need to be healed from their blindness. What they are blind to is why Jesus is going to Jerusalem. Again, they thought they were following a Messiah who would establish an earthly kingdom. They thought they would rule, or at least the people they believed in would rule, and they would be the benefactors. But that is not the kingdom Jesus is going to establish. His kingdom was to be built with people who have had their hearts of stone cut away and given new hearts that beat with the love of God. And the a kingdom that is built with people whose hearts beat for God cannot be anything but beautiful. There is a reason, beloved, why atheists don't have cathedrals. As comedian Steve Martin sings, atheists don't have songs. This love of God within the hearts of believers is highlighted in our epistle reading from 1 Corinthians 13. A passage I have used as part of my own testimony, and that when I first read the chapter, my heart was cut quick, and I knew three things. First, I have never loved anyone as described in that chapter. Second, I have never been loved by anyone as described in that chapter. And third, I wanted that love. My next step was to confess Jesus as God. It is difficult to preach on love in our culture because the manner we presently use the word. Love is sung when the word sex could be substituted for it. Love is used to describe how a person feels about his dog. His car, his job, and then his spouse. What is powerful about the manner the Bible uses the word is both in action and in description. Love is seen by Jesus willingly going to Jerusalem with the full knowledge of what he would suffer. Love is exhibited when Jesus hears the cry of a blind man And love is seen by the blind man who cries out for mercy from Jesus with faith that Jesus can grant that mercy. And love is practiced by Jesus when he heals the blind man. And love is expressed when the blind man glorifies God in the name of Jesus. Love is revealed by Jesus sending a message to his followers that they too are blind to who Jesus really was. And what he was planning on doing. And therefore they needed to be given sight, which is to be given love. As far as the description of love in 1 Corinthians 13, we get the positive in that it suffers long, is kind. Bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. And then its negatives. Love is not envious. It is not conceited. It is not rude. It is not selfish. It is not provoked. It does not think evil of another. These beloved are the standards by which Christians are to live. There is no higher standard, no other relatable standard. Imagine if you were required to read the definition of love before you got into a conversation with anyone. Consider how our word choice, our tone, our body language would change with the definition of love in our memory. As we enter the season of Lent, let us ask God to heal us from blindness. So that we may love the Savior with a better understanding of why he went to Jerusalem. May God heal us from the blindness of how we treat certain people poorly. Or blindness to a forgiveness we have withheld. Or blindness to how desensitized we have become to what is immoral. Or blindness to the needs of a brother or sister in Christ, or blindness to what is actually blasphemous. Of course, the devil wants you to stay blind. So such healing can only occur because we have faith. Faith that Jesus can heal our blindness and help us to love. Let us pray. Gracious and merciful Father, such a standard you have placed before us, and we know it is a standard of you. It is your love to us. And for that standard may we not shrink, but fight for it, strive for it, recognize that without it we are blind, and so heal us from our blindness and make us holy once again. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.