In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated I have called this series of sermons the Rambling of a Rector, and that gives me the opportunity to preach on what I think I need to preach on. That which is Weighing on my heart. Husbands, I wonder how you would respond Two weeks ago, I arrive home from the parish, and as I walk up the stairs, as our house is a split level, I see My 58-year-old wife, with her back turned to me, sitting on the counter that separates the kitchen proper from the dining room. She is sitting on the side of the kitchen sink with her feet in the sink itself. As I walk around, I then see a three-year-old girl smiling from ear to ear, also with her feet in the sink. With both having large smiles on their faces, it is next announced that they are giving themselves pedicures and thus soaking their feet in lavender soap. Seeing that moment and remembering it brings a rather large smile to my face. Such love, such care, such vulnerability. I have become well aware of how my love for my wife affects how she loves and cares about and serves others When she is secure in my love for her, she is free to be what she needs to be for others. Unconditional love, uninhibited love, does that. It frees the recipient. It secures them and helps them to be free to love others. And so, husbands, are your wives free to love others Husbands, are your wives secure in your relationship with them so that they can be free to be themselves and not perceive life with you as a burden? I have become aware recently of Christian marriages dissolving, and not because of the sins Holy Scripture allow for divorce, which are infidelity and abandonment These marriages, marriages of confessing Christians, are ending in divorce because of falling out of love and becoming disconnected from one another. What seems to be missing for many Christians is the moral weight of what it means to be married, and the immoral weight of what it means to break vows Vows made to a spouse and vows made to God. I qualify this sermon stating that while writing this sermon, I did not think of any particular couple who has divorced, nor am I thinking of any couple that is headed for divorce. What I am concerned about is the truth being heard from the pulpit Regarding what it means to be in a Christian marriage, and for you to hear before being tempted to perceive yourself no longer compatible to your spouse. I want to address this in a sermon while the fire is hot, as we just celebrated a new Christian marriage yesterday. The reading from Ephesians is popularly read at wedding services, and understandably so. However, modern readings at modern weddings like to avoid the word submit when reading verse 22 of chapter 5. So they choose wordings such as, entrust, entrust yourself to your husband. When it is next read that husbands are to love their wives, the focus is on the romantic love that Sinatra Air Supply and Shiran have sung about. But that love, the romantic kind, is not what is being described in Ephesians or anywhere else a husband is called to love his wife The love here does come from the Greek word that is used to describe God's love. But it is not the meaning of that love that is important as the analogy of that love. Which is to love in the same manner, in the same way, that Jesus loved and loves his church, his church, who are his people. And how did Jesus love his people? Paul says it clearly in the verse. Jesus gave his life for his people. The conclusion that I am preaching is that the stability and sanctification of a Christian marriage is first and foremost dependent upon the husband loving his wife. Thus, on the Sunday before Father's Day, men are being called to stabilize and sanctify their marriages by better loving their wives. A husband, a husband's love must come first because God's love came first. This includes leading and not abdicating. In St. John's first cited letter, we read this from chapter 3, verse 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. He who does not love does not know God, for God is love. In this, the love of God was manifested toward us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. To make the point more clearly, some translations read: But God first loved us. The emphasis that God's love came first is essential. He is the initiator in our relationship with him. He is the person in the relationship that sent his law. He then initiated again and sent his prophets. He then initiated again and sent his only son. He then initiated again by sending the Holy Spirit, which we commemorate today, which means that God is with us always. This example of initiating is to be copied by husbands. The man is to pursue the woman before marriage, and the husband is to pursue the wife in marriage. This means that husbands are to show love for their wife first, and when love is forgotten, the husband is to be the one who initiates its restoration in the relationship. Now, husbands, I know this is not easy. I know by experience. Let us be honest that when we are in a serious disagreement with our wives, Not getting them to agree with us, we are tempted next to feel disrespected. And when we allow that emotion of feeling disrespected to take over our hearts and minds We don't want to initiate anything with our wives, especially not the restoration of love. But that is exactly What we are to do. We are to be the ones who first die to ourselves and pursue our wives so that love is restored. Because. Because God's love came first. Also, a husband's love must meet the standard spelled out in 1 Corinthians 13. This means to never take advantage of a weaker vessel, a woman, physically, emotionally, and certainly not spiritually. It is absolutely appalling to hear testimonies of women who have been abused by their husbands in the name of Jesus, for the justification of Paul's instruction for wives to submit to their husbands. The logic of the husband seems to be that if she is to submit to me in all things and I am not getting from her physically what I desire, then I can just take it when I want it. This attitude for body is mine. Paul says so in First Corinthians chapter seven. The logic of the husband seems to be that if I'm not getting emotionally what I want from my wife, then I'm going to take my emotions out on her, because she then is the cause of my anger and my bitterness. Beloved men are cowards who think and act in such a manner. And ministers who do not rebuke such men are worse than cowards. So let us take this type of thinking and compare it and contrast it to what is taught in 1 Corinthians chapter 13. After listening the gift of tongues, the gift of prophecy, the gift of power to perform miracles, the feeding the poor and being willing to die for the faith He says, if love is excluded from such gifts and practices, those gifts and practices are useless. He then says what love is: love suffers long. Husbands, do you suffer long with your wives by enduring their longer stories or putting up with their supposed annoying habits or simply accepting that women are naturally different than men? Love is kind. Now the kind that is being referred to here is not the same that are on signs, you know, placed on telephone poles and street corners that say be kind Those signs are nothing but confusing. Should we be kind to child molesters? Should we be kind to arsonists? Of course not. The instruction to be kind needs to have a context. And this context is to be kind to our fellow Christians, and to do so in order to bring glory to God. And so, husbands, you must ask yourself if you are kind to your wife, who asks of you to do chores and then prods you when you delay. Are you kind when she puts things away that you were using and now you can't find the thing because it is now where it is supposed to be? You can guess that such scenarios I did not make up. Next, love does not envy Husbands, do you envy your wife for the friendships she has while you have few and maybe none? Envy includes jealousy Husbands, do you become jealous of your relationship with your wife that your wife has with other men only because you are too insecure in your masculinity? Next, love is not proud. Husbands, do you think you are better than your wife? Do you think you are smarter, wiser, more capable of getting along in this world? Next, love does not behave rudely. Husbands, are you appropriate with your wives even when no one else is around? Do you make fun of your wife to friends? Do you tell stories of your wife that embarrass her? Next, love does not seek its own Husbands, do you decide on how the money is spent without consulting your wives? Do you say yes to every motorized toy you want and no to her desire to have some perfume? And how about intimacy? Do you seek your own only? At this point in the sermon, if you are a husband here today, you are probably feeling a bit ticked on. And some of these questions and their implications have likely landed like a gut punch. So let's breathe a little bit by turning to the positives of what love does instead of what it does not. Love rejoices with truth. You husbands are the pillar of truth, to be the pillar of truth in your home Truth is to be loved by you, expressed by you, and a standard you expect everyone in your home to live up to. Now I always need to qualify whenever I speak about truth because too many of us think that truth is telling others what we think. That is not truth. It is instead your opinion. If someone asks your opinion, then you should tell it. But some sugar on it, if it's painful. Just because you go around telling people your opinion does not make you a bastion of truth. But facing up to what is true And being willing to speak the truth about God and morality is being a bastion of truth. Next, love bears all things. This is similar to suffering long, but includes taking on the emotional and spiritual burdens of your wife. Husbands are to help relieve their wives of the pressures that life places upon them. Husbands regularly say, I got this, when their wives are overcome with emotion. Next, love hopes. Husbands are to keep hope in every aspect of life Both husbands and wives worry about the faith and spiritual health of their children and their children's spouses and their grandchildren and other loved ones. And as they pray together, it is to be the husband that reminds the wife that it is not where their children are in the moment that matters most, but where God is going to place them. when things finally work to the good. And next, husbands are to endure all things. To endure is to never quit, to never give up, to never lose hope, to stay the righteous course until the end, which is the end of the husband's days on earth. Husbands are to be the most consistent presence in every home. They are to be the ones that everyone in the home looks to in times of crisis, worry, and confusion. And part of that need to endure is in husbands taking on the sins that occur in their relationships with their wives. Now I I have been scoffed at by men when I counsel them in this truth. But I did not make it up. I got it from Paul's instruction in Ephesians 5, where he tells husbands to love their wives as Jesus loves his church. All we need to do is note all the ways that Jesus loves his church, and one of the very large and important ways he loves his church is to take on the church's sin. He makes our sins his own by applying his atoning sacrifice to them. And so husbands are to take responsibility for the sins in their marriage. This does not mean, as some have argued, that I am saying that the woman has no responsibility for the sins within the marriage. She most certainly does, but she is to stand before God for her own sins. The husband is to stand before God, being responsible for both their sins within the marriage. Thus, his role is to be a priest to his wife Which is to guide her with him to the foot of the cross and seek the forgiveness of God when there is failure. in their marriage and to seek wisdom of God on how to repair the hurts that came from the failure. And it is the husband's role to make every effort to change the character of the marriage So that the same failures will not occur again. I hope you see that taking on such a role should not be controversial, but instead beautiful. And speaking of what is beautiful, my final point in order to strengthen Christian marriages is to know that a husband's love is rewarded by a beautiful wife. It is said in our culture that beauty is subjective. The Bible does not agree. The Bible describes beauty as objective. Esther, Rebecca, and Bathsheba were all called beautiful in reference to their outward appearance. And the passages don't say that the people thought they were beautiful, but instead it is stated in an objective truth. And it may be true that the manner a husband treats his wife may add to her outward appearance. Because she is motivated by the love of her husband, a wife may take care of herself and her appearance. She may put on a happier countenance. She may look younger than she is because the love of her husband makes her feel younger. But no outward appearance will improve unless the husband speaks love to his wife. A woman can't know how much she is loved by her husband unless she is told, and not just a quick I love you. Time needs to be taken to explain what a husband loves about his wife. And I know that for many men such words do not come naturally. But that is why we have been gifted with passages such as in the Bible from the Song of Solomon. And why other men are gifted in the secular world with poetic thoughts, such can help free the tied-up tongue. But say something, good man, say something. But the beauty I am referring to is not outward. For no matter who the woman is, she will age, and outward beauty will lessen. The beauty I am referring to is what Peter describes in his first epistle, chapter 3, where he instructs wives with these words. Your beauty should not come from outward adornment, such as braided hair or gold jewelry or fine clothes, but from the inner disposition of your heart The unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in God's sight. For this is how the holy women of the past adorned themselves. They put their hope in God I swear to you that in my fading eyes, my wife is without a doubt more beautiful than when I first fell in love with her, and it is because of what she has adorned herself with inwardly. She has adorned herself inwardly so much so that she can climb up on a kitchen counter along with a three-year-old granddaughter and soak their feet in lavender soap. Husbands, love your wives as Jesus loves, loved, and loves his church. It is a lifelong calling, and no one else is called to do it. But you. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, we know that standard is there. We've read that passage many, many times. And we recognize that there's no doubt we fall short as men. But Father, give us the courage to act like men, to act like godly men, and fear you and love like you And love our wives, that they may be beautiful inside and out. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen