It plays our places, what we want to do, and you can In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We remain in Exodus this morning, but just a little bit differently. Having preached through Exodus chapter 19, we come to chapter 20 The very chapter where we hear for the first time the Ten Commandments. I preached a few years ago a series of sermons examining each of the Ten Commandments listed And so we are not going to rewind here. What I think is necessary for us is to acknowledge that The other commandments given after the Ten Commandments, or the Ten Words as the Jewish people refer to them. It is argued, and I think argued well, that the commandments that come after the Ten Commandments are more specific applications of the more general commandments, the general Ten Commandments. And while the Ten Commandments are understandable by most in terms of why they are needed and what they mean. The other commandments that are more specific in their application are not so easily understood by many in terms of why they are necessary. Some laws seem obscure and others seem outdated. The law against working on the Sabbath and the punishment being death if it's broken. is an example. The law is understandable, but the punishment of death seems extreme. Then there are laws against the eating of shellfish. Another against cooking a kid goat in its mother's milk. Another against weaving two different types of bread together. Another against planting two different types of crops in the same field. Another against cutting the edges of one's beard. And even more that have been labeled by unbelievers to be well weird The critics of these laws have been many of late, as it is one of the strategies of modern atheists to argue that the laws found in the Old Testament are so weird That they discredit the whole Bible entirely. We would respond that such a conclusion is knee-jerk. And as both cultural and chronological snobbery on their part, as they consider their perspective in such matters more sophisticated today, And that the laws of old were formed and followed out of ignorance. Their accused ignorance is matched by the level of their arrogance. A 12th century rabbi by the name of Moses ben Maimon counted 613 distinct laws in the Old Testament. 613. That's a lot of do's and don'ts. To begin to understand what Christians are to do with these many laws, we have to be reminded of the overall purpose of the law. What was God's main purpose in giving all of these laws? Some have said that the laws are given out of practical purposes, or for practical purposes. We Don't have laws that govern us because and yet because we are fallen creatures and we have the ability to destroy ourselves, the law is given that it might help us not do that, not destroy ourselves There were, to be sure, practical reasons with certain laws given. St. Paul tells us that the real purpose of the law Was and still is to lead a person to Jesus. Paul said to the Galatians that the law is as a tutoring That leads us to Christ so that we might be justified by faith. And it works like the following We hear a commandment, and two things seem to happen within us. First, we want to break the commandment. As St. Paul described in Romans, it is as if something evil is woken up inside of us when we are told specifically what not to do. I can say something as ridiculous as no one in the sanctuary during the service can look at his or her shoes. That's the commandment. You can't look at your shoes. And what do we want to do as soon as we hear such a commandment? What does everybody want to do? Look at their shoes. And so evil within us is revealed when we are given a commandment. And the second thing that happens when a law is given is we are feeling guilty. Because we could not keep the law. Some of you have looked at your shoes. We can't keep the law. And St. Paul described it for us all. When he said that he does the very thing he does not want to do, and what he does want to do, that very thing he does not do. And so we are all guilty for things we have done and things we have left undone. What wretched creatures we all are. Who shall save us from this? And to understand the various laws given, we also need to rehearse where Israel was when they were given these laws. Israel was in the Sinai Peninsula, about to enter the Promised Land. They were amongst polytheistic people They were the only tribe that worshipped one God. And the manner these other tribes worshiped their false gods was vast immoral. And at worst, abominable. Abominable against God and against humanity. Thus what these cultures practice in their everyday behavior and in their false worship is directly connected to the type of laws given to the people to govern them and thus keep them away from falling into the habits of the tribes around them Let's take the law that prohibits cooking a young goat, a kid, in its mother's milk. Although there is much debate about the origin of this law, it can be justifiably concluded that such was actually being done in the region of the Sinai Peninsula By pagan tribes as some type of fertility ritual. From the law that forbids it, we can conclude that there is a natural care that is in exchange by a mother of an animal providing milk for her kid. And thus to kill the kid, the young goat, and that which is to nourish him, is a perversion that Israel was to have nothing to do with Now consider next the common principles that are that is found the common principle that is found in some of the laws that are labeled weird In Leviticus 19 and in Deuteronomy 22, there are laws that prohibit the mixed breeding and cross-breeding of cattle. There are also laws that prohibit using two kinds of steed in a field, as mentioned. Laws that prohibit the mixing of fibers And even prohibit the ploughing of a field with a donkey on one side of a yoke and an oxen on the other. Well, what do these laws have in common? What principle is in each of these laws? Well, I hope it is obvious that God is symbolically teaching Israel that they are to be separate from the people around them. They are not to mix with pagan people. And this has nothing to do with race, but had everything to do with the false gods these other nations worshipped. Bad company corrupts. It indeed does. And bad company that would tempt you to worship false gods is the worst kind of bad company. And what I hope is being made more obvious when we consider these examples is that the Christian life The Christian life and the good news of God are embedded in the laws that he gave to Israel. And to see this even more clearly, we must consider the laws that forbid certain meats, dietary laws. How Christians are to treat others, especially those who are weaker among us, can be seen in the dietary laws. Listen to this quote by Mary Douglas, a scholar and author. She says this, the forbidden animal species exemplify the predators, on the one hand, That is those who eat blood, and on the other, the sufferers of injustice. Consider the list, especially the swarming insects, the chameleon with its lumpy face the high-humped tortoise and beetle, and the ants lumbering under their huge loads. Think of the the blindness of worms and bats The vulnerability of fish without scales. Think of their human parallels. The laborers, the beggars, the orphans, and defenseless widows. Not themselves, but the behavior that reduces them to this state is an abomination No wonder the Lord made the crawling things and found them good. It is not in the grand style of the law to take time off from cosmic themes to teach that these pathetic creatures. are to be shunned because their bodies are disgusting, vile, bad, any more than it is consistent with its theme of justice to teach that the poor are to be shunned. Shunning is not the issue. Predation is wrong. Eating is a form of predation, and the poor are not prey. I love that last point. The poor are not praying. And we are to understand that by what we eat or do not eat. It is wise to find a Christian witness in our diet. God spoke to Israel through his law and addressed all aspects of living as his people. Thus we can say that it is not what is eaten or not eaten that matters to the Christian today, for all food has been declared clean in the book of Acts. The issue is that we are taught what we are taught in the dietary laws, which is also taught in the New Testament, we are to care for the poor. The disenfranchised, the needy, the weak, the widowed. Israel was to avoid eating what symbolized preying on the vulnerable in society And we as Christians are to avoid forgetting about the vulnerable. Such is profound, I think. Another importance of the various laws in the Old Testament is the need for justice. Our God, the one true God, is a God of justice. The law of Moses acknowledges that individual persons have been given rights by God. The right to life is one as the sixth commandment states. The right to personal property is another as the eighth commandment states. Thus, when a life is either harmed or taken by another person, the person taking the life must be held accountable. And when property is stolen or devalued, the property or value must be restored by the guilty party. And as a just God, there is within the law a recognition that not every time a life is taken or a life is maimed is someone directly responsible. There is then recognized a difference between premeditated murder and a death by accident And there is a recognition for the need of restitution, which is obviously missing in our culture today If a young man was to steal my car and take it for a joyride and crash it, And total the vehicle and was caught and had to go to jail for his crime I would begin to contribute to his incarceration by my tax money going to pay for his bed, food, and clothes. And since I only have liability insurance on my vehicle, I am without a car. And still footing the food and housing bill for the criminal who made off with my vehicle. Where is the justice in such a scenario? In God's law, restitution and more is required. For instance, in Exodus 22, it is commanded that if one man steals another man's livestock, kills it and slaughters it, And he is found guilty, he is to pay the victim five oxen for one oxen stolen, and four sheep for one sheep stolen. That is restitution. That is justice. For a proper understanding of the many laws found in the Old Testament It is vital that we understand as his people what God was doing with all of these 613 laws. What we can know about many Old Testament laws is from the words of Jesus Himself. Remember, when addressing the issue of divorce, Jesus said the following, because of the hardness of heart Because of the hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so What was not so from the beginning? Well it was that God, what he intended all along, which was that men do not divorce their wives. But God knew how weak men were, and so he permitted divorce for a time. He knew where the Israelites had come from and what tribes what they were practicing around them He knew how they would be influenced, and so he gave them certain laws for a time We also see this idea of laws for a time when Jesus says in several places regarding the law, you have heard it said, da-da-da, but I say da-da-da And whenever Jesus said such a thing, he always was raising the standard of holiness, he was never lowering it. And we are to conclude then that the law of Moses was never thought of as a finished product or a final standard. It was instead a standard to be used for a time, and during that time the people of God were to be carefully pulled away from the cultural influences around them. pulled away in order that they might be a different people, a strange people, a peculiar people. They were to be different, strange and peculiar, and that they were a holy people, as their lives conformed to the image of God and not the fallen humanity around them. When raising our children, we taught them to embrace being different. Not for the sake of being different, mind you. But to get them used to being different, so that when their faith made them stand out, when they took a moral stand and No one else took it. Or when they spoke a truth and no one else wanted to hear it, and they found themselves ostracized because of it. They would know that feeling of being different already, and it would not scare them A grand lie that many, many churches, many, many churches believed, started I think around the early 1980s. And it is still believed today. It is the lie that the church or each local church needs to assimilate into its surroundings And part of assimilating is to look like the culture. And so local churches started playing music and corporate worship that had the a similar sound to what is playing on the radio And buildings started to look like buildings that allowed for multiple activities because that's what was being done in the culture. And pastor started dressing casual, and furnishing started to be put in theater style And pulpits were removed, and cordless microphones were used, and churches would advertise themselves saying to this unbelieving world, you won't even know you're in church. Thankfully, thankfully, God has revealed the lie to some. The Holy Spirit has reminded some Christian leaders that the word church It's ecclesia, which means the called out once. The church is a call is called out to be distinct from the culture that surrounds it. The Holy Spirit has reminded leaders of the teachings of Jesus that his church is to be like a city on a hill, which means it is to be a beacon that guides the lost. The church is not to follow anyone, but the Savior. And look how much our culture needs to follow truth. This last election shows how divided we are as a culture. And the church should have never assimilated into a political party and should never assimilate into a culture of division. We as Christians, as a people of God, are to be different. We are to to provide for a lost and dying world. What it does not have and what it cannot get anywhere else. Tell me Tell me, where are the people of our culture going to hear? Remember, O man, from dust you came, and to dust you shall return. Who is going to say such words if the church does not? Where else is the culture going to hear that the wages of sin is death? But the free gift of eternal life is in Christ Jesus. Where else is that going to be heard if it's not said by the church? And who else is going to say, this is my body and offer you bread, and this is my blood and offer you wine? No one but the people of God will say it. And so we are to embrace being different. And that is why it is good for me to wear a white robe when we worship. We are to be different. That is why we have a pulpit and have a lectern and have a communion table. These are set aside for specific uses in corporate worship because what we use them for is different. You don't bring your lunch in here, pull up a chair at the communion table, and eat a tuna sandwich, crack open a coke and a bag of chips You don't do that because the table is different and you're different. This truth has been building up in me for some time. I want us to embrace being different. That we actually are a city on a hill I want every soul that is seeking God in our area to know us and to find us and to experience what is different when they do find us. I want every soul that is seeking God to say when they come here, here is different, and here is what I need. I close with a portion of a letter that I hope highlights what is needed today. Our Academy has reached out to local churches to see if they would advertise the ministry of our school to the families in their parish. One particular female who calls herself pastor wrote the following email reply. She said, I commend you for reaching out to our congregation. It is good when we share our blessings from God with one another. However, after reading both your church's website as well as your academy's website, I am unable to support this ministry After much prayer, I am sad that we have differences that keep us apart. As you might have known, I am a woman, Pastor, which would be impossible in your faith tradition. I also have grave concerns about your church's stand on human sexuality. My faith tradition believes that the Bible is inspi the inspired Word of God. I struggle with picking and choosing Bible passages. If all sins were held in the same degree, I don't understand why your pastor has cut his hair. I wonder if anyone in your congregation has eaten crabs or other shellfish. I think this time in our church's history, we are called to come together in grace and mercy and love for all people. Did you notice the poor reference to the Old Testament law? The logic is that if obscure laws in the Old Testament are subject to change, Then laws that are of a moral nature are subject to change as well. Such a response Reveals an assimilation to a culture in which instead of calling people out of sin and out of the culture It makes them feel comfortable in both their sin and in the culture. That is not what the law was for It is not what Jesus told his church to be and to do. The law called the people out. And Jesus instructed us to be different in order to help save people. And that's what we're going to do. Amen. Let us pray.