Turn if you would to Book of Revelation, chapter six. Again, very helpful if you follow along. With me, Revelation chapter six, starting at verse nine. I find motivational speeches to be a fascinating topic. You never know how effectual you can be to a people. Newt Rockney, the well-known football coach of Notre Dame from nineteen eighteen to nineteen thirty Shared with the press one of his halftime speeches that he used to motivate the team to victory. Part of it went as follows. Men We're going inside of them, we're going outside of them, inside of them, outside of them, and when we get them on the run once, we're going to keep them on the run. And we're not going to pass unless their secondary comes up too close. But don't forget, men, we're going to get them on the run. We're going to go, go, go, go. And we aren't going to stop until we go over that goal line. And don't forget, men, today is the day we're going to win. They can't lick us, and that's how it goes. The first platoon men go in there and fight, fight, fight, fight, fight. What do you say, men? Such vigor supposedly inspired the boys to play harder. And I admit to you that there are many sermons that I have suffered over on how to inspire you. I question how my words can move you to strive harder, become more committed, and give your all for Jesus and his message of salvation. We can identify the many different ways we are motivated. The very first motivation is the lowest form, which is fear. I say the lowest in terms of emotion. Other forms of motivation include negatives like greed, revenge, and selfishness. Good forms of motivation include caring for others, gratefulness, and the highest, which is love. But the basic, most fundamental motivation is fear Because it is the most basic, doesn't make it negative. It is very useful as Jesus uses it to start people on the right path. Be reminded of these warnings that cause fear, Jesus said And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Matthew chapter 10 verse 28, Jesus describes the signs of the ends of men seeing fearful sights. Jesus used fear that resulted from his miracles, such as after raising the son of the widow of Nain, Luke says. Then fear came upon all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen among us. These examples show that fear motivates But such fear needs to turn into something more substantive, like gratefulness and love. But gratefulness and love might start out with fear. And our passage from Revelation, particularly at the breaking of the sixth seal, what is naturally generated in us is fear, fear of God's wrath And that is a good thing. So let us begin with verse 9 of chapter 6 It reads, When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. Note that this is the first seal where there is no creature calling out. The souls described are under the altar. Just as the blood sacrificial of sacrificial vis victims slain on the altar was poured and flowed to the bottom of the altar, so the souls of those sacrificed For Christ's testimony, they are symbolically represented as being under the altar in heaven. And what they say is similar to what was said by Abel after being slain by his brother Cain for blood, often represented as crying for vengeance. These martyrs were slain because of their commitment to the Word of God and for what they believed, which is called their testimony. The Word of God was both personified in the person of Jesus, as well as being written the written word, which at the time of John would have at least been the four Gospels. To say they held the testimony means they did not deny it when confronted, and their fate was at stake. Beloved, holding on to the faith, regardless of what happens in your life, is just as important as confessing Jesus as Savior and Lord the first time. Holding on to your testimony may be the hardest thing you will do in life. And today it seems to be a popular thing to let go. The coach in me comes out when I come to passages such as this because I want every Christian to hold on. To hold on to the very end of your days, because your days are short and full of evil, and the reward is everlasting. So hold on. Verse 10. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on these who dwell on the earth? The first words of the martyrs is giving honor to the one true God who is holy and true. Again, the martyrs speak as able, for their blood is crying out for vengeance. And this is a surprise to some who only view being in the presence of God, being in heaven. to be a peaceful place and a place where you're you're simply grateful with certainly no concern for vengeance. But justice, justice is a holy thing, and it must be satisfied. And Jesus made it clear. That murderers who don't repent will experience weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth. Vengeance is the Lord's, and he promises it will be accomplished. Verse eleven. Then a white robe was given to each of them, and it was said to them that they should rest a little while longer, until both the number of their fellow servants and their brethren Who would be killed as they were was completed. The white robes symbolize the holiness given to them because of the sacrifice of Christ Jesus And because of their faithfulness to that sacrifice, even faithfulness unto death, the call to wait a little longer Is understood in the context of a day being as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day from God's perspective What they are to wait for is those fellow servants who will join these early martyrs by facing their own deaths while holding on to the Word of God and holding on to their testimony. Such a number is still to be added to. The voice of the martyrs is an organization worth being informed by in order to pray for those who suffer in this present day And an organization to donate to for those who are struggling to hang on to their testimony. When you consider that one of the seven seals was Opened only for the sake of the martyrs reveals how important they are in the sight of God. Verse 12. I looked when he opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great earthquake, and the sun became black as sackcloth, a sackcloth of hair, and the moon became like blood. It will serve us well to keep in mind the parallel imagery of the Old Testament. The shaking was spoken of by the prophet Haggai, who said, Yet once for all shake I not the earth only, but also the heavens. And the phrase once for all signifies the removing of things that are shaken. As for the sun turning black as sackcloth, the prophet Joel had a similar thought. He said, the sun shall be turned into darkness. And the prophet Isaiah, I clothe the heavens with blackness and I make sackcloth their covering. The moon as blood is also repeated by the prophet Joel. Verse 13. And the stars of heaven fell to the earth as a fig tree drops its late figs when it is shaken by a mighty wind. The falling of stars of heaven has a parallel in Isaiah, who said, All the hosts of heaven shall be dissolved. The fig tree analogy works, but it is expanded in our minds to imagine what type of wind would have to blow for stars to fall from heaven. Verse 14. Then the sky receded as a scroll when it is rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved out of its place. This verse also is a reflection of Isaiah chapter 34, which reads, All the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled up like a scroll. All their host shall fall down as the leaf falls from the vine and as fruit falling from a fig tree. Having an idea that we might try to have of what it takes to create mountains, to have them moved from their place Would be a disruption of everything we know about on this earth and its inhabitants. Perhaps this is the beginning of a new heaven and a new earth. Verse 15. And the kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the commanders, the mighty men, every slave and every free man hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains. John is able to reflect on who could stand in the midst of such upheaval of nature and not be scared out of his mind Scared for his present state and a future that has a darkened sun and a blood moon, a starless sky and mountains displaced. Will kings stand in place? Will great men stand in place? Will rich men stand in place? Will commanders stand in place? Will mighty men stand in place? No, no. They will be joined with the slave and free men And hiding themselves and covering themselves to shield themselves from the realities that they are witnessing. Verse 16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. Here we have them hiding and hoping to be crushed. To be crushed rather than face what changes the earth is going through. But it is here we learn that it isn't the changes of the earth that scare them. They hide and they cow And they would ask for death because of the fate of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. Beloved, as we come to this final verse in of the chapter, I allow myself to share my motivation. I spoke about being motivated by fear, and I believe verse seventeen is calling us to be motivated by the fear of God's wrath. It reads, For the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand? It is the lack, it is the lack of fear, fear of God, a lack of fear of God's wrath That I believe has steered our culture into the ditch which we now lie. In historian Tom Holland's book titled Dominion, He carefully argues the dramatic difference Christianity has meant to the world. Whereas the world before Christianity celebrated might makes right And the idea of fate being the causal factor of the weak being weak and the poor being poor, Christianity in opposition says the opposite. The weak are to be treated as strong. The poor are to be understood as wealthy. The wealthy are to be understood as dead in spirit The mighty are to be seen as weak spiritually. God now favors the poor in spirit. God favors the meek. Such teaching was so radical that it literally shook up the world. It changed how cultures treat the weak, treat the poor, treat the needy, treat the sick. It became virtuous to treat the poor and the needy and the disenfranchised with dignity and respect. Because of Christian doctrine and belief, the minority in societies became a priority. No other culture before the ascent of Christianity cared about the minority. Such is factual and well documented. But there is a problem. And it has labeled itself woke. We know the devil's tactics. They are scripted, they are predictable. He takes the truth and sprinkles it with a falsehood and confuses many. So there is the truth of caring for the least among us and seeing such care as virtuous, and the devil takes that truth. A truth Christianity has revealed and sprinkles it with the falsehood so that it is a corrupt understanding of the world. So now instead of the least among us being the poor and the fatherless or the widow or the sick or the lame, the woke tells us that the least among us should be included with the sexually immoral. And the sexually confused, and the gender confused. When I taught at the university several years ago now I tried to introduce the concept of absolute morality, which is simply the acceptance that there is a right and that there is a wrong. There is good and there is evil. There is moral and there is immoral. And when doing so, I tried to find an act that a human being could do that we all, teacher and student, could agree was immoral or evil. And I asked the students if we could agree, all agree, that being sexual with a child pedophilia was immoral. I would guess that half of the class agreed visually with me shaking their heads, and the rest of the class showed no emotion or no nonverbal response. And that struck me as odd until I read of a movement in modern psychiatry that wants to relabel people. Who are identified as pedophiles to be minor attractive persons, so as to lessen the stigma of such persons. So, as to lessen that stigma, relabeling them from the perspective of modern psychiatry for the purpose of caring about the minority. My point is that the devil has done a masterful job at taking what is good and holy within the Christian gospel, which is caring for the least in societies. And relabeling the least among us to be the immoral. And I explain all of this to argue That none of this would be possible in our culture or any culture that has a proper understanding of the wrath of God, and because of that wrath, a proper fear of God. The answer to how a culture can withstand the lies of the devil and the relabeling of evil versus the good is to have a proper fear of God's wrath. The answer to how a family can keep marriages intact and keep children from walking away from Christ Jesus and his church is to have a proper fear of God's wrath. The answer to how you, as individual persons, can remain faithful to Jesus in your personal behavior and your confessed faith is to have a proper fear of God's wrath. While it is true that a mature Christian faith would move you to more than just fearing God's wrath, But to loving Jesus and his sacrifice and his mercy towards you, you will always need to have a healthy fear of God's wrath. Such a need for a fear of God's wrath is why I have such a disdain for songs Christians sing that present Jesus as a boyfriend. Or pictures of Jesus that paint him as effeminate. And while I understand the need for Jesus to be seen as approachable For we all need to approach our Savior, bearing our hearts, bearing our souls to him. He must be also at the same time that we see him as approachable. He must be understood. By us to carry the wrath of God with him. And so I point our attention back to verse 16. I have been referring to the wrath of God at this point in the sermon, but it is important to remind you that the wrath of God is actually the wrath of the Lamb. The Lamb is the one from whom the wrath of God will come, and so we have the greatest of ironies before us. The weakest, the least frightening of any animal is to be feared because of his coming wrath. Thus we have before us as our focus of worship the approachable God who calls us to come to Him and to trust Him and to be comforted by Him while at the same time fearing Him So much that we would rather have rocks fall upon us than to be suffering under his divine judgment. John Dunn had been appointed Dean of St. Paul's Cathedral in London in 1621. Rather than fleeing the city as the bubonic plague ravaged its citizens, he remained and devoted himself to preaching and ministering to the flock. When Dunn became ill himself, he was certain it was the plague. That's when his wrestling with God began. Although he had earned a doctorate in divinity degree, a doctorate of divinity degree from Cambridge, served as a minister, questions of fear tormented him. Dunn's wrestling ended up focusing on fear. He knew how much the Bible spoke about not giving in to fear. As Moses led the Israelites out of Egypt, and later when he gave them the Ten Commandments, he admonished them not to fear. God's message to Joshua was to be strong and courageous and not to fear. David said that he would fear no evil. The prophets repeatedly exhorted the people not to be given to fear, reminding them that God was with them. In the face of invading armies, God sent messengers who delivered his assurance. Do not fear, do not be dismayed. But knowing all of this didn't relieve Dunn's fear of suffering and dying. Finally, Dunn identified the antidote to his fear. The antidote was in the fact of another form of fear, that is the fear of God. The formula is simple. Resist all other forms of fear by embracing the one necessary fear. This led Dunn to pen a devotion on the right fear, and part of his prayer in that devotion goes as follows. Give me, O Lord, a fear of which I may not be afraid. The truth in such a prayer Is that the fear of God relieves us from all other fears? Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father, for this vision of the broken sixth seal We ask that you would give us that healthy sense of fear that always puts us before you, humble, that always puts us before you ready to worship, that always puts us before you obedient. May that fear always be with us until you return. In Jesus' name we pray.