In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The following scenario has likely played out in your home several times. You wake up in the middle of the night terribly thirsty. Your mouth is dry and sticky. But the air outside the covers is cold. So you don't want to get up and get a drink. But you can't sleep because the only thing you can think about is how thirsty you are. So you get up and stumble to the kitchen. Sounds like a Dolly Parton song. You open the cabinet and grab a glass, immediately followed by turning on the cold water at the faucet. You quickly fill your glass with the cold water and without hesitation raise it to your lips and drink. You feel it go down your throat and confirm to yourself that it satisfies. You then enjoy one more drink before going back to bed. When back in bed, you enjoy the feeling of the covers again, along with the satisfaction of no longer being thirsty. It was such a simple and quick common act, and yet as you do it, and so many other things like it. You are unaware that you are acting as God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. In his book titled Through New Eyes, biblical scholar James Jordan outlines the pattern of God's work. We see the pattern in creation, where God saw a need and he chose to meet it. The earth was void and it needed to be filled. To fill it, God first took hold of creation. He was the hovering spirit that was over the face of the earth before life was given to it. The preacher of Hebrews describes the Godhead, the Godhead as upholding all of creation. God lays hold of it to mold it according to his will. And so the second thing God did after taking hold of creation was to restructure it. We remember that he separated the light from the darkness. The waters above from the waters below, as well as separating the waters below to become land and sea. The third thing God did was distribute creation. He filled the sky with light, and the seas with fish, and the land with plants and animals. The fourth thing God did was evaluate his work. His evaluation is a good lesson against the heresy of Gnosticism. Gnosticism says that the physical world is inconsequential, even evil. God evaluated his work, which was the physical world, and he said it was good. Fifth and finally, God enjoyed his creation when he rested on the seventh day. That is what the Sabbath day is for. We are to enjoy, find peace and rest with the good that God has done. The scenario of getting up in the night for a drink of water Follows the pattern of what God does when he works, his pattern of creation. The need preceded everything There was a void and God filled it. We are thirsty and we get a drink. First, we lay hold of the glass of water. We restructure the cabinet by removing the glass, and we restructure the sink and water by turning on the spigot. We then distribute by drinking the water, we then evaluate its effect and determine that it was good And finally, like a brief Sabbath, we find enjoyment in the satisfaction of quenching our thirst. Such a simple act, and yet so profound. If we were to open our eyes to see how much of what we do resembles the work of God, our God would, excuse me, the work of our God. We would agree with Mr. Jordan when he says, every calling in life, indeed every action in life, thus has immeasurable dignity. When it comes to man rightly imitating God, however, something must be added to these steps of God's work. Recall these words of St. Paul from Romans chapter 1, verses 20 and 21. He said, For since the creation of the world God's invisible qualities, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made, so that men are without excuse. For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God, nor gave thanks to him. But their thinking became futile, and their foolish hearts were darkened. We must make note from these verses that men had their hearts darkened because they knew of God by way of creation, but failed to give him thanks. They were not willing to glorify God for being the Creator, nor were they willing to thank Him for creating them and all that was around them. A necessary part then of man's work, a part that must be added to the five acts of God already described, is the act of giving thanks. Men are to give thanks. A good identity for a Christian church is to embrace the institution of preaching the Word of God, the Holy Scripture, and then rightly distributing the sacraments and practice proper discipline. Of the first identity, the preaching of Holy Scripture, we find the six parts of man's accepted work. The void is not knowing God, and that precedes everything. To know God, the word of God is first laid hold upon by the one who reads it to the congregation. Thanks is then offered after the proclamation that what was read is the word of the Lord. The word read is then broken down and expounded upon for greater understanding. The word preached is then distributed among the people listening. as the Holy Spirit makes for specific application in individual lives. The people then evaluate what is preached to first determine, like the Bereans in the book of Acts That what was said was truth and to evaluate how it fits within their lives. That's your job Finally, once the word has been evaluated, it is to be a source of enjoyment and nourishment as it brings health to weary souls. The next place we find these six parts of a man's work is in the sacrament of holy communion. The void precedes it, which is the need for the grace of God. To receive that grace, Jesus first took the bread. And he took the cup. He laid hold of them. He had plans to restructure them. Jesus then gave thanks for each element. Think upon that. Jesus, the Son, who was with the Father creating the world, gave thanks for creation. Jesus, who was the bread of life and the wine of joy, gave thanks for each. He did as man should do. He did the work of man. Jesus then restructured the bread by breaking it. And he restructured both the bread and wine by calling it his body and his blood. It is at this point that it can be said that Jesus did not need to make it his actual body and blood, as some have needlessly taught, for his own body and blood was sufficient for the sacrifice. But we will not labor by saying what the bread and wine was or was not. We say what Jesus said. He restructured it when he said, This is my body broken. And this is my blood shed. Jesus then distributed the bread and wine to all who were present while giving them a monde, a command, do this in remembrance of me. The disciples, of course, obeyed and tasted the bread and drank from the cup, and by doing evaluated it saying, in effect, it is good. And finally, Jesus and his disciples enjoyed the remainder of their time together around the table, as is evident by them singing a hymn. Thus they took a brief Sabbath, having received the means of grace. It is to be noted That when that each time we do as Jesus instructed, we are working as God worked. We are taking hold. We are giving thanks. We are restructuring. We are distributing. We are evaluating its goodness. And finally, we are resting in his grace. It is something so simple and yet so profound. Join me in imagining What you would come up with in order for people to remember you. Imagine being given a promise that whatever it is that you come up with, people will perform it on a regular basis and do so to remember you and the life you lived. Think about what you would come up with. What would you come up what would you want other people to do to remember you? Maybe it would be an annual golf tournament in your name. Maybe a play with scenes that symbolized your stages in life. Or how about a banquet to be held annually with a seven-course meal and speakers and songs sung? Whatever you would choose, I am confident, it would not be eating bread and drinking wine. And that that is what Jesus chose. It was something so simple and yet so profound. Perhaps it is profound in part because it is so common. It is a concern by many That to participate in the rite of Holy Communion regularly will lessen its importance in the hearts of believers. The concern is valid because we know ourselves too well. We know how easily we slip into habits, and so the liturgy becomes a habit that we can recite without being engaged consciously or emotionally. We know how easily we can take the greatest of blessings for granted. This concern is even more understandable in that what we do is very, very simple. We take, we eat, we take, we drink. That is all. But there is a great irony in all of this. What is so simple has immeasurable dignity because we do as God does. What we need to do is recall each time we do it that we are doing what God does. Another reason why we can take Holy Communion for granted is because we may see it as an act that we do for God. But what we do, we do as God doing it. It is God offering to us to take the bread. It is God offering to us to take the cup. It is God offering both to us. He is present with us in Holy Communion like no other time. How is he with us in holy communion like no other time? Is not fully understood. But it is true and it is real. Beloved, when we are convinced that what we are doing is what God does, and that He is present with us like no other time. The importance of what we do will not be lessened, but become more and more profound. What we do as we take and eat, as we take and drink, has immeasurable dignity. The following is a sort of catechism about the Book of Common Prayer Liturgy. It was written in 1942 to answer common questions about Anglican liturgy. I want you to hear the dignity. in the answers to common questions about the service of Holy Communion. This is about the prayer of humble access. We are not worthy, we say, to God. The prayer of humble access, so-called, because of the humble confession of unworthiness which the priest here makes both for himself and as the representative of the people who approach God's table with him. Question: For what is the prayer of humble access a preparation? Answer: For the reception of the Blessed Sacrament Therefore, in the early English prayer book, this prayer was used very properly, the last thing, before partaking of the consecrated elements. Question. What follows the prayer of humble access? Answer. A hymn may be sung, and the priest, after partaking of the communion himself, delivers it to the people with the words prescribed. Question. What are people directed to receive the Holy Communion? Why are people directed to receive the Holy Communion kneeling? Answer. It is considered the more reverent way, and reverent actions are best not only to express, but to deepen reverent feelings. Question, what should the consecrated elements, excuse me, how should the consecrated elements be received by the communicants Answer. The bread should be received in the palm of the hand, never with the fingers. The cup should be taken firmly by the stem or base with both hands Question, is it proper to receive the blessed sacrament with gloved hands? Answer: No. It is a mark of reverence to remove the gloves. as we would do in receiving a precious gift from the hand of a loved and honored human benefactor. Question What follows in this service after the people have communicated? Answer. A prayer of thanksgiving and a hymn Question, what hymn is generally sung here? Answer, the hymn called Gloria in Excelsis. Question. What is the propriety of singing this hymn at the close of Holy Communion? Answer By singing a hymn, we follow the example of our Blessed Lord and His disciples, who sung a hymn at the close of their first Eucharist feast. And by using this hymn, we welcome the Savior to our hearts in the same words with which the angels welcomed him into the world. Beloved, let us welcome Jesus into our hearts tonight. Amen.