In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 2, picking up at verse 8. 1 Timothy chapter 2, picking up at verse 8, and I will give a bit of a warning. Some may need to buckle up on this one. Gonna be a bumpy ride for some. There are two generational sins. That my generation and the generation before should be ashamed of, because we have passed it down to the generations coming behind us. The first in is our national debt. That we can't control spending to the point of putting ourselves in debt to over $33 trillion is a disgrace. To give you an idea of what the number trillion is, understand that a trillion seconds Just one trillion seconds is equal to about thirty two thousand years. That means that if we were to pay one dollar One dollar every second to pay back what our nation owes in debt, it would take 1,056,000 years to pay it Such facts are so mind-blowing, words such as shameful and disgraceful are not strong enough. The other sin of my generation and the generation before me are responsible for is gender dysphoria The confusion about the differences between the sexes is the fault of our two generations because we failed to make it clear, a clear distinction of male and female roles in society. And when men did make those distinctions clear in the home, too many men abused their role, resulting in fear and chaos within the wives and children. And the church in general is a large part of the problem. The Christian church failed to continue to preach the whole counsel of God, which includes instructing husbands to love their wives as Christ Jesus loves his church and to preach such sacrificial love over and over again until the husbands start doing it What woman would not willingly submit to a man who is loving her sacrificially, just as Jesus has loved his church, giving his very life for her? And the church from the 1960s slowly allowed the secular culture to come into its doors. And not just take a seat in the pews, but a seat in the chancel, where ministers were ordained with no faith in the Bible and what it teaches about the different roles of men and women. The result was a clear example of the proverbial camel's nose in the tent. Once you let in the nose, the rest of the camel is going to come in. And so a doubting of authority of Scripture led to a rejection of certain passages of the Bible that were not popular with secular modern faithing. Which led to rejecting passages such as the one read today from 1 Timothy 2, where Paul instructs that women should not have leadership in the church over men And that rejection was a camel's nose being allowed in the tent, bringing with it a complete rejection Of any of Paul's writings that had to do with any moral teaching and any ecclesiastical instruction Such has proven true down to history, which is that if the Christian church stops leading a culture, it then starts to follow the culture. While all of this is serious stuff, and the truth of who is at fault for our national and now worldwide sins. There is a misfortune, a misfortune of not being able to enjoy the differences between the sexes. I came across a website that reveals the differences in habits between men and women. For instance, 95% of women will wash the dishes immediately after they have used the dishes. And 95% of men will wash dishes when they run out of clean dishes. One hundred percent of women use a hairdryer to dry and style their hair. Well, fifty percent of men use a hairdryer to dry their hair, and fifty percent use it to dry their socks. Women are equally split when choosing a shampoo, with concerns being the shampoo adds volume to their hair, or shine to their hair, or vitamins and minerals to their hair Men in comparison choose shampoo based on whether the bottle says shampoo Here are some other unique characteristics of men versus women. A married man is likely to live longer than a single man. But a married man is more willing to die than a single man. A man needs seven items in the bathroom. Toothbrush, toothpaste, razor, shampoo, deodorant, a towel, and cologne. There, on average, a woman uses 150 objects in the bathroom, with the maximum known by the man to be twenty. So a list of differences between men and women could go on and on, and many comedians have made a living pointing them out. And again, I state that such differences should be celebrated and never ever denied. So let us look at the passage of Scripture read from 1 Timothy 2, starting at verse 8. When Paul began the chapter, he was giving instructions on how the church should pray when they gathered for corporate worship. There was an order to worship in the early Christian church, and their traditions and liturgies were handed down and compiled in what is called the Apostolic Constitutions. We follow some of those traditions in our liturgy. In verse 8, Paul goes back to how he began the chapter, which is to instruct Christians on prayer. Men are to pray everywhere. And Jesus said that his followers are to pray always. And so we are to be in prayer always and everywhere. This means that, at the very least, we are to be in constant communion with God. We are to let Him know our concerns, our joys, our hopes, and our petitions. The Holy Spirit is our constant companion and we should honor Him for His constant presence And then Paul adds the lifting up of holy hands. Such was the Jewish practice, not only in taking a solemn oath or in giving a blessing, but also in prayer to lift up the hands. It is a sign of surrender for us, as well as a reaching to the heavens so that God would lift us up. As when a child lifts up his hands in order to be held by his parents So we are to lift up our hands to God. As we pray and as we lift up our hands to the heavens, we are to do so without wrath and without doubting. The word doubting can be translated disputing, which means that Paul is concerned about fighting between Christians. Our prayers are to be offered in peace, which is to be at peace with our fellow Christians. Such a need to be at peace with other Christians was known then by the very first Christians and is known now and all the times in between. There is a continuous need for Christians to work at loving one another. In verse 9, Paul turns to the women of the church and begins by addressing his concern for how some of the women are dressing. One of the two scenarios had likely occurred that caused Paul to address the issue of how women dress. Either he had forgotten to mention it. and thus brings it up here in this letter, knowing it was a problem in a largely populated city such as Ephesus, where wit modern women then would dress to be attractive to men The second scenario might have been that there was a problem within the church, and he has been made aware of. And so he brings his apostolic authority to weigh in on the issue. Some commentators and even preachers like to get in on the specifics, such as talking about braiding hair, but I believe we are to stick with the principles. We need to focus on the principles and underlying Paul's concern. First, Paul does not say anywhere that women shouldn't adorn themselves. Instead, he is giving principles of moderation. When women adorn themselves, said another way, a woman's purpose for adorning herself should be to accentuate her femininity as opposed to her sexuality. And the idea of moderation is to not make herself the center of attention. After all, she is attending church to worship, not to be ogled. And it can work the other way. I remember a young woman attending my brother-in-law's church wearing dirty torn jeans and a t-shirt. to church worship without having bathed for several days. She was trying to show that she didn't care what the world thought regarding how she looked, and all the while getting as much attention as she would have if she did care what others thought. This brings us to the principle of verse 10, which describes a woman who is to be most concerned about good works that she does that reflect the godliness within her. Elsewhere, Paul praises Christian women for doing works of charity, for caring for widows and young women, which can be a part of those good works he is naming here. Next, as we follow Paul's line of thinking while addressing issues of women in the church, as compared to men, he makes it clear that women are not to take positions in the church teaching or otherwise, that would place them in a leadership role over men. The silence he requires in verse twelve is in regards to the leadership roles. Much has been made. Much has been made about these verses, especially in the 20th and 21st century. Western minds have accepted a feminist mindset. That insists that women are equal to men. Unfortunately, but necessarily, I must state some qualifications. Women are most certainly equal to men in their value and in their image of God they bear And as I mentioned earlier, men are to treat their wives as being above equality, as they are to love them as Jesus loves his church, and there is no higher standard. By equality, the feminists have insisted that women can do anything a man can do. Certainly, men on average are stronger than women But of course there are always exceptions on both the part of a woman and a man. But overall women are not equal in terms of physical strength. There's nothing wrong with that That should be accepted as obvious, though I am aware it is not. But those who deny it are simply lying to others and lying to themselves. Other differences are found in what women and are drawn to do in life. While the majority of steel workers and mechanics and carpenters and truckers are men, and the majority of teachers and caretakers are women, There is absolutely nothing wrong with those choices in life. And while there are women who are very good public speakers and thus would likely preach good sermons, and while there are women who fear God We pray without ceasing and can even lead vestry meetings. Such gifts are wonderful to have, but a woman is not called to use those gifts as a leader in the church. The main point being the person must be called to lead the church, whether it be a deacon, a presbyter, priest, or a bishop. Such offices can only be filled by men. There are so many ways the Bible teaches this, but I don't have time to address each one, so I will only list a few God chose patriarchs such as Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and Joseph, and Moses, and Aaron, and Joshua, etc. To lead his people. God chose men as prophets to speak his word to his people, such as Elijah, Elisha, Isaiah, Jeremiah, etc. Jesus chose twelve men to be his closest disciples. And when one fell away, God chose another man And then God chose Paul to be an apostle to the Gentiles. And the church chose men to replace the apostles, calling them bishops. And the Church for centuries, both to the East and in the West, only ordained men to lead the Church The ordaining of women was only introduced to the Christian church starting within the main denominations in the 1960s. And since that time, the Christian Church has become less and less significant in each culture that it has been a part of. Because again, they don't lead the culture, they follow it. There have been many objections, of course, to what I have said, and the primary one, or the one that seems to have stuck, is that Paul, when he wrote these restrictions on women in the church, That he was, in his character, misogynistic. And for the people who concluded such, it was reason enough to dismiss what Paul instructs But the objectors also add that women were not formally educated in the days of the apostles, and since that has been rectified, women can now teach in the church But there is a very, very obvious problem with that way of thinking. For Paul makes it clear in verse 13. Why he gave the instruction for women not to teach or lead in the church? It is because Eve was deceived, not Adam. Adam's sin was to follow the leadership of his wife. And Eve's sin was listening to the serpent instead of to her husband. Thus, Paul is referring to Holy Scripture as the reason for his instruction. And he is referring to the created order that God chose. And he was referring to the curse placed, a curse placed upon the woman, which is that she will yearn for her husband, which means to want his place, but he will still rule over her. Such explains the tension seen in every generation and in every culture between men and women, husband and wives. That the Christian Church have camels standing in their tents is now blatantly obvious, and the ordaining of women and giving them a place of authority over men is one of the reasons why. And you can you can easily see how this progresses. A church leadership justifies ordaining women, going against what Paul specifically teaches. And going against precedence in Scripture and against the traditions of the church historic, and how it has always interpreted Scripture, all because Paul is now thought of to be misogynistic And now everything that Paul writes about is a fair game to be doubted and even rejected. The result is churches ordaining openly, sexually immoral men and women. And even elevating such sinners to the office of bishop. The result is an abandoning of the words of Jesus Himself, making him to be no more than a wise sage. The slippery slope has been slipped upon, and many are sliding down it as a toboggan, a toboggan slide to hell. Of course, what Paul says regarding the reason why women should not have authority over men in the church is good enough for those who trust the scriptures as our authority. I want to add another biblical argument, one that I discovered some years ago, and now it needs repeating. When I started to walk with Jesus, I was always told that the Christian life can be summed up by understanding it to be a relationship with Jesus. The Christian life is about knowing Jesus. That is what I understood, and that is what I taught. Until I asked the question. What focus does Jesus have in regards to our relationship with Him? And the answer is that Jesus taught us to go to the Father. Jesus wanted us to see the Father in him. When he taught us to pray, we were not taught to pray to him, but to the Father. And this is fitting. For from the Old Testament, we are told that the main goal of God, the Father, is for us to be his people and for him to be our God. It then makes sense. It follows that the best and only representative of the Father to lead God's people in the church is the male. For the male comes closest to fitting the person of the father. And so let us take back what has been so foolishly given away. We are to let men lead. Lead in the home, lead in the culture, and of course, lead in the church. And if they do a poor job, we simply need to raise better men. I realize that I cannot end this sermon here because Of verse 15, where we are told that women are saved via childbearing. Such a principle is similar to the curse of Eve. Who was to give birth in pain, and the seed from her would crush the serpent's head. The seed we know we now know was Jesus. And the serpent was and is Satan. And Jesus has crushed his head by overcoming death But all women are to be able to identify with the curse of Eve, either by enduring the pain of childbirth or enduring greater pain, the sanctifying pain of raising children. And all Christian women are to continue in faith, love, holiness, and self-control. And that makes them equal to men, because men need to do the same. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, these words come in such contrast, in conflict with our culture. And yet it is your word, it is your will. Give us the courage to live it out. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.