In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. In your Bibles you can turn to Genesis chapter 42. Genesis chapter 42. I hope I have convinced you that Joseph is a type of Jesus Just as Seth was, but in a small way, and Jacob was in a small way, and David will be in a very large way. Joseph also is a type of Jesus in a large way, but I think it's best to say that Joseph is like Jesus in a more profound way. On this Sunday after ascension, we underline how profound it is that Joseph sat at the right hand of Pharaoh. And Jesus ascended to sit at the right hand of the Heavenly Father. Last week I listed the several ways that Joseph is like Jesus And then we focused in on how Joseph is like every man. For like every man, every person, Joseph needed to be obedient. Because Joseph needed to obey the truth that was revealed to him. He needed to be a doer of the Word of God for the Word of God to do any good. It is the same for us. We need to do the good we know to do, for that is how God has ordained human life. What God has called us to do must be done in order for us to receive the blessings He desires to bestow upon us. As we come to Genesis 42, I have actually decided to cover chapters 42, 43, 44, and 45 in one sermon. Not because each chapter isn't deserving of a full sermon and even more. I am covering four chapters at once. Because our focus has been on the typologies in Genesis. And Joseph here, again, is a type of Jesus And this is better seen by examining these four chapters together. You likely don't see it how he is a type of Jesus here, even if you have read these stories several times in your life. I am guessing you don't see it because I didn't see it until this very week, and that is my calling to see it. Have you ever wondered why Joseph went to all the trouble he did before he revealed himself to his brothers? Why all of the back and forth? Why not reveal himself immediately? Clues as to why Joseph is once again a type of Jesus are first found in chapter 42 with the use of choice words. For example, look in verse 7. We find the verb in the New King James translation, recognized, where Joseph recognized his brothers. That is the same verb used in chapter 37, verse 32, where Joseph's brothers asked Jacob For their father to uh identify or recognize the bloody cloak as belonging to Joseph In verse 17 of chapter 42, the word prison, where the brothers were placed those three days, is the same word used for Joseph's imprisonment in chapter 40. Such connection of words are to stir our memories to the crime that was committed against Joseph by his brothers. A crime that was never confessed, never repented of, and still not known by Jacob, their father. Also, the comment in verse 9 that Joseph remembered the dreams he had about his brothers bowing down to him. Further indicates that Joseph recognized the Lord's hand in his brother's appearance before him, and he intended By his actions to serve the Lord's interests into this whole affair. What interest would that be? It was and must have been the interest of reconciliation. And that is how Joseph is a type of Jesus in this story. Joseph does all that he does in order to orchestrate needed reconciliation. That reconciliation was Joseph's motivation is revealed in the emotional reactions Joseph has towards his brothers Look in verse 24 of chapter 42. He turns his face away from his brothers so that they do not see him weep. At their second return in chapter 43, he goes to another chamber to weep in private. Also, he repeatedly asks about the health of their father. And in chapter 45, when he reveals himself to his brothers, he does not lord it over them of his high position, but instead he wept openly. Each of these moments reveals a heart that desires his brothers to be at peace with him and to be at peace with their father, having confessed their wrongdoing. And if the purpose of Jesus' life and death and resurrection can be summed up in a sentence, one possible sentence might be that Jesus lived, died, and rose again, and ascended. to reconcile humanity to the Heavenly Father and to one another. Now before we examine more fully how Jesus works to reconcile us to the Father and to one another. I want to provide a summary of the events in these chapters in order to see how the events are orchestrated. Beginning in chapter forty-two, the attention of the narrative shifts from Joseph, the individual, and from the Egyptian Empire back to the family of Jacob. the family from which Joseph was torn. As Joseph had risen to power in Egypt, now he will rise to rule over his family. And you remember that was his two dreams. that he would rule over his brothers. The shift is back to Jacob and Canaan, where 20 years have passed. Joseph, we read in chapter 41, verse 51, named his first son Manasseh, because he said, God has made me forget all my troubles and all my father's household. That is, God has made me forget the trouble I had at home. What we see in the next four chapters is actually he hasn't forgotten. And that it's been in his heart to be reconciled to his brothers and to his father. And we see both of them, Jacob and Joseph, yearning for reconciliation. So the story unfolds in three journeys to Egypt. The first was made by Jacob's ten sons, minus Benjamin, who came to Egypt to get grain. There they were met and were understandably in awe of the authority figure that was Joseph, although they didn't recognize him. Joseph recognized them and accused them, again, he's orchestrating, accused them of being spies, and then placed them in prison. And here is the beginning place of reconciliation. The brothers had to be in a humble state, a humble state in order for them to hear what they needed to hear. Next, Joseph makes a deal with his brothers to give them a chance to prove their integrity. And this is another part of reconciliation. Those who wish to be reconciled must be honest. At the end of their first journey, all of them returned home except Simeon. Simeon was kept back to ensure that Benjamin would return with the brothers the next time. That Simeon is held back allows us to speculate. that Joseph held him responsible for what happened to him. And you need to remember that Reuben is the oldest of brothers. And Reuben was against killing Joseph. And Reuben wasn't present when they sold Joseph into slavery. So with Reuben absent, the second oldest would have been the authority amongst the brothers when Joseph was sold. Knowing the heart of Joseph as we do, we should not think that he held Simeon back out of spite, but only to help Simeon know that he must take responsibility for what happened to Joseph. When they return to their father, they also find money in their bags. The money they paid for the grain was returned to them. And this caused them great fear, for they expected the Egyptian authority to accuse them of being thieves. They wouldn't want to go back. Again, this is another step toward reconciliation, the step of fear. Fear motivates. The second journey was made by all ten remaining sons, that is Benjamin included, and this caused fear on Jacob's part because He was so desperate not to lose his second favored son, having lost Joseph, his favored son. When Benjamin appears before Joseph, Joseph is overwhelmed with emotion, and he cannot yet show it. He serves his brothers a feast, and he gives Benjamin five times the portion compared to his brothers. This places the brothers in a position of confrontation as they are confronted with their sin, their first sin to Joseph, the sin of envy. The envy they originally had against Joseph. And here is another part of reconciliation. It is being confronted with our sins past and on an emotional level. When they start off to return to their father, Joseph has his servants put their money back again that they used to pay the grain, and to put Joseph's cup back In one of their bags. To steal the cup of Pharaoh's right-hand man would have been instant death as a punishment And yet Joseph has the guards chase after them, has them all empty their bags, and they find the cup in Benjamin's bag. And what happens next is a powerful display of selfless love. Judah, of all people, remember our stories about Judah and his incest ways. Judah of all people steps up and offers himself to be punished in place of Benjamin. Judah, of course, is the head of the tribe that will give birth to the seed promised, for Jesus is in the line of Judah. This sacrificial offering of Judah, the offering of himself, causes Joseph to reveal himself in a manner that rejoices in the redemption, the reconciliation he has with his brothers. Can we say from all of this that Joseph orchestrated the events that led to the reconciliation of his brothers and to their father? That so too does Jesus orchestrate the events in our lives so that we can be reconciled to the Heavenly Father and to one another. Can we say that? I believe we can. I once again extol to you That the work and sacrifice of Jesus that he made for us was first and foremost, so that we could be reconciled in right and good relationship with the Heavenly Father. Consider the letter to the Galatians. What the end goal is. What does Paul say is the end goal? He says God sent his son born of a woman born under the law, so that so that that phrase sets us up for what's going to happen so that Those under the law, all of us might receive adoption as sons. Did you hear that? Did you understand it? God the Father sent his son to die and rise again so that we could be adopted into the family of God and call him our Father. That is the end goal for God to be our Father. It continues in Galatians with the explanation that the Holy Spirit is in the hearts of believers, enabling us to cry out, Abba, Abba Father. In fact, a good argument can be made that calling God Abba is the only Aramaic word for Father. And it is primarily used in the context of a personal relationship. So it is having a personal relationship with the Father, that is the gospel. Of course, Jesus is the only means by which our Father's hunger can be satisfied and our relationship with the Father be reconciled. Just if Joseph was the chosen means by which the sons of Israel would be reconciled to their earthly father, Jacob, Jesus is the only means by which we can be reconciled to the Heavenly Father. Because of this, Jesus deserves all of our praise, Jesus deserves all of the glory, and the Father desires it to be placed upon him. Yet it was the goal of Jesus to bring us to the Father, His Father, and that is proven by the way He taught us to pray, and the desire to see the Heavenly Father in Him Having seen him and knowing him, we are to know the Father and see the Father. Read your Bibles again and look for the Heavenly Father. He is the one providing good gifts for those who ask of him. He is there seeing you pray in secret. He is there seeing your kind deeds that go unnoticed. He is there knowing your needs before you ask of him. He is there counting the number of hairs on your head. He is there pitying us as we strive against ourselves and against him. He is there wanting to give mercy to his children and to their children. He is there waiting for the prodigal to come home and for the prideful son to come in to the celebration. And just as the prodigal son needed to get to the point of great humility, as did the brother of Joseph before reconciliation to the Father could occur. So too. So too do we need to be humbled, and to be humbled, we only need to confess that we are unworthy of the love that we so desperately need. Along with humility, we need to have a sense of fear to be reconciled We need to fear God, God who can cast the body and soul into hell. We need to fear what our lives on this earth would be like if God was ever, even for just a smidgen of a moment. Would remove his sustaining hand. We need to fear that we would ever be left to our own end. Along with humility and fear, we need to be confronted with our past sins that we have neither confessed nor repented from. Sin does not go away by being ignored or forgotten because of the passing of time. Sin that we are responsible for must be owned up to. This is the honesty part of reconciliation. Joseph's brothers could not make an excuse for what they did to their brother Joseph. For what they did was evil. Evil. Jesus summed it up in the simple message, repent. Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repentance includes acknowledging of guilt for the sin committed and turning away from that path and going the opposite. And finally, we learn from these stories of Joseph and his brothers that reconciliation means offering self as sacrifice. Judah did it to save Benjamin, and we are to do it to save ourselves. Jesus said to each person who would follow him, pick up your own cross. He said it in another way when he said, he who would save his life will lose it in the end, and he who would give up his life will gain it in the end. To die is gained, St. Paul said. That is true in this life and the life after. As these truths apply to being reconciled to God, they also apply to being reconciled to one another. And we are to be reconciled to one another. You remember that Jesus said the world will know us by our love for one another. We are not called to love in general, just love. We're not called to love our immediate family or even our extended family. Even the pagans do that. But we are called to love one another in the body of Christ. And to love one another is to be in good relationship with one another, which is to be reconciled. Joseph's brothers needed to be in good relationship with Joseph, just as we need to be at peace with one another. To be in good relationship with one another starts with humility, which is to say that we do not think that we are more righteous than our brother or sister in Christ. It is acknowledging that whatever righteousness I have is not my own. It's been given to me by Christ. I have none of my own. Instead, I am to think of myself last, never first. Next, to be in good relationship with one another, we must have fear. Our fear should be that we would be judged by God harshly because we harshly judged others. It should be a fear that if we don't forgive and love one another, we will be left alone. Alone in our self-righteousness. To be in good relationship with one another, we need to acknowledge our past sins towards one another. And that takes honesty. People do not get hurt by what we don't say, but by what we say. People get harmed by what we do and what we don't do. They need our confession to be reconciled, and we should be thankful for the opportunity to confess and to be forgiven. Finally, to be reconciled, we need to live sacrificially. This is a true saying for all of us. The needs of my friend in Christ are more important than my own. The first will be last. And so we are to compete to be last, in order that in the end we would not be forgotten. I did not anticipate that I would have a hard time convincing you that Joseph is a type of Jesus in how he works to assure this reconciliation. You are here because you believe in reconciliation between you and God and between you and your fellow Christians. What I anticipate being hard is to convince you that God orchestrates the events in your life to move you toward reconciliation either to him or to one another. We know that God doesn't tempt any person to sin, and that is good to know and always good to remember. But at the same time, we are to acknowledge that God tests people He tests people. He says, he does in Deuteronomy 8. 2, he says, God tests the people to know what is in their hearts. Now, you say, well, if anyone's going to know what's in my heart, it's God, and yes, that's true. Of course God already knows what's in your heart, but do you know what's in your heart? We need to know what is in our hearts. For we can say, as Joseph's brothers did, that they were honest people, men of integrity. But we will only know that to be true when we are tested and we pass the test. The work of the Holy Spirit guiding us to all truth is a work of taking us through various tests while providing us the faith and the strength to pass each test. St. Paul recognized the importance of being tested, of Christ Jesus orchestrating his life. He said, through weaknesses and hardships, learning that when he was weak, Then he was strong, for it was Jesus who was his strength. So as Joseph orchestrated the events of his brothers' lives For the sake of reconciliation to their father and to him, so too does Jesus orchestrate the events in our lives. So that, so that, the end goal, so that we would be reconciled to the Heavenly Father and to one another. This is what St. Paul means when he says that God has given us a ministry of reconciliation. So take opportunity. Take opportunity whenever it is given to be reconciled to God and to fellow Christians. For God has ordained it. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for the clarity of your word to show how Joseph was inspired by you to work towards reconciliation. And you, you working in our lives, bringing us through tests and trials that we might also be reconciled to you and to one another. Father, help us all embrace that ministry of reconciliation. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.