In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. We are continuing in First Peter, and you are always encouraged to turn to where we are covering First Peter chapter three, beginning at verse eight. Begin with a personal story. When I was in college, I attended what is known as a charismatic Christian church. And on a particular Sunday, the preacher implored the congregation that that if there was any ought A word only used in the King James Version. There's any aught with another Christian it should be taken care of before the service would continue and we would partake of Holy Communion. The word aught is also translated something against you. It is from the teaching of Jesus. Who was instructing his followers that if they were to bring an offering before the Lord, an act of worship, and someone had something against you You are to go to that fellow believer and find forgiveness and reconciliation before the worship of God is to take place. So after the employee of the preacher, a fellow student from across the sanctuary approached me. Now, mind you, I did not know this young man personally. He introduced himself to me and stated something like the following. I need to ask your forgiveness. When I first saw you, I didn't like you. I thought you were a jerk. Please forgive me. Now again, I did not know this fellow college student. I was obliged to forgive him But as you are hearing now, I have not forgotten that moment. Can you agree with me that this apology didn't need to be stated? I didn't need to know what was going on in his heart toward me if he had slandered me. gossiped about me, done something unkind to me, I would have appreciated the apology. But he didn't. He had mere thoughts in his head and feelings in his heart that were unkind and he felt like he needed to unburden himself by telling him about his unkind thoughts towards me. Thanks a lot He goes away feeling better, having unburdened himself, and I feel depressed. I have had a hard enough time in my life to get people to like me when they know my personality and they know what I think, let alone people who have never heard me speak before Depressing indeed. Well, having heard a solemn, a solid sermon last week covering verses 1 through 3 in 1 Peter, 1 through 7, and 1 Peter chapter 3. We continue in the same with a better understanding of the context of Peter's words. In chapter 2, you will remember, Peter encouraged Christians to focus on the gospel as the priority when it came to being under authority. And then he taught us how to make the gospel a priority in our marriages, and this all makes our testimony of the gospel the centerpiece of our lives, the center of the most important relationships in our lives. He then moves here in the section we are covering this morning on how to relate to other Christians. And what he tells us here allows us to say that we are to be gospel-centered in our lives, missionaries, in all of our relationships. Even with people who already claim to know the gospel. As I read this Week this section of scripture we are examining this morning. I thought of St. Paul's letter to the Corinthians. And that great love chapter in chapter 13, where Paul sets the standard of love that is higher than we can reach, but is a standard we must always be reaching for. I also thought of the first epistle of John, where the apostle emphatically states that we cannot say we love God. While at the same time we are showing indifference to a brother or sister of the same faith. And of course, all of this teaching is based on the teachings of Jesus. Who first said for us to love our neighbor as ourself, and then told us that as followers, others, people who are non-believers, will know us by our love for one another. Here in 1 Peter, Peter begins with the admonition to be of one mind, Christian to Christian. We can dismiss any exaggeration that would have us conclude that we are to be of one mind about everything. A pointless comment to make to someone, I think, is that you say you don't agree with everything that they say. You know, you should know that I don't agree about everything that you say. Of course you don't. We are blessed if we still agree with ourselves after five minutes. We state a personal opinion. And with that fact, there is no chance we can agree with others on everything. But we can agree on the essentials. And that is one reason why we confess the creeds in corporate worship. The rubric in the Book of Common Prayer could appropriately read before we recite one of the creeds. Quote, so what do you agree on, dear Christians? And we could respond in kind. The answer would be the Apostles or the Nicene Creed, most appropriate. Next, we are instructed to have compassion on one another, which literally can be translated sympathetic. This is similar to Paul instructing the Romans to rejoice with those who rejoice and mourn with those who mourn. It is being at the place emotionally, if possible, with a fellow believer, especially those who are going through a difficult time. It is, interestingly, the same word that the preacher to the Hebrews uses to describe what Jesus does for us as our high priest. He is sympathetic towards us. We then can conclude that in expressing our sympathy, we are to do as a high priest would do, we are to intercede for one another. We are to pray for one another. And in our sympathetic manner, and in our praying for one another As a people of compassion, people of sympathy, we are the continuation of the presence of Jesus on this earth. As we are his body being present with people, his people in need. And next St. Peter says that we are to love the brethren. This surprised me, by the way. The word for love used by Peter is not agape, as Paul uses in 1 Corinthians 13. It is not God's unconditional love. Now Peter will use that word later in chapter 4, but here he uses the word phileo. Which we know to be fraternal or brotherly love. Because Phileo is chosen, we must do further study to understand Why such a love is to be important for Christians to express to one another. C. S. Lewis Does the best job, in my opinion, of flushing out the meaning of Phileo love in his book titled The Four Loves. He calls Phileo love friendship love. Well, there are several reasons for friendships, and let's face it, some of them are quite selfish. We be we befriend the cleaning lady for the sole purpose that she might not charge us for the bad stains she has to remove on our clothes. But there are also very good reasons for loving another person as a friend Lewis describes friendship love that Christians are to share with one another as a friendship of exclusivity without excluding. Excivity without excluding. And here is an example of how that works. Let us say that you were at a New York Yankees baseball game in New York. And in the sea of people wearing pinstripes, you spot a person wearing your beloved orange and black. You will likely want to know that person and befriend that person because of what you have in common. And so you strive to meet the person and talk with the person. And you are exclusive in your relationship because your gathering and your sharing with this new friend is based on your love for the Orioles. And the Yankee fans don't love the Orioles. But you are not entirely exclusive because if you spot another person wearing orange and black You quickly invite them into your group because they share a love for what you love. And so you are being exclusive. While not excluding, because you welcome anyone into your friendship group who has a love for the Orioles For Christians, this type of exclusivity without excluding is something vital for survival. We Christians go many places where we find we do not fit in. And when we find other Christians who are at the same place, And who are like us not fitting in, we want and need their friendship Lewis makes the claim that friendship love, as Christians are to have for one another, is to be seen as superior to eros or romantic love. And also romantic love just focuses on one individual to another, where friendship love gets things done. Friendship love is productive. It roots for its team. It expresses itself in building and producing and worshiping as friendship love centers on what matters most to the friendship. Christians who are living out the love of God are always looking to become a friend with other people who love the Lord Jesus. Finally, about friendship love, Lewis warns that friendship love has its dangerous counterfeits. There are people who are exclusive in their friendship because they perceive themselves to be part of the elite, and the elite do not allow anyone else in. And so they exclude, with no intention of including anyone else. Friendship love can also be dangerous as a counterfeit when it is based on being rebellious Or based on hating the same thing, or, shall we say, hating the same person. Such friendship or friendships are counterfeit because they do not fit the meaning of God's love, or the meaning God has placed upon all love. We continue with Peter. He goes on to say that we are to be tender-hearted toward another Christian. The disposition means the same as being kind. Being kind is being gentle to the sensitivities of another human being who calls Jesus Lord. Combining kindness as gentleness with love, it must also include forgiveness. And so being tender-hearted is to be a person of forgiveness. And such forgiveness is what we pray that we would do in the Lord's Prayer. Forgive us our trespasses, as in the same like manner we forgive those who trespass against us. Jesus said in the same way we forgive others so we will be forgiven. I need to be forgiven a lot. And therefore, I need to forgive a lot. And if we become focused on how people Who we are quite sure are not forgiving us as they should, well then we need to be forgiven even more as we need to forgive people for not forgiving us Next, we are told that Christian to Christian we are to be courteous. When a person is courteous, he or she or she is considering the needs and importance of another as opposed to self. To put another person's needs before our own, you need to pursue the virtue of humility. When pursuing the virtue of humility, we find it is much easier to put other people's knees before our own. An internal question we can ask ourselves on a regular, consistent basis is the following. How can I die to myself in this particular moment? In a conversation with another believer, I can ask, how can I die to myself in this moment? With the purpose of allowing the needs of the other person to be expressed rather than my own. In a work situation, I can ask myself, how can I die to myself in this moment The answer to the question will point me to a job that I can do that will ease another person's load And in a conflict, in a conflict I can ask, how can I die to myself in this moment? The answer to that question will help me discern what is important in the conflict and what is not If it is a conflict that is the result of protecting my image of myself. What I think is my reputation, protecting my pride, then the conflict can end because I choose to die to myself Such is being courteous. Now the word courteous for Peter we can know is focused on conflict between Christians. For that is evident in the next few verses. He warns next against returning evil for evil or reviling for reviling in a conflict. is when you return evil for evil and reviling for reviling. In a c in a fight. In a fight with a fellow believer. Evil can be done in act as railing is done in words. Evil includes undermining. Undermining another person is an evil act. Entrapping another person. It includes setting up another person to fail. Railing includes unkind words and words that provoke to get a counter-reaction. Such things should be far from the Christian life, and Peter is saying, especially from Christian to Christian. Instead, the opposite is to be practiced. We are to be a people of blessings. We are to bless one another. And as people who bless others, we are to be motivated that by blessing others we are further assuring ourselves an eternal blessing. That's what Peter says A home in heaven where death will be no more and peace will be in our hearts and peace will be with one another Now the remainder of this section of scripture is a quote from Psalm thirty-four. Which sums up St. Peter's teachings on how Christians are to treat one another. Before we get to the Psalter, it is necessary, I believe, for us to confess How difficult it is to live in the manner St. Peter is here describing. It has been my experience, both as a Christian and a pastor. For years long enough to garner precious experience, that living out the instruction about how Christians are to treat one another as St. Peter describes Living out the love Saint Paul describes and being united with one another as Jesus prayed we would be is one of the hardest, if not the hardest, duties of the Christian life. The hardest is not just one of the hardest. And this we must confess, and this we must be honest about. It is much too easy today to simply walk away from a relationship in Christ. Than it is to labor to be of one mind focusing on the essentials of the faith. Easier to walk away It is hard to have compassion on someone who doesn't seem to have compassion toward you. It is hard to love another as a close friend when he or she hasn't loved you as a friend. It's hard to be tender-hearted and courteous when I want someone, anyone to be tender-hearted or courteous toward me. It is much easier, much easier to simply get away from certain Christian relationships and go find new ones and try it all over again Here is a statistic that startled me when I read it. From the Fuller Institute and Barna together. A study last year reveals that 3,500 people a day in the United States Left the church they were attending three thousand five hundred a day That is 1,246,000 people left the church they were attending last year. Because of the experience we have all had, we can guess that the majority of those left because they did not heed the words of St. Peter as we have heard them today. The world will know we are Christians, but that we are little Christs when we love one another, which includes how we work through conflicts with one another. It is likely that most of you do not know A. W. Pink. He was a British theologian that made an impact on the Christian church with his writings, especially his book entitled The Sovereignty of God. In that book, Pink argues quite persuasively about the doctrine of predestination from an ultra-Calvinist perspective. Many have read Pink's book and have come away with a new perspective on how far God's sovereignty reaches, especially into the wills of human beings that He has chosen. But Pink's ministry in the church was a lot less influential. He tried being a pastor, but he could not find a people who would follow him in the manner he insisted upon. He tried to pastor five different churches, most of them in America, with no success. He came away from his pastoral failures convinced That there are more goats in the Christian church than there are sheep. He then convinced himself that his ministry should continue in written form only. He inherited enough money to buy a home in Stornoway, Scotland, and hide away from fellow Christians and society itself. It was said of him that no one in the nearby town knew of him, only to see him take a stroll once a week through the town. When fellow Christians would travel long distances to see and speak with him, he left them disappointed, turning all visitors away. He lived alone with his wife, dying at the age of 66. His wife lived ten more years and enjoyed some travel and fellowship with other Christians. Because it was taken away from her because of her husband's attitude toward other Christians and toward the church. Such is a sad, sad tale. But all of the sad parts could have been prevented if Arthur Pink would have lived out the words given to us here by St. Peter. And so, we close this section of teaching by Peter by doing what he did. We are going to recite the passage from Psalm 34, and we're going to recite it together. We are going to do so as a pledge that we will live lives toward one another as the psalmist describes. So grab your pew Bible, New King James Version, turn with me to 1 Peter 3, beginning at verse 10, and stand with me. First Peter chapter three, beginning at verse ten, reading through verse twelve. Together, for he who would love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to the praise. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil. Let us pray. Father, for this standard, we ask that you would continue to enable us by the power of the Holy Spirit That we could walk in its light and its strength to overcome ourselves, that we could live out these instructions by Saint Peter, to live out the love that you have been required of your people So that we would be good testimonies to the world about who is our God, and so that we could secure our place in your heavenly home. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.