Let us pray. May the Lord, may the words of my mouth and the meditation of all our hearts, be accepting and pleasing to you, our rock and our redeemer. Amen. A few weeks ago, um, I went to Pastor Eric and asked him which passage he was going to be assigning for this morning, and he laughed which kind of made me slightly nervous. And then he said this will be fun, which made me even more nervous. So let the fun begin. But first, the following is from the Washington Post. Breaking up is hard to do, so hard that one 70-year-old man named Lawrence Ripple in Kansas City, Kansas. decided he'd rather avoid doing so altogether by getting himself thrown in jail instead of spending another minute at home with his wife. Last Friday, Ripple had a fight with his wife of 33 years. She said that they were arguing over a broken dryer and that she had asked him to fix it. As the domestic dispute heated up, Ripple yelled that he'd rather be in jail than at home According to police documents obtained, it seems Ripple is a man of his word, because after the fight he drove to the Brotherhood Bank and Trust in the Riverview neighborhood of Kansas City. He strolled in, handed the teller a demanding note. Once that, according to the FBI affidavit, for his arrest obtained, he wrote out, in front of his wife, I have a gun, give me money. The scrawled handwriting read, so that the teller gathered 3,000 and handed it over to the bank robber. But he didn't rush away to his waiting getaway car. In fact, he didn't even make an attempt to escape whatsoever Instead, he approached a chair in the bank's lobby and plopped himself down. Odd as this would normally be. It's even stranger when one considers the fact that the Kansas City Police Department is on the other end of the block, separated from the bank by little more than a coffee shop, a Chinese restaurant, and a subway. A presumably confused security guard approached the man who was still holding the $3,000 he had stolen from the bank, not minutes earlier. Ripple looked at him and stated the obvious. I'm the guy you're looking for. According to the police documents obtained by the Kansas City Star Since they were stationed mere feet away, it didn't take long for police to arrive and take Ripple into custody When they questioned Ripple, he said he no longer wanted to be in that situation, referring to his home life. Unfortunately, if convicted, Ripple faces up to twenty years in prison. Now, this is one of those stories that sounds so absurd it must be true. Of course, in our days of fake news, who knows what is true and what isn't. This isn't, however, how marriage is supposed to be. Husbands aren't supposed to want to go to such extremes to rid themselves of their wives And wives aren't supposed to drive their husbands there either. In fact, as we will see today, the way we interact with our spouse as Christians has eternal value. Last week we learned that whatever our vocation might be, whether it be a student, an employee, a slave, or a free man. Our behavior and our obedience to those in authority over us is a form of gospel proclamation. And that that makes us missionaries in our various vocational contexts. If you're an accountant, you're a missionary. If you're a doctor, a nurse, or a pharmacist, you're a missionary. If you drive a bus or fix toilets, you're a missionary. As we will see this week, this isn't only true in our careers, but it's also true in our interpersonal relations as well. If you're a husband, a wife, a mother, a father, you're a missionary, and your family is your mission. St. Peter writes, if you'd like to turn there with me, likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some of you do not obey the world, They may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives. When they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear. But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with imperishable beauty, of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy woman who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their own husbands. As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the women as the weaker vessel Since they are heirs with you of grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered So, right off the bat, St. Peter starts with what is seen in modern times as controversial. In verse 1, he encourages women to be in submission to their husbands. Now there's a context here. The word likewise indicates that his thoughts on wifely submission are closely connected with his thoughts in the previous chapter He isn't telling wives to submit to their husbands because he's a woman-hating chauvinistic jerk, as some feminists might have irreverently suggested. For St. Peter, wifely submission is about being missional. It's about the gospel. In fact, he says exactly that in verse 1. Why should women submit to their husbands? He writes, so that even if some, husbands, do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives. So St. Peter commands women to submit to their husband as an exercise in marital evangelism. That way, when the non-believing spouse sees his wife's godly conduct, it might lead him to consider what it is his wife believes. Back in my youth ministry days, we had a term for a similar thing called missionary dating, which every youth minister despises. This, however, is different. I've known many women who have come to know the Lord post-marriage and their spouse remains a non-believer, or vice versa. It's always a heart-wrenching challenge for the believing spouse, but this is what St. Peter is addressing. In fact, I have seen this happen numerous times over the years. One spouse comes to the Lord through the and through the prayer and godly behavior of the spouse's the spouse who's a believer. And in some cases, even whole families have come to know Jesus because of one spouse coming to know him. And it's really a beautiful moment. to behold as a minister, to see a whole family that you've been trying to reach for years and years to walk through the doors of the church. St. Peter then goes on to outline what this looks like practic practically in verse 3. He writes, Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry. or the clothing you wear. But let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit. Which in God's sight is very precious. Here he contrasts with those things that are shallow, outward appearance, and beauty. with deeper things. Her outward appearance fades away, but a woman's inward character lasts forever. And that's where the Christian wife should focus her attention, not on clothes and jewelry, but on the things that really matter. A gentle and quiet spirit. This, of course, flies in the face of everything that our culture tells us. Just a few weeks ago, millions of women descended upon our nation's capital to loudly proclaim their rights to murder their own children in the womb. Among other things. The feminist movement doesn't want women with gentle and quiet spirits. They want their women loud and proud. The warrior princess mentality They want them to fight for what they deem is rightly theirs, all of which is an inversion of how things really should be. Then there's the other segment of the culture that teaches that a woman's look is the most important aspect of her life. Millions are spent on cosmetics clothes and jewelry each year, so that women believe that they aren't good enough unless they look like the airbrushed supermodel in the most recent clothing catalog. None of that matters to God though. No, St. Peter tells us that what really matters to God, what is most precious to him, isn't outward appearance and loud obnoxious protests for civil rights. but a quiet and gentle spirit. That's where the Christian woman should focus her energy. Not on the things that the world expects of her, but instead of what God does. So in a world hell bent on destroying a woman's self-esteem and rebuilding it up into something twisted and demented, the most subversive thing a Christian woman can do is submit to her husband The most counter-cultural thing a Christian woman can do is focus on her inward beauty instead of her outward beauty. All of this so that her husband, her children, and those around her might come to know Jesus, not through her words, but through the way she lives her life. This is how the saints of old live their lives, and it's how Christian women should strive to live theirs as well. Just as Sarah submitted to our father Abraham, so must Christian women submit to their husbands, for in doing so God is honored and glorified. But men. We are off the hook here. If you're sitting there thinking about all the sandwiches and pies that your wife's going to make you, now that the preacher said that she's to submit to you, then you're going to be in for a rude awakening. Not that pies and sandwiches are bad in and of themselves. No. St. Peter's teaching on submission isn't a justification for us to subjugate and enslave our wives. That's not the point. And he has something just as significant for us as Christian husbands. St. Peter writes to the Christian man, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. Showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you, of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. The abusive husband is not a Christian husband. We are not to rule over our wives with iron fists as some husbands have wrongly done. No, St. Peter tells us to live with our wives in an understanding way, showing honor to them as the weaker vessel In other words, he's telling us to love our wives. Something that if we're being honest with ourselves, each and every one of us needs to be reminded of. This language of the wife being the weaker vessel is interesting to me. It isn't just a reference to their more delicate nature. For example, my wife is not able to lift as much as I am because she's smaller than me. She's a lot smaller than me. It's probably because of all the pies and the sandwiches. No, this is a reminder that a man is to remember to treat his wife with love and care. This sort of reminds me of a friend of mine. When he was a child, his mother would make him keep his hands in his pockets when they went into the gift shops so he wouldn't break things. He still does that to this day In verse seven, Saint Peter is sort of reminding us to keep our hands in our pockets. He's reminding us not to be the proverbial bull in a china shop when it comes to our marriages. were to treat our wives with honor as if they are a weaker vessel. You wouldn't handle your fine china or your fragile belongings with brute force. Why handle your marriage that way? Instead, we're to honor our wives, to show them special care as we relate with them, especially when our wives are working hard each and every day to be submissive and inwardly beautiful. Martin Luther once said, Let the wife make the husband glad to come home, and let him make her sorry to see him leave. All of this, of course, has direct relevance in our modern society. Despite what the culture might say, these aren't outdated social norms from a time-long past. These have direct relevance to us as Christians in the 21st century. St. Peter's words to the first century church was just as countercultural then as they are now. Honestly, not much has changed. They lived in a pre-Christian society, and we find ourselves in a post-Christian society. A society that teaches that these things are to be considered arcane, oppressive, and not keeping with modern values. And so we come back around to our initial point. We are missionaries. The world subverts marriage. It turns it into things that it was never supposed to be. As Christians, we believe that marriage is sacred. It's a picture of Christ's relationship with his church. It's a form of gospel proclamation. It's meant to point us and the world around us to Jesus. That's why the way Christians practice marriage matters. If Christians fail at marriage, if husbands abuse their wives, and wives fail to submit to their husbands, if divorce, like the cultural, Around us is seen as the rule rather than the exception. If we fail to live up to what we preach, then we fail to proclaim Christ to a world in need of the gospel and the good news of Christ's love. And a world hell bent on the destruction of marriage, the family, and the Christian moral ethic The most subversive and counter-cultural thing we as Christians can do is to submit to our husbands and love our wives. The world is just so different, and we have a unique opportunity to minister in it. I'll close with a story. When my wife and I were engaged to be married, we went to the men's warehouse to order our tuxes. We picked out what we wanted and started with the ordering process. And the Lady Welped us started to take down our information She asked for my phone number and address, and then for Lynette's number, but then proceeded to put the same address down for her contact info. I saw this as an opportunity to to speak into her life. And so I stopped her and I said, why why are you putting my wife's contact information down, or my my fiance's contact information down as the saints And she says, Well most people who come in here are already living together and they have the same address. Most of the couples that she talked with at the store, they live together. And so this gave us a unique opportunity as a couple to point to the young lady that there's a different direction It also illustrated for me very clearly and very very early on that marriage matters Because in a good Christian marriage, God is always glorified. And Jesus is loudly proclaimed, clear for everyone to see. Let's pray. Gracious and merciful Father, we're thankful for marriage, the gift that you've given us. We're thankful also, Father, that in marriage your Son is revealed to the world. And we pray, Father, that as we proceed from this place this morning, we will take these things to heart, and that each and every day we will try and live in a way that's pleasing to you. That brings you honor and glory, not just in our marriages, but in all of our relationships. Thank you, Father, for opportunities like this to hear your word preached. And for us to learn and fellowship with one another. And we pray all of this in Christ's name. Amen