Oh no, no, well, there is a great model like a money. Name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Maybe seated. Our reading was from Exodus chapter 32, end of that chapter. I'm actually covering that, and then into 33 and 34 A number of years ago, a parishioner complained to me that I use too many football analogies in my sermons. I took the challenge and I went back that year and looked how many times I used a football analogy and the number was one And I can only conclude that that parish particular parishioner did not like football analogies and therefore one was too many But I think I have earned the right to use at least one football analogy a year, so this is that sermon According to a layman's view of football, it's a game in which men smash into one another until someone crosses the goal line with the football and is awarded points. There does not seem to be a rhyme or a reason as to why the men smash into one another. Those who are fanatics about football, because of video games and because of colored commentators who draw on our television screens Many have become more sophisticated when understanding how plays are set up and how blocking assignments are given and what a play is supposed to look like. Most fans know why a quarterback, when he comes up to the line of scrimmage, calls out for the mic or the middle linebacker. As we have become aware of how linemen determine who they are going to block and what particular way they're going to block, depending on who is the middle linebacker. But what coaches know and what they see is much more detailed, knowing only not only knowing assignments. For instance, alignment, pass blocking, must be able to take a proper step back. that helps him both shuffle and slide his feet to stay in front of that defensive lineman, also keeping his balance, his hips square to his opponent. If his hips are not square, if a foot is at a slight angle instead of facing straight, if his legs are too close together or too far apart The advantage goes to the rushing defensive lineman throwing that man off balance and getting to the quarterback On the outside of a play, if a wide receiver is trying to get open on that crucial third down, and he needs to get to the outside of the defensive back who is covering him. He tries to do so by pushing inside, inside shoulder of the defensive back, to get him to move inside so that he can go out. Only problem is if he comes too close, if the cushion is too close, he can't get outside. The defender is right there, and therefore he loses the play. He doesn't get open It's now fourth down. The team has to punt. One play. One play has a consequence, maybe for the whole game. One game, a consequence, maybe to the whole season. And of course, one season lost is a great disappointment. That is a lot different than men merely smashing into one another. In Exodus 32, Israel makes one mistake that has great consequences. Well, it wasn't a mistake. It was sin. Israel sinned against God when the people made for themselves that golden bull And Israel sinned in their fornication, in their adulterous behavior, as they worship that golden bull. And that sin cost them dearly. The consequences were great. That sin resulted in many dying It resulted in God no longer leading them personally. It resulted in the covenant needing to be renewed. Consequences The fallout of Israel's idolatry is to be for us a warning, an admonishment of what one sin can do. So that we would always fear the consequences of sin. So that sin in our lives is reduced. If Advent season is a time for preparation for the coming Messiah, then an important part of preparation is lessening sin in our lives. A way to lessen sin is to fear its consequences. Now I'm not going to describe to you today consequences that would cause you to lose your salvation. The scripture teaches us that a person who loses his or her salvation never truly had salvation, but was only pretending. What we will hear and learn today is how consequences of sin result in separation from God. And that separation needing to be mended. And such separation needing to be mended is to stir us up. That we would choose not to sin, but choose to please God always, if that were possible. And we begin by looking at Exodus thirty-two at the most brutal and immediate consequences of Israel's sin. In Exodus 32, 27 and 28, it tells us that 3,000 people were put to death by the sword because of their idolatry. Three thousand. There was no second chance for these people In Exodus chapter 22, we read among the laws of that section, the Lord said, Whoever sacrifices to any God other than the Lord must be destroyed. God was not making a mere threat with those words. The implication was that those who were actively responsible for the introduction of the idolatry And those who participated in the worship, these were the ones that were singled out and put to death at that moment. For the wages of sin is death, Saint Paul reminded us. And I say reminded Because God said to Adam that if he was to break that one and only commandment he was given in the garden, that death would be the result. And we now know that that death of Adam was first spiritually. He was separated from God. His relationship with God was not the same. But we also know that God meant it physically. Adam was cursed to die on this earth because of his disobedience. But God meant it even more. Death had another meaning. It meant that Adam needed an atonement, someone to pay for his sin. A death needed to occur, and Adam's life was not sufficient to pay his own atonement. The sacrifice required was to be a sinless sacrifice. That was the purpose of those spotless lambs, of those non-blemished bulls. All pointed to the need for a perfect sacrifice. Who would be and became for us Jesus? Although the death of Jesus was once and for all, it still remains, it still remains that death An atoning sacrifice is required each time we sin. That the sacrifice of Jesus is sufficient to satisfy all sins in the past, in the present, and in the future does not mean that we have in any manner, the right to take such a sacrifice for granted, as if we can enter into a sin with the anticipation that all we need to do is repent after we're finished And we will be forgiven. St. Paul warned against such planning when he said, Shall we go on sinning, that grace may abound, may it never be. In verses 30 through 33, chapter 32, we have described the worst that could happen to us when we sin. It tells us that God has a time limit to his forgiveness. The prayers of Moses are refused. Moses could not intervene for the guilty parties. God instead promised that he would reserve punishment for those who betrayed him so defiantly. And thankfully, God did not destroy the entirety of the people as he first said that he would But his relationship with the people would never be as it once was, and that is a great sorrow to God, even more than it was a sorrow to the faithful. Some believe that Israel, all of Israel, past, present, and future, will be saved in the end. So the blotting out of God's book must describe that these will not enter into the promised land. Whatever the case, this was a sad time. And the people were not actually acting out of character in worshiping this golden bull. But action were reverting to their former form, to their former ways. And by returning to their old form, Israel was acting as an enslaved people. Not as a people who had been redeemed. We are to note from verse 34 that God chose an angel to lead the people. Meaning that he withdrew himself from them. He would no longer personally lead them. And such is a fear for all who truly love God. The greatest punishment for those who love God is for God to remove Himself from them. And this is a removal that is relational, not physical. God is everywhere. And David expressed it well when he prayed after his sin with Bathsheba, take not thy Holy Spirit from me. I remember a parishioner asking me, why do we pray this prayer of David if God said he would never leave us or forsake us? And the answer is that we pray these words because they are biblical and it's always good to pray biblical words. And also our covenant with God is conditional. We are to believe, we are to obey. When we fail to believe, fail to obey, the Holy Spirit has every right to remove himself from us. That he does not is an act of great, great mercy. Moses will appeal God's refusal to lead Israel in chapter 33, verse 15, and the Lord will relent his judgment to a degree. But as we will see, Israel will not know the Lord's presence as she once did. And this along with the promise, the punishment in chapter 32, verse 34, these are all hints of what is to come. Our sin requires then a mediator. And our mediator is the greatest of all. The remainder of chapter 33 describes how God instructed Moses to pitch a tent outside of the camp. So that God would be removed from his people, and only Moses could come and inquire of the Lord. The people only knew of God's presence when that glory cloud would appear. Moses has a very personal moment with God in this section as well. He's allowed to see something of God, but not his face. And all of this was done separately from the people. Consequences. Because of their offensive sins. When God tells Moses that he will not go with the people personally, they react as if they are in mourning. An act of their mourning was to put off ornaments. The ornaments are the same type that were used to make the golden idol, the golden bull. Today it is still a custom for faithful Jews to not wear gold jewelry when they are in mourning, in remembrance of Israel's sin in the desert. Another result of sin committed is a similar false repentance. And we need not be accused of reading into the hearts of the people of Israel, for we know their actions, and that revealed their hearts. They mourned that God would not be with them as he was before, and they take off their ornaments as a sign of their mourning, but they did this for show. They did such things outwardly to appear as if they were truly sorry for what they had done. And yet And yet, the next time God puts them to the test, instructing them to go into the promised land, to inhabit it, they become scared. The land is crowded with too many big people. People who are powerful. People too big and powerful even for God to defeat, so they thought The people were not truly mourning as they should. Their hearts were not repentant for what they had done. They only didn't like the consequences. They didn't like their punishment. As a parent, you see false repentance quite often A child is told to take to not take a candy out of the candy dish without asking When Dad leaves the room, the child then goes into full disobedient mode, and he slowly lifts the lid of the candy dish. And dad enters back into the room. When the child sees dad, he starts to cry. Why does he cry? He doesn't cry because he's startled, although that's what he wants you to think. He doesn't cry because he suddenly feels very badly for disobeying dad. He cries because he anticipates the consequences. He cries because he doesn't want to get into trouble for disobeying dad. Our present culture has made false repentance and false humility an art form. There are now titles given to apologies that are not apologies. The first is the non-apology apology. And such is common in politics and public relations. A non-apology apology is when a person says, I am sorry that you feel that way. Such does not admit any wrongdoing by the one non-apologizing, but implies that the person offended is likely simply thin-skinned. Another phrase for a non-apology apology is mistakes were made. The word mistakes tries to imply that there was no intent of wrongdoing The whole phrase says nothing about who was responsible or who was hurt. It brings comfort to no one and makes no effort to reconcile. Another type of an apology is an if apology. The phrase was coined by comedian Harry Shearer. The if apology sounds like this. I apologize if I offended anyone. A profound if apology was penned by author Bruce McCall. He gave this as an example of how you could break up with your girlfriend. If, in your opinion, your sensibilities have been injured, despite my having made every possible effort to provide adequate forewarning I believe that the prompt return of my Michael Bolton CD collection will bring closure to both sides and help begin the healing process. That would be hard to hear. Then there is the tactical apology, the formalistic apology, the happy apology. The happy apology has a person, the person that was offending, claim that their offense actually turned out for the greater good And thus in his own apology, he praises himself for the happy ending. In stark contrast One of the beauty beautiful parts of Psalm 51, the prayer of David after his sin with Bathsheba, is when he says to the Lord, Against you, you only have I sinned. No excuse, no explanation, no attempt to soften his guilt. Such is the only kind of repentance In chapter 34, the Lord's anger subsides, and he remakes the covenant with his people of Israel. By giving once again the Ten Commandments on two tablets, and by promising blessings for the people if they obey while they enter the Promised Land. And God renewed his covenant after he proclaimed the following about himself. He said of himself, excuse me. The Lord, the Lord God, is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness and truth. Who keeps loving kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin. Yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generations. Such is how God wants us to know Him. He wants us to understand Him in this way. Only God can be loving and kind and gracious and slow to anger and at the same time judge righteously. Has God revealed himself in chapter 34 as a God who remakes, who renews his covenant with his people. So he does the same when he reveals himself in the person of Jesus, our Savior. Because of Jesus, we who believe are able to renew our covenant daily with God. With words of confession. and wills that repent in the name, in the power, in the blood and authority of Jesus. Every time we repent, confess, we renew. And weekly, weekly we renew our covenant with God as a community as we break bread and share wine. Beloved, it only takes the slightest misstep, a failure to perform details That leads to mistakes. A missed block in a football game can lead to a bad play, can lead to a bad game, and that could lead to a bad season. And maybe if you're a professional looking for another job. That is all a bummer. But failures and missteps in the faith have greater consequences. Thus, they require greater sacrifices. We are to know. We are to fear. Consequences. Consequences of our sins. Consequences of what we do and fail to do. And when we do sin. We have been graced with a repeated opportunity to renew our covenant, to start anew. Such is the Christian life. It is the life that we choose to live. It is the only life that leads to eternal life. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, on this Advent season, we want to be a people who embrace the need for confession and repentance. For a daily renewal of our covenant with you, a weekly renewal of our covenant as a people. And so we thank you for your means of grace We thank you for the hope we have in Jesus. It is in his name that we pray. Amen