In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you all to turn to John chapter 4. Our gospel reading, John chapter 4, beginning at verse 46. We're actually going to be going beyond our gospel reading. We are going to go into chapter 5. We're going to be comparing These two events that John records. So John 4, 46, starting. In the ethics class That I taught at the university, I introduced to the students Kohlberg's theory of moral development The premise of the theory is that there is a universal development sequence to structures of moral development that extend across all cultures. The theory is actually a simple observation. Stage one. Stage one is punishment and obedience orientation. Where decisions are made based on the understanding of the authority and its ability to carry out physical consequences. A child obeying because it does not want to be spanked is an example. Stage two is the relativist orientation. Where a person is pragmatically driven, being concerned primarily with self-interest and that which satisfies the self. If good is done, it is for the purpose of having good done in return. Stage three is the good boy, nice girl orientation Where a person tries to live up to the expectations of others while searching for approval. Stage four is the law and order orientation where a person is concerned with maintaining social order. It is obeying the law because the law keeps society in order. It is concerned with the duty of all citizens. Stage 5 is the social contract orientation, where laws are understood to be a means to a greater end. Laws are to be examined, formulated, and even changed to bring about the greater good. The final stage, stage six, is the universal ethical principle orientation. Ethical decisions are made with personal ethical principles and logical understanding of consequences both for the individual and the universal. Are you taking good notes for all of this? None of these stages, mind you, are exclusive to one another We are, as a sinful race, a combination of many motivations regarding why we obey rules, why we obey laws, and why we disobey the same. And many people get stuck in one or two of the stages, never maturing out of them so they might be motivated for the sake of the good of others rather than just thinking about themselves. I reference Kohlberg's theory here because the two stories we are looking at from John's Gospel have a number of different motivations being described. And these motivations will tell us about ourselves, that is to say, who we are and who we identify with. And it will be a call for us to repent of certain motivations we may be embracing. Recall that John is very particular regarding what stories he tells. Remember, his gospel is written much later than the first three. He only chose seven miracles of Jesus to describe, and he did so keeping in mind the juxtaposition of each of the stories. Not just in the relation to each other, but in relation to the discourses, those teaching moments of Jesus, those that he records. And so we mentioned the juxtaposition of the story of the woman at the well and the Samaritan people who believed Jesus to be the Messiah. Recall that Jesus stayed with the Samaritans two days, and many believed on him because of his word. That reason, because of his word, is very important. It is important because of what they needed in order to believe and what they didn't need. They needed Jesus to reveal himself through his teaching and by simply being among them. That is to be compared to what the Galileans said they needed. After Jesus, after the stay of Jesus in Samaria, he goes back to the region in which he performed his first miracle. Remember turning the water into wine. Apparently, having just arrived, Jesus is contacted by a government official, likely a servant of Herod Antipas. For the purpose of healing the official's son, the response of Jesus speaks to motive. The reference to you people is to the people of Galilee. Jesus reveals their moral development. They are stuck at stage two as being pragmatically selfish. If it is about them, if it will benefit them, then they will follow, they will believe If it is not about them, then it makes no difference to them. And so Jesus calls them out. He confronts their motivation. But the nobleman, the nobleman is undeterred. His son is dying, and that is all he cares about. The nobleman then is motivated both for himself and for another. That is where most of us find ourselves when we pray for a loved one. We want them to be healed for their own sake and for our own hearts not to be hurt by watching them suffer. Jesus refused the man's request to go down with him to see the man's son. And incidentally, the request to go down is topographical As Cana was about 1,500 feet below Capernaum in elevation. But the refusal of Jesus to go down was not a refusal to heal the boy Jesus does what the centurion knew Jesus could do. He only needed to say a word, and the healing occurred. A key point in exchange is that the nobleman believed the word of Jesus. His believing is a result of him maturing spiritually. He trusted Jesus. That is no small thing to trust Jesus. It very well could be an eternal thing to trust in him. We don't know right now. Was the faith of the nobleman a saving faith, or was it in the moment of crisis? And once his son is back to full strength, they forget all about Jesus and go about their lives taking their health for granted. Crisis faith is an immature faith. It too is stage two in moral development as it is concerned primarily with self-interest. Crisis faith is so very easy to practice, for it provides a quick bandage to stop the bleeding. Many of us noticed Christ's faith after 9-11. People came to church to pray, to hear hope. They were earnest about faith, giving an answer to their soul, for the world was too confusing, and they needed a void to be filled, and the why questions answered But the faith, crisis faith, didn't last. Once the threat faded into our memories, and once we were assured by our president that the military would hunt down the terrorists, Many put their trust in chariots and horses, and their need for God faded. Crisis faith leads us to start attending Bible study more frequently or worship on Sunday more regularly, Christ's faith prods us to open up dusty Bibles and read, looking for anything that gives the soul hope. Christ's faith gets us on our knees and has us praying for longer periods and more earnestly than other times in our lives. There is truly nothing wrong with Christ's faith if it is the beginning point for us. Jesus knew this for the nobleman. The man needed Christ's faith to wake him up to the possibility of knowing God, personally, knowing God. And so the boy became sick. But not sick outside of the knowledge of the Heavenly Father. The boy's sickness grew worse, but still not outside the will of the Heavenly Father. And once Jesus heard of the boy's sickness, even though the motive of the people was to see miracles, and the motive of the nobleman was a crisis faith, Jesus knew the will of the Father and thus proclaimed healing for the boy, and the boy was healed. You see, beloved, God knows what motivates us. He knows that death and the fear of death are motivating. When Jesus warned that people who are not allowed into the kingdom of God will experience weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth, That was to be a motivator, and the motive was the first stage development, which is the stage of fear of punishment. And it is perfectly legitimate motivation to turn away from sin, but it is a beginning point. John tells us that the beginning point of the nobleman led to a belief in Jesus that spread to his whole family. And then John tells us that it was the second sign Jesus did in Galilee. By saying such, John is noting that there is a goal, a goal beyond the boy being healed. And beyond good wine being served at a wedding. The story of the boy being healed from the jaws of death Is next to or right before the story of the paralytic being healed in John chapter 5. The setting is much different. And obviously at a different time, but John wants us to hear the stories back to back. He wants us to relate to each of them. John doesn't specify what feast is being celebrated in chapter 5, verse 1, but since they are back in Jerusalem, we can guess it's another Passover. The mention of a fifth colonnade likely describes the dividing colonnades between two pools, which have been revealed by archaeological excavation. Verse 4 is controversial, for it does not appear in some manuscripts, and it appears a scribe put it in later to explain what was believed at the time. Regarding the sick man, it appears that he was lame and in not being able to walk. The mention of thirty-eight years May be a reference to the time Israel wandered in the wilderness, or it may simply mean that he was lame for a very long time. The motivation of this man was likely quite desperate and, frankly, depressing. His only hope was a miracle from heaven. Based off of a legend that has no accounted record of being true. An angel stirring the water And to add to his problem, he could not even tempt the fate of the legend because of his inability to move quickly. That Jesus quickly tells the lame man to walk after the man explains his dilemma shows us that Jesus is telling him that no angel from heaven is needed Only the Son of God, who is from heaven and will return to heaven, is needed. And all that the Son of God needs are words of life. The word immediately is used to assure the reader that it only took the words of Jesus to act out this miracle in all of its fullness. There was no slow growing of muscles or time for the straightening of bones and the stretching of ligaments. It was instant. Jesus can do that. Note that nothing about the character of the lame man has been revealed to us yet. Nothing about his motivation or his maturity level has been revealed, except that he wanted to be healed and that he was desperate. When John mentions that that the the day of healing was the Sabbath, it sets us up for an inevitable conflict. The Pharisees, we remember, were the police force against Sabbath breakers as they would watch for violators of their interpretation of the Sabbath law. And their interpretation was that no one was allowed to carry his sitting mat around the temple court because such was working, and God's people are not to work on the Sabbath. Now we are going to assume in the name of the love of God that these legalistic Jews who questioned the once lame man did not know that he was at one time, for a long time, lame. And so confronting the man for carrying his mat seems a little understandable. But then the man tells them that he is carrying his mat because the man who healed him told him to do so. And notice that the legalistic Jews completely gloss over what they were just told about the man being healed. They ignored that a miracle man is among them. They didn't care if the lame walk. They didn't care if the blind see. They only cared about their narrow interpretation of the Sabbath law. Remarkable. Remarkable. Next we have Jesus running into the once lame man again and instructing the man to understand what a blessing it is for him to be healed. And that the man should see to it that he sins no more, or something worse, something worse would come upon him Now we have already heard Jesus say in other places that people are not necessarily sick because of a specific sin committed. But the word necessarily is useful because of what Jesus implies here, which is that some people do indeed get sick because of sins they have committed St. Paul confirms this when he warns against people taking the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner. It is the responsible Christian, the mature Christian, who will ask the Lord to search His heart to see if there is any sin therein. What occurs next forces us to question the maturity of the healed man. As soon as he learns that it was Jesus that healed him, he goes and tells the Jewish legalists, and they follow up by finding reason to persecute Jesus. We could read into this and conclude that the healed man was an immature man and that he was only concerned about getting not getting in trouble with Jewish leaders, or maybe he was mature enough to want to be thought of as a good boy. But either way, his actions do not seem to care about what his telling would do to Jesus. And then there is the motive of the legalistic Jews. The maturity level we can place them in is stage four. Which is again law and order orientation, where a person is concerned about maintaining social order. These men are more mature than the heeled man or the citizens of Galilee, but they are stuck at stage four. In fact, they are so very stuck that the law and their interpretation of the law itself has become an idol to them. They worship it. Their legalism is such an idol that it blinds them from seeing the Messiah. They say that they are looking for. Amazing. But that is what legalism does. It blinds persons from seeing their own hypocrisy. That is why legalists so easily strain a gnat and then swallow a cattle. It is why they try to take a speck out of someone else's eye while having a board stuck in their own eye. Legalism helps a person see the sins of others more easily while increasing their blindness to the sins of their own. Legalism also breeds jealousy. Legalism doesn't like other people expressing freedom. Legalism doesn't like people having a good time. Legalism wants everyone to stay under the weight of the law, for misery does indeed love company. Well, we have seen the motivation of the people in these two stories, and we have been able to place them in stages of moral development and found them all to be wanting. Except one, of course. What was Jesus motivated by? We can assume he was at stage seven in his moral development, which, if you recall, the stages is higher than the stages I listed. And at that stage of moral development, a person is motivated, motivated by the coming of the kingdom of God. The primary reason Jesus healed the nobleman's son was for a sign for the people that the kingdom of God, Jesus Himself, had come to them. His healing of the lame man within the temple walls was a sign to the people that the kingdom of God had come to them, even to the ones who had tried to destroy it. And because Jesus was motivated by the kingdom of God, so too are his followers to be motivated. We are to be motivated by the kingdom of God. We might miss it because we say it so often, but when we pray the Lord's Prayer, we pray for God's kingdom to come. That is the end goal. It is so simple, making it so profound. It is all, it is all for the kingdom of God. Why do I want my children to believe and have families where their spouses and their children believe? I want it for them as individuals, of course, to be sure, but the true motivation should be the kingdom of God. I want, I am to want the kingdom of God to come Why do I want all of your marriages to survive and thrive? It is for you, to be sure, but it is most importantly for the kingdom of God to be established on earth as it is in heaven. Why bother with a school? Do you know how much hassle it is to run a school? Why do it if it is that much of a hassle? Why do I prepare sermons for each Sunday? Why? Why not just go through the motions and spend time talking to you about what interested me in the news this past week? Why not? Why bother to show care and concern for the sick, the hurting, and the lonely? Why befriend people when people will get mad at us and leave the church? Why bother indeed? Well, you know the answer to these questions. It is because of the kingdom of God. It is because of the kingdom of God that we minister the way we do. We care about what we care about. The kingdom of God is to be our motivation. Sure, you and I can be motivated by fear of punishment, by wanting to be considered a good boy or a good girl, or because we want good social order. But all such motivation must grow up. All such motivation must move to the last motivation for Christians, which is to see the kingdom of God, to see God's will be done. That was the motivation of Jesus, and it is to be ours as well. So let it be our motivation. Let us grow up and care most about the kingdom of God. Let us pray. Father, for this standard, we thank you for revealing it to us through the Gospel of John And for him to point to your kingdom to come and your will to be done. May that be our constant prayer, our constant goal, and that which we praise you for. In Jesus' name. Amen.