In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Please turn your Bibles to Gospel according to Saint John chapter twelve, beginning at the thirty-seventh verse. Sadly to say, sadly to say, there are Christian young adults that I personally know of today that are in a state of outward rebellion against their parents One person is still a member of this parish. Such rebellion is a mystery for me for one reason. That reason is the human will. The human will is a mystery It is especially a mystery when it comes to knowing where the human will, which is the power to make individual choices, Where that ends, and the will of God begins But to put it even that way isn't well stated because God's will is always playing a role. Even if it is just the role of allowing a person to make individual choices. And an even greater mystery about the human will is to try to understand why people choose to destroy themselves. Why does a person make decisions that are self-destructive? For instance, why does a man choose to abuse his spouse and thus destroy his marriage and scar his children? Why does a young man reject the love of his parents to chase after a girl who neither fears God nor really cares about the young man? Why does a woman choose to have a sexual affair instead of having peace with God? Why does a Christian choose to be constantly angry? And thus damage every friendship in his life. In general, why do people choose to be angry instead of happy? Why do people choose hate or bitterness rather than love? Why do people choose pleasure in this life in exchange for the hope of everlasting life? You and I could go on and on asking similar types of questions. And make no mistake about it. All of these are choices people make. They, and they alone, are morally responsible for such choices. In John Bunyan's most famous allegory, Pilgrim's Progress, a man by the name of Christian is a pilgrim who has set his sights on making it to the celestial city. Heaven for you and me The first stranger Christian meets on the way is named Pliable. Christian tells Pliable about the hope and beauty of the celestial city. And Pliable loves to hear about it and immediately decides to join Christian on his pilgrimage. And Fiable wants to go fast on the road, but Christian is weighed down by what we would say is a backpack, which is his sin. While strangely enough, Pliable has no such burden on his back. Unfortunately, shortly after Pliable joins Christian, They fall into a sort of quagmire called the slew of the spawned. When Pliable questions Christian as to what has happened to them, Christian admits that he does not know. He's just trying to stay afloat. This offends Pliable. And he responds angrily, asking, Is this the happiness you have been telling me about? If we have such miserable misfortune at the beginning of our journey, what may we expect when we reach the end of our journey? Pliable promises that if he gets out of this flu of despawned alive, Christian can have his heavenly country. After that, Pliable finds a shallow area near his home and climbs out, never to be seen or heard from again. With that conversation, Bunyan allows us to know why Fiable gave up. It was too hard of a road for him. Too hard of a road for him to walk. He did not have the fortitude for the walk. He was weak, and he therefore gave up In the interpreter's house, Christian meets a man in an iron cage. By questioning him, Christian learns that the man was once a flourishing professor, on his way, mind you, to the celestial city. But the man flirted with sin and ignored the commands of Holy Scripture. The man says of himself that I laid the reign upon the neck of my lusts. Instead of controlling his passions, he allowed them to run wild, and his lack of confessing his sin hardened his heart. From the words of the man himself, also called hopeless, we learn why he turned from God. He wanted pleasure in this life, and thus he knowingly, knowingly exchanged it for the hope of heaven. That is supposed to be answer enough for us of why he did it. But I say it still begs the question, why was earthly pleasure more appealing to this man than heavenly reward? Bunyan doesn't provide such an answer. And I wonder So let us turn to the scripture, and specifically our reading from the Gospel according to St. John, for some answers regarding how the will of man works with and or against the will of God. In verses 37 through 41, I want you to note that these are commentaries by John. These are not the words of Jesus, but John himself is writing, giving us commentary on what had happened. John wants us to know that enough signs and wonders were done in front of people in public. That those who do not believe that Jesus is the Messiah, they are without excuse. They have plenty of opportunity. To explain why they didn't believe, and thus to explain how their wills worked against God, John quotes from Isaiah. The first quote is from Isaiah 53, which is the section, you remember, of the suffering serpent. This shows that Isaiah prophesied that there would be widespread rejection of Jesus. John next quotes from Isaiah 6, which is that introduction, you remember, of Isaiah's great vision. That is where he is called to be the prophet of God. And when God gave him that call, God warned him that the message that he would preach would not be received. And he said, because God had already passed judgment on the guilty, who was Israel, and thus they were blinded spiritually and made hard of heart. The same then, John is saying, applied to those of Jesus' day. They too had been found guilty by God, and thus they too were blinded in spirit and hardened of heart. John next explains that some people actually did believe, but among the Pharisees it was very few. And the main issue was their choice to love the praise of men as opposed to to love the praise of God. Now this is all well and good and helpful, but it does not help us understand why they loved the praise of men rather than the praise of God. We can all well imagine why we love the praise of men. Everyone likes to be appreciated. Everyone likes to be encouraged. Everyone likes to be told how good he is. But again, why is such praise better than God saying to a person, well done? John doesn't take it that far. He doesn't explain it that far. He just says this is the way it is. John's commentary is in contrast to what Jesus says next And you and I are supposed to connect what Jesus says next with what he said in verses 23 through 36 that we covered a few weeks ago. In verse 35, Jesus told the listeners that the light was with them. That light was Jesus himself, as he says more plainly in verse 46. Verses 44 through 46 explain the unity that Jesus has with the Father, and that believing on one is believing on the other. Believe in the Father, you believe in the Son, believe in the Son, you believe in the Father. Verse 47 and 48, verses 47 and 48 imply that believ Sing in Jesus and hear this now implies that believing in Jesus is a choice. A choice that each person makes according to his or her own will Believing and rejecting are presented as that which each person does, and it is easy to surmise that people make choices. According to their will. Jesus then finishes this section of teaching by confirming that his authority comes from his father, and that Jesus is the epitome of an obedient son. So while we understand what Jesus is teaching and confirming, again, we are not helped to understand the issues in regards to the will of individuals. With and against the will of God. On the road to the celestial city Christian meets up with a pilgrim named Faithful. Faithful came from the same city of destruction as Christian did, and thus he was able to catch him up on what was going on in the town after. Christian left. The people, he found out, hated him for leaving them. They wished him to stay. When Faithful tells of his own travels, Christian learns that he avoided the slew of Despond, but came upon a woman named Mrs. Wanton. Faithful recounts of how difficult that temptation was. You cannot imagine, he said to Christian, unless you have similar experience. What a flattering tongue that woman had. He continued, I suspected that she was trying to attract me to her trim figure by her behavior and sympathetic understanding of the human nature. She was so attractive, especially when she spoke of human freedom and natural love. Just a little way, she said. Just a few moments of pleasure. Thank God you escaped her, said Christian. He then quoted Scripture: The mouth of a strange woman is a deep pit, and he that is aboard of the Lord shall fall therein. But I don't know if I wholly escaped her or not, said Faithful. I closed my mind to her subtle, seductive suggestions. Yet I cannot say I have acquired a holy pure mind since. Such a confession can be made by every man. So why did faithful not give way to the lust of his flesh? Why did he choose God instead? His words tell us that he made a conscious effort to remember the dangers that Scripture warns about of such lust. But why did he choose it while others do not? Why did he take the warning while so many do not? The author of Pilgrim's Progress is John Bunyan, as I said. John Bunyan was a Calvinist, as his other writings and his preachings indicate. As a Calvinist, he embraced the doctrine of predestination, that God had predetermined individuals to be saved. That God had made choices for individuals, woken them up to the gospel. Bunyan also embraced the doctrine of irresistible grace. That doctrine states that when God reveals his mercy to a person, well that person cannot refuse, but will only repent and believe. But Bunyan's characters, as we have seen, behave as if their choices are part of the equation when determining a person's salvation. One critic wrote that Bunyan presented these characters in his story, not discounting the doctrine of predestination, but to present them in a more relatable manner for his intended readers. Who he hoped were non-Christians and who would come to the faith. That sounds like a fair explanation, but it doesn't help us understand how the human will works. With or against and or against the will of God. I don't have a segue here, so I'm just going to go into it. We have a very strange dog. If you have not met our dog, his name is George. The surname Jorgensen literally means son of George, and so we name the Jorgensen dog George. If you have heard our family stories about the appetite of our George, you have heard how he has taught himself to open a refrigerator And to open a slide in the garbage drawer, all because of his stomach compelling him to do so. But the appetite of George is not what makes him weird Bobby Lynn and I used to have a bed in the master bedroom that was put on risers. From the time George was our only dog, thus from the time that our other dog Rex had passed away, George has loved to sleep under our bed. He became so obsessed with sleeping under our bed that he would sneak into our room in in the afternoon and stay there in hopes that we would not know or recognize that he was there in the evening And we didn't like him under our bed for two reasons. First, George snores while he sleeps. And when he would sleep under our bed, and I'm not making this up, He would shake our bed with his snoring. And then he had this type of chain stoking, that type of noise. And he would wake you up. The second reason why we didn't like George to sleep under our bed was that he would steal things of ours, our possessions, to sleep with them I have found socks, shoes, and t-shirts, even found a watch under my bed that he had taken under my bed to sleep with. He doesn't always chew on them, he just likes to sleep with them. Well after Christmas, Bobby Lynn and I bought a storage bed. We became adults. We have a bed with a headboard for the first time in our marriage. It is a bed that has a headboard but also with drawers underneath. We've always wanted one, we finally bought one. But George can't fit under the bed anymore. And we are thrilled with that. But George did not give up easily. George has now found a way to crawl under one of our dresser drawers that has only eight inches from the from the bottom drawer to the floor And he is too fat to fully fit under that dresser. And so he always has to have a part of his body sticking out. Well, it all came to a classic moment this Monday. Watching TV in our bedroom, I get up Stand up from my bed. I look down, and there is George. Half of his body is underneath the dresser. His head and his paws are sticking out. And in his paw is an old pair of broken glasses that I had, holding them, not chewing it, but just holding on to it. And for me, that's when I said, my dog is weird. Now I tell you all of this about my weird dog, George. Because of why he believe why he behaves in such a manner. He doesn't choose to behave weirdly. He doesn't choose to behave in that manner, only the manner that comes natural to him. What he does is innate He has an innate need to be under his master, connected to his master in some way. This is how he was created. The same can be said about each of us regarding sin that is innate. Because each of us has been born under the covenant of Adam, and that covenant, because of original sin, is cursed, we are all born under the curse of God. We are all born dead in our trespasses and sins, and thus, because of the sin we are born into, and with, we make decisions in life that are self-destructive. Remember when David said in Psalm 51, the Psalm that is a prayer of repentance because of his adultery with Bathsheba and the murdering of her husband Uriah. David said to the Lord, In sin did my mother conceive me With some ears that may sound like David's mother committed sin by having sexual intercourse, and the result was David. But the true meaning is That from the time that David was only a newly fertilized egg, David was under the covenant of Adam, which is cursed. And thus David was sinful even in the womb, as we all are, in our mother's womb. It is, as my sister loves to say, when she holds up one of her newlyborn grandchildren, oh, you're such a cute little sinner. And so it's true. We are all cute little sinners. Because we are born cute little sinners, we have wills that naturally go against God. And because our hearts are set against God, it is first nature for us to make decisions that are self-destructive. Thus the question I have been insisting to be answered by God regarding how the human will interacts with or against God's will, that's the wrong question The question should not be, why do people make poor decisions that ruin marriages and scar children and alienate friends and corrupt their bodies, etc. , etc. The question should be how do we not make decisions that ruin marriages, scar children, alienate friends, and corrupt our bodies? How do we not? Such is the right type of question because doing self-destructive things is natural for us. To understand the subject of the human will through the reality that it is first nature to be self-destructive is to deny what is obviously true about human nature. Human nature has fallen from perfection. The human nature under Adam falls short of the glory of God. The Greeks even understood this. Without biblical revelation, the Greeks understood this. Plato believed the human condition to be the soul struggling to control the appetites of the stomach and the genitals. The plight of man, according to Plato, was to pursue virtue so that the flesh would become submissive to the soul. If the Greeks could get it, we who have Holy Scripture ought to get it all the much more. The fallen human nature is why people do not believe in Jesus, even though they were eyewitnesses to his miracles. The fallen nature is why the Pharisees preferred the praises of men. The fact that John mentions that there were people who believed even among the religious rulers, that is the true miracle. That is the will of man being overcome by the will of God so as to be saved. So what are we to say? What are we to do to the truth that our need that our wills have to be overcome by God's We are to thank him with our lives. Did not Jesus say He who loves his life will lose it. And he who loses his life for the sake of Jesus will receive eternal life. Beloved, God has overcome your will for your salvation. You owe him your life. Jesus has pulled us out from under the bed. Jesus has pulled us out from under the dresser. Given us hearts. That chose him. Chose him over self-destruction. Such rescuing deserves our full devotion. Amen and amen. Let us pray