In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. See it. I want to start off by apologizing to you On behalf of Ray, Ray, you pronounced every one of those names incorrectly. Kidding Ray, you did not pronounce them incorrectly. Who knows how they're pronounced? I'm sure when you saw that reading you went, oh my goodness. We are in Ezra 2. Want to start off by Reading a song. I learned how to write it when I first started school. Some bully didn't like it. He said it didn't sound cool. So I had to hit him. And all I said, when the blood came, it's my last name. Grandpa took it to Europe to fight the Germans in the war. It came back on some dog tags nobody wears no more. It's written on a headstone in the field where he was slain. It's my last name. Passed down from generations too far back to trace, I can see all my relations when I look into my face. May never make it famous, but I'll never bring it shame. It's my last name. Daddy's always told me far back as I recall, son, you're part of something. You represent us all. So keep it how you got it, as solid as it came. It's my last name Passed down from generations too far back to trace, I can see all my relations when I look into my face. May never make it famous, but I'll never bring it shame. It's my last name. So, darling, if you're wondering why I've got you here tonight, I want to be your husband. I want you to be my wife Ain't got much to give you. What I've got means everything. It's my last name. Oh, it's my last name. What do you know? Country music isn't only about trucks and breakups The song is by Dirks Bentley, and it communicates what we all recognize. We each inherit a reputation with our last name. And we can keep it, that reputation, ruin it, or improve upon it Having lost my father at a young age, I never received a sense of what Jorgensen was to mean. My grandfather never tried to pass on any tradition that defined what it meant to be a Jorgenson, so I've had to make it up. What Jorgensen means has to be restarted with me and established with my sons, every one of them. I have to put it in writing I have put it in writing to my sons what I want Jorgensen to mean. The uh Name comes from George, which originates with St. George. Legend attributes Saint George to slaying a dragon. Another legend has him as a Roman soldier of Greek origin who was sentenced to death under Emperor Diocletian because of his Christian faith. We choose to embrace both legends and say that Jorgensen stands for maintaining faith in Jesus while slaying dragons. I started thinking about last names and family names when reading the names recorded in Ezra chapter 2. It would have been, would it not, a privilege and an honor, and generate much glee From generation to generation to have a family name on the list, a list, like Ezra chapter 2. Remember that these families were part of the first wave of Jewish families to return to the Promised Land after being in exile for seventy years. around 535 BC. These people were before Ezra returning, which we will read about later. The privilege, the honor, the glee about having your family name, that would have been something. But that glee would have been tempered with the mention of those families that did not have records that identified them as to what house they were from. They knew they were Jewish, but they did not know from which tribe they came. That is terribly, terribly sad. I read one commentator who believed it should be understood that it it it's more remarkable that anybody had any records at all because of the time that had passed and because they were driven out of Jerusalem But that is not how this should be understood. Instead, it was so very important to Jewish families that they connect themselves back to Abraham. And all that was promised to Abraham and to each tribe under Joshua. Their records and their inheritance, proven by their family records, was an essential part of their identity. It was so very essential that family records were memorized one generation to the next generation, carefully memorized. With each family treasuring where they fit in in God's covenant as God's people, to lose your family records was devastating. And speaking of being devastated, consider what it would have felt like to understand that your family was of a priestly lineage. And therefore, you had priestly duties. And therefore, thinking you are going to play an important role in restoring God's house, the temple. that you are going to be able to go into the temple and to touch holy things according to the law of Moses, only to find out that there are no records of your family's heritage. Verse 62 says that they sought their names among the listing of priestly families only to discover their names were not there. And because it was so very important that priestly families only feat priestly families do certain jobs and certain duties amongst the people, amidst the temple and before God. The governor of Jerusalem would not allow these families for them to eat amongst the priests until their identity was solved. The passages mention using Urm and Tuman, but these are not easily identified as to their nature. We don't know what they were. What is clear from their usage here is that the high priest would use them to speak to God directly. With the hope that God would speak back somewhat directly, giving the priest a sign as to from what family these people came, using Urim and Tumun. And because not the temple nor the sacrifices to God had been restored, the ability to hear directly from God was down the road if it would ever come again. To not be able to find your name on a list that would identify you as to who you thought you were. Had to be devastating and somewhat demoralizing. But such a loss of identity Which was a loss of family records, is the fault of the family heads. It is the fault of family members from one generation. to the next for not passing handing down that family lineage that record Now such could happen because of tragedy, or such could happen because of lethargy But men could die leaving no son behind and therefore carrying no lineage forward. But that is rare. So we need to talk about lethargy. This was discussed during our Sunday hour last week. And a great deal of wisdom was shared regarding how lethargy has damaged our culture and damaged the Christian church in general. And so we need to examine ourselves regarding lethargy within families and what steps we are taking or not taking. To assure our family names and each name of a family member is written in the records and by records. I mean the book of life I spoke at length a few weeks ago about the importance of Christian fathers taking their role very seriously, so I won't take much time here. Although I must mention that a common sin among fathers is lethargy. We can easily be lazy when it comes to fatherhood. We can watch our child misbehave, and because we don't want all of the drama and all of the time it takes to discipline the child, we turn away. Act like it didn't happen. And it takes time and much effort to talk to our children about why we believe what we believe, why we embrace the traditions that we embrace, why we don't behave like the godless. And because it takes time, and because it takes effort, and there's a good game to watch right now, we put it off to tomorrow, and it never gets done. Lethargy is a sin practiced in all aspects of our lives. We get tired of remembering what God has done for us just as Israel did. Although the prophets warned not to forget what God had done, the Israelites took for granted their deliverance from Egypt, took for granted God's protection of them from their enemies. And that gave opportunity for the devil to sneak in false gods and lead Israel into idolatry. To not forget, God's people must tell stories. The stories of God's work of delivering his people need to be heard. Our children today need to hear God's stories. Our children need to know of Abraham offering Isaac. Of Moses being hid in the Nile in a basket. Of Joshua and his people marching around Jericho. Of the sun standing still, of Samson destroying pillars, of Gideon gathering a small army Of David cutting the head off of a giant. Of Solomon and his wisdom. Of Elijah mocking false prophets. Of Elisha floating an axe head. Of a virgin giving birth, of a man turning water into wine, walking on water. Healing a child, giving sight to the blind, and raising himself from the dead In the book of Revelation, Christians are told to hold on. Hold on to those stories. And holding on takes effort. It takes great effort because the devil and his demons tempt us to relax. Take it easy. Don't worry about knowing the stories or telling the stories. Watch this movie or or or this television show instead. You can watch eight episodes in a row and not realize you've been sitting in front of your television for six hours Or read social media instead. Pay attention to what your neighbor had to eat for dinner last night. He's posted two pictures from different angles. Or pay attention instead to an argument between political opponents who are not listening to each other. Before you know it, an hour has gone by or two. That is much easier than telling stories. And it takes great effort to hold on, because the unbelieving world hates the stories. It mocks them and questions our history and our intelligence. It takes great effort because faith without works is dead. The question was asked two weeks ago as to how we got here. I describe the condition of the church as to how it has accepted the sins of the world without discipline, and how it has accepted the practices of the world without questioning. That is how we got here. And those things are caused by lethargy as well. It takes great effort to discipline sinners in our midst. It is easy, so very easy, to look the other way when a man in the church is unfaithful to his wife. It is easy, so easy to ignore a teenager who is in rebellion against his parents. It is easy, so very easy, to allow a brother in Christ to turn to vices, to cope with life's stresses, and not say anything It is easy, so very easy, to refuse to forgive when a wrong has been done to you and expect the worst of those you do not like. And to gossip about a person you do not understand. On the opposite end It takes great effort to confront the sinner, to confront the teenager in rebellion or a friend who's been turning the vices. It takes great effort to love, as the scripture defines love, for that means you must forgive sins when done to you. You must think the best. And not speak evil of another. What we choose to do regarding such matters, these actions define our name. Hear this from Proverbs chapter 22, verse 1. A good name is more desirable than great riches. The godly understand that. The world sees it differently, of course, and in case of riches, it understands it with a twist. According to the wisdom of the world, great riches is what gives you a good name. Athletes. Believe riches give them a good name when they pump their bodies full of banned substances cheating the process Businessmen believe the riches give you a good name when they take advantage of the least in society, in the media. The media believes the riches give you a good name as they uphold the most salacious among us, and they uphold them because it increases their ratings, and that increases advertisers, which gives them great riches. For the Christian, for the godly, for the righteous, it is not so. A good name is indeed more desirable. A major part of Christianity, the Christian covenant we are under, is what we pass down to the generations that follow us Recall that when St. Peter preached his first sermon on the day of Pentecost, he stated that the promises found in the good news of Jesus were for them and for their children. The promises are expected to be inherited. And in order for them to be inherited, they must be kept and cared for and then purposefully given away. And we don't hear enough about the responsibility of Christians to pass on an inheritance. God, who is our Father, tells us that we who believe are his inheritors And as inheritors, he expects us to leave behind an inheritance like our Heavenly Father does for us. Practically, such a responsibility to leave behind an inheritance includes earthly goods. An unrighteous man stores up goods for himself, earthly goods, that he will not have use of when he is no more. Hear this from Proverbs 13, verse 22. A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children. This means practically That the national debt we are leaving to our children's children is a sin before God. Believe that A generation must rise up and say, we will sacrifice for the sake of those who follow us, if that national debt will ever be paid. And the verse also means that goods in this life should be passed down, even if they are of minimal value, if just to say to those who follow us that we want God's blessings for you. Of course, the most important inheritance we leave behind will be faith in Jesus. And the most important last name we honor will be Christian. You never truly know the perception that people have about you. You all of us have a perception about ourselves and a perception that we want others to have about us, but you never really know how people are thinking about you So I don't know what all of your perceptions are about my beloved Bobby Lynn. I can say that when it came to raising young children She could be a bulldog. As mentioned, I emphasize to all of my children that being a Jorgensen Was being a Christian witness and slaying dragons. But the most important reputation I wanted them to be concerned about was the name Christian. I repeated to them that their most important identity was to be a follower of Jesus Christ. And it was Bobby Lynn who reminded them of that identity in bulldog-like fashion. For instance, she would remind our children that they were Christian first and last when they were in public and not behaving like Christians. This occurred multiple times in sporting competitions. If she witnessed any of our children get mad at a referee or at an opponent or ignore a coach or be a poor sport. She would stare them down until they got eye contact with her. And she would scrunch up her pretty little face And point her forehead rapidly, touching her forehead. And the children knew what it meant. It meant that at their baptism, they were marked with the sign of the cross. And she was reminding them of that sign and how they were to live up to that sign. I fell in love with her again and again when she would do that. And I believe our marriage is so very strong in part because of how important it was to both of us. To pass on our faith in Jesus to our children. So, what does your name mean? What reputation does your name have amongst outsiders? Does your name resonate with the most holy of names, Jesus the Christ? Are you being careful that your name is written so that you can enter the heavenly promised land? And you know, it's just a list of names It is a list of names that probably when you're reading through the Bible in 90 days or maybe through the year, when you come to that list in Ezra, you probably don't read all of them, right? But it is an important list of names, for it reminds us that there is another list of names that the Bible calls the book of life. And it is important that your own name is on it. But the most important Name to us, passed down from generation to generation, one that you should never bring shame It is Jesus' name. May his name be all of our last name. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we are thankful here for the principle of passing down from generation to generation who we are under your covenant. That we all carry the name of Christ, that we all are Christian. Father, help each parent, grandparent. Help their children and their grandchildren embrace that identity, for we do want our names written in your book of life. Grant it, dear Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen