In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Join me turning in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11 beginning at verse 1. Hebrews 11 beginning at verse 1 From what we heard last week regarding Hebrews chapter 10, we are to see what led the preacher To address the subject of faith directly and more fully here in chapter 11. The argument from the end of chapter 10 flowed as follows. We are to hold fast to our hope, to enter the presence of God, and a major part of holding fast is to encourage one another And in order to encourage one another, we must not neglect corporate worship, for those who do find themselves headed towards apostasy. The ultimate apostasy is losing faith in Jesus. And so faith needs to be defined as well as exemplified So that we who are disciples of Christ Jesus can live our faith ourselves in every circumstance of life. But what is faith? You are to have it, and you are to have it in the object of Jesus, but what is it? Well, it is the substance of things hoped for. Substance can be translated competence, even sure competence The meaning can also be foundation or the very essence. It is then what everything rests upon and is connected to. Faith, the essence of what it means to be Christian, is connected to what we hope in Not what we hoped for, as in saying, I hope it doesn't rain again. That type of hope is what we wish for. What we hope in are the promises God has made in the Bible. St. Peter said Set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ The hope of a Christian is in God promising to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Christians hope in God's mercies being new every morning. Christians hope in Jesus being the Messiah So that all he promised regarding our sin, regarding eternal judgment, that all of it is true and all of it will come to pass. Our hope is in living eternally in the presence of God instead of suffering eternally in the presence of our sin and the devil. Our hope is in the living God being a loving God towards sinners who call upon Him for salvation. And hear this now. Hear this now. Our hope is in what is objective. Objective Our faith and our hope are in what is objective, and the object is God, who is revealed more fully to us in Jesus. I say it in this way to address a problem in the modern church, which is to present the Christian faith as subjective, a subjective experience rather than an objective reality. Reason with me that any false religion can claim the same subjective experiences modern Christians put their trust in When all the while what is not seeking stand is the objective reality of Jesus of Nazareth, of his death, his resurrection, his ascension. Even godless philosophers have recognized that personal experience does not determine truth. Experiences don't determine truth because they vary from person to person and they cannot be verified. But Jesus is verified. The disciples knew him intimately. Many Jewish leaders heard him teach and witnessed his miracles. Witnesses saw him suffer and die. Over 500 witnessed his resurrected body. And yes, you say, but we don't see him today. We don't have sensory proof of Jesus. And true, true, hence the next part of the definition of faith. Faith is also evidence of things not seen. Evidence is demonstration regarding the subject It is convincing proof to the believer to what the senses cannot detect. Hence it is proof of what is not seen. And with this understanding, we are to recognize faith to be a mystery It is not a mystery in a confounding way, as though it does not provide answers, but it is a mystery in the manner of us not knowing from which it came, how it came to us, or even why we have it That mystery is solved somewhat, and that we are told that faith is a gift from God. St. Paul said, you remember to the Ephesians, by grace you are saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. Both grace and faith, a gift. Elsewhere, Paul says that spiritual gifts are given out by the Holy Spirit, and one of those gifts is faith. The context there, mind you, cannot mean that saving faith is a gift that some believers have and some others do not, for all believers have the gift of saving faith, initial belief. It must mean instead a faith to trust in God during various trials and tribulations. When some people break down and allow life circumstances to overwhelm them, others are able to trust in God through various trials and tribulations. And with this understanding, it is easier to recognize those Christians who have this gift of faith. They are the ones that we call when we need prayer in the midst of trouble. They are the ones we look to to lead us when we don't know where to go. The point is that faith is a mystery, for it is determined by God both to save us and to sanctify us. The how, the when, and why questions about faith are mysteriously found in the will of God and are therefore part of the relationship we have with Him as potter and clay. He is the potter, we are the clay, and therefore we have no position to question him on how, when, and why he molds us the way he does. Related to this definition of faith being evidence of things not seen is then moved into with our first example of faith given by this preacher in Hebrews. It is by faith that Christians believe that God is the creator of the heavens and the earth And notice that it is not required of believers to disassociate with modern scientific views of how the world came to be. That's not in here. There are Christians who believe in the theory of evolution in its entirety while still believing that God planned it all Other Christians believe in the literal sixth day creation with understanding evolutionary evidence to be diluvian in reality. The truth that needs to be confessed by all theories of creation is that nobody was there. And thus nobody can be certain how it all came to be. What the Christian is to believe is that God is the creator and the only creator. The next example in faith is Abel. Abel's story is curious. Because it could be understood that his offering was accepted by God and Cain's was rejected because Abel offered a blood sacrifice while Cain offered only grain. It might be taught that Abel had an understanding of what was required because of sin, which is sacrifice, while Cain did not. But that is not what this example says. This example is about faith. Dr. Robert Rayburn points out that while Cain brought, the text actually says, some of the fruits of the soil, some, Abel brought the fat portion. on the first of his flock. What each brought was according to their faith. And therefore what Cain brought was a token rather than what is best. His tokenism was an expression of his faith, which was no faith. Tokenism offerings to God are a problem throughout the Old Testament and in every generation of people who call themselves Christians. Today, tokenism places a $5 bill in the offering plate while spending disposable money on frivolous items because, well, you can. Tokenism is attending corporate worship once or twice a month when nothing better is planned for Sunday Tokenism is reading the Bible when you are sad, when you are panicked, when you are stressed, so that you can use God's word rather than submit to God's word. Tokenism is doing unto others as you would have them do unto you, except when it causes you to go out of your way. This is to be contrasted to Abel, who, like Jesus, gave his best because God deserves nothing less. Such giving trust that no matter how much I give, God will provide in response to what is hoped for and to what is unseen. The next example of faith is Enoch, who is a quite curious character in the Bible, for he is the only one that is described as being taken by God. Now, yes, you good Bible scholars remember that Elijah was another one that was taken, but we know how he was taken. It was witnessed by Elisha. He was taken up in a whirlwind Enoch is described simply as being taken. And why did God take it? The Genesis account tells us that Enoch walked with God. The phrase walked with God is interpreted to be that Enoch was faithful to God all of his days. Note that it does not say that Enoch was more obedient than other people. It does not say that he did righteous works better than other people. Instead, it is implied in Genesis, and it is said clearly here in Hebrews, that it was because of his faith. As it was his faith that pleased God. Recall that Enoch was the father of Methuselah, who is reported to be the oldest man who ever lived. Because Enoch was his father, there is this brain twister that asks, who is the oldest man who ever lived who died before his father did? Ask that one around and see who gets the right answer. Enoch, of course, left behind quite a legacy. And being the man who God took and took because he was a man of faith. Again, he was not a man of good works or of great personality, but a man of faith. He pleased God because he had the substance of things hoped for, he had the conviction of things unseen. Fathers, can that be said of you? Are you leaving a legacy of faith to your children Will your children say of you that you were a man of faith? It is providential Providential that we would come upon in our study of Hebrews this chapter, chapter 11, on the day we celebrate fathers. As we will see next week, there are all sorts of personalities and circumstances where God's people have expressed true faith. Regarding all who are listed, their actions, their personalities, those could easily condemn them, but their faith is what saved them, and they are to be copied by us all. Fathers, will your children copy your faith and be saved? It is a very important question, and one that is related to what Reverend Lamboy preached last week It is quite fun to do a search about epitaphs, what people who have died or loved ones have set upon the tombstones of a dead loved one It is, after all, the last word in a person's life. It is what can be said about them Bobby Lynn has always loved the one that says, I told you I was sick. She thinks that that fits her quite well I I want you to enjoy these. There are a number of them, but they're just fantastic. This is on the grave of Ezekiel Akel in East Dalehousie Cemetery, Nova Scotia. Here lies Ezekiel Akel, age one hundred two, the good Dyeung. In a Fermont, Maryland Cemetery, here lies an atheist, all dressed up and no place to go. In a London Cemetery, England London England Cemetery. Here lies Anna Mann, M-A-N-N, who lived an old maid, but died an old man, M-A-N-N. In a Riversford, England cemetery, the children of Israel wanted bread, and the Lord sent them manna. Old Clerk Wallace wanted a wife, and the devil sent him Anna. Playing with names here in in New Mexico Cemetery. Here lies Johnny Yeast. Pardon me for not rising. This is in memory of an accident in Uniontown, Pennsylvania. Here lies the body of Jonathan Blake, stepped on the gas instead of the brake. In Silver City, Nevada Cemetery, here lies Butch. We planted him raw. He was quick on the trigger, but slow on the draw. This widow wrote for her husband, sacred to the memory of my husband John Barnes, who died January 3, 1803. His comely young widow, aged 23, has many qualifications of a good wife and yearns to be comforted. From a lawyer's epitaph in England, Sir John Strange, here lies an honest lawyer, and that is strange. From uh Lester Moore, a Wells Fargo Company station agent in Naco, Arizona, in the cowboy days. He was buried at Booth Hill. In the tombstone, Arizona, here lies Lester Moore, four slugs from a 44. No less, no more. In a cemetery at Heartham, England, on the 22nd of June, Jonathan Fiddle went out of tune. From Winslow, Maine, in memory of Basel Wood, departed this life November 2nd, 1837, age 45. Here lies one wood, enclosed in wood, one wood within another. The outer wood is very good. We cannot praise the other. Oh let's see, I'll skip a couple of things. I like this. Okay. Ellen Shannon, who was fatally burned march twenty-first, eighteen seventy, by an explosion of a lamp. filled with R. E. Danfors non-explosive burning fluid. And finally, Harry Estel Smith, Albany, New York, born 1903, died 1942. Looked up the elevator shaft to see if the car was coming on the way down. It was. Now these are fun and yet they are also sobering. What is also sobering is to consider what we are leaving behind, what will be said about us I submit that it does not matter what will be said of us if only we are a person of faith. Recently I was asked to do an outline for a seminar on Christian parenting. And I started off with what it means to live in a Christian marriage, including husbands loving their wives as Christ loved the church. Wives submitting to their husbands, I brought next the topic of infant baptism, marking a child, raising the child as Christian I finished with some practical advice on proper spanking methods, the need to work as a team, the time to choose the right battles, so on. And when I finished, I was quite pleased with myself, perceiving that I had covered what was most important, only to realize there was a glaring omission. All that I planned to say about parenting was the work of the parent and the application of biblical principles with the expectation that if you do it all, then the child's going to come out and be a Christian. When in truth, when all that is said and done, it is faith, it is by faith that we raise our children in Christ, it is by faith that we trust they will be the Lord's. And if it is not done in faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, it will be in vain. Parenting is just an example. We are to be a people of faith in all aspects of our lives. When it comes to who we will marry or who our children will marry, we are to be a people who apply the substance of things hopeful. When we are sick or a loved one is sick, we are to practice having conviction about what is not seen. When someone threatens our livelihood or our well-being, we enact the substance of things hoped for. When the bills are more numerous than our bank account, it is time to trust in what is not seen. When people are unkind to us or we feel alone, it is then that we are to focus on what is hoped for. And when our sin is ever before us and the devil wants us to feel like a constant failure, it is then that what is unseen by faith can be seen. And this sermon cannot end without being reminded that it is not faith in faith that a Christian practices It is faith in God, who embodied himself in the person of Jesus, who leads us to the Father, who ministers to us by the Holy Spirit. And I close with an assignment for you. I assign you to recall an incident when you enacted faith. When you had confidence toward God about what is hoped for, when you had conviction about what is not seen, and God answered favorably, answered your faith favorably. Recall that incident and tell it to somebody today, preferably a father to a child. May it be that people think about, when they think about you, may it be that they think of you as a person of faith. Let us pray. Our Father, it is to you that we collectively give thanks, because we know that any faith we have Any faith is from you. And so with that thanksgiving, may we all take the charge to repeat times in which you have answered our faith, to build up one another that we too might grow in that faith. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.