In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And I encourage you to turn in your Bibles to 1 Timothy That's right before 2 Timothy. 1 Timothy chapter 2, we're working through verses 1 through 7. 1 Timothy chapter 2, working through 1 thro Seven I wonder if any of you have heard of a theologian named Jacob Hermanson. Well, that is his Dutch name. Some of you may recognize his Latin name, which is James Arminius. If you have not heard of James Arminius, I will introduce you. Try not to mix up his last name. with being an Armenian, which are people who hail from Armenia, which is a country north of Iran. It can be confusing because people who called the teachings of James Arminius are called Arminians, and those who hail from Armenia are known as Armenians. With the difference between the two names being an E instead of an I or an I instead of an E. So James Arminius was a Dutch theologian Serving the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century in the capacity of a professor of theology at the University of Leiden. He became renowned for his teaching against the Belgic confessions, which makes claims consistent with the teachings of John Kelvin regarding the doctrine of predestination. Arminius wanted to reform the reformers regarding doctrines such as total depravity, irresistible grace, and perseverance of the saints He claimed he only wanted to teach and believe what the Bible teaches. He wanted to emphasize that all persons are given an opportunity to believe on the Lord Jesus for their salvation. And that is done by God's prevenient grace. He called it prevenient grace, or grace that goes before To enable a person to make a choice to be a Christian or not. At the time of the Reformation, some believed that such teaching was heretical. And Christian leaders were pressured several times to claim James Arminius as a heretic. Arminius died in 1609 while in the middle of a public debate about his teachings. He was survived by his wife and nine children. And we are going to come back to Professor Aminius' teachings after we look at verses 1 through 7 of 1 Timothy 2. So verses 1 and 2. These two verses flow together, so we will look at them together. Paul has just encouraged Christians to fight the good fight, and he gave examples identifying those who had lost the fight and thus lost their souls. He stays within the church operations by instructing Timothy, who again was leading the church at Ephesus, to pray. Simple enough. He does so by listing the types of prayers that should be prayed in the church. Supplications. Supplications are prayers that request God's help while also taking a humble approach Thus, it is the type of praying that is concerned with both what is said in the prayer and the inward approach of the person praying. Next, the word prayers is a simple and general term where the rest fit under. Intercessions are simply prayers on behalf of others. But this is important. To be Christian is to simply not simply pray for yourself As Christians, we are to be part of a body, part of a bride, part of a city, part of a nation. Our existence in Christ automatically puts us in relationship with one another and with other Christians. Next is giving thanks, and that's straightforward for us. The general thanksgiving prayer in our prayer book for morning and evening prayer is one of the better prayers ever written for giving thanks. And then Paul includes with that instruction to pray for all men. That can be tough. for some Christians to do, for there are people that are evil and people who are simply not likable. There are people who want us to abandon our Christian faith or to be arrested for what we believe. Such people are most difficult to pray for. But such a teaching is derived from what Jesus specifically said. Jesus said Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Jesus exemplified his words by praying for those who put him on the cross. You remember this. Asking the Father to forgive them, for they did not know what they were doing. Next, included in the instruction to pray for all men, is to specifically pray for kings and all who are in authority. Again, not easy to do. Part of our morning prayer service is a prayer to be prayed daily that asks God's blessing on those who have authority over us. And this instruction by Paul is especially powerful considering that Nero, that name, Nero, the first great persecutor of Christians, he was on the throne. Of Rome, when Paul gave this instruction. Pray for those who ferociously persecute you? Yes. Pray for them. But why? Paul gives the answer. He says at the end of the verse that we, we Christians, may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and reverence. Living a quiet and peaceable life means that Christians are able to live out their lives, their convictions, without government interference. This verse, this verse has guided my personal political voting over the years. Rich of the candidates locally, statewide, and nationally are going to give Christians an environment where we can live quiet. And peaceable lives in all godliness and reverence. Answer that, and you will know who to vote for. The beginning of verse 3 confirms that what Paul has just described is what God wants. It is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior. And then Paul says, who, referring to God, desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Such a passage James Arminius loved to focus on. In that passage, we have an insight into the heart of God. If this is what God wants, then we too should want it, and we too should pray for it. That is how such a passage is interpreted by many. But is that what it actually is saying? We will come back to this verse With the thought of all men being saved and coming to the knowledge of the truth, leads Paul to state plainly what that knowledge is and what that truth is. Starting at verse 5, it is clearly stated that God is one and that Jesus is the only mediator between God and man. There is no other. No matter what the coexist stickers say, or what the liberal mind wants to believe, there is no other way. Jesus himself again said it plainly. I am the way, the truth, and the light. No one comes to the Father but by me. Such a statement cannot be made more plain and the interpretation of it more obvious. Paul then goes on to explain what Jesus did to be the only mediator between God and man. He paid the penalty, the ransom for the sins of mankind. So that we do not have to pay it, which would have cost us our lives in this world and in the world to come, which is for us to suffer eternal death. Paul next finishes his comments on the subject of praying for all men by stating emphatically his call to preach the truth and to teach the truth. And from these words, we can be assured that Paul cares, and we can say he is even obsessed about the truth. It sets us free. At this point, I'd like us to go back to verse four, where we are told that God desires all men to be saved. Such a verse rests comfortably with these other verses from the Bible. To the nation of Israel through the prophet Isaiah. He said, Yet the Lord longs to be gracious to you. He rises to show you compassion. And these next words are from Jesus as he looked upon the city of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under wings? And you would not. Matthew 23 Through the prophet Ezekiel, the Lord God said, For I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God. So turn and live. From 2 Peter chapter 3, we read, the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness. But is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. All of these, along with more well-known passages such as John 3. 16, describe the heart of God Almighty And they should move us to be smitten by him because of that heart toward his creator, his creatures, those he created in his image, you and me. There is a problem. There is a problem. Such passages collide Into other passages of Scripture that speak of a different reality, at least different on the surface. Ephesians 1, verses 4 and 5. Paul said, Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. And then from Romans chapter 8, verses 28 through 30, Paul said, And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. But Paul didn't make any of this understanding of predestination up on his own. Jesus from John chapter 15, verse 16, Jesus said. You did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide, so that whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. And then from John chapter 6, verse 44, Jesus said, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. This gets Paul to think in this manner, and he says in 2 Timothy 1, verse 9 Again, Paul speaking of God the Father, who saved us and called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace. Which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. And then from Ephesians chapter 1, verse 11, Paul said, of Jesus In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So we're dealing with Paul, we're dealing with Jesus, and we can even go back to the Old Testament from Proverbs chapter 16 verse 4. The Lord has made everything, everything. For its purpose, even the wicked for the day of trouble. There are other such passages in the Bible, but I want you to hear one more that gets to the heart of the subject. This is from John chapter 1, verses 11 through 13. Speaking of Jesus, he came to his own, his Jewish family, and his own did not receive him. But as many as have received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in his name, who were born, who were born not of blood. Nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God Allow me to underline the end there. No one becomes a child of God by his own human will, but only the will of God. There are two things I hope to instill in you by pointing out this apparent dilemma of us making choices and God choosing. Some skeptics and critics would call it a contradiction, but I am sticking with the word dilemma, and here's why. Holy Scripture does not have to meet the standards of the reader. Such a statement causes concern because it may sound as if I am promoting a reading of Scripture as a belief in what the Bible says with blind faith. I do not As I teach every year in confirmation class, we start with Jesus. If Jesus taught what he taught and did what he did, That everything else in the Bible, what it teaches and proclaims, can be trusted. It is also a recognition that in order for us to know God And to have an understanding of God's ways, there is going to have to be paradoxes. I say necessary paradoxes because the Bible is describing the infinite who is God. Describing it to the finite, who is us, and we don't have the intellectual capability or the divine capability to know and understand all that God is. And so what does he do? He dumbs it down. He dumbs it down for us so that we can have a relationship with him. And so God can say that those who are born again are not born by way of their own will. but by his will, and then he can turn around and tell us to choose to serve him, because that is the type of language we understand. The manner I am explaining such paradoxes in the Bible is why I personally became frustrated in a systematic theology class in seminary. All of the Bible was being forced to be systematic by way of interpreting certain passages of scripture away from the plain reading so that they can fit into somebody's system. And so an Arminian, those who followed the teachings of James Arminius, would interpret a particular passage in a completely different manner than someone who followed the teachings of John Calvin. And the Calvinists would do the same without each group simply allowing the scriptures to say what they say Also, we can and must not interpret a particular passage from our vantage point. Referring back to verse 4 again and reading it from God's perspective, at least trying to read it from God's perspective, we can interpret it to mean that God is telling us His will, in terms of how he has compassion and desire for all men to be saved, that is in his heart. But that is not going to be what he does. And this is troubling to us For if we have a passion and desire for something, and we have the ability to see that same desire come to fruition, there is no doubt we are going to make it happen. If I will it, and I can fulfill that will, you and I are going to fulfill it, no question. That is because our passions can control us. Such is not true for God. His wills and desires are balanced. For God, there are other things He wills and desires, such as justice and righteousness. And he also wills that we have a say in all of this. And that reality brings me to my last point. There are places in Holy Scripture that call us to make choices. We see that in the wording of Jeremiah, who pronounced that he and his family were choosing to serve the Lord. It is implied in passages such as John 3. 16, again, where we are told that all that believe God sent his son will have eternal life, which implies that we must choose to believe. So there is a tension between God choosing us and us choosing God, and there is no way to reconcile the two. I have spent my entire ministry trying to better understand where our will ends and where God's will begins in an individual life. And where God's will ends and where the individual wills begin. And I am no closer to understanding the will of man and the will of God than when I started. I have given up the quest, and I've learned to accept it. The Bible says, choose this day whom you will serve. And it says we are not born of the will of man, but of God. So we are to choose, yes. And God chooses, yes. Both are true. Looking at this dilemma another way has helped me. I do not have a clean scorecard when it comes to keeping my word. Such as promises to remember something, or to be at a certain place at a certain time, or even to be a part of a group that I once committed to. After all, after seminary, I was ordained and thus made promises before God and men to serve as a clergyman in the Nazarene denomination. As my convictions changed, I gave back my orders. The point is, I have gone back on my word. So, if I can do that in other parts of my life, why am I safe from not leaving my faith in Christ Jesus? Thus, I am ever so grateful that my salvation, your salvation, is not dependent upon my will or your will. Because my salvation is based on the grace of God, by the will of God, I then can know my salvation is assured. But I still need to choose to follow him. Yes, every day. Every minute of every day. And the two realities can coexist. And I say thanks be to God. Amen.