In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. Our focus this morning is on Luke chapter 6, our gospel reading. So you are encouraged to turn to Luke chapter 6, beginning at verse 36. There is a letter written in the mid to late second century, around 145, they believe. By an unknown author who identifies himself as a student or disciple of the apostles. The person receiving the letter is named Diognetus. But nothing more is known about him. The letter is considered one of the first apologies or defenses of Christianity. It would appear that Dionytus had previously inquired about Christians, and the writer is answering his questions. The description of second century Christians should be the goal of every Christian of every generation. If the following could be said about us today, we would indeed be the city on a hill, the salt of the earth. Part of the letter reads as follows. Christians cannot be distinguished from the rest of the human race by country or language or customs. They do not live in cities of their own. They do not use a peculiar form of speech. They do not follow an eccentric manner of life. Yet although they live in Greek and barbarian cities alike, they follow the customs of the country in clothing and food and other matters of daily living. At the same time, they give proof of the remarkable and admittedly extraordinary constitution of their own Commonwealth They live in their own countries, but only as aliens. They have a share in everything as citizens and endure everything as foreigners. Every foreign land is their fatherland, and yet for them every fatherland is a foreign land. They marry like everyone else, and they beget children, but they do not cast off their offspring. They share their board with each other, but not their marriage bed. They busy themselves on earth, but their citizenship is in heaven. They obey the established laws, but in their own lives they go far beyond what the law requires. They love all men, and by all men are persecuted They are poor and yet they make many rich. They are completely destitute and yet enjoy complete abundance. They are reviled and yet they bless. When they are affronted, they still pay due respect. They are treated by the Jews as foreigners and enemies, and they are hunted down by the Greeks. And all the time, those who hate them find it impossible to justify their enmity. In the same way, Christians love those who hate them. Such a description doesn't have to be describing all Christians individually, for all have not mastered all that Jesus has taught. But It is a general reputation like no other. And every Christian should strive for such a reputation. And if we did, we would be fulfilling the Great Commission without using words. I challenged each of us with a question last week, which was, Do the people you know know someone who takes their Christian faith seriously? This is another way of asking forthrightly. Are you taking your Christian faith seriously so that it is obvious to others? In our gospel reading, Luke 6, we find Jesus teaching what is called the Sermon on the Mount, which we looked at more closely last week. It is connected to the teachings of St. Peter. Only in Luke's version of the sermon, which is slightly different than Matthew's, though not different enough for there to be a question about its accuracy. Our gospel reading begins with the word therefore, which is unfortunate because it starts with a conclusion without context. Previously, Jesus had changed the norm, which was hating your enemy and withholding anything good from him. Instead, Jesus instructs his followers to love their enemies and to give them whatever is asked in order to be drastically different than their fellow citizens. After all, sinners without prodding hate their enemies and do good to those they love. That is not difficult. But those who follow Jesus are to exceed such behavior by doing more. And the more, in the end, is being merciful. That is what verse 36 concludes. Be merciful, Jesus says, just as your heavenly Father is merciful. And so the standard is set, with no exception. The next verse, verse 37, judge not lest you be judged, is one of those few passages in the Bible that people know without ever reading the Bible. The sinners will quote it to Christians in order to put Christians in their place and to have us back down from a platform they think we have stood upon. But I need to take some time on this passage in order to properly interpret it and thus properly apply it. The word judge is not simply identifying that something is good or evil or even bad, as in concluding that you're eating too much and that's bad or drinking too much and that's bad. No, the word judge here is to condemn, which is to conclude that something, whatever is being judged, is worthy of punishment, which for the Christian understanding is hellfire. So when Jesus says we are not to judge or condemn, he means that we are not to play the role of prosecuting attorney and then judge and then jury. We are not to conclude an ending to a person's soul, regardless of behavior or motive. So I am not judging when I say you shouldn't have committed adultery or hit your wife or lie to a police officer or the many other immoral things we might do. I am judging when I say that you who are worthy of eternal damnation is guilty before God. That's when I have stepped too far. This is why Jesus follows those words, not to judge, with the instruction to forgive, and you will be forgiven. And this is the crux, is it not? We follow Jesus first and primarily because we need our sins to be forgiven. Thus, it should be easy for us to forgive others because we in turn are forgiven. Which again is why we follow Jesus. It is why we say we are Christian. What is the most important thing for these children baptized here today? It is for their sins to be forgiven. Thus, the Christian life is made up of faith in the blood of Jesus, confessing sins, asking God for forgiveness, and striving to live as Jesus instructed. With the expectation to need to have to have faith again, to confess again, and to ask for forgiveness again. Because when each of us stands before the judgment seat of Christ Jesus to account for our lives, it is the forgiveness he provides that is our only eternal hope, our only eternal hope. We are next to give. And what he desires us to give is forgiveness, which implies that it is a choice we make. We are to choose to forgive others. And Jesus promises a good return on the forgiveness we choose to give. With all the benefits offered to us when we forgive, it is befuddling how many people who call themselves Christians withhold forgiveness. When you ask such persons why they withhold forgiveness, it is always about themselves. Well I can't I can't trust them. Or I'm too hurt. Or he doesn't deserve my forgiveness. The pronouns give the problem away. We use too many I and my words So many, too many Christians miss out on the blessings Jesus offers when they don't forgive. Too many siblings don't get along, won't even speak to each other, because one or both choose not to forgive. Too many Christian marriages break up. Well, just one is too many. Because one or both choose not to forgive. And too many churches have revolving doors when it comes to membership because too many Christians choose not to forgive one another. In order to convince us how important forgiveness is for us, Jesus motivates us by extending his explanation on how blessed we can be if we give forgiveness. Commentator Joaquin Jeremiah gives some background into the corn measuring process in the ancient Near East. He says, the measuring of corn is a process which is carried out according to an established pattern. The seller crouches on the ground with the measure between his legs. First of all, he fills the measure three-quarters full and gives it a good shake with a rotary motion to make the grains settle down. Then he fills the measure to the top and gives it another shake. Next he presses the corn strongly with both hands. Finally he heaps it into a cone, tapping it carefully to press the grains together. In this way, the purchaser is guaranteed an absolutely full measure. It cannot hold more. That is the point Jesus makes. He will guarantee to you a full measure of reward for the forgiveness you choose to give. Next, we can understand the mention by Jesus of the blind, leading the blind, to be a person who has sin in his life. Trying to judge or condemn another person who has sin in his life. The next image provided by Jesus is both absurd and comical A plank is a substantial piece of wood, and it would be comical to watch someone walking around with a large piece of wood sticking out of their eye, although not comical to imagine how it got there, but to see such a person walk around, let alone try to help someone get a little piece of sawdust out of their eye. But Jesus becomes more serious, not just comical, but serious again when he calls the person a hypocrite. And why would the man be a hypocrite? The difference in sizes is to note that the person who is trying to remove the speck is guilty of a greater crime than the person he is offering to help. The crime is greater because the crime is the unwillingness to forgive. If a man is guilty of larceny And seeks forgiveness only to be stolen from, and in turn refuses to forgive the one who stole him, his greater sin is the unforgiving. His action is what defines hypocrisy. The final point by Jesus is for the hypocrite to take the board out of his own eye, which is the choice not to forgive. He's taking that out and forgiving. And now, after forgiving, it is much easier to help another. Now to forgive other people of sin done to you, or sin not done directly to you, but the result hurts you. Such is not easy, and no one should ever say it is. Such would be a lie, making the forgiving all the more difficult. I have shared the story of the forgiveness practiced by Corey Tenboom toward her Nazi captors before, and I found one similar in a series of stories about people living out their Christian faith. A Turkish officer raided and looted an Armenian home. He killed the aged parents. and gave the daughters to the soldiers, keeping the eldest daughter for himself. Sometime later she escaped and trained to be a nurse. As time passed, she found herself nursing in a ward of Turkish officers. One night, by the light of a lantern, she saw the face of this officer. He was so gravely ill that without exceptional nursing, he would die. The days passed and he recovered. One day the doctor stood by the bed with her and said to him, But for her devotion to you, you would be dead. He looked at her and said, We have met before. Why didn't you kill me? She replied, I am a follower of him who said, Love your enemies. From such stories, we confess that to forgive may be to suffer. It may be to make the heart vulnerable and thus possibly hurt again. But the motivation to put up with such suffering is given to us by St. Paul in our reading from his letter from Romans chapter 8. To endure suffering when we take up the upper road and forgive. We are to consider that all of our suffering in this life combined is worth it. All of it. When it is compared to the glory that awaits us as a heavenly reward. When we forgive, we are to consider the promise of heaven, which includes our sins being cast into the lake of fire Death having no more authority. Temptation to sin swallowed up, and the love of Jesus Christ shared with one another without interruption. When we forgive, we are to consider that the earth itself, all of creation, even the moon and stars, groan. For they too suffer because of the curse of man. But they know what is coming and why the created order groans. The created order sees itself made new and wants to be made new Referring back to the description of Christians in the second century, we can admit that those Christians had one thing better than we do today, and that is They didn't have a history of failure that has scarred the witness Christians have before the world. The Lord has been my shepherd since I turned 18 years of age. And so it has been a while since I have looked at Christianity from outside in I don't remember having many thoughts about Christians before the Lord found me. But I can guess that what the unbelieving world sees of Christians isn't very lovely and perhaps very ugly. What they see is likely scandal. What they see or hear about is abuse. That is what the media shows them. What they see are rich preachers wanting to stay rich. And so they tell their audience what they want to hear, and people still give. They prophesy that they can blow away COVID-19 and people still give them money. They say they need private jets and people still give them money. And then there are the hit pastors who wear designer clothes with designer haircuts, and who are made Christian celebrities by their churches, who later, we find out succumb to the sins of the world and then publicly renounce the faith. Such are the easiest things to see about Christians. And so reading a letter like written to Diagnetus, not likely today. But there is one thing that Christians could work on and become better at, so that if anything can be said about Christians today, it may be that we are people who know and practice. Forgiveness. Such is not going to change quickly because forgiveness takes work. It takes a fight against evil and the evil one. It takes daily diligence from the for the devil and his agents will place memories before you. Just when you think you've got this forgiveness thing down, a flood of pain and anger comes storming back. And a desire to see your enemy suffer follows. And the giving of forgiveness has to begin again. But like anything else worth doing, it must be done until it is completed. Consider this a possible future letter. Dear Diognetus Christians are people with whom you shop at a local grocery store and sit in traffic with every day. Some own shops and some work in shops. Some live in large houses and some in modest houses, just like you and your family. And Christians dress like people around them. In other words, you cannot tell who a Christian is when comparing them to those in their communities. But if you are around them, if you visit their churches, or if you deal with them pup in public, and there is a dispute. Christians can be spotted by how willing they are to forgive and ask for forgiveness, wanting to be at peace with their God and their fellow man. May such a letter be written about us. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we receive the call, the standard. To forgive and be forgiven. May that be on our hearts each and every day we have opportunity to forgive and to love. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen