In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. If you'd like to follow along with me, you can turn to Matthew chapter 18, beginning at verse 21. Matthew 18, verse 21. My only other pastoral ministry was in Pullman, Washington. under the denomination of the Church of the Nazarene. The congregation felt at times That it was made up of misfit toys. If you remember Rudolph the Red Nose Reindeer's Stop Motion Special You will remember that reference. One example was a couple in their late 80s who lived in a rundown home and who played in a kitchen band With a wash tub plucking string and a washboard to scrape. And yet they traveled the globe, having been to Israel four different times. We also had a few widows with a variety of backgrounds. One particular widow I called upon because she had missed attending church for a number of weeks. When she answered the door, she did so halfway, which communicated to me that I was not going to be invited inside. She then told me that she was not coming back to church I asked her why, and she answered that I had told her that she needed to forgive her brother, and she was not going to do so. I inquired as to when I said that she should forgive her brother, and she said that it was when I preached on the need to forgive others. And that I said we need to forgive all persons, no matter what they have done to us. She took that to heart and applied it to her brother and decided that she was not going to forgive him Mind you, I did not know what her brother did to her that needed forgiveness. It may have been as horrid as molestation Or he may have stolen from her. She did not confide about that part of her story. What I was compelled to say was a doubling down of sorts. I did say she needed to forgive her brother, and though I did not know what horrid thing or things he had done, I did know that it was not for her to condemn her brother to hell. Which is what it means to forgive someone. And allow me to be clear before we press on and look at the teachings of Jesus on forgiveness. Forgiveness is not forgetting what has been done to you. It is not putting your trust back into someone who dishonored you. It is not treating a relationship as if nothing happened. Such would be absurd and damaging to the person who has been sinned against. What forgiveness does mean is that I am no longer condemning that person in my heart. I am no longer wanting damnation for that person. I give the judgment of the sinner over to God, who is the only just judge. Let us keep that in mind as we examine Matthew 18, beginning at verse 21. Where we pick up in the gospel narrative is where Peter must have been greatly surprised with what Jesus had just taught about reconciliation. And how we are to forgive those who have sinned against us. And in Jesus' teaching, he uses the title brother. Which communicates a fellow Jew, in the case of the apostles, and in our case, a fellow Christian. Thus, as a brother, it makes the offense done to us that much harder emotionally. We expect our enemies to sin against us, but not our brothers and sisters in Christ. Peter wanted to know what limits were it to be imposed on this generosity expressed by Jesus Especially, it might be if the offender has made no reparations for his offense, not even acknowledging that he's done wrong. Peter likely thought that he was unusually liberal and generous in proposing such a measure of forgiving someone seven times. Seven, you remember, is the number of completeness. And Jesus had used it when giving his sentence in Luke about forgiveness. Jesus said If he trespasses against you seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turned to you again and says, I repent, you are to forgive him. Some rabbis had fixed the limit of three, from an erroneous interpretation of Amos chapter 1 and chapter 2, where we read the same phrase, for three transgressions and for four. But the usual understanding about forgiveness is of three offenses only. Drawing the line there, and having no pity on the fourth offense. The scribe Ben Sira bids a man admonish an offending neighbor twice, but he's silent on any further forgiveness. In general, we can say that the Jews were very fond of defining and limiting moral obligations, thinking that they could accurately prescribe their morality by a number. And Christ demolishes this attempt to define by law and measure of grace. And are we not thankful for that? Grace cannot be measured. In his response, Jesus gives the full weight of his authority to his teaching, which is a distinction from Peter's suggestion of other rabbinical teachings. Of course, seventy times seven is not a specific number, but it's practically unlimited Thus, for the Christian, there is no measure of forgiveness. It must be practiced whenever the opportunity arises. Interestingly, some translate this 70 times seven to be seventy-seven times Which makes an allusion to the retribution exacted by Lamech, you will remember in Genesis chapter four, where he said, If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold. This connection would mean that Christian forgiveness must be extended as far as old world vengeance. In short, it can be summarized that mercy rejoices against judgment And St. Paul caught the same spirit of Jesus when he writes, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Forgiving one another as Christ has forgiven you. What a standard. In the time of Moses, there was a foreshadowing of the doctrine of forgiveness in the laws that restricted harsh treatment of debtors, as well as the enactment of the law of Jubilee. However, we also remember that there are laws that allow for retribution, especially when an act of one loved one one loved individual has brought personal injury on another individual. And that enacting of revenge reminds us of the difference between the law and the gospel. So Jesus answers fully in giving a parable. Jesus is an illustrator. with his parables, which means that he causes us to picture in our minds the scenes described, knowing at least two things about the use of parables. The first is that they can cause us to consider what is being meant. A plain understanding is not always available. An easy understanding is not always available. In fact, when the apostles don't understand at first his parable about the sower, he explains by quoting Isaiah. That he does not want people to quickly understand and turn from their sin. And that sounds kind of strange. It doesn't sound like the teachings of Jesus. But it does not mean that he does not want people to turn from their sin, but only that he wants them to consider the cost before they turn from their sin. He wants them to take account of what they are doing. Jesus wants serious disciples. And so parables are told so that the listener would strive toward a greater understanding. The second reason for these illustrations is the result of the illustration means that we draw pictures in our heads that stay with us longer than lessons taught by rules. And so Jesus tells the parable of the unmerciful servant, picking up at verse 23. We notice that the word like in verse 23 allows us to compare the kingdom of heaven to the story in the parable, but not but not to understand there to be a direct parallels. The king is unnamed because he does not need to be named, for the scenario in the parable is quite common in the ancient Near East. It was common for the king to call forth debtors and to extract from them what was owed to him, whether in part or in whole. They are called servants in the New King James Version, but the word could be slave as subject. All subjects, which were all citizens in the ancient Near East, were considered slaves to their king, according to the king himself. So this first man couldn't pay a debt of 10,000 pounds. In the day of Jesus, a talent was a lot of money. Multiplied by 10,000 would mean the man is way, way over his head in debt. The judgment is swift. All of the debtor's family is to be sold into slavery, and whatever is garnered from the sale will go to pay for what is owed. And we can imagine that the family being sold into slavery would never reach 10,000 worth of talents, but the king wants to get something in return. Now, as stated earlier, these are not to be considered direct parallels from the parable of the kingdom of heaven. God is not the king, master in this parable. But the king is like God, and that all of his creation owes a great debt to God, even for their very existence, let alone for all the sins that we have committed. And we, like the debtor, are never near being able to pay off our debt. Again, like the debtor in the parable, our only hope is to plead for mercy. Plead for mercy with the fated hope that the debt might be reduced or at least we could make payments on the debt The debtor knew, and the king knew, that payments would never amount to enough money to pay off the debt. It was too much. The king slash master seeing the state of the debtor on the ground and seeing there was no way the debt could be paid. And considering the desperation of the man, decided to cancel the debt, which is to forgive. It is to treat it as if it no longer existed. What a stunning turn of events. No one could have guessed that the scene would turn out the way it did. unless they had seen the king do the same before, which the debtor had not. Now surely each of us has had worldly debt cancelled or paid by another. And we get a sense of lightness about us as we feel like a burden has been lifted off of our back. Take that feeling and multiply it a million fold. However, the manner that Jesus tells the story has us understanding That immediately after the once debtor had left the presence of the king, having just had his debt forgiven, That he spots someone called a fellow servant, a fellow slave, who owes him money Thus, he sees a peer who owes him a hundred denarii. A denari was an average day's wage. I looked it up. The average day's wage today in America is somewhere around two hundred and forty dollars. That would make the debt owed today twenty-four thousand dollars. Now that's a pretty good sum The average American credit card debt is around $6,300. So the amount owed is three times what the average credit card debt is today. It is a tough financial situation this second debtor is in, but it's not impossible. For the first debtor, it was impossible to pay back the debt. For this second debtor, the debt can be paid with hard work and time. Now Jesus pours it on in this parable. Whereas the king, in a much greater authoritarian role, did not physically abuse the first debtor, the first debtor physically abuses the second debtor by grabbing him by the throat. Jesus also has the second debtor use similar words as the first debtor. He fell to the ground. He begged, he asked for patience, and then made the promise that he would repay the debt. The difference is the first debtor said the same words and knew that it was a lie. Whereas the second debtor could be true to his word. The judgment is swift, again, with no compassion. The second debtor is thrown into prison by the first debtor and will remain there until the debt is paid. Which we assume it will have to be paid by the second debtor's family. But the second debtor is the breadwinner of the family The likeliness of the family being able to pay is similar to the likeness of the first debtor being able to pay off his debt. It will not happen. So the first debtor has made it so that the debt owed him will never be paid. Verse 31 refers to fellow servants. Which are fellow slaves or just fellow citizens, when they witness the comparative injustice before them, They join together because they are all in this slavehood together. They recognize that if such injustice can be done to a fellow citizen, then they could be next. And so they tell the king. When the king finds out about the first debtor's hypocrisy, he calls the first debtor to stand before him. And it is easy to imagine that nervous walk of the first debtor to go before the king. Now the logic is simple by the king. The king is straightforward. I forgave your great debt out of compassion. And therefore, whoever owes you should have received the same compassion. To not do so is to not appreciate the compassion from the king. The sentence is for life. The first debtor is to be imprisoned and tortured for life For he will never be able to pay off the debt, so he will remain in torture the rest of his days. Again, we have a scene in which no one saw what was to come. I remind you that the king is not parallel to God. The debtors are not parallel to us, but the king is like God, and the debtors are like us. The only parallel is that what the king did to the first debtor in the end will be what God does to any person who does not forgive his brother his sin. But Jesus could not mean all sins, right? What about that woman I described at the beginning of the sermon? What if she was molested by her brother repeatedly and regularly? And let us say he stole from her as well, stole her savings, stole her retirement. Is she still required to forgive him? Again, I remind you that to forgive is to no longer condemn or desire a person to be condemned. It is to turn all judgment over to God. That does not mean that the woman needed to be in the presence of her brother. nor to trust in him ever again. What it does mean is that she should not want or hope for his eternal demise, nor should she place him in an eternal demise in her heart. And why? Why? Because God has forgiven her Pardon this example. But have you made the same mistake as I have gotten older and less aware of how old you look? You can look at another couple like Bobby Lynn and I do and conclude that they must be older than us, and then we go home and look in the mirror and go, oh my, I think they're actually younger than us It is the lack of self-awareness regarding how we look, and a lack of self-awareness regarding the depth and the breadth of our sin. This lack of self-awareness regarding the depth and breadth of our sin is common to all of us. How do each of us calculate our sins, considering there are so many of them? Let us look at it generally. How many times have you done what you ought not to have done? Which is to say, done what God has instructed and commanded you should not do. How many times have you left things undone, which is not doing as you ought to have done, because God told you to do it, only you decided not to? Let us look at such sins more specifically. What you ought not to have done is talk about another person unkindly. What you ought not to have done is gone to bed angry, spent money frivolously, envied your neighbor, consumed food and drink greedily. And lusted immorally. What you ought not to have done, well excuse me, what you ought to have done, was attended worship of God faithfully. Found ways to support the bride of Christ, his church, lovingly. Supported your hurting brothers and sisters in Christ prayerfully. Set a good example to your children in a manner of life and not keep record of wrongs done to you. Have I hit a nerve on anyone? I could go on, and yet enough has been said to get us to realize that we are sinners who not only need the forgiveness from God, but we need to forgive others as we have been forgiven. I want to confess to you this morning, at the funeral yesterday I saw someone I hadn't seen in a while. It stirred up some anger and frustration in my heart. And I realized, Lord, I'm preaching a sermon that I need to hear. I need to forgive. I need to see my sins as much greater than theirs. And so I confess to you that I need to hear this sermon and I need to forgive The key point for me in the parable is that the king saw the absence of appreciation for the mercy he had shown. This can be our standard. We are to show appreciation for the mercy that God has bestowed upon each of us. May such a lack of appreciation not be found in our hearts. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, so much has been forgiven of us, and our lack of self-awareness of our debt is unfortunate, but we take opportunity through this parable to count it and to understand that to whom much is given, much is required And so may we each be a people who forgives and does so readily and willfully. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.