Name of Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Very much encourage you to turn to 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 1 through 11. 1 Peter 4 1 through 11. One fad on the internet that I like Is the collecting of what are called now dad jokes. Dad jokes are actually a collection of bad jokes. But sometimes they can be so bad that how bad they are makes them funny. For example, For example, did you hear what was missing at the funeral of the man who invented the throat lozenge? There was no coffin. Do you know why the bicycle couldn't stand on its own? It was two tires. What is the difference between a poorly dressed man and a on a tricycle and a well-dressed man on a bicycle? A tire. How does mo how does Moses make coffee? He brews it. Right over your head. He brews it. How does a penguin build a house? He glues it together. I'll stop. I start with levity or an attempt at levity because of how serious biblical texts can be. They can be so very serious that the message weighs heavy, making it difficult to listen and making it difficult to apply. Preachers can easily fall into sounding like little chicken, or chicken little, I should say, or Al Gore. Sounding as if the end is near when the end is actually a long ways away. Truth is, we don't know when the end is, but we are to be ready for it. And preachers are called to get God's people ready for it, even if the end is not in our lifetime. For St. Peter and the first century Christians, it felt very much like the end was near, considering the suffering they had to endure for Jesus. The following account is the suffering of Saint Peter. The language is archaic. Saint Peter was taken of the ministers of Nero and was delivered to the provost Agrippa. Then was his face as clear as the sun, as it is said. Then Agrippa said to him, You are he who glorified in the people and in women whom you inspire to depart from the bed of their husbands. The apostle denied this and said to him that he glorified in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then Peter was sentenced to be crucified as a stranger. And because that Paul was a citizen of Rome, it was commanded that his head be cut off. And when the horrible time came of their end that they were departed that one from that other, they bound the pillars of the world, but that was not without wailing and weeping of the brethren, said Saint Dionysius. And as Leo the Pope and Marcel witnessed, when Peter came to the cross, he said, When my Lord descended from heaven to the earth, he was put on the cross right up But me, whom it please him to call from the earth to heaven, my cross shall show my head to the earth and address my feet to heaven For I am not worthy to be put on the cross like as my Lord was. Therefore turn my cross and crucify me head downward. Then they turned the cross and fastened his feet upward and the head downward. Then the people were angry against Nero and the provost. and would have slain them because they made Saint Peter so to die, but he required them that they should not let his pass let his passion and as Leo witnessed our Lord open the eyes of them that were there And wept so that they saw the angel of the crown of roses and of the lilies standing by Peter, who was on the cross with the angels. Such is what loomed for Peter, and he was well aware of it. Thus, when we read his words of warning. And of soberness and seriousness, we can quite easily imagine how such soberness and seriousness was needed I say this not to intimate that the times in which we live are not serious. They are serious, but in a different manner. As of now, our physical lives are not in danger. But our spiritual lives are always in danger. And it could be argued that these days are more perilous because we are not aware of how we are being attacked. Football players are coached to keep what we say, keep your head on a swivel. Keeping the head on a swivel means The player players are to be looking to their right and looking to their left each play to see if an opponent is charging them to hit them, to hurt them. And this is an appropriate analogy for the Christian as we are looking to the right and looking to the left to see if the devil and his minions are trying to get a hit on us. I remind you that the devil wants one of two things for you. He wants you either to take your life or to lead you to deny the Christian faith. One of the easier ways to lure someone to deny the faith is to have them live for earthly pleasures. To combat the temptation to give in to earthly pleasures is to embrace the suffering that occurs when other people persecute you for your Christian faith. In the first three verses of chapter four, Peter makes the following plea. In order to thwart off temptations of earthly pleasure, He says we are to have the same mind of Jesus when Jesus suffered. And what was the mind of Jesus when he suffered? Well, we can know first that it was other focused. His suffering was done for others. We know from his prayer in St. John chapter 17 that he went to the cross desiring our holiness. Desiring that we would never be lost from the faith, desiring for us to be in the world but not of the world, and desiring that we would be united just as Jesus and the Father and the Holy Spirit are united. We can also know that his mindset was not to willfully give up give to willful excuse me. We also know that his mindset was to willfully give of himself In John chapter 10, he said of his life, he said, No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have no power. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again. We can also know that his suffering was not easy for him. He prayed that if the cup would be taken from him, so it would be. He shows us in that garden scene that there is no shame in identifying fear. There is no shame of not wanting to experience pain. And he allows us to know his mind in that he desired for it to align with the will of the Father. For in that he said, Not my will, but thine be done. Our standard then in facing temptation, in facing persecution, is to have the mind of Jesus. A mind that is other focused And when we go through trials and temptations, we do so for others rather than for ourselves. We endure so that others can see our example and be encouraged. We are also to have the mindset of wanting others to be holy, wanting others to never be lost to the faith. Wanting to be in the world but not of the world, and to be united just as the Godhead is united And we can willfully, not avoiding facing temptation and persecution, we can do this willfully, but pleading with God and accepting His will and not our own. Such a mindset teaches, Peter teaches, helps us not to live by what our flesh desires. Such a mindset will have us wanting the will of God, whatever that is revealed to be. Another reason to not practice the desires of the flesh is that we have done so already. At least the audience of Peter did. The converts of Peter that he's speaking to did indeed live according to their flesh, and the culture in which they lived encouraged them to do so. Providing no obvious boundaries for moral living other than what the Roman state forbid, which wasn't much. Morality for the Romans focused on being a good citizen. And that meant, first and foremost, being loyal to the state. There were expected standards called Mos Maiworam, or the way of the elders. Which was not a written code of conduct, but was applied and expected, applied to fellow citizens, applied to how you behave toward your family. But was it was not applied to one's personal and private behavior. Thus lewdness, drunkenness, revelry were not looked down upon Unless you did it to someone else, but you're in your own behavior, it was not considered immoral. Jesus, we know, looked at personal behavior differently. He taught that the inner person was even more important to care for than the outer person, for it was from within that our sins begin. Thus, the inner personal holiness is to be the concern of every person who follows Jesus and calls themselves Christian. What Peter describes in verse 4 of the chapter is well known from experience by those who converted to Christianity later in life. When we convert later in life, we leave behind friends. And those friends expect us to continue on with our lewdness, with our lustfulness, with our drunkenness. When a person stops living in such a manner, he causes guilt on the consciences of those he leaves behind. And those persons don't care much for that guilt, and so they revile their former friend and even curse him and even the God that they now follow Peter assures the repentant sinner that such persons will be judged by God, for God will judge all. But God isn't just about judging sinners and condemning them, as Peter recognizes, as verse 6 states, the gospel is preached to the dead. Some believe that is the dead that is dead in their sin. And then some believe it referring to those who had heard the gospel but now are dead. But either way, it doesn't matter. It's to be understood that God gives people the opportunity to repent. He gives it to all men. Now I mentioned the seriousness of certain biblical passages, and if you look at verse 7, there is a clear example. It even has the word seriousness in it. The end of Peter's perspective was that Jesus promised in regards to his second coming. Jesus didn't return quickly, however. As St. Peter and even Paul thought he would, and most Christians of the first century thought he would. But what did come was great persecution. Resulting in Christians being removed from Jerusalem, followed by Jerusalem coming under attack by the Romans. You will recall that the siege was in 70 AD, the Siege of Jerusalem, and consisted of a military blockade around the city of Jerusalem during the first Jewish revolt. The fall of the city marked the effect effective conclusion of a four-year campaign against the Jewish insurgency. The Romans destroyed much of the city, including the Second Temple, just as Jesus prophesied. It is estimated that over one million people died. Consider how important our faith becomes when there is tragedy around us. Catastrophes, plagues, pandemics, sieges, wars, God uses them and more. To wake up faith in people and to reveal a lack of faith in others. Tragedies can also strengthen communities Consider how important we become to one another when our numbers get smaller, because there are less and less of us who are not willing to compromise. Consider how much more we are going to need to be sure we who loves us, who is around us that loves us. When people we used to call friends turn us into authorities for what is labeled now today hate speech. Consider how much more we are going to need to be in one another's homes, be hospitable. When we can't trust our neighbor who is spying on us. When we insist that certain behaviors are to be called sin and nothing else. You are aware, I trust, that our culture is squeezing the Christian church with a formulated plan to force the church to accept the immorality of the culture or be closed down, similar to the devil's desire to kill us or to have us compromise our faith. According to some, I am even referring to judges and legislatures. According to some, it should be required of me, a minister of the gospel, to preside over same-sex weddings. and to hire teachers who are openly homosexual. Why these controversies are always related to sex is inexplicable to me, but they are And for some, any prayer, any sermon that denounces abortion should be censored, and the speaker should be fined or jailed or both. Considering the time in which the first century Christians lived, we can better understand why they needed to be watchful in their prayers, as St. Peter instructs. And why they needed to love one another better, and why they needed to be hospitable to one another and to do it cheerfully. They were going to need one another as never before. And I say, we are going to need one another as never before. Most of you are not aware that a few years ago, we, St. Stephen's, were sued. And my name was the primary person on the charging document. I had terminated a teacher in our headmaster John's place only because she refused to talk to him. And so she sued me and us for a large sum of money, claiming we were prejudicial toward her age. First there was a hearing where some of us had to testify. Then there was a hiring of a lawyer and affidavits made and emails turned over. And a court date set, and then the hearing itself. It was time-consuming, a bit unnerving, and a true waste of resources. The judge ruled in our favor, thanks be to God, but the accuser decided to include in the documents for the case a statement of condemnation of my character. The lawyer said we could fight that state the statement be removed, but I chose to let it stand. I reason that if people want to believe what she says about me, that is to their detriment. Most of you didn't know about this because there was no need. We were confident there was no merit to the charges and we wanted to control the narrative rather than address rumors. My point in telling you this now is that I easily imagine going through something similar because of my preaching offending someone's lifestyle or because of a decision by our school board. We're going to be accused of breaking the Equality Act. I trust that you know that there is a bill before the Senate that, if passed, would make what we believe to be hate and thus criminal. It doesn't take much. And I'm not trying to give anyone ideas by mentioning this, but with the sensitivities of today, every accusation is given full attention by the courts. And little parishes like ours could spend days, weeks, months, and a great deal of money defending ourselves for the right to say and practice what the scriptures teach. Again, the devil wants us to compromise or close our doors. When the fighting starts, I'm going to need your fervent love. We each are going to need our love for one another to cover a multitude of sins because we will be fighting an enemy that will do whatever it takes to win. We will not have time to address all the failures and faults that we see in one another. Love will have to bury such things. There is something special that takes place when a sports team finds success, especially success that comes after hardship. When you go through hardship on a field with teammates, you learn to trust one another as you learn to grind together and to pick one another up, and that creates camaraderie. And that camaraderie remains. Camaraderie is why teams have reunions. The bond is still there far past the time that they were on the field together. And such is what is needed to be forged between Christians, a camaraderie in Christ, so that we will not be compromised and we will not surrender. I need to be able to trust that you will not compromise, that you will not quit. And you need to trust that I will not compromise, that I will not quit. If I go to jail for what I preach or what I teach, I expect every one of you to come and visit me. COVID-19 or not. And when someone tries to cancel you, because of the principles you stand for and the life you live, I will stand by you, I will pronounce my love for you. I will have you in my home. We will pray against the enemies of God, and we will build up one another because that is what followers of Jesus Christ do. We don't compromise and we do not quit. We don't quit because we get our feelings hurt. We don't quit because I don't have a best friend in church. We don't quit because no one liked my casserole at the church picnic. And we don't compromise because my son came out and said he's bisexual. We don't compromise because my daughter wants to move in with her boyfriend. We don't compromise because my boss will fire me. We don't compromise because we fear men. We fear no man. I realize I sound like a coach in a locker room before a big game, and what we face is much bigger than any game. But we need pep talks every so often. St. Paul told us that we are to run the race of life to win. It is losers who compromise. It is losers who fear men. We are willing to suffer. We are willing to deny ourselves of earthly pleasure We will stand and face people who revile us, and we will love one another, because that is what is needed to resist the devil and remain faithful. If that is what it takes, that is what we will do. That is my promise to you. Let us pray. Our Father, all of us confess you are a God of no compromise. And we confess how easy it is for us to compromise. And so we pray. Dear Holy Spirit, help us to keep our word, to be a people who stand for the faith, will not be moved, come what may. And Father, help us to do it together. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.