In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Ezra chapter 4. Ezra chapter 4. We will be working through these verses specifically. I begin with commentary on each of the passages read from Ezra IV. Verse 1. To call the tribes adversaries is to make an important distinction when they make their request to help build this building. Verse 2. The request may seem kind, it may seem noble to help, but it is based on a lie. The people were from the Samaritan region. Yes, they acknowledged the God of the Hebrews, but only that he was one of many gods. And they did not worship as the Jews did, for the Jews worshiped according to the law of Moses Instead, they worshiped by their own customs, which were more pagan in their origin than they did come from the law of Moses. Verse 3 The refusal of the offer to help is based on what is stated in verse 1. The leaders of Israel knew that the people offering were liars. They knew they were actual enemies, and thus they were not for the same cause or of the same faith. As it had been, so it would ever be that the nations that surrounded Israel were pagan idol worshipers. Always trying and unfortunately succeeding at dragging Israel into their false worship. To refuse this help was according to the law of Moses and paying attention to the warnings that God gave through his prophets when Israel would enter the promised land. Verse four. The reaction of the Samaritans to the refusal Is proof that they had no true intention of aiding the Israelites. Their task was always to divide Being turned away gave them more reason to stop the work, to divide. Verse 5 Who these enemies of Israel hired were counselors in the court of King Cyrus. And this bribing and influence lasted eight more years. Bribing in such Oriental courts was quite common. And it is easy to imagine that the king would not think much about this small tribe of Israel, whatever they were doing. He would likely be more concerned about the commanders that he put in place in this Samaritan region. Verse 6. The point of this verse is to note that a new letter was written when a new king was put in place. The letter is to keep this building program at a standstill perpetually. Verse 7. The name Artaterxes stands out to us because it is the same name we find in the book of Nehemiah that we're studying on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, Wednesdays And it's also found in the book of Esther. The problem with concluding that this is the same king identified in Esther Is that Persian kings took on many names, and so we have many Dariuses and many Xerxes. Also, the timing of this being Esther's king, it's a little bit hard to fit into her narrative. So we can only say that it might be the same king. Verse 8. Here is the identification of the leaders assigned to the Samaritan region. These are the antagonists to the story, Rehum and Shimshai. I had uh Phil, our reader, skip verses 9 and 10. I didn't want us to pretend like he was pronouncing the names correctly. God knows them. Verse eleven The mention of beyond the river is a reference to the Euphrates River, and the phrase and so forth is a reference back to the writers. Verse 12. The description of the temple as rebellious and the city as evil. Is a persuasive description that reveals the writer's unapologetic prejudice against the Israelites Verse 13. There was no proof to the accusations ascribed to the Israelites. We should call it what it is. It is slander. It was a lie to predict what the Jewish people were going to do. But lies like they do today. are justified because supposedly they serve a greater purpose. Greater purpose, so-called. Verse 14 The play here is to side with the king. Side with him as if they are loyal subjects, who are informing for the sake of the king and for the sake of his kingdom. When in truth they are only concerned about themselves and their vindictive hearts. Verse fifteen. Here is a clever ploy, and it will it will work. Any record of Israel rebelling in the past will be proof to not trusting them in the present. And of course, what the books contain would be previous accusations. with no necessary proof. The accusations from the past, which the Samaritans would know about because they made them They would be sufficient enough to condemn the present Israelites. It is true that Israel rebelled against Babylon. But no such rebellion occurred under Persian rule. Verse 16 Here is another unscrupulous use of language to make unfounded claims against the people of God. The warning was both to appeal to fear and a false presentation of loyalty to the king of Persia. Let us first note from this passage of Scripture, and in particular from the letter itself. How alike it is with the false accusations compared to the false accusations placed on Jesus. Jesus when he stood before the Sanhedrin. Jesus when he stood before Pilate. The Sanhedrin. Accepted false accusations that Jesus was going to destroy the temple and then rebuild it Of course, we know that he was referring to his own body as the temple, and he was referring to rebuilding as in resurrected But here we have in Ezra a dispute about rebuilding the temple. The Sanhedrin also accepted false testimony against Jesus. That accuse him of being in rebellion by wanting to do away with the law of Moses Such was the opposite of what Jesus said, which was that he came to fulfill the law, which he did. The accusation of rebelliousness of Jewish people in Ezra is further forced by prophesying that they would not pay taxes. Pay tributes to the king, as well as not obey the customs of the Persian kingdom And then we remember from this that the Pharisees tried to trap Jesus into not paying taxes to Caesar. Which would have been a clear act of rebellion under Roman law. And the primary accusation that the Pharisees and Sadducees placed upon Jesus Was to testify that Jesus claimed to be King of the Jews. By branding Jesus with such a claim, they were assuring themselves That Jesus would be brought to stand trial before the Romans. And a similar claim is made here. As they accused the Israelites of rebelling against the king of Persia. And next, we recall that in the twisted moment, in Jesus' day. Of the people claiming no allegiance to Jesus, but only to Caesar, they chanted, We have no king but Caesar. And so here in Ezra, we have Samaritans willing to accept Persian authority when it means that they will get in the end what they desire. Common enemies do make for strange bedfellows Well, from these commonalities, we can see that the devil does not change his tactics His approach for tearing down the righteous is to mock and then to falsely accuse and then to place fear in the heart of those in authority. The devil twists words. He twists the word of God. He twists the word of teachers. He twists the word of Christian to Christian. With the goal of causing strife, causing distrust, causing division. His tactics are the same. The devil collects false testimony. The devil knows who is on the take. He knows who loves money more than they love their own honor. And so he buys false testimony. He buys off judges. He buys off politicians in order to influence the highest of political authorities. His tactics are the same. The devil tempts leaders towards paranoia. He takes men of weak moral constitutions and weak hearts, weak hearts that fear, and he tempts them to think that the innocent and the oppressed are out to get them. He got Herod to fear children. He got the Pharisees to fear their Messiah. He got the Romans to fear a small sect of Jesus followers. And he gets Hollywood to fear Christian ethics. His tactics are the same. And I believe it is important To note these same tactics practiced by the devil. For when we see them practiced, then we are to know what we are up against. And this allows me to take a tangent point or tangent road here to make an important point for today. I said that the devil takes advantage of men of weak moral constitutions and weak hearts, that fear And that is what I believe was done to a man who would shoot and kill people in a crowd at a country music concert in Las Vegas to that. Men and women who give themselves over to hate and fear and bitterness and anger. Can be possessed by the devil and used as instruments for destruction. I have said before, and so I say again. The devil has two goals for each of us. The first is to kill you, and the second is to get you to believe, as a believer, to deny faith in Jesus. It is one or the other. It is natural for society to look for a motive as to why a person would commit horrifying acts. We think that if we know the motive, that we can attack the problem socially and prevent it from happening again. But a blind culture, blind to the truth of God, and blind to the spiritual warfare that surrounds them, they cannot conceive of combating the devil. The devil is in such horrifying acts. Do not doubt it. And because the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, not physical, not with guns, we resort to prayer in the name of Jesus. To rebuke the evil one, to warn against his method of taking over the wills of the weak. His tactics are the same. Looking back upon the text read from Ezra IV, I wish for us now to focus our attention upon The will and determine obedience of the Israelites, as they refuse to allow liars and deceivers to play a part in rebuilding the temple. If a preacher can play like a doctor for a moment and point out what is being done wrong in the body of Christ that is causing that same body illness Than injury. This preacher identifies the problem of Christians allowing the secular world to influence our thinking And believing with lies and deceptions. And let us look first about a deception It is a deception for secular education to present itself as objective. Not having an agenda that wants God dead and wants humanity to enthrone itself as king and god And I know this firsthand, because most of my children attended a secular high school, although it was private. Much of our conversations before and after school consisted of having to debunk some of the history, so-called, that they were taught the sexuality that they were taught, the science so-called that they were taught, and the sociology that was forced upon them We believed that our children's souls were at stake, and our children's children's souls were at stake, and thus we could not allow false teachings to go unchallenged. Such a topic allows us to talk next about a lie. It is a lie to conclude that if you are pursuing Christian education for your child, Whether at home or at an academy like our own, that children will not sin and will not be exposed to sin. That is a lie. And it is caused by another lie that assumes that Christians are fully sanctified and thus practicing no vices and have no moral failings. The truth is that Christian institutions and Christian homes house sinful people who practice vices Who struggle with the setting sins and commit moral failings. And the lie that Christians do not have such sins can extend to the church. Where we might assume that the preacher is fully sanctified and the rest of the leadership are mostly sanctified, and that they should be Jesus to us in every way possible. The problem with that lie is that we know we shouldn't think in such a manner. But we want to because we want Jesus to be tangible to us right in front of us But it is a lie, and we need to call it such, or we will repeatedly be disappointed, and then disillusioned, and disillusionment leads to unbelief. Another deception. Another deception is that what entertains us has no ability to harm us. Consider that every story has a spirit of truth or falsehood behind it. Stories are alive, just as beliefs are alive, teachings are alive, doctrines are alive, worldviews are alive. That is why St. Paul instructs Christians to bring every thought into captivity. Thoughts need to be controlled by the Holy Spirit because they will run wild. They will cause havoc. Because the spirit that gives them life is untamed. Examine, if you would, what spirit is behind the television shows that you watch. There are plenty of possibilities. There is the spirit of greed, spirit of lust. The spirit of envy, the spirit of strife, the spirit of condemnation, and the spirit of hate. And certainly there are spirits of peace, of love, of forgiveness, of unity and alike, which does your entertainment give you Apply such questions to the movies you see and the music you hear or the news source that you choose Identifying their agenda is identifying their spirit, and that spirit is to be brought into captivity. Another lie is that bad company doesn't influence us. We like to think that we only influence ourselves. We like to think of ourselves as captain of our own ship. We do it our way along with Frank Sinatra. But bad company does corrupt good character, as St. Paul warns. The Israelites had finally, finally understood the truth when they turned the Samaritans away. Close fellowship with unbelievers is like being on a stepladder. I was told when I was early in my faith. It is much easier to be pulled down than it is to pull anyone up. A husband and father who hangs out with his work buddies or old school buddies after work and socializes with them on a regular basis is going to be encouraged to drink more alcohol. To turn a deaf ear to his wife, to lust after girls seen in the bar, to forget about his marital vows and attending his daughter's recital. A wife and mother who socializes regularly with her old classmates or club friends. She is going to be encouraged not to listen to her husband, to expect her husband to do her duties to gossip and slander friends and neighbors alike, and to party like the guys party. Both of these people need believers in their lives to encourage them toward righteousness and upright living. They need people in their lives that help them fight against their sinful urges, not coaching them to obey them. If an unbeliever's marriage is on the rocks, believe that that person will want to move your marriage to the same place, because misery does indeed love company. People who are struggling with a vice are going to want you to struggle with them. That is the way of it. It cannot be helped. It was said earlier that the devil does not change his tactics. Eve was separated from Adam, you remember. Eve was alone with the serpent. Eve was alone and vulnerable to doubt what God actually said. The devil's tactics are the same. When Peter was stealth in our reading following Jesus after Jesus' arrest, he found himself being warmed by a fire made by people he did not know. It was those people he did not know, and it was those people that when they he then feared, and they asked him if he was a follower of Jesus, he denied it. Consider where what would happen to Peter if he was with the other apostles. Consider if he was in with the right people. Would he have ever denied Jesus? The devil does not change his tactics. They are the same. We have been asking how we got here in this series, how we got to a place where the church is a reproach to our culture. We got here by not doing what Israel finally does. In Ezra chapter 4, they did not compromise. They did not give in to social pressure. There is a rumored story about Sir Winston Churchill. Giving a speech to his old boys' school near the end of his life. It describes him as rising to the podium slowly. Before a much anticipated large crowd, the crowd with much anticipation. Although a long oratory was expected, the crowd only heard the following. Young men, never give up, never give up, never, never, never, never, never, never. And the rumor has it that he then sat down. Well, the truth is that such a speech was not near the end of his life. It was actually during World War II. And it was not just a few lines, but part of a two-page long speech. And he did not say, never give up. Instead, he said, never give in. That phrase fits well with the message from this passage from Ezra. Never compromise your convictions. Never give in Never give in. Never, never, never, never, never, never. Let us pray. Our Father, we are so grateful For a story of your people, not giving in, not compromising, saying no to that which would corrupt them And so we take it now as a message to the church today to not compromise, to build the house by your direction Father, forgive us for what lies in the past and direct us for what lies in the future. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.