In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Have you seated? Because of the secular culture that dominates us, it is good to be reminded that this still is the Christmas season. This is the eighth day of Christmas. as we look forward to Epiphany on January sixth. Julius Caesar And Pope Gregory the Thirteenth are responsible. They are responsible for rose parades. drunken escapades and football all day for each contributed to January 1st being the beginning of a new year Our culture includes January 1st in its holiday greetings, happy holidays, we say, or rather more precisely, happy holy days. But there is nothing holy about this day. There is nothing that is Christian about this day But there is something about marking the beginning of a new year that has Christian faith principles naturally embedded in it. The principle, I'm sure you can guess, is an opportunity for new beginnings The Christian faith is the only faith in the history of mankind. I don't overstate it. In the history of mankind to offer new beginnings every day and every moment of a day. Each time we confess sin, seek forgiveness, we have a new beginning. And each time we commit ourselves to new disciplines, to new ministry, to new study, to new behavior, to new attitudes, we have new beginnings. Regardless of the rightness of the reformers who challenged the Roman Catholic Church in the 16th century Each branch of the Christian church, the Christian Church has flaws when it comes to the doctrine of sanctification. Or, more simply, understanding what it means to live a holy life. Protestants have maligned the Roman Catholics for purposefully sinning Monday through Saturday, only to receive absolution on Sunday, and then begin sinning all over again when Mass is done But Protestant branches in all their various colors have particular sins that they overlook. The Church of the Nazarene, of which I was a part for several years, insisted on its members avoiding sins of the flesh, and thus required the avoidance of movies in general. to avoid lust. No dancing, even between spouses, to avoid lust. No drinking of alcohol or smoking of any kind to avoid being unseemly. But sins such as gluttony and obesity, which are also sins of the flesh, were often ignored. Non-denominational Baptistic churches can also try to avoid those sins of the flesh, just like the Nazarenes try to do. But are then guilty of gossip and slander, even gossip and slander of other Christians, with no apparent awareness of the seriousness of such sins. Reformed Presbyterians can be assured that their doctrine of justification and sanctification are systematic. But the pride that they have because they can win an argument with an Armenian is just as serious as the pride of Adam and his original sin. And those of us who are of the Anglican tradition can be as prideful as the Presbyterians because we believe our reverence of worshiping God liturgically Should be looked to as an example for the rest of the church. And we can be even accused of pursuing our liturgy before pursuing holy lives. The point I'm trying to make is that every Christian from every branch of the Christian church has a need for new beginnings because we have sins to confess. And to turn away from, and we have new commitments for holy living to make and to live up to We want to avoid what Dietrich Bonhoeffer famously described as cheap grace. Which is a grace that doesn't cost us anything. It is a grace that doesn't pursue a holy life. Such is not the grace of Holy Scripture. Instead, as J. I. Packer tartly put it The Bible's prescription for a faithful Christian life is not to let go and let God, but trust God and get going. Therefore, our effort, even our struggle for holy living from new beginnings, is essential to faithful Christian living as the Bible describes it. The author of the Hebrews, as was read this morning, says that we are called to resist the sins that so easily beset us. That we are to be admonished and exhorted simply to try harder to overcome these sins. These have been called besetting sins, which are sins we are personally prone to commit. Thomas the Tempest in his classic and important devotional titled The Imitation of Christ. Talks about the struggle that so many Christians have with habits that are simple Of course, we're not talking about heinous sins such as living the life as a thief or an adulterer or any of the other top ten. What Thomas Ecampus means is that the struggle for sanctification is often so difficult, and the victories that we achieve over besetting sins seem to be so few and far between. That even in the lives of the greatest saints, there were few who were able to overcome habitual sinful patterns. Each of us, each of us have life experiences that will tell us the same But Christians are called to stay in the fight. And that means to stay in the pursuit of holy living. And that means to experience new beginnings. So, what will you consecrate on in the days and months of this new year? What new beginnings? Do you need this month, this year? Well, a most obvious place to start for new beginnings May be for a greater and more disciplined commitment to reading the Bible, to reading God's Word. From Psalm 119, verse 9, how can a young man keep his ways pure by living according to your word? Is the answer. But how will a young man or an old man, a young girl or an old woman, keep pure if he or she does not know the word of God? If the Word of God is not a living voice in his or her heart, how will they hear God and know his way? The Word of God, which is, after all, the voice of God, is a wonderful power in the Christian life if it gets a chance to do its work. It is not the Word of God lying unremembered on the pages of your Bible. But the Word of God living in your heart that changes your life, that awakens your conscience, and keeps it awake. That enlivens your holy desires, that makes you wise in the choices you make. And keeps the Lord front and center in all that you think and in all that you do. To begin anew in relation to the Bible, a person needs to repent. Repent for not having read and faithfully digested the Word of God After confession is made and forgiveness received, disciplines need to be established in everyday living. There should be a regular time in an average day when the word of God is attentively read and listened to. The advances in technology should be to the advantage of the Christian who pursues a holy life. The Bible can be accessed in many different mediums at all times during the day. And we should be accessing it when possible. I will add to the importance of the Word of God a personal testimony of how much knowing God's Word has shaped my life. And I realized, I realized that I preach for a living, and thus the importance of the Word of God might sound obvious coming from me. But a layman has just as many usages of the Bible as any preacher does. And the more you know God's Word. The more you know God's Word, the easier it is to make wise decisions, to think healthier about the world. To be able to discern the spirits of the age, to see God and the moving of the Holy Spirit in everyday life. There is truly nothing that can replace knowing the Bible. Consider this. The power of the Word of God with just three words. In the summer of 1940, more than 350,000 soldiers, most of them British, were trapped at Dunkirk. The German forces were on their way, and they had the capacity to wipe out the British expeditionary force. When it seemed certain that the Allied forces at Dunkirk would be massacred, a British naval officer cabled back three words to London. But if not. The three words were a reference to the faith of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. In the book of Daniel. In Daniel, the young men were given the choice. They could bow to the pagan idol or be thrown into the fiery furnace. They courageously chose to face the furnace rather than disobey the commandments of God. And this was their testimony, you recall, in Daniel. They said, Our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. But if not, let it be known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image that thou hast set up. Knowing God's word makes just three words come alive to the power of helping men face seemingly certain death. Knowing God's word gives eternal life Another area of new beginnings that we will all likely need greater, more disciplined commitment to is to pray. You pray, you pray, to be sure you do. You pray before meals, you pray in church, you pray now and then But prayer, earnest and familiar talking with God as defined, as defining prayer. Is not the lifeblood of your daily life, as you know it well ought to be. Ought to be for any serious Christian, for any man or woman who intends to live by faith. And the first step to improve your prayer life is to confess to God how short you have fallen in praying as you ought. All of us need to confess when we have fallen short of praying as we should And husbands and fathers especially should repent for not leading your wife and children in prayer on a regular basis. Pray without ceasing, Paul exhorts us. But for many of us, those words are more of a rebuke than they are an encouragement. Alexander White was only speaking the truth when he said that there is nothing we are so bad at all of our days as prayer. The Lord Jesus, you know, was a man of prayer. And he had no need to pray for the things that usually take up our prayers. He also taught us to pray and urged us to pray. And surely he knows what is best for us. Whatever effort faithful prayer requires of us, it must be worth it, altogether worth it To help your prayer life, you can read some good books of prayer this year. Alexander White's Lord, Teach Us to Pray. C. S. Lewis's Letters to Malcolm These are all reasonable books to read and to encourage you to pray each day, to pray. Pray for the things you know you ought to pray for. Pray for the things you know you need to say to God. We have been wonderfully gifted with a prayer book that gives us words to pray when we lack the words or when we are just too shy to pray. You can pray the prayers of the morning prayer or from the family prayer section. And then such prayers can lead you to pray extemporaneously, so that your heart is free to tell the Lord what you need and how you feel. The point is to pray. And because we have been given the gift of historical and reverent worship in the Book of Common Prayer We may be entrapped to conclude that prayer must be formal and must be of a certain posture, etc. But if we are to do as St. Paul instructs and pray without ceasing, we must understand and practice prayer as regularly and continuous in conversation with God. I lost my wallet last weekend. That's not new for me to do. But I searched high and low and I retraced my steps going from place to place asking managers if they had recovered a lost wallet. Embarrassingly, I admit that I never asked Jesus. That's right, the preacher never asked Jesus. When I realized I was depending on my own strength, I confessed my sin to the Lord. My wife will attest to this. I confessed my sin, received his mercy, and I asked him to help me Within an hour, my wallet was found. I had a new beginning. God made me a new man. Through prayer, through confession. God gave me a new beginning and He gave me back my wallets. New beginnings regarding the study of the Bible And a regular prayer life are always possible and something most everyone needs But we must address more particular needs for new beginnings if this sermon is going to have any lasting meaning or make any lasting difference. There is likely among us the need for new beginnings when it comes to sins of the flesh. Especially sins of the flesh as lust. And the first lust that we think about is sexual lust. Some men, mostly young men, struggle to avoid lusting after women. Confessing a weakness for wanting sexual pleasure over wanting to please God is required. New beginnings are always available when such confession is made. Jesus forgives sins of the flesh. But added to such new beginnings should be a determination to be more disciplined when it comes to avoiding opportunities to lust. The book of Proverbs warns young men not to venture down the path that leads to the doorstep of a harlot. A modern application is not venturing down a website or a television series that exists for the sole purpose of exalting sexual lust. Overcoming besetting sins has to include wisdom that helps us be led away from temptation. And since we are on the subject of lust, we are not to ignore the besetting sin of the lust for food. We hear often that gluttony is a problem in the United States, but is it not also a problem among Christians who eat too much or too much of the wrong foods? and thus use food as a coping mechanism as opposed to being empowered by the Holy Spirit New beginnings are needed and are available to any of us who say no to the desire to overeat or eat what is wrong for us. Another need for new beginnings is likely in the category of relationships. The standard of God's love is put before us so very high that we can always confess that we fall short. Remember that definition of love that is given to us by St. Paul. Love is patient, love is kind It doesn't envy, it doesn't boast, it's not proud, it does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrong. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices in the truth, always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Now take away all those fringe relationships you have and focus on the people that you love the most that you're closest to and measure your life against that definition. How are you loving them? Have you been patient with them? Have you always been kind? Have you been too proud and put yourself first before them? Have you kept record of wrong? Have you always protected, always trusted, always persevered for them? But the answer is no, in part or in the whole, there is a need for new beginnings. You are in need to confess your sins and in need to receive the forgiveness Jesus offers and commit yourself to love as He has prescribed and described. And then you take away all those people who are closest to you and look at the fringe people in your life. Do you love them as well? As you ought. Another opportunity for new beginnings. As a pastor for over 20 years now, I have experienced the greatest need in the Christian life In relationships with one another is the need to forgive. I say it is a need for Christians because We know that when we withhold forgiveness, we're doing damage psychologically to ourselves, emotionally, to ourselves. But for Christians, the standard is even higher. For we will be judged as we judge others. We will be forgiven in the same manner that we forgive others. Such a warning should be shot across our bow. No sin done to us is bad enough that we should prevent our own forgiveness. I hope you heard that. What are the other needs among us that cry out for an opportunity for new beginnings? I have mentioned common besetting sins, but I may not have touched on yours. There is the love of money, the love of fame. The sin of general pride, all these need confessing, repentance, and new beginnings. There is the sin of envy and then sloth. And greed and overall hate. They need to be confessed, for they are displeasing to God. They are in need of the blood of Jesus to cleanse. The point is that new beginnings are available to the Christian no matter the sin, no matter how long a person has known Christ Jesus. I close with this example of a hero of mine of sorts, John Wesley. John Wesley grew up in the home of an Anglican priest and was trained to be a priest himself even as a young child. He studied theology at Oxford. He went to the newly discovered Americas as a missionary. He also lived a disciplined life that by any standard of any age would be considered holy. And in spite of these realities, he was always in need of new beginnings. Wesley himself tells of a new beginning in the narrative insert regarding his experience at Aldersgate in May of 1738. He describes the turmoil and breakthrough that he underwent that month. In the days immediately prior to May 24th, he says his spirit was marked by, quote, strange indifference. Dullness, a coldness toward God, an unusual frequent relapses into sin, his confession And following this Frank confession, Wesley quickly contrasts that state of existence to what happened to him on May 24, 1738. He says this In the evening I went very unwillingly to a society in Aldersgate Street, where one was reading Luther's preface to the Epistle to the Romans. About a quarter before nine, while he was describing the change which God works in the heart through faith in Christ, I felt my heart strangely warmed. I felt I did trust in Christ, Christ alone for salvation, and an assurance was given to me that He has taken away my sins. Even mine, and save me from the law of sin and death. Leslie's life prior to this experience, if it were yours or my life, we would consider ourselves in good standing with God. But the prompting of the Holy Spirit and the accepting of the Christian call for new beginnings, Wesley heard He became obedient and received the forgiveness he needed that day. Today, as every day does on this calendar Provides new beginnings. Let us then have them. Amen and Amen. Let us pray.