In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be deceated. Our focus this morning is from our gospel reading, Matthew chapter six, verses twenty-four through thirty-four. With the manner in which our present Western culture behaves, an objective observer could conclude that emotional anxiety Was introduced in the twenty-first century and has reached a pandemic status. Currently There are five hundred and eighteen thousand eight hundred and forty mental health professionals in the United States. This is compared to the number of ordained ministers in the United States. I excluded those churches that have become apostate. So the number is an estimate, but the number is almost half of those in the mental health field, coming in at 283,000. So there are roughly 283,000 ordained Christian ministers who believe the Bible to be true. And who teach and preach it for the sake of Christians in the United States, while there are 518,840 mental health professionals who treat troubled minds. I choose to say nothing about the number of mental health professionals, but I will say that the church is currently understaffed. We need more men to instruct Christians on how to apply the Word of God in their lives And I suspect many Christians do not know that Jesus spoke directly about anxiety that is experienced by many people. And for those of you who suffer from or are tempted by anxiety, you must know that the great physician Jesus has a remedy. First, Jesus knows of our weaknesses and of our worries We worry, all of us do, about tomorrow. We worry about where our daily bread will come from. Now, mind you, we Western Christians don't worry like those people did in the times of Jesus or in third world countries today. In Jesus' day, each day required a trip to the market for the evening meal. There were no refrigerators to store extra food. Pantries were not full of food with preservatives. Daily bread was a daily thought and pursuit. And making money each day was a thought because there were not salaries paid or contracts negotiated. You earned and were paid by the day. Almost nothing was guaranteed. This being understood, we can more easily imagine how tempting it was for the average person to pursue money. Because greater wealth meant lesser worry about each day. Human beings of all generations and from all cultures appreciate the blessing of having a mind at peace. Where worries are taken from you. Wealth can do that. It can give you greater peace of mind. I know this quite well as I was tempted to worry a great deal when there were eight people in our home and each of them wanted something to eat. Imagine that. And each of them had clothing needs, and each of them had wants for what their peers had. And my salary only went so far. The great irony of being older and making more money and being empty nesters is that now I can afford to have eight people in my home, but instead now there's only two But the temptation to pursue money means that money is a primary motive and desire of our hearts. And God has always been about changing the hearts of humans so that we can care about the right things as opposed to those things that are destructive. In Matthew chapter 6, verse 24, Jesus, our physician, identifies a problem. It is the same one found in the first two commandments and the same one recognized by Bob Dylan Each human being is created to serve something. Each human being is engineered to worship something. If a person doesn't worship the one true God, he or she will worship something in his stead. But you cannot worship both, as Jesus says, you cannot serve both. If two things are competing in your life, you will eventually hate and despise one and love and be loyal to the other. When God says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me, he is giving a warning and a truism. A truism. You will remember that the phrase before me means next to me, in front of me, behind me, in proximity to me. We can say that we are not to have any gods, little g come anywhere near or around the one true God. In verse 25, Jesus tells us that we are not to worry, which is to be anxious about basic needs in life. We all need to eat in order to live, and we all need to have clothing in order to be proper citizens and to have protection from the elements And Jesus tells us not to worry about such things, and we still worry about them. Yes, even we who live in the wealthiest country in the world, the world has ever known, even we worry about such things. Even though we have food in our refrigerator and freezers, an abundance of clothing in our drawers and closets, not to mention how many shoes we have. With all that we have, we still think that our next meal may not come, or our next ensemble may not be right, unless we worry about such things. Next, Jesus asks a rhetorical question: Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? Yes, we say in our conscience, and then we go back to worrying about such things Did you know that the body can go between 8 to 21 days without food, depending on the condition of the body, before starvation? Did you know that a pair of Levi jeans can keep you covered and warm for two years being worn and washed daily The challenge found in the words of verse 26 is how we think about our God. We are to understand him to be a heavenly father, which means that he cares about his people. The point of examining the birds is that we are of much greater value to our Heavenly Father, having been made in his image compared to the birds of the air, and yet God provides for them naturally Thus, how much more will he assure that we are provided for? Besides, verse 27 points out, besides, what person can add anything to his being? to his height or the length of his days. Who can do add anything by worrying about your needs? Again, we answer in our conscience, no, we can't add anything, nothing to our stature by worrying, and yet then we go back to worry. Verse 28 provides another rhetorical question, and we answer it again in our conscience. We shouldn't worry about our clothing. And another example of God caring for his creation is given. He clothes the fields with beauty, and the fields do nothing to earn such clothing, but only receive it with thanks. These fields compared to the raiment of Solomon are more beautiful. Where I went to college at the University of Idaho. The school is in an area called the Palouse, with rolling hills that grow any number of crops. When you get a chance to see these hills from a bird's eye view, you see how beautiful they can be as their fruit is revealed in the richness of their soil. Such is clearly more beautiful than anything a person can wear. Verse 30 provides another opportunity for us to be shamed by a rhetorical question. Yes, our conscience says, God will much more clothe us who are made in his image than he will the fields around us. And his point at the end of the verse is the true problem, O you of little faith. Be challenged today and ask how big is your faith in God to provide what you need, what you daily need? If you do not have such faith, but instead replace it with worry, the simple answer is for you to repent. Repent and thus turn away from not having faith that God will provide for you what you daily need. And believe, have faith that He cares for you and can provide for you. In verses 31 and 32, Jesus makes the point clear that we are not to behave as the unbelieving world behaves. They concern themselves with what they will eat and drink daily. They concern themselves for this because they are their own masters. They serve themselves. They believe in themselves. They see themselves as the most sufficient provider. But God, the only true God, wants those who follow Him to trust in Him and Him alone as sole provider. And God, being who He is, which is all knowing, knows what your needs are better than you know them yourselves. It makes the most sense to put our faith for our daily needs into the one who owns the cattle on a thousand hills. In verse thirty-three, Jesus provides the alternative to worry To anxiousness about how our next need is going to be met. His answer is to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. But what does it mean to seek the kingdom of God? The simple answer is that followers of Jesus are to search for ways to express the love of God in their lives. A practical answer is to walk a journey that works to understand how to to how the love of God is to be applied to my employment The employment I have, to the spouse God has given me, to the family of which I am a part of, and to my fellow man who crosses my path. Thus, the kingdom of God is to be pursued in my home, where I strive to love my wife as Jesus loves his church I am to raise my children as inheritors of the kingdom of God. I am to treat my fellow Christians in God's church as beloved of God and saints. This means that I am to be a repeated offerer of forgiveness and respect, as well as a repeated requester of forgiveness and grace. In living my life in such a manner, I am part of God's kingdom being built here on earth as it is in heaven. And we note that Jesus added on to his instruction to seek the kingdom of God, which is to seek the righteousness of God as well. This means that my morality is to match my confession. The manner I live my life is to match up with the righteousness of God. Thus I am to be faithful to my wife, both emotionally and physically. I am to avoid the sins of the flesh and any contribution to those such sins. I'm to live my life in accordance with God's commandments, and if ever I become guilty of violating them, any one of them I am to confess my sins to God and to turn away from such behavior and once again be clothed by the righteousness of Christ Jesus. From these instructions, Jesus makes a very bold promise. If any person seeks the kingdom of God first and foremost, while also abiding by the moral standards God has set, All of his needs will be provided for, no worry necessary Thus, as was described, people are tempted to pursue money because money alleviates worry, and all human beings want to alleviate worry. But Jesus points to a different way, a way much different than the world around us. And he wants us to be different than the world around us. It is a way that has faith in God as the true provider, and so it ceases to worry and trust in our own strength, but instead seeks what is most pleasing to God. Which is for his kingdom to be revealed in our individual lives and for us to live wholly in honor of him. Verse 34 is a conclusion and a summation of what Jesus has said about worrying, about being anxious Do not worry about tomorrow. Easier said than done, right? Well, not if you apply faith in the Lord Jesus The logic is certainly there. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. A more clear translation reads: each day has enough trouble of its own. And all of us say, Amen to that. We know by experience. Each of us, every Christian, should be living in the moment and dealing with troubles in the moment, and stop worrying about tomorrow. A tomorrow we cannot control. To do so is to have faith that what God has supplied for you in the moment is sufficient for you to find joy and to find peace. Now you might think these verses of Scripture would forbid planning for the future, such as having savings accounts or other investments for retirement. That is not what Jesus is speaking about. Other scriptures speak of receiving a reward for planning carefully for the future. Proverbs says, Go to the ant, O sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Without having any chief, officer, or ruler, she prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in harvest. Joseph, son of Jacob, in the book of Genesis, saved seven years of grain for the future, seven years of famine. So God is good with us planning and preparing for the future. But what Jesus is speaking about or against is worry and or anxiety about the future. He is speaking candidly about what it means to live day by day with faith in him, not in your bank accounts, in him. A life of faith in Jesus Christ is trusting of God to provide what we daily need while we use our energy to seek his kingdom and his righteousness. I have attempted to minister to people with various forms of anxiety And my experience has taught me that not all anxiety is the same, and some are treated differently than others. I don't attempt to speak authoritatively about different medications, whether needed or not needed. What I do say is what Jesus said. The formula for treating all forms of anxiety, all temptations to worry, is to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. But, someone might protest, you're saying anxiety can be cured without medication. No, I am not. I simply said what Jesus said, which is, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. I did not say more than that, but I will not say less than that. Some of you will remember a sketch That Bob Newhart did. He plays a therapist and explains to a new patient That he charges five dollars for the first five minutes and nothing after that. The woman patient is surprised but agrees. She then explains that she has a fear of being buried alive in a box. Just thinking about it gives her panic attacks. And disables her from going into tunnels and getting on elevators. The therapist, Bob Newhart. Diagnoses the patient as having claustrophobia, and then proceeds to give her two words of advice That he wants her to take with her and be a reminder to her whenever she thinks about being buried alive. And those two words are stop it. The patient is confused. She doesn't understand. He yells it again. Stop it! He then reasons with her saying, you don't want to go through life thinking about being buried in a box. I mean, that's frightening. So stop it. But she says, I have had this fear since I was a child. No, said the therapist, we don't go there. Just stop it. Reading some of the comments next to the video, you will find a number of people who claim to have mental issues say it is the best advice they've ever received, and that they frequently come back to the video to remind themselves simply to stop it I don't know if the sketch is being positive or negative about mental health or mental health counseling, but Jesus gave us more than just stop it. He told us to seek his kingdom first and his righteousness. And in doing so, not only will all that is needed in this world be given to you, But you will also rid yourself of unnecessary worry and fear. Again, to seek first the kingdom of God is to walk a journey that works to understand how the love of God is to be applied. to the employment I have, to the spouse God has given me, to the family of which I'm a part, and to my fellow man whose path I cross. No mental health person will tell you that, but it is the most important counsel you will give. You will get. Seek first the kingdom of God. And be not like the world around you. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you that you do more than just tell us what not to do, but you tell us what we can do To overcome the weaknesses of our flesh, to overcome the fears that this world tells us to follow. And so help all of us apply in our lives to seek Your kingdom first and your righteousness. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen