In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Please open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter ten, as was read for our epistle lesson. I'm going to be sharing notes from the particular verses read, and I want you to follow along. Beginning at verse 1 As has been argued and explained prior, the Levitical sacrifices only foreshadowed the future salvation which Christ has guaranteed by his death and resurrection, and which will someday come to its completion. And the problem with those sacrifices is again that they cannot take away sin and they cannot make the worshiper perfect before God. Verses 2 and 3 This is counted as the third of the three contrary conditional statements around which the preacher has formed his central argument. The first is chapter 7, verse 11, and that reads, If perfection could have been obtained through the Levitical priesthood, what need was there for another priest to come? The answer is that it was needed. Another priest was to come, and that priest is Jesus. The second conditional statement was in chapter 8, verse 7, and that reads: If there had been nothing wrong with the first covenant, no place would have been sought for another. The answer to this is that what was new about the new covenant was that it was believed. The third conditional is here in chapter ten. It says that if the sacrifices could deal definitively with sin, why did they have to be offered over and over again? The answer is that Jesus offered a sacrifice that was forever. Verses four through six Here it is stated that what the scriptures already teach, what he is not saying is that the sacrifices were supposed to take away sin, but failed to do so. He is saying that they were never capable of doing so, and that the people of the ancient epoch never imagined that they could take away sin. And thus he quotes from Psalm 40 Indicating what Jesus taught. And of course, we remember that Jesus said all of the Psalms speak of him, and we could argue that all of them speak of him. The citation of Psalm 40 perfectly suits the preacher's use of it here because it compares the Levitical sacrifices unfavorably with the work of Christ. It was a truism of the Old Testament revelation that the Levitical ritual served no good purpose, no good purpose without faith and obedience on the part of a worshiper. It wasn't the act itself. And this is not a New Testament teaching only. It is in both the old and the new, making them again one covenant. Verse 8. Modern interpreters need to be careful about verses like this one. It needs to be understood that David is speaking categorically when he says, sacrifice and offerings you do not desire. For what he means is that what comes first, what is most important, is the offering of the heart and faith that one puts in God. What he is not saying is that God did not desire ritual and sacrifice. And that should be obvious because God commanded them in the first place. Modern Christian worship innovators read into such passages to justify their modern worship styles, and that should not be. Verse 9 through 10. Stated straightforwardly, Christ's sacrifice of himself has just the saving power that the Levitical sacrifices lack. The will of God mentioned here is that Jesus came to fulfill that will. And that was, of course, the offering of himself for sinners. And what need would there have been for him to do that, to offer himself if the Levitical sacrifices were adequate to take away sin and guilt? They were not adequate, and so Jesus was necessary. Verses 11 through 14 The point made earlier in verses 1 through 4 is given several times in the argument, and it is recapitulated and summed up here. It is that the ineffectuality of the Levitical sacrifices is demonstrated by the fact that they had to be performed over and over again. They fare poorly in regard to comparison with the once-and-for-all sacrifice of Jesus, the effectuality of which is attested by the singular place of honor that he has granted. When he has finished his mission to the world. Consider that the Levitical priests must continue to stand and Jesus as Christ sat down. And where? But the place of honor, the right hand of the Father. It is to Christ, therefore, and not to priests and rituals that sinners must come to attain forgiveness and entrance into eternal life. Verses 15 through 18, here the author is Returning to a citation of Jeremiah 31, he did the same in chapter 8. And this is to provide a dramatic climax to his argument that began as far back as chapter 4, verse 14. The true salvation that God promises and Christ has guaranteed results in a permanent and full absolution for the forgiveness of sins. I'm going to hold off my comments on verses 19 through 22 for the end of the sermon. It is truly the greatest of rewards serving as pastor to have the freedom and responsibility to announce that Jesus forgives all sin. It cannot be said enough when it is believed. Such announcements can only get old when it's not believed. You and I have been to funeral services, even here at St. Stephen's, where attendees sing hymns, Amazing Grace. And the law and the like. And it is obvious who doesn't believe the words of those psalms. Funerals bring people to church who otherwise never attend. And when it is time to participate They don't. They don't pray. They don't recite. They don't sing. It's not in their hearts to do so. They hear the grace of God forgiving their sins, and it is like they have just heard a weather report and they never plan to go outside anyway. It is like they just heard an old song on the radio. They know the words. They perhaps liked it when they first heard it, but now it means little or nothing to them. And so they observe. They just watch. Amazing grace is not sweet to them as a sound. They don't see themselves as a wretch. And therefore don't know their need to be saved. They don't know they are lost, and so they don't know they need to be found. They think they can see just fine without Jesus. A true believer, the person who has had the guilt of his sin cast away as far as the East is from the West, will always sing heartily of God's amazing grace. And will always want to hear from the preacher that their sins, although many and ugly, are no more counted against them as they are justified by the blood of Jesus. You can hear it every Sunday and it doesn't get old. It doesn't get old because it is eternally true and it makes the difference for your eternal life. And it doesn't get old because we sin. Again and again we sin. And so every week our souls long to hear that our sins are forgiven by the means of Jesus. As mentioned, Jeremiah 31 is quoted again, and he ends the quote with the same verse. And that verse must be important as it's repeated, so I read it to you again. It says, their sins and their lawless deeds I will remember no more. And so your sins and your sins and your sins and all of our sins collectively, God will remember no more. It is like they didn't happen. It is like they are not us, and therefore they do not define us. It is like they no longer control us, they no longer mark us, they no longer scare us. They are not us, and we are not them. Because they have been removed from us by the blood of Jesus, and we always have to remember it is by the blood of Jesus. The world we live in, the world we live in does remember. You know that as well as I do. The world remembers and it keeps track of our past sins. Some people don't like to go back home to their hometown because people remember your sinful past and they will bring it up just like it happened yesterday. Some people avoid family gatherings because of someone in the family that likes to bring up sins of the past Most college students experience that first time back home after being away and thinking of themselves much more mature than when they left, and there's always that sibling that reminds them, no, you're the same person you always were Some family members insist that you are the same old knucklehead you always were. That is the world. This world keeps record of wrong. That is the devil's way. The devil and his angels take advantage of the weak-minded and the weak-willed and use them to mention past sins just like a bragging athlete points to the scoreboard to remind you that you are losing Now this next point is a side note, but it reflects the ways of this world I read an article recently about the information on the internet about you, how it is kept Supposedly, every search you have ever made on the internet has been stored. Every email you have received or sent has been stored. Every product you have looked at on the internet, there is a record of. Every item purchased, there is a record for, and it is used to encourage you to purchase more. Every map search you have used has been stored. Last year, during the summer months, Bobby Lynn and I, along with Jared and Josiah, took a two-grafting trip on the Susquehanna. Through a rafting company that donated to our winter ball option. This past winter, Bobby Lynn and I took a trip That had us drive by the same water rafting company. And as we were driving, bam! As we were driving, Bobby Wynn received an email advertisement from the same river company. They know where you are right now. Such is a creepy example of the spirit of the age in which we live. And such should not be us. Of all people, we should not keep record of wrong. God's way, and therefore the way of his people, is to be free from records of wrong. And shame on us if we ever talk of other people's past sins. Shame on us. And each of you should know that you have every right to rebuke the devil in the name of Jesus when he whispers in your ear the sins of your past. God is for you and the blood of Jesus is sufficient and your sins are not you. Believe that. Believe that On another topic, separate but related, is our awareness of our personal day-to-day sin. And the objective truth of God's forgiveness because of the blood shed by Jesus. We have here in Hebrews chapter 10 What Protestants have used to challenge the Roman Catholic belief that the sacrifice of Jesus for sin is offered again and again and again at Holy Communion services. Roman Catholics also understand the reality of day-to-day sin, of course they do, but they believe it's taken care of by the renewal of the sacrifice of Jesus at Holy Communion. They believe that bread changes into Jesus' flesh and the wine turns into his blood as the priest consecrates the elements. Hence, God is able to remember our sins no more because Jesus renews his offering on a regular basis And yet in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 14, it clearly and unashamedly states that the offering of Jesus was once One offering that perfected forever those who believe in him. And we say this with certainty in our liturgy that Jesus was once offered. I have explained it various times before that it makes perfect sense when it is understood that God is above time. Time is a created reality that we operate within, but God does not. So when Jesus is offered once in a time, The effectiveness of that offering is not bound by time, but covers sins past, present, and future. Enabling John the Revelator to say that Jesus was slain from the foundation of the world His sacrifice made all sacrifices before him understandable, yes, but effective at washing away sin. As his sacrifice applies to the past sins, it also applies to future sins as well, making the doctrine of transubstantiation unnecessary. However, however, there is still the problem of day-to-day sin Sin that mucks up our minds and hearts to the point where we wonder if we are truly saved. We fall short every day and we know it. No, we don't worship idols every day. We don't take the Lord's name in vain every day or dishonor our father and mother every day. But we practice the sins that are cousins to those sins. And we can speak more generally about our guilt when we point to the fact that whenever we are not loving the Lord our God with all of our heart soul, mind, and strength. When we are not loving our neighbor as ourselves, we are falling short, we are sinning every day. And so while Jesus obeyed and died that we might be perfect forever, sin is not out of our lives this side of heaven. And this is hard to understand. Our reality, this side of heaven, is that in one case, a very important case, God in His mercy removes the guilt of our sins entirely, once and for all When he gives us faith to trust in the atoning work of Jesus. And in another case, a very honest case, we are liable and culpable for our continued sin. We are the cause of ugliness and unworthiness in our lives. And that is why I believe familial language God uses is so very important. Consider that God insists on being our father. And as his children, we are to know that we are a family. And just as loving families do not cast off their children when their children are disobedient, so too does God not cast us out when we sin, even when we sin every day. God has sent his son, who by his obedience and sacrificial blood paid for our sins forevermore. And so we stand perfect before God as sons and daughters. We are all sons and daughters who do foolish things for which we suffer in this life, and these things we confess daily and strive to overcome and even weep over them when we Don't and sometimes we have to just accept the consequences that we cannot escape in this life Not too long ago, I was exchanging emails with a young woman who no longer attends here, but she was still seeking my counsel. She was struggling with a particular sin that she found little victory over. Her struggle made her question if she truly did have faith in Jesus with a more general concern about doubting whether this Christianity thing actually worked. And by work I mean that it had power to overcome sin. I assume that there are many in this congregation like her who not only struggle to overcome particular sins, but struggle to want to overcome particular sins. If we would examine ourselves more closely, we would see, I hope, that we have overcome many sins that weighed us down in the past. There are sins in our past that we are no longer tempted by. And they are evidence that the sin in front of us can be overcome as well. And as we strive, we are to do as St. John tells us, which is when we do sin, we are to confess our sins to God. Who is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so I finish my point by recalling verses 19 through 22. For you look at those words again. We are told to have boldness when we enter into God's presence. It is our daily sins, our sins that we have not overcome, those are what make us timid. But we are to come to God boldly because of the blood of Jesus. For that blood overwhelms the reality of our past sins, our present sins, and our future sins. And look at verse 22. Verse 22. And see how God wants us to have hearts full of assurance of His mercy and a guiltless conscience because, not of what we do, because of what Jesus has done. The objective reality of our salvation. It is the preacher's dilemma To boldly proclaim the forgiveness of sin in Jesus while acknowledging that sin remains in the life, and to try to communicate that without accepting complacency. Without accepting daily sin. But we will never be complacent in our sin if we truly love God. May we always pray the prayer of that anxious father in Scripture who said to Jesus, Lord, I believe. Help my unbelief. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, for these powerful words of the preacher, to tell us that God remembers our sin no more, to tell us you do not remember our sin, how grateful we are. Now we all come boldly to your table, ever confident that you want to forgive us. You want us to be a part of your family. Thank you and pray to you in Jesus' name. Amen.