In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. We are covering Hebrews chapter eight, starting at verse seven, through chapter nine, verse fifteen. I state that there is a problem among us, and it is not a problem just among us as a local congregation of Christians It is a problem among Christians today all over the globe. It is a problem of proper understanding. Now you might think that such a problem warrants much concern, not warrants much concern, because it does not seem to be a doctrinal problem, it's not a moral problem But I argue that it is of great concern because it leads to problems that are doctrinal and moral I dare say it is a problem that has the fingerprints of the devil all over it. And I realize that when saying I see the devil having responsibility to the problem I am referring to, then I'm going to offend some. But I have to risk being offensive to address the problem. The problem I have been describing is the understanding among Christians. That the covenant of God to his people, as found in the Old Testament, is different than the covenant of God found in the New Testament. Yes, after hearing me state the problem, you may be saying to yourself, well, that's not a serious problem. You may even be saying to yourself, but they are different. So there is no problem. And so I realize that I need to convince some of you that they are not. Two separate covenants, and I need to convince you that to think in such a manner is a serious problem. And finally, I need to show you how fruitful the kingdom of God can be if we see them as one covenant. We begin by addressing the passages from our epistle reading in the Hebrews that appear, I say appear. To separate the covenants. Look at chapter 8, verse 7. There describes the first covenant. The covenant given under Abraham and then Moses. It describes that covenant as being clearly flawed, and said flaws are to make the second covenant better. But that is not what the preacher to the Hebrews is stating. Recall three weeks ago that we learned that Jesus was superior as a high priest compared to the Levitical Order, because Jesus was of the order of Melchizedek, to whom the Levitical Order paid tribute. Thus, Jesus was a part of the old covenant. Not separate, but a part of the old covenant, and that is revealed in the new. What was at fault in the old was not the covenant itself, but was instead the unbelief of the people of Israel. That was the problem. That was the fault. A flaw was their lack of having faith in God. The preacher of the Hebrews is here and before here warning these Jewish Christians not to make the same mistake, the same sin. as their ancestor, that is repeating their unbelief. In chapter eight, verse thirteen The preacher uses the term new covenant to distinguish what Christians understand after Jesus appeared compared to what they understood before. The term new covenant is fitting because it was in the prophecy of Jeremiah as being different because the law would not be written on stone, but on the hearts, on the consciences of God's people. The fact that such a writing will occur will have the result of God's people not needing teachers of his law, because each person will know God intimately. But to interpret these words to mean that this new covenant is separate from the old is to ignore that the law of God is found in the Old Testament That law written upon our hearts is from the old covenant and is now a part of the new. And therefore, what is truly new is that again the people of God will actually believe. Now, we cannot interpret the preacher to be saying that all of Israel didn't believe, because we know that in chapter 11 he's going to list A host of people in the Old Testament who had faith, and that faith we Christians are to emulate. What is new is that the people as a society, as a people, as a group, We'll believe the church. It's similar to the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is in the old covenant, but when it was dispersed amongst God's people and they had the Holy Spirit as a group, That was new. Also, to interpret the preacher's words as treating the new covenant separate from the old. is to fail to examine the content of Jeremiah's prophecy. Answer to yourself, has the prophecy of Jeremiah been fulfilled in the new covenant? Asked another way, is the law of God written on the hearts of Christians so that we don't need teachers? If so, I am certainly not needed and you are wasting your time right now. But we need teachers. I need teachers so that I can teach you, and you need me so that you can learn and teach others. So what must be meant by Jeremiah's prophecy that there is going to be a place A place, a heaven, where the law is written on the hearts of God's people, requiring no teachers and no preachers. That is the place where we will truly be God's people and he will truly be our God because there will be no hindrances There will be no unbelief, no sin of any kind. That place is heaven. And next, I need us to consider the dangers and the negative repercussions of treating the covenants as separate. The first danger is what theologians have labeled antinomianism, which means against the law or being against the law. It is the belief that draws the conclusion that because the new covenant under Jesus fulfills the old covenant and thus is superior to the old covenant. that the law of God as found in the old covenant needs look no longer to be a concern. This casting off of the law of God is first proposed to be a good thing because the believer lives by faith and love and such things prevail over the law. But the truth is that faith and love within each Christian in this life under the sun is not perfected. It is not perfected until heaven is our reward. Until then our faith and love are to grow, are to mature, while we discipline our lives, ourselves By following the moral law of the Old Testament and confessing and repenting when we fail to do so. For those who have insisted on faith and love against the moral law of God, they have gone the way of moral liberalism. Which is accepting rebellion against authority, sexual impurity, gluttony, and a host of other sins as personal choices rather than offenses before God. As St. Paul has warned in several places, woe to those who live by the flesh. Such a fallout from separating the old and new covenants is clearly seen in what are called the mainline Christian denominations. Such groups have publicly stated their willful abandonment of the Bible as their authority. And even when said groups claim some respect of the Bible They pick and choose their own canon or passages of Scripture that they will give authority to while openly rejecting other passages that do not match their lifestyle choices. Woe to them indeed. Another negative repercussion for separating the covenants. is an individualism that slowly separates Christians from the fathers of the faith in the Old Testament while separating modern Christians from early Christians in the church, while separating Christians even from one another today People separate with the understanding that their faith is only in terms of their personal relationship with Jesus and nothing more is needed And the result of that faith, individualism, this only Jesus and me needed creed Is a major, major contributor to the impotence of the Christian church today. An impotence toward making a positive effect on the cultures that surround the church. The only Jesus and me needed creed allows for individual Christians to interpret the scripture as they please. But all the while confessing that they believe that the Bible is fully inspired. This is different, you'll note, than the liberal confessing Christian Who state their distrust of much of the Bible. Instead, these individualist Christians state a positive confidence in the Bible, being the Word of God. With the caveat that it is the Word of God as they interpret it. So where the Bible clearly instructs Christians to submit to their church authority, They believe that they can make a particular situation, their particular situation, an exception because, well, they don't like their church leadership. Same can be said for praying for governing authorities. They don't like their governing authority, so they don't pray for their governing authority. Same can be said for wives submitting to their husbands. They don't think their husband can be trusted, so he doesn't deserve my submission. The individualist Christian can ignore such instructions because they interpret their situation as an acceptable exception. I have heard them. You have heard them. We have heard them People who say they are Christian, who exempt themselves from laws against adultery, because, well, God wants them to be happy They exempt themselves from tithing because well they they can just can't afford it right now. They exempt themselves from the sin of gossip because, well, their situation demands a lot of counselors so that everybody can know who really hurt them. They exempt themselves from faithfully attending church worship because their application of the Sabbath is their own. They exempt themselves from loving their neighbor because their neighbor is the most difficult neighbor in the history of humanity. And such confessing Christians have an exempt stamp in their hand for when the more difficult teachings of the Bible are applied to their life. Only they own this exhibit stamp, and only they can use it as they see fit. They prayed about it after all, and Jesus said they could use it. And Jesus is their Lord and Savior. Sure He is. Sure He is This only Jesus and Me needed creed eventually leads to ignoring how God has moved in the lives of Christians in the Old Testament. and Christians who lived and died for the faith since Jesus walked this earth. And yes, I called those Jewish faithful Christians. Because Jesus referred to them as believing in him. He said, Abraham and Moses saw his day and they were glad. He said David understood God to be the God of the living, even as his old ancestors were all dead. Even our preacher to the Hebrews preaches the faith of those of the Old Testament as the same faith that you and I have to be saved. The same faith. The faith of the only Jesus and Me needed creed crowd concludes that the faith of the Jewish fathers is not needed because it's not as good as their contemporary faith. The faith of the only Jesus and me-needed creed crowd also doesn't need the faith of Christians who live with threats of loss of life and even died for their faith, died for formulating the creeds, died for developing orderly Christian worship. No, these individualistic Christians believe that their age is the true church age and their worship is more sincere. And so they replace sacraments that the church has practiced from its beginning with pseudo-sacraments that are based on emotion rather than the institution of Jesus. They dedicate children instead of baptizing them into the covenant because they ignore the covenant under Abraham that circumcised children while allowing children to participate in the feast that God established. They dedicate children because it is about their choices and the choices of their children. They want their children to have a personal experience with Jesus over being raised as a full member of the covenant that God made with Abraham and fulfilled in Jesus They prefer the subjective over the objective. Thus, many children are raised with an identity that is about self. Self apart from God's covenant, self apart from parents, self apart from the church local and universal, self apart from Christians victorious. And this focus on self, when it comes in contact with the words that Jesus tells him or her to die to self, well that will not happen. It will not happen because children focus on self when growing into adults only know about self. And so to die to self is is to just die. Remember that I said this is a problem and it's a serious problem There are dire effects that have specific causes, and a major cause is believing that the covenants are separate when in truth they are one. There are some key words in the passages in chapter nine and and in the New King James Version. For us to properly understand the relationship of the covenant of Abraham, Moses, and David compared to the covenant under Jesus. Those words are three: manifest Symbolic and more perfect. Manifest symbolic and more perfect. As a material lesson to show the connection between what we unnecessarily label as old and new, the preacher to the Hebrews describes the tabernacle, not the temple yet, but the tabernacle. In verse 8, we read that the way to the Holy of Holies was not yet manifest. The word manifest is to make something clear or obvious to the eye or the mind. What needed to be made manifest is what had previously existed, but the existence was not known. It was present, but not clearly seen, not clearly understood. Jesus was the tabernacle. He was the offering. He was the veil. He was the one who offered the offering. And he was the one who received the offering. They couldn't see him until he made himself seen. But he was there, always there. Verse 9 says that the tabernacle and its furnishings were symbolic. What is symbolic represents something greater than the symbol itself. Thus the tabernacle represented the body of Christ, which was more fully understood by the symbol of the temple And then revealed to its fullest in the very person of Jesus, who was the Christ, whose body was destroyed only to be rebuilt in three days. The tabernacle and the temple were symbols of the man who would truly house the Spirit of God, God Himself. That Jesus was more perfect, that all the symbols, shadows, and types before him is stated in verse 11. And this explains just how Israel was forgiven of her sins as a people and as individuals. For the offering, offerings made in the tabernacle and then in the temple were effective. Why Because they pointed to Jesus, who would be the Lamb of God slain from the foundation of the world. Already. Jesus as a sacrifice for sin is sufficient for all sins before him and after him And for these Hebrew Christians who are struggling to continue in the faith, they needed to know that Jesus is the only means to cleanse their guilty conscience. If Jesus is not believed, then the past sins, the present sins, the future sins are not forgiven, even if sacrifices in the temple continued. Beloved, we, God's people, must see cause and effect relationships. We must see them For the devil has blinded the minds of unbelievers who cannot see such connections. For example, We should see that shootings in schools, how tragic again this week. We should see of all people that shooting in schools and death in the inner cities Have a cause that leads back to the way we view life in a mother's womb. We must see that. And we must see the connection of how we value life for the sick and the feeble. How quickly we are now to vote to pull the plug. We need to see those connections. If we do not value life in its most vulnerable circumstances, we're not going to value life in any circumstance. And we should see cause and effect of the believing of God's covenant to be two and not one. I'm sorry, to be one and not two. The evidence of them being one is overwhelming. Consider that Jesus said he came to fulfill the law, not to do away with it. Jesus said that Abraham saw his day and was glad. Luke tells us that after the resurrection, Jesus explained the scriptures to the apostles, and the only scriptures were the Jewish scriptures, the Old Testament. Also, the first two sermons preached by the apostles in the book of Acts tell of Jesus fulfilling the promises of God through King David. And how the same God of their father Abraham and the original covenant is the same God who sent Jesus. And then there is the sermon preached by Stephen, just before his martyrdom, that shows how the salvation of God's people started with Abraham and culminated in Jesus of Nazareth. We can add to this mountain of evidence the letters of Paul, which clearly teach that people of the Old Testament were saved by grace through faith. just as they are under the revealed person of Jesus by grace through faith But the devil has done well. We can acknowledge his success in getting false teachers to separate the covenants. while disregarding the moral law in some circles or promoting individualism in other circles. But it ought not. It cannot be said of us. We are to be a people who embrace the whole council of God. According to respected theologian D. A. Carson, to embrace the whole council of God is to do the following. To embrace God's purposes in the history of redemption, truths to be believed, and a God to be worshipped It is an unpacking of human origin, the fall, redemption, and destiny, a worldview that shapes all human understanding, and a savior without whom there is no hope. The conduct expected of God's people, commandments to be obeyed, and wisdom to be pursued, both in our individual existence and in the community of the people of God. And finally, the pledge of transforming power both in this life and in the life to come. Promises to be trusted and hope to be anticipated. That should be enough to keep us busy on this side of the sun. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we ought to be a people grateful for this revelation, to see the connection of old and new and what it truly means to be new To truly have faith, to truly trust to the end. Father, forgive us, for any times our minds and hearts separate. The one covenant you've kept with your people and will fulfill to the end of our days and to the hope of heaven. Keep it before us, Holy Spirit, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay.