Okay. Believe it or not, I don't have these sermons memorized, so uh yeah Luke chapter 11, pick up at verse 14. We're going to go verse by verse, but I want to begin by talking to you about a repeated argument against the existence of God. And that argument is what philosophers call the problem of evil. The problem of evil essentially states that if God exists Then he must be benevolent, or simply stated, he must be good. If God is benevolent, then he would prevent evil from occurring. But evil exists. Therefore, God either doesn't exist or he is not good This argument carries a great deal of authority when suffering occurs upon the innocent, so-called. The innocent are children, the elderly, and the sick, and the handicapped. What this argument fails to address is the involvement of the will of humanity. The will of humans is a major factor. in the evil experienced by the innocent, again so-called. Calculate, if at all possible How much evil occurs upon the innocent because of the will of fellow human beings? A primary example for today is the war between Ukraine and Russia, considering that it was started by the wills of men And not just the wills of the two present heads of those states. There were wills of men historically that created and built on tensions already existing between those two nations. But what about natural disasters, you say? Yes, natural disasters occur outside of the will of men. But the curse caused by Adam and Eve resulted in such disasters because all of creation was cursed. Also, much of the decisions we make contribute to those disasters. The most obvious choice of the will of man is to build a city below sea level so that when a hurricane comes, and they do come, hundreds, if not thousands, of people are devastated. Yes, there are wildfires that occur by lightning strikes, and some of those fires cause damage to people's homes and property However, according to the National Park Service of the United States, 85% of wildfires are caused by humans. Humans who have a will to be careless or not. I could go on, but you get the point Now consider the alternative of humanity not having a will. If each individual was not given choices in life, but was programmed to do good always There would be no sincere relationships, but only manufactured ones. There would be no actual love, or even humanity itself, as we now define humanity. Because there would be no capacity to share in charity one with another. Without a doubt, there is great power in the love one person chooses to share with another person. But with the ability to choose, with the presence of the human will, people don't always do what is right or what is good. And when we are descendants of Adam and Eve, who are cursed because of the choices they made in paradise. We actually find it easier to do what is wrong or bad. Bad for us and bad for our fellow men. But why would God allow Adam and Eve to make such choices, the critics ask? The obvious answer is that To not allow them choice is to take away their will, which is to take away their capacity for a relationship. Okay, says the critic, but why do we have to suffer because of the choices made by our original parents? The Bible reveals two reasons. First, Adam and Eve represent us all, meaning that we would have done the same thing that they did. After all, the word Adam means mankind. Second, God is a covenant God, and so we come under the covenant of Adam and Eve. And so we inherit sinful natures and the sting of death from them. But why does God have to be a covenant God? This is where the questioning must stop. God, from our position as created beings, is Who he is, having revealed himself to be, and he is a covenant God. It is not for us to ask questions about what God has not revealed about himself. We are, I remind you, after all, under the sun. We are part of creation. We have no place to question how God relates to us. What we are to be grateful for is how God has provided another covenant, the covenant under his son, his only son, Jesus. This is why Jesus is called the second Adam, for he provides a covenant in which we can have our sins forgiven and be adopted as children of God. I bring up the presence of the will of humanity because we see the fruit of the human will. being displayed in our gospel reading by those who choose not to believe Jesus to be the Messiah, even when he presents evidence to them that cannot be denied by any objective observer. But that is a serious problem. The problem of not being able to objectively see truth. So let us now look at the gospel according to St. Luke, chapter 11, picking up at verse 14. The Gospel according to St. Matthew tells us that the man was blind as well as mute. Luke's account allows us to imagine how when Jesus did such miracles, the response of the onlookers was always fascination. The people, it says, they marveled at Jesus. Naturally, they marveled because what they witnessed was not something they had ever seen before. Such power was utterly unprecedented in their experience. That is why it is so hard to believe for people today. We must see it for ourselves, even when a multitude sees it, and there are still skeptics. But this first audience realized that they were in the presence of something they did not understand and yet it was still awe-inspiring. A man who couldn't speak suddenly spoke freely. How was Jesus able to do it He did not utter any incantations. He did not perform any magical ceremony. He simply gave a commandment to the demons, and they unquestionably obeyed him That Jesus was a deliverer was obvious, but how was unknown. Verse 15 Here is the will of human beings who had cold and hard hearts. They chose to believe that Jesus performed miracles, miracles of God's grace. Performing them by the power of the devil. Beelzebub was the name of a heathen god of the cult of Baal, the same false god we hear so many times about in the Old Testament. In the first century, the name had been attached by the Jews to Satan, the archenemy of God. It was actually a slur, as it probably literally means Lord of the Flies. It is a sort of thing that you might call someone who is a traitor, you call them Judas, or a deceitful woman, you call her Jezebel. It was a name to mock the devil, just like we try to do when we picture him with horns and a pitchfork and looking rather impotent. Luke describes those who were making such accusations as he calls them some of them. But we know from Matthew and Mark that the them were once again scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem. Hence it was religious leadership, as it is so often even today. Religious leadership Who took the lead in suggesting another explanation for how Jesus did what he did or assuming he had evil motives They seem to have been thinking that only by placing the miracle worker Jesus in a bad light could they preserve their own leadership and preserve how they thought people saw them. Verse 16. The others who wanted him to do something else extraordinary and amaze them in some other way seem to have wanted a show And seem to have a standard of what would it take for them to actually believe Jesus was the Messiah. Again, we will Have the will of humanity at work, and their choosing is not so good. Verse 17 and 18 We know this famous statement from our own American history as it was used by our Abraham Lincoln during a famous free war speech. It is by itself a simple point of logic. Why would Satan work against his own kingdom by emasculating his own servants? What Satan would be choosing to do is engage in a civil war against himself. Even by evil standards, that strategy is unreasonable. The only logical conclusion from the miracles of Jesus is that God was working through Jesus to bring about his kingdom. And we are to recall that this exorcism does not stand alone. For the gospels records several miracles just like this, as well as other healings. Jesus likely did this for two years straight. All of this by a man who warned against the devil and commended all men to have faith in God's grace. Such a message the devil could never ever utter. Verse 19 Perhaps this teaching by Jesus sounds a little strange to us, but it meant a great deal to the original audience. Stretching out the point for clarity, Jesus is saying that if his power over the kingdom of evil is because he is in a a league with the devil himself Then by what power or authority do Jewish exorcists of that period, by what power do they cast out demons or at least attempt to do so? What is inferred, and from what we read in all of the Gospels, demon possession at this time was widespread. And although we read nothing about it in the Old Testament, At the time of Jesus, it was a scourge that great thought and effort had been devoted in finding ways to deliver those who were possessed. We read of a Jewish exorcist as well in Acts chapter 19, where men attempt to cast a demon out. Hearing the name of Jesus from the Apostle Paul. When they did so, the demon proclaimed that if that he did indeed know the name of Jesus, and he knew the name of Paul, then he didn't know the name of them. And this resulted in the possessed man jumping them and injuring them and causing them to flee. So the point of Jesus is that if he was casting out demons by the mere utterance of a word, If the demons are invariably obeying him, and he is delivering one person after another from the scourge of demon possession, because they say he is in league with the devil Are they then ready to declare that all Jewish exorcists are in league with the devil? If he succeeded only with demonic power, then those must be succeeding as well. And that point they were not willing to accept. Verses 21 through 22. Jesus, of course, is in no relation to the devil in exorcisms or healings that he is practicing. Far from being in league with the devil, the Lord was spoiling Satan's kingdom and delivering those who were Satan's captives. Thus, Jesus is the strong man. Let us not underestimate what Jesus accomplished in the desert when he resisted the devil fully. He showed himself to be the stronger man. Therefore, what he required and requires of devils, they must do. Verse 23. The point is that, as the Lord's power over the demonic realm demonstrates his divine authority, there can be no neutrality about him. And that includes no neutrality about those who follow him. His work was too demonstrative, too unique, and too much of a blessing to those in need for a willful decision about him not to be made. For the first century onlookers, there are neither, they are either for him and enthusiastic about it, what he is doing, or they are against him. Which is to say they are either on God's side or the side of the devil. Now some commentators have said this is Luke's version of the dilemma argued by C. S. Lewis Stating that Jesus must have been either a lunatic, a liar, or Lord. The argument presumed that what Jesus said about himself as recorded in the Gospels makes him a lunatic, meaning that he was delusional when he said something like, I and the Father are one. Or when he said, before Abraham was, I am. Or Jesus knew that such statements were not true, but like any cult leader, he did whatever he could to get a following. thus making him a liar. And then the last option, Jesus was who he said he was. And because the wisdom taught by Jesus showed he was not a lunatic, and the character of Jesus showed that he was not a liar, the third option is all that is left. The point being is that when you rationally limit the possibilities, you more easily come to the right conclusion. From what Jesus is arguing in Luke, he is either from God or he is a bad man Hard to believe he is a bad man, teaching the way he did, delivering people as he did, and living selfishly selflessly as he did. Hardly anyone down through the ages has ever thought or claimed that Jesus was a bad man or mentally ill. So if not bad, then what is left? We are left with the confession that Jesus Christ is Lord. Verses 24 through 26. You see here that Jesus is not done teaching on demon possession and the need for the human heart to be filled. This teaching is a warning and is just as important to grasp as the lesson that Jesus cast out demons by the power of God Himself. The lesson is that both those who had been delivered from demons and those who had witnessed the deliverance, they must not assume that such deliverance is enough. This is from commentator George Bradford Caird, quote: The heart of a man is a house which must have an occupant. And the only way to ensure that it is not taken over by disreputable squatters is to see that it is inhabited by God who made it for himself. Exorcism is not enough. The spiritual world, like the natural, abores a vacuum. End quote. The mistake is easy to make. Just getting some bad habit out of your life appears enough until it is replaced with something virtuous. Until then, there is room for another dangerous vice. In the case that Jesus describes, the demonic possession is worse than before Should this be a warning that scared them? Yes. Should this scare us? Yes. The man who had unclean spirits go out of him was likely a willing participant for the unclean spirits going into him. The going out of him was by the grace of God. The going into him was by his will. And I don't think it is complicated for evil spirits to enter a person. People who play with the occult in games that include casting spells and addressing the demonic are wilful participants in welcoming evil spirits to be entertainers in their lives. Those who look to horoscopes for guidance and predictions of the future are allowing evil spirits to have influence in their lives. Those who read the philosophies of men without using Holy Scripture as the standard for truth allow demonic space in their minds. Which soon takes up space in their hearts, resulting in a denial of God and a denial of anything that is good. And then there are those people, easily more than any who dabble in the occult or read horoscopes or read the philosophies of men. They, these people instead are the people who allow sin to fester in their lives, which is allowing evil spirits to take residence. Such people allow anger to turn to hate, and then hate to bitterness, and the evil spirit of bitterness now takes control. And notice that in such instances the will of the person was involved initially. A man chooses to be angry, but that is not the problem. The book of James says, be angry, but sin not. Don't let the sun go down on your anger. It is one thing to choose to be angry, and still another to let the sun go down on your anger. And such does not have to be literally applied. It simply means to hang on to anger, again, willfully. And while the anger is willful and the hanging on to it is wilful, when it turns to bitterness, the evil spirit of bitterness has taken control and deliverance is needed. But anger is just one example. We could describe how coveting turns into envying, which turns into bitterness as well. Sexual lust has its own slow development ending in fornication and adultery. Pride has its own slippery slope leading to idol worship of self. All of them, all of them begin with the will of a person choosing to sin and then remain on the slope that just keeps picking up speed. We are not passive in how our lives are lived, beloved. God has given us a will And if you claim Jesus Christ as your Savior, he has given you the Holy Spirit, who strengthens your inner will, so that you can say yes to its leading and no to the temptations of Anger and bitterness, coveting and envy, lusting and adultery. That is what it is to fill our hearts, the Holy Spirit filling our hearts So that we are filled with God's perfect love, and perfect love casts out evil. Beloved, our liturgy is a gift of God, giving opportunity to confess the sins that we have allowed to take hold of us and to ask God to forgive us. That is the cleaning out that we need. But we don't leave our hearts empty. We ask the Holy Spirit to come into our hearts and to fill us up. And then we eat with our God as we receive the bread and then the wine. Every time we worship corporately is an opportunity to be cleansed Filled and have fellowship with God restored. So let's get to it. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, you are thankful for these warnings. You are thankful for the reality of the spiritual world that we need to understand and know about. That we give up all these sins that we allow to fester, that we avoid anything that would speak of the occult, and that we allow you to fill us up. And so we look to that now, the confession of our sins. The allowing of the Holy Spirit to fill our hearts, and then to be able to sit and receive from you the bread and the wine. May this day be a restoration day for all of us. Pray this in Jesus name, Amen