In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The sermon today does not come from one particular passage of Scripture, but I would encourage you to keep in mind our readings From Genesis three and then from John's Gospel, chapter seven. Begin with observations You've noticed, I'm sure, that the loud among us get the most attention. Some people brag even about being loud Such people claim it a virtue that when they enter a room, everyone knows their presence. They laugh louder than most other people. They talk louder than most other people. They garner the most attention in a restaurant. In a crowded room, and even in a holy sanctuary. There are loud people even in workout rooms where noise is constant. When I exercise, I usually do so with earphones on, and still through the earphones, I hear men grunting unnecessarily and dropping their weights to get unnecessary. necessary attention, such as pet peeve number 1038 for me. I have a lot of pet peeves. And then there is a loud that is not audible. People can be loud in what they wear. Big hair can be loud. Bright clothes. Revealing clothes. Makeup. Fingernails, jewelry, and accessories can be loud. The message is, look at me, and it's hard not to. I think it a necessary question to ask if being loud in the various manners I have described, is that a godly characteristic? Is it pleasing to God to be loud? You say, that's hard to answer, preacher, because there are so many ways to be loud. Some are neutral, some are offensive offensive, and and some are not. Okay, so there is not one answer regarding the godliness of being loud. So I asked this question. Is God loud? Is God loud? Together we can remember instances where sound in Scripture is a factor. We cannot say creation was loud because of the so-called Big Bang. That was made up. That's man-made, not according to Scripture. But recall some other stories, perhaps of Israel, walking silently around the city of Jericho, until the trumpets were blown and the walls came crashing down. Certainly that was a story that ended being loud. But it is worthy to note, is it not, that there was silence before it was loud. Gideon's army is another story. They were quiet, quiet as they surrounded the enemy, and then And then they began to break pots and to yell to confuse the enemy. Certainly that was loud. The angels that proclaimed the glory to God and the highest at the birth of the Savior were loud enough for the shepherds to hear them. But that proclamation didn't go beyond the fields in which they lay. So none of these stories depict God as unnecessarily loud. Unnecessarily. In fact, we can find stories that speak of God being purposefully quiet. He quietly walked in the garden looking for Adam and Eve. He appeared to Moses as a mere burning bush. No sound. He appeared to Abraham and to Jacob in dreams. When he spoke to the prophet Elijah, he did so In a still small voice, to be in contrast with earthquakes and great winds Even when he entered the world as a man taking on the form of a vulnerable infant, he did so first privately. Speaking to Mary and quietly instructing Joseph in a dream On the other hand, in the book of Revelation, God seems very loud. Trumpets are blown Thousands upon thousands sing praises to God. There is fire and there is earthquakes brought about by the wrath of God being poured on the earth. And we anticipate that all of it is very loud. And God is loud without noise. He is loud in the grandeur of the mountains. He is loud in the vastness of the universe. And such creation proclaims his presence, shouts his presence It displays part of his nature which is objectively beautiful and vast. But most people don't hear God's creation as loud. In fact, most people don't hear God at all. And so how could he be loud and people not hear him? A mystery indeed. I believe we can get a better understanding of God being both quiet and loud in the story of Eli and Samuel. You remember that Eli was the high priest over Israel, and Samuel was the answer to the prayers of his mother, Hannah. And he was also a promise to God from Hannah that he would be raised as an offering to God. And so Samuel lived with Eli, and Eli had two sons. Hafni and Phineas. Both of those sons were wicked priests. They kept the best portions of the offerings for themselves, and they seduced women at the sanctuary entrance. They were wicked indeed. And God was loud to Eli about his sons. He was loud in his holy word that condemned, clearly condemned their behavior. He was loud to Eli in the chances he gave Eli to call his sons to repentance, and he was loud. Loud to Eli when a prophet came and personally rebuked Eli and warned of his son's imminent death. But Eli did not listen to God being loud. And then there is Samuel. He was a young boy with a strong conscience. God called Samuel at night in a whisper. Samuel thought it must be Eli calling him, and so he went to Eli as any dutiful servant would, but it was not Eli who called. The sweet voice at night calling Samuel was heard again. And Samuel again went to Eli. And it was Eli who finally realized that it was God calling Samuel. And so he instructed Samuel, and Samuel replied, the next time he heard the voice, Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening. And from this story, in this comparison, can we conclude that it is God's manner? His way of operation to quietly call his people while also yelling at those who are afar off. I think we can. Along with God being quiet, we are also to note that God, I know this might sound surprising to some of you, that God hides. God hides. And by hide I mean that he does not make himself obviously known. And many times makes it difficult for him to be found or noticed. And such is an understanding about God that young minds in the faith don't easily grasp. I remember hearing of a young man protesting at a Bible study where he heard the teacher say that Although many people are called to repentance, there are only a few that are actually chosen to be saved. That was not the God of this young man, the God that he believed in The very idea of many people being on a wide road that leads to hell and only a few on a narrow road that leads to heaven, well, this was denied by this young man He argued with the Bible study leader because his understanding of God was such that God does everything so that he can be known so that people can believe, so that people can follow, as many as possible, follow God. But that is not the God revealed in the Bible. And such an image of God needed to be shattered for the young man to believe in God as he truly is, as opposed to a God that we want him to be. It is not a question of if God hides himself, it's a question of why God hides himself. The prophet Isaiah states it plainly in chapter 45, where he says, Truly, you are a God who hides himself. Consider that God hid himself from humanity until the wickedness of man became so great that he flooded the earth. He hid himself from humanity until the people built a tower to make themselves like God. And so God then confuses their languages and scatters them from one another. He hid until the tribes and families replaced him with idols of the earth and the idea of multiple gods. He then revealed himself to Abram, but only Abram. Even though his covenant was to be passed on through Isaac and Jacob, he hid himself from Isaac and Jacob until they searched for him. Until they found him and realized he was also their God He even hid himself, consider this, for ten generations while Israel worked as slaves in Egypt. Ten generations He did not reveal himself until their cries for freedom reached his patients. God hides. A most remarkable passage of Scripture is found in both the Gospel of Matthew chapter 13 and the Gospel of Mark chapter 4. Same story, same events. It is after Jesus tells the parable of the sower, the sower who sows the seeds on various types of ground. Some plants that grow are choked, some have no roots and are easily plucked up, and some seed falls on good soil and grows large and healthy. Jesus then takes his closest disciples aside and explains the parable. He tells them that the seed is the word of God. He himself is the sower, and the various soils are the hearts of men. Jesus finishes his explanation with why he uses parables. Why he uses parables when teaching instead of speaking plainly? He explains it by using the words of Isaiah. He says this. So they may indeed see and not perceive, and may indeed hear, but not understand. Lest they should turn and be forgiven Well, for most of us, such a statement is confusing at first reading and then second reading and all the readings because this is not the Jesus we were first told about He uses parables, he is saying, in order to make it difficult for people to understand him. That is exactly the opposite of what many of us expect of Jesus. In fact, I have heard preachers Say that Jesus used parables to help us understand. But that is not what Jesus said. He said the opposite. And to solidify his explanation for using parables, Jesus teaches his disciples that what is truth or light will eventually be revealed. But at first it is hidden. But hidden for the purpose of being revealed. Then he tells the parable of the kingdom of God being like a man who casts seed upon the soil and then he goes to bed. When he awakes, he sees evidence of the seed sprouting and growing. But Jesus points out that the man doesn't know how it all works. So it is to be understood about the kingdom of God. Who believes and how the kingdom grows is unknown to man because it is done in secret. It is done outside of any man's ability to control it It is grown by the will of God in a manner hidden by humanity, hidden from humanity. The ways of God are hidden. God hides. So what does this practically mean for Christians who believe? What does it mean to us for God to be a God who moves and speaks quietly to us? And who at times hides from us. To understand more fully what it means for God to be quiet and for God to hide. We must answer why he is quiet and why he hides. In summary We can know that God is quiet and that God hides in order not to be found where humans want to hear and find God. But God is quiet and hides in order to be heard and found where God wills to be heard and found. Thus it is his will and not ours. Consider the game of hide-and-seek. I think this apropos. When we played as children, there was a time given by the seeker that required him or her to count to ten or more, while the rest of the participants scrambled and hid themselves. And the purpose of hiding oneself was not to remain forever hidden But to come out of hiding and to get to a particular agreed-upon safe place before being seen by the seeker Hence the game made sense not when a person hiding remained forever hidden, but that the person hiding controlled when he or she was found. And such in a similar manner is how and why God is quiet and why God hides. The quiet hiding of God is very much connected to the first sermon of Jesus. Where he instructed all people to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. To seek God's kingdom, which is to seek righteousness, was to seek God who had been hiding. To become a seeker under the instruction of Jesus is to humble one's self by becoming obedient to the instruction and to accept that God is found according to his terms rather than the terms of any individual This lesson is very appropriate to learn and accept during the Advent season. When we both examine how God revealed himself in the Christ child and how he promises to reveal himself at his second coming. We have already seen how God was quiet at the coming of Jesus by way of speaking to Mary and appearing to Joseph in a dream. And we can say that God hid when he was born in a stable, in a small town, Bethlehem. It was not allowed place to be born. He further hid when he escaped to Egypt in order to be safe from the spear of Pharaoh. He further hid when he lived his days of development in a lowly town in the region of Galilee we know as Nazareth. Nothing good came out of Nazareth, so the people thought. And even after Jesus publicly displayed his words of life and his ability to perform miracles, He had those moments. We read about it in John, those maddening moments, at least maddening according to immature eyes like my own. where crowds were ready to make him king and to follow him to Rome and Jesus would slip away and go hide Demons would start to speak his identity as the Messiah, the Son of God, and he would quiet them. Those calls for quiet and times of hiding were done because Jesus said it was not yet his time. By saying that he meant it was not time for him to be found. For he was to be found on his terms. on his father's terms, as opposed to the wills of men. And the same can be said for his second coming. Yes, we can understand the delay of his second coming because God wills that more should come to repentance. Yes, indeed. We can understand the delay by facing the truth that God's time is not our time, for we see a thousand years and he sees a day. All of that and many more reasons for his delay are true. But what is also true, as we have seen God chooses to be quiet at times, and God hides at times. And as God is quiet, and as God hides, we are to know that He only reveals Himself and makes Himself heard on His terms. And not on the terms of anyone else. And it is for us to continue to seek his kingdom. And that means to seek righteousness. One of the debate points that I recall made by Christopher Hitchens, now deceased, and other atheists who were popularized at the turn of the 21st century. They made the point of asking the rhetorical question as to why the God of the universe, if he exists Would not manifest his existence in a more obvious manner so that people, more people, would easily believe Well personally, I cannot help but read into this challenging question a kind of complaint being offered as an excuse as to why people choose not to believe in God. The challenge, seems to me, implies that if certain proof criteria were met, then the challenger would, as a result, believe in God. The most obvious problem with this implication is that there are no stated standards to be met. What exactly do you mean by a sufficient evidence of manifestation? And it implies, to me, begs this question, why is the person of Jesus his teaching, his death, his resurrection? Why is that not obvious enough? The second problem with the implication is the assumption that God has an obligation to meet any person's standard of manifestation. And we should ask who is man, that God should be mindful of him, especially mindful in meeting personal and thus arbitrary standards of manifestation. Now a great ironing to all of the questioning about and doubting of God Because of the manner that he does not manifest himself, is that in the beginning it was mankind, Adam and Eve, who hid from God. Our representatives, our kin, our likenesses, those who are with our nature, after they sinned, they hid from God. Is it then not an obvious relational ploy that God would speak softly and hide quietly so that he is found on his terms? Is it not poetic justice that humanity that hid from God would now be required to seek God? Beloved, it is never, never for the created thing, us, to question the creator As to why he made us, or made us the way we are made, or why he chooses to be quiet, or why he insists on being found. It is for us to accept what we are, who God is, and what he instructs of us. And what he instructs of us is that we seek Him. Advent gives us a new start to do just that. Let us pray.