I have to say, I tuned in last week as we were in Tacoma, Washington, and uh I I so much appreciate Reverend Voles and his faithfulness. But it's just not the same as being in person. It's good to be in the house of God. We attended a church that is the oldest building in Tacoma, Washington, and it houses an Anglican church. And we just so happened to attend there's about probably ten of us there, and we uh attended where the uh the priest had COVID, so he couldn't be there, and a layman read morning prayer, made an attempt at a sermon. And uh and we were dismissed within forty-five minutes. Um again, good to be here in the house of God. We're going to be covering two sections. The first is our reading from the Gospel according to St. John, and then we'll go into Romans chapter 12. So join me in both of those. Regarding the narrative in John chapter 2, where Jesus attends a wedding with his disciples, there are several interesting tidbits to take away, thus reminding us Of the likely reason for telling the story. First, Jesus attends a wedding This is pointed out in our prayer book in the wedding ceremony liturgy. The fact that Jesus took the time to attend a wedding. Verifies the importance of a wedding ceremony and the celebration that follows. Weddings are a type of what kind of relationship God wants with his people. The book of Revelation describes a great wedding banquet as a heavenly reward after Jesus is properly wedded to his bride, which is the church, who is us. The Anglican tradition refers to marriage as sacramental, meaning that it is not a sacrament in the way that Baptism and Holy Communion are sacraments, which refers to rituals that all Christians are to participate But it is like a sacrament, and that those who do participate in it are to treat it as a sacred thing. We say in our wedding liturgy that marriage is, quote, not to be entered into, nor taken in hand unadvisedly lightly or wantonly to satisfy men's carnal lusts and appetites, but reverently, discreetly, advisedly, soberly, and in the fear of God Second, when Jesus is spoken to by his mother, he calls her woman, which seems to be a reference to Mary's position as the new Eve, for Eve simply means woman. Third, when Jesus refers to his hour, he is talking about the time that his messiahship is revealed with the knowledge that when it is revealed that he is claiming to be the Messiah, the Jewish leaders will come after him to take his life. This is why when Jesus performs miracles and asks that what he did be kept quiet There was a time he was going to accept his fate on the cross, but that time was specific and was not to be hurried. Fourth, Mary ignores this concern and instructs the servants to do as Jesus says. And this confirms the danger Mary was willing to enter into. It is dangerous for Jesus to work a miracle and thus begin the journey to the cross. Mary is willing to begin that journey, and so is Jesus. Fifth, Jesus fills six water pots representing the six days of creation. Six, that the master of the feast notices the difference in wine quality confirms that this is not Welch's grape juice or grape juice plus This is the wine that people would drink to make the heart glad, just as we do today And when the heart was glad, the quality of wine didn't matter, except to Jesus, for he thought it did matter, and therefore turned the water into better wine. And our reading from Romans chapter 12, beginning at verse 16, and I encourage you to turn there in your Bibles. I question the wisdom of the liturgy to begin at verse 16 because it needs to be examined. with the knowledge of verses 14 and 15 addressed last week. The instruction to bless those who persecute you, verse 14. And to rejoice with those who rejoice, and to weep with those who weep, verse 15, are very difficult things to do For they call us to do what does not come naturally to the human sinful condition. We naturally want to get back at those who persecute us. And when our enemies rejoice or weep, we don't naturally want to rejoice or weep with them. Many of you didn't weep with Steeler fans when they lost last week. And I know there are some Steeler fans here, so I said many, not all. The point is St. Paul is setting a standard that is difficult to live up to But he sets it anyways, and we are to strive to that standard. As most of you know, I came to a saving faith in Jesus Christ while a senior in high school. And when I would share my new faith with my peers, a primary objection to being a Christian was that life would be boring. Of course, the definition of boring in high school, public high school, was the inability to party freely, which means abusing alcohol, using drugs, and engaging in fornication My objection to such an objection was that my eternal life needed to be more important than my immediate gratification of the flesh, and so I would settle for Bory. But having walked the narrow road for 39 years, I have experienced how free the Christian faith allows me to be. For I can be at peace with God and peace with my fellow man while gratifying the flesh in the context of the marriage covenant, while also being challenged to live a better life than I naturally am inclined to do. Nothing else in the world, no religion, no guru, no counselor will instruct me to bless those who persecute me. Or weep with my enemy. And yet that is exactly what I'm supposed to do as a follower of Jesus Christ. Striving to practice such behavior is not only the opposite of boring, but it is a dangerous life. Because it sets itself against the world that is going the opposite direction. It is within the context of verses 14 and 15. Where we are told in verse sixteen, to be not wise in your own opinion. This is similar to Proverbs 3, verse 7, where God's people are told, Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. What is implied there is that to be wise in your own eyes is to trust too much in yourself. So much so that you think you can figure things out on your own. And that means that you are not fearing the Lord. Because if you feared the Lord, you would seek his counsel. Without seeking the Lord for counsel, you will fail to turn away from evil. Paul's instruction also reminds us That humility is necessary to the Christian, not only in our dealings with others, but also to keep our mind open and teachable. A person who sees his errors learns from them. And let us be reminded that these instructions to think and act differently than the world are connected to the instruction at the beginning of chapter twelve, which was to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. Beloved, in our natural state as sinners, we don't think right You may wonder how people of this world can look at a baby in a womb and not see a human being and therefore justify abortion at any stage. And you may wonder how a union between Adam and Steve is seen as just as natural as a union between Adam and Eve. And you may wonder how a natural born man can be called a woman, and vice versa But people do think in such a manner and march and protest for their right to do so. But we are descendants of Adam and Eve. Thus we are under a sinful covenant. For Adam and Eve thought they could know good and evil from the side of disobedience. Thus, we needed a Savior who died and rose again in order to show us good and evil from the side of obedience. But because we were first born in sin under Adam and Eve, before our spiritual eyes were opened, we therefore need to work at having our minds renewed. In verse seventeen, it says, to repay. To repay is to give or return what is given to you. Again, this is one of the most difficult standards for a human being to follow. And yet it is the standard for the Christian. It takes moxie to live in such a manner. He says regard means properly to think or meditate beforehand Thus, we are to consider how to respond to the evil done to us, and that means we are not to be a people who suddenly react. We are not to be a people who act out of passion first. Instead, we are to have a settled plan on how we react to the evil done to us and our thinking. is to go along the line of what would be good in the eyes of most men, what most people would understand to be a good response. The phrase good things means actually what is beautiful or comely, attractive. Consider again how high of a standard this is. The world might be impressed if we simply didn't give back evil for evil. But we are to do something beautiful to the person who is evil to us. That sounds ridiculous. Until we remember that our Lord prayed for those who put him on the cross, asking that they be forgiven. What is more beautiful than that? Thus, that is what we are to pray when evil is done to us. Forgive them, Lord, for they know not what they do. And if returning beauty for evil is not difficult enough, we are then told to live peaceably with all persons if possible. Unfortunately, I can testify that it is at times not possible. I have reached out to several people who have left our parish being angry with me for what reasons I was not never told. I have reached out via email, physical letters, and even when I have seen them face to face, and I have asked, what have I done? That they no longer speak to me, and I am given no answer. But we are to try, which is what the phrase, as much as depends on you, means. Again, such is not an easy thing to do. We risk the likelihood of being rejected. Our pride will likely get hurt when we try to apologize or at least discover what we should apologize for. But our pride being hurt is to be sacrificed because the standard is to be at peace with every person we can be at peace with. And peace means forgiveness. Peace means we don't hold any anger or animosity toward another human being. And impossible that we give opportunity for others to not be angry or have animosity toward us The instruction not to avenge means that we have been wrongly and justly treated, and yet we are not given the freedom to equal the wrong. To give place is to stand aside. It is getting out of the way to allow God to enact whatever justice he wills. With the knowledge that he will repay the evil that has been done to his people who are his. Beloved, we are to be as confident in God's avending justice as we are. confident about our salvation. And it only makes sense for God to enact his justice, for he is the only one by nature who is just But what are we to do in the meantime as we wait for this justice? It can take a while before we see God's vengeance, and it may not even be in our lifetime. So what are we supposed to do? Verse 20 says that while we wait for God's justice We are to feed our enemies and provide for them drink. I say it again because it does not sit well. While we wait for God's justice, we are to provide food and drink for the very people who wrong us. This is that boring Christianity I described earlier. The phrase, heap coals of fire. I have heard it said that such would be a blessing because People supposedly would carry hot coals in some type of container on their heads in order to have fire when they arrived at their destination. I found such a teaching on various evangelical websites, but not one respected historical commentator mentions it. What makes the most sense to me is that because coals of fire is used elsewhere in Scripture to communicate God's judgment To heat coals on a person's head is a metaphor for not fully condemning them, but giving them a wake-up call for their conscience. So, whether it is to keep a fire going or to burn a person's head, the main message is to awaken their conscience to further highlight how evil they have been. And the main point of St. Paul's teaching on how we are to treat our enemy is to overcome their behavior by being good to them. But who would live this out? Seriously Who would practice this type of behavior to overcome evil with good? First It would have to be someone who actually believed the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is to believe that Jesus was God incarnate. That what he taught was true, that the miracles he is said to have performed were real, and that he really did die on the cross while asking his enemies to be forgiven. It also would be to fully believe that he did indeed rise from the dead and ascended into heaven and sent the Holy Spirit. All of it you would have to believe was true to overcome evil with good Second, for such a person to live this type of life, you would have to not be concerned about self. To not think about self, you would have to place other people's needs before your own. And that includes the needs of your enemy. To put other people's needs before yourself, you would have to get phrases out of your life, such as, I like. I want, I prefer, my desire, my needs, what about me? Out of your speech. Third, for such a person to live this type of life where you work to overcome evil with good You would have to seize every moment where it is possible to do good instead of evil done to you And this last point I make because we are almost two years total in living within a pandemic, and two years of a human being's life is a great deal of time. Take myself, for example. The average age of death for an American male is 79. Let's round it up to 80. I was 55 when the pandemic started. That meant that when the pandemic started, I was I had 25 years to live. Thus the pandemic and the government restrictions has taken eight percent of my lifetime left. Eight percent. And how much more does it want to take? As the writer of Ecclesiastes says, the human life is like vapor. It is here, and then it is gone. We see it, so we know it has substance, but then it evaporates and it is gone. At a cemetery in Tacoma, Washington, lie my parents, who died when my father was 32 and my mother was 29. My grandparents on my father's side are also there, with my grandmother dying at 61, my grandfather at 74. On that same plot is my aunt who raised me, who also died at 61. And with all of them is a stillborn boy named Josiah, son of my sister and brother-in-law. Across the way, maybe 30 yards, are my grandparents on my mother's side with a surname Barrett. My grandmother died at 72, and my grandfather died at 89. On their plot is their son Thomas, my uncle, who died at the age of sixty. Tears came upon me suddenly when I visited them last weekend. I didn't expect that. I thought of what could have been. What would have been so different? It is vapor, beloved. It is all vapor. I wonder if any of you know anyone that is living their life to overcome evil with good Do you know someone who believes the gospel of Jesus Christ? All of it, without a doubt? Do you know someone who is not concerned about self but instead puts the needs of others before their own? Do you know someone who seizes every possible opportunity to overcome evil with good? Do you know someone like that? I know Betty Moores. That is about as close as I've gotten to knowing someone like that. And yet that is the standard for Christians for living this boring Christian life. In trying to live this life, you will fail. You will fall short. You will sin. And the Bible says to confess such sin, turn away from it, and try again. And then again. And then again. And then again. Until your vapor disappears. Allow me to provide something practical. The next time you feel an injustice was done to you, and done on purpose, because the evildoer doesn't like you. When that feeling of vengeance rises within you, tell yourself, overcome evil with good. Tell it to your inner self, overcome evil with good. And pay attention how your emotions change, how your eyes will be open to see how to react in other ways. besides vengeance. And perhaps, perhaps you will become the next person you know that does live this way. Let us pray.