In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. A mature gentleman shared with me a number of years ago that he had a personal test To see whether the Lord was going to give him a good day or a bad day. While in his office in the morning, he would take a crumpled piece of paper and throw it, attempting to make it into the trash basket a few feet away from his desk chair. Let's say it was six feet away just to keep it current If he made it, he believed the Lord would give him a good day. And if he missed, he wondered what the Lord had in store that would trouble him. He admitted that it was silly, but he did it nevertheless. I assume most of us Bible-believing Christians Don't think about God in precisely the same manner described, but I conjecture, because I have heard from many of you, that some of you believe in omens An omen is a supposed sign about the future, about a change that is going to take place Omens have been detected in anything from the flight pattern of a bird to residue left in the bottom of a teacup, also known as tea leaf reading. A belief in omens tells us something about ourselves and about how we think about God. Notice, please, I did not say that a belief in omens tells us about God. They do not. But it says such a belief in omens tells us of how we think about God. And I'm convinced that too often for too many of us we think about God. What we think about God is not who God truly is. It is important that we only think about God in the manner he has revealed himself to be and nothing more. For instance, we are not to view God as a taskmaster who gives us commands and then stands above us with his hand raised, ready to chastise us if we fail Instead, we learn from his weeping alongside Mary and Martha at the death of their brother Lazarus that Jesus chooses to enter into our life experiences. He suffers with us when we are struggling emotionally and even when we are failing in life. He weeps with those who weep, he mourns with those who mourn. And because we have more good times in life than bad, and we truly do, he rejoices with those who rejoice. My concern is that such a message about who God has actually revealed Himself to be gets drowned out by the former ways of thinking about Him. Simply put, some of us have thought about God in such a particular way for such a long period of time that it is difficult, very difficult, to get such thoughts out of our heads. Without trying to sound like Norman Vincent Peale, and if you don't know who that is, you don't need to, I must highlight the principle found in Proverbs chapter 23, which states As a man thinks in his heart, so is he. Now let's start with what this verse does not mean. It does not mean that if you have a positive mental attitude, positive things and only positive things will happen in your life What it does mean is found in the context. The context is a warning against gluttony and covetousness. It is the stated reality that if a man sets his mind solely on what he will eat and drink, then those desires will dominate his thinking. He will become dominated by that upon which he chooses to focus. Under such a principle about how the mind and the will of an individual works, We can also be warned that how a man thinks upon God, that is how he will perceive God is to him, like the man shooting the crumpled paper in the basket. To state it practical practically, if a man thinks that God is a taskmaster, then everything negative that happens in his life is going to be viewed as a form of God punishing him Or if God is seen as an idle observer to our struggles in life, then silence in the midst of pain and trouble is going to be interpreted as God being indifferent and uncaring. It would seem that the way we think about God is vitally important because of the repeated instruction in Holy Scripture for Christians to be renewed in our minds. Our minds need to be renewed, meaning improved upon, how we understand God and how His kingdom is ruled. All of this pioneering about the importance of the manner that we think about God is exemplified in the story of Jesus entering Jerusalem on what we call Jerusalem. Palm Sunday. Consider, if you will, the type of thinking about God that was going on among the people who lined the streets shouting, Hosanna! And among the Pharisees who observed the spectacle with contempt, perhaps there is no better narrative than this to show the dangers of how we are thinking and where it can lead. We know, for example, that the disciples were anxious for all of Israel and Rome to believe what they had come to believe. They wanted Jesus to prove himself. We can easily speculate that it was this was the case for Judas, who was likely trying to force the hand of Jesus by causing him to show his power at his arrest and trial. Judas thought he understood Jesus' plan, and in the end the confusion and guilt led him to hang himself. The rest of the disciples had witnessed Jesus perform miracles of such a magnitude that they could envision the kingdom of God being established on earth, where bread was provided daily, just like the days of Moses. They even argued about who would sit on his left hand and right as he sat on his earthly throne like that of King David. They could imagine Rome being brought to its knees just like Egypt was brought to its knees under Moses. After all, was not Moses said to be a type of the Messiah to come? Before Palm Sunday, they had witnessed Jesus delay the revealing of his identity time and time again. As Jesus finally accepted the praise given him upon the entrance into the Holy City, we can feel the excitement of the disciples as they understood the time had come for all men to know the truth. The truth of God was about to be revealed. However, it was not what the disciples and what the crowd eventually wanted. Speaking of the crowd, historian Alfred Edersheim speculates that those who displayed palm branches and laid garments for a makeshift carpet were reacting like most crowds do. They were responding to rumors and getting caught up in the moment. And here is Edersheim's description, quote. They had been greeting him with hosannas, but enthusiasm, especially in such a a cause, is infectious. They were mostly stranger pilgrims that had come from the city, chiefly because they had heard of the raising of Lazarus. We can imagine it all how the fire would leap from heart to heart. So he was the promised son of David. The kingdom was at hand. End quote. The description reminds us that excitement in a moment does not indicate true belief. We now turn to the Pharisees, who we know were among the crowds. While the crowds cried Hosanna, they turned to one another with angry frowns. See, they said, the world has gone after him. It is always so this side of heaven that men turn against one another with malice and jealousy of heart. Some of them appealed to Jesus perhaps as a test, or simply because they could stand the praise no longer. They appealed to Jesus to rebuke those who were singing. Jesus' response tells us that something more is happening than mere enthusiastic greetings. In Jewish writing, reference to rocks crying out, Was a witness to the sins of those that cried out of those who had been in the city. Jesus turns the idea into a testimony of righteousness. Creation is about to be redeemed and praises must be heard. From the attempts of trapping Jesus, the negative comments made throughout the Gospels and the plotting that led to the crucifixion of Jesus. We know well how the Pharisees felt about Jesus. We also know what they thought about God. First, we know that they thought that whoever God was, he was not Jesus. Second, we know that they understood God to be in favor of their legalism. They thought that God could be appeased and even impressed by their extensive interpretations of the law. When God revealed Himself as He truly is, their hearts and minds were not ready because their Of their preconceived ideas of who they thought God should be. Ideas, mind you, that were not the result of holy scriptures, but their own imaginations and what they added to the scriptures. So thus far we have examined three groups of people with specific ideas about God and about Jesus, and none of them on that first Palm Sunday had a proper understanding of God. And yet, God has supplied for them all that they needed to know, for what He has supplied were signs. Not omens, signs. First was the sign of the donkey upon which Jesus rode. We know that he did so as a fulfillment of the prophecy of Zechariah. There was, however, more to the use of a donkey than to fulfill prophecy. We know from various stories in the Old Testament That donkeys were used to carry burdens, or the weight of what a man needed for daily living. So as the donkey carried Jesus into Jerusalem, so Jesus carried the burdens of men upon him. We also know that from the story of Balaam, a donkey was used to carry a prophet, and was given the ability to speak in order to warn of impending doom. In like manner, this donkey was used to carry a prophet, but not just a prophet, the prophet. Who also had a word of warning. The warning was that to reject Jesus as the Messiah was the same as rejecting the Heavenly Father, and woe to any man or any city that would do so. We also know that the use of a donkey from the story of Samson was to slay Philistines with the jawbone of a donkey, a thousand Philistines, mind you And of course, the jawbone of a donkey was not a common weapon. It would be unexpected that a man could defeat an entire battalion with such a weapon. The devil thought similarly when Jesus entered Jerusalem. He did not understand that the weapons of Jesus' warfare were not and are not carnal. Besides the Old Testament references to donkeys, we should also note that the Romans used the same animal. Donkeys were not animals merely associated with the poor, but were owned by poor and rich alike. Besides being used from for domesticated purposes, they were used as symbols of political and militar for political and military leaders. A watchman, a watchman assigned to the high tower of a city would view an oncoming political or military leader and communicate whether he was coming in peace or in war If in peace he would be riding on a donkey. Further signs tell us more about the Savior who was coming to Jerusalem in peace. Jesus was riding on a donkey that had not been broken. Anyone who had to train a donkey knows that they do not like to be ridden. That Jesus was able to calm the animal so that it could be written, is to remind us that before sin entered the world, beasts lived in harmony. Prophecy tells us that in a redeemed world, the lion will lie down with the sheep. Such an image reflects the peace the Messiah will provide to the world. Thus, Jesus is able to bring peace to this chosen donkey. The second major sign was that of palm branches. The palm branch was a symbol of triumph and victory in pre-Christian times. The Romans rewarded champions of games and celebrated military successes with palm branches. The motto was Palmom qui marit fermat Which is Latin for let him bear the palm who has deserved it. It then appears that the Jews adopted this usage of palms. Jews carried and waved palm branches during festive celebrations. What the Romans rightly understood, along with other headreaths awarded to their champions, was that such plants withered and died, symbolizing the fleeting glory of men. While the people used the palm branches to celebrate Jesus' entrance, they did not understand how fleeting that celebration would be, as their own lips would turn Hosanna's into shouts of crucify him crucify him. The branches they waved were once green and fresh. Those same branches soon turned yellow and dry and eventually became dust. Just as will happen to all who reject Jesus as Savior. These signs, these symbols Jesus used on the first Palm Sunday, tell us who God is. But not all of who God is. The symbols of Palm Sunday are to be understood in light of what they represented from the past and what they pointed to in the future. In the book of Revelation, we see Jesus on a horse again, and we see palm branches waving again, but the horse is not a donkey. The horse is white, symbolizing both the purity of its rider and the victory that is his. Jesus in that same instance is described as having eyes like fire. And from his mouth comes a sharp sword. His robe has been dipped in blood, and he is said to make wars. And we say, but wait, what happened to the Jesus of peace? What happened to the mild donkey and the calm stroll into Jerusalem? And what happened to the man who said by the prophet Isaiah to have nothing physical about him that would draw attention to him? And here he is with eyes of fire. If we didn't know any better, we could conclude that the Jesus of John's revelation is not the Jesus that rode into Jerusalem. We might tend to wonder to what Jesus we are referring to when we call upon him. We might struggle to wonder what image we are to have of him when we picture him in our minds, listening to our prayers and our praises. The answer I believe is both and. Both and means that Jesus is both the God of peace and a God of war. It means that when we pray to him, we pray to him as meek and gentle, and as a warrior bent on destruction of the enemy. The and means that there is more to him than being meek and being a warrior. He is all in all. He is the I am, which is to say that there is no word that can fully describe him. There is no word that can clearly identify all that he is. It says in Revelation that he has a name that no one can pronounce. Now, beloved, I ask you plainly and pastorally, what type of God do you have in your mind when you invoke his name? What type of presuppositions do you have about him that match up to who he truly is? I suspect that whatever he is to you, he is more. And whatever presuppositions you have about him, they need to be renewed. When you think upon him riding a donkey, remember that he also rides a white horse. When you think he is silent, know that his voice causes mountains to quake. When you think he is standing idle, rethink by remembering how he identifies with us in all ways. When you think that your days are determined by omens, we consider signs that show Jesus to be greater than time, space, or circumstance. I suspect that when we allow the Holy Spirit to form in our minds the true expanse of the Triune God, that even our understanding of ourselves Will improve as well. I mentioned earlier that palm branches are also in the book of Revelation. Today we waive them limited by time, space, and understanding. One day we will wave them if we remain faithful to the end of our days. We will wave them with thousands upon thousands around the throne, and then we will truly know him, truly understand him, and see him as he truly is. Let us look forward to that day. Amen.