Bueno, bueno, bienvenido finismo. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You may have noticed that in the prayer book The title of this Sunday is Twofold. It is the fifth Sunday in Lent, as well as being called Passion Sunday. Because some Christian traditions call Palm Sunday Passion Sunday, for us to call the Sunday prior Passion Sunday can be a bit confusing. But it is important to separate these next two Sundays because the focus is different for each of them The reason why this Sunday is also called Passion Sunday is the focus that is placed on the suffering of Jesus. With the acknowledgement that when he sets his sights on going to Jerusalem, the whole purpose of his mind was to suffer and die. Thus, in the mind and heart of Jesus was his suffering even before it physically began. And because it was on the mind and heart of Jesus, so too it should be on our hearts and minds. What can be difficult is to understand why his death was necessary. After all, when someone has wronged us Done evil to us, and then asks for our forgiveness, we grant it and we go about our lives, not counting that wrongdoing against another person. And we hope that people will do the same to us when we wrong them and seek from them forgiveness. So, why doesn't God just accept the apologies of all who have sinned against him and allow us to go about our lives? To be able to answer such a question fully is to delve into the nature of God that has not been revealed. What we can know is that God has revealed Himself to be just. And in fact, the definition of just and justice in Western civilization is based off of what God has said is just. Both in the Hebrew and Greek The words we translate as justice and righteousness have so much connection and overlap that they are nearly synonymous and necessarily connected. When studying the Bible, we must recognize the connection between words like righteous, righteousness. Justice, justified, and justification. Like Scripture says, God is righteous It is saying God is just. And when it says He is just, it is also saying that He is righteous. In the letter to the Romans, for example, Paul speaks to the righteousness of God. And it could be said that Paul is describing God's administration of justice. As it relates to human humans, righteousness is not just about our relationship with God, but also about our relationship to our neighbors. For example, Jesus said, when you give to the needy, you are practicing, practicing righteousness. Matthew 6, 1 and 2. We can understand that giving to the needy is also practicing justice because it is a righteous act. Of course, all of us are guilty of injustice, which is the same as saying all of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. We have all fallen short of what God's justice demands. But what does God's justice demand? Let us look at the answer in four different ways. First, biblical justice means personal accountability. Such is not accountability to self, but a taking of responsibility for one's actions It is taking the blame for what has been done without trying to make excuses or include others as being responsible for our behavior. The guilty individual may have been negatively influenced by others, but the blame cannot be shifted. Each person must be held personally accountable for his own wrongdoing. A clear example of this is in the law of Moses from Deuteronomy 24, verse 16. Quote, fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers. Each one shall be put to death for his own sin. Now, such has been lost on Western societies, for we hear of current generations being responsible for the sins of their forefathers. The Bible knows nothing of such responsibility. And those who perceive themselves as victims play it the other way as well, insisting that their sins Their failures are caused by their forefathers. Again, the Bible knows of no such responsibility. And personal accountability also means that when we are the wrongdoer Justice demands acknowledging our culpability, accepting the consequences, and attempting to correct the damage we caused. Next, biblical justice means fairness. Fairness means giving the same advantage to each person. This is not the same as giving the same outcome, as progressives today insist, but is giving the same opportunity. Thus doing justice also means not giving an unfair advantage to some people over others Consider how the Bible often uses terms relating to measurements, balances, and weights to express fairness as justice. People traded with goods like grain and oil. There was a natural temptation for merchants to give a slightly better exchange rate to certain people over others. After all, who would notice? The answer is that God notices. He noticed every time people use an unequal weight or measurement This is from Proverbs 11:1. A false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but just weight is his delight. God notices every time someone withholds fair wages from a laborer, God commands his people, you shall treat the stranger who sojourns with you as a native among you. And you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity You shall have just balances, just weights, a just epha, and a just hen. Leviticus nineteen But biblical justice as fairness, again qualifying, cannot possibly be applied in all circumstances, again as progressives would have it. Not all persons are granted the same intellect, or the same health, or the same body strength, or the same personality. Some disadvantages have to be overcome by the individual. It is what can be made fair. What can be made fair is what should be made fair. Next, biblical justice means collective responsibility. This one we must be careful with. Because we can think collective responsibility with the modern notion of systemic evil, such as what is being called systemic racism. As some of you have heard me state, racism is not a biblical term. The biblical term is hate, and it is a damnable sin when it is focused on human beings. You might want to get that. The concept of systemic evil as it relates to sin is also not a biblical term. And it is contrary to biblical teaching. Consider that if systemic evil was real, then Jesus would be a sinner. For Jesus was part of a Jewish system and a Roman system, and both practiced injustices. Consider that the Jewish system of Jesus' day was unjust in condemning him If systemic evil is applied, then Jesus is not only guilty of being a part of the system, he is guilty of condemning himself, which is absurd. In truth, in truth, the idea of systemic evil is a means for academics to condemn societies while disconnecting themselves from accountability. Everyone is guilty except the academic, identifying the guilt of the system. Instead What collective responsibility means is that each of us is part of something beyond our individual self. We are part of a family. And then a church. And then a city. A county. A state. A country. Where we work is another community, and so on. And within those communities, we have responsibilities towards others. And that could mean ensuring fairness in the community Standing for the weak in the community, exposing wrongdoing and treating others as we want to be treated. Said simply, it is not about ensuring justice for ourselves, but also for those in our several communities. From Isaiah chapter 1. Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, plead for the widow's cause. Next, biblical justice means merciful generosity. We must accept the truth that the biblical concept of justice doesn't pit mercy against justice. but brings them together. Biblical justice is loving, merciful, gracious, generous, restorative. As mentioned earlier, Jesus considered charity and act of doing justice, practicing righteousness. When we provide food, clothing, and shelter for those in need, we are doing justice or acting righteously. We see this in the justice laws in Israel, such as in Deuteronomy chapter 24. He says, When you reap your harvest in your field, and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not not go back to get it. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, that the Lord your God may bless you in all the works of your hands. In the book of Ruth, when Boaz provided food for Ruth and Naomi, he was caring for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow And when Boaz found out Ruth and Naomi were his relatives, he did justice by redeeming them. Boaz did not do such a thing as Because he had a crush on Ruth, as some moderns think. He did such things for them because it was just, and he aligned himself with justice. Next, biblical justice fulfills the law of God. From the book of Numbers, chapter 23. God is not a man that he should lie, or a son of man that he should change his mind. Has he said and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not fulfill it? From Isaiah 55. God says, So shall my word be that goes out and from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. Jesus explained it as follows. Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law, until all is accomplished. Matthew chapter 5 And the law says, the law that Jesus came to fulfill says the wages of sin is death. It is not for us to question whether such a wage is necessary, but instead to accept that it is, and then marvel at God fulfilling that wage with his own son. The preacher to the Hebrews in chapter nine, which was our epistle reading Reminds us of some of the details prescribed to the high priest of Israel when offering the sin offering according to the law, the law Jesus came to fulfill. There was the ark, which was golden laid, having cherubim at its top, from each end, with their wings folded toward one another inside Having the tablets of the law, Aaron's rod, and the pot of manna, all reminding Israel of what God did to deliver them from Egypt and bring them to the promised land. Then in the holy place were furnishings, including a table of showbread and the golden candlestick, respectively pointing to the Savior to come, who would be the bread of life, the light of the world. Further outside the tent was the altar upon which the sacrifice was placed. And going back into the temple, there was the altar of holy incense. It is mentioned last because it is believed to be of high importance and it has symbolized the needed prayers rising to the mercy seat of God. And we must mention the priesthood, for it was a necessary office relating to both God and man, and serving as a mediator between the two. And what the preacher to the Hebrews captures is that the Trinitarian God we worship was involved in the offering of the suffering and the sacrifice of Jesus. It was the Father to whom the offering was made. It was the Holy Spirit rising to the throne of God with the smoke from the incense and the smoke from the offering itself. It was Jesus acting not only as the offering, being sacrificed on the cross, but as a priest who prepared the offering and shed the blood. With this we are to remember that Jesus said that no one else lays his life down, but he lays it down himself by his will. The involvement in all of the Godhead when the sin offerings were offered in the tabernacle and then in the temple and then in Jesus is summarized by St. Paul, 2 Corinthians 5. God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. So God was just when Jesus became unjust. By taking on the sins of the world. But because he was not personally unjust, the injustice of the world could not hold him in the grave. That's a great sentence, by the way. I believe we can all agree that the exchange read this morning for our gospel lesson was uncomfortable. More uncomfortable than a rich actor striking a rich comedian. Jesus tells his listeners that because they do not believe him, they are not of God They reply, obviously offended, and tell him he has a demon. Jesus retorts that because they dishonor him, they dishonor God. He then makes a promise that whoever believes in him will not see death. Of course, he's referring to eternal death. They mock him because even Abraham has seen death Then Jesus makes a statement that requires him to be stoned, for he took on the very name that God revealed to Moses by saying, before Abraham was a goamine, I am But what was this exchange really about? It was about being right before God. And who is right before God? And to be right before God is to be righteous. And what we have learned this morning is that to be righteous is to be justified and therefore just. I believe every human being has a need for justice and righteousness within them. Because every person is made in the image of God, and God is righteous and just But because that image of God is marred with sin, the sin of Adam and our own personal sin, we cannot achieve righteousness on our own. We can only achieve righteousness by the way of Jesus. And if we reject the righteousness of Jesus, then we have to find our righteousness and our justice from some other place. And this is where self-righteousness arises. Self-righteousness can be claimed when a person obeys the rules better than others Self-righteousness can be claimed when a person follows more rituals than another person. Self-righteousness can be claimed when we think we care more than most other people. But such righteousness is no righteousness and is rewarded no farther than the length of a person's life. What Christians are to do is to receive the righteousness of Jesus Christ and to be thankful for his righteousness. And during Lent, we are to meditate on what suffering Jesus endured in order that we might be made righteous. And when I say what suffering Jesus endured, I am talking about more than the cross, which might be enough. More than the scourging, more than the abandonment of his closest disciples, more than the crown of thorns. Jesus' endurance was taking on human form, which included the weaknesses of men, which included the susceptibility to disease, susceptibility to bodily injury, susceptibility to emotional struggle, along with peer and family disappointment The suffering of Jesus that he endured included people who witnessed him perform unexplained miracles and still did not believe who he was. Jesus endured people who could not refute his teaching and yet still would not agree with him. Jesus endured false teachers who lied about what he taught. Jesus endured spiritual leaders who were jealous of him being able to heal. Jesus endured people saying he had a demon and did miracles by the power of the devil. Jesus endured people who followed him only because of what they could get from him. Jesus endured his own disciples, not understanding what he was teaching them. Even having been around him for three years, they still bickered about who was going to sit next to him on what they thought would be an earthly throne. All of it. Plus events in the Passion Week, Jesus endured so that you and I and all that believe in him could stand before God and be called righteous and just Beloved, our concept of justice and righteousness comes from God. Without Him, the only righteousness we have is self-righteousness. And the only justice we have is what men fight for on the streets. If we have true righteousness It is the righteousness given by Jesus who suffered and endured for our righteousness. Let us only think upon his suffering. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for granting the world a right definition of justice and righteousness. And we mark this day all that you have done to achieve that for us. May our minds be upon that suffering, that enduring. These next two weeks, as we look to that glorious Easter Sunday, it is in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.