No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, yo quiero que lo me lo quiero. In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. We are looking at verses 1 through 8. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 1 through 8. It's uh a good thing to go through a book of the Bible. It forces you to address subjects you might not feel comfortable addressing otherwise, and here is one passage. But first I want you to know that I have come to regret my involvement in social media for various reasons One of them is how it is used by the devil to tempt us toward coveting We can easily covet when we view pictures of someone else's meal. I don't know why people post what they're eating But they do, and you're not eating that. But there are other things like people posting pictures of a party That you were not invited to, but all of your friends are attending. And as they post pictures of how much fun they're having, the devil can whisper to us that we should have been invited Bitterness and resentment can set in by those who feel left out because of a face-baced post. I know it's not called face face, but I didn't want to give any social media a plug. But one good thing about social media is that it seems to have reduced the use of the annual Christmas letter. Because we are already knowing so much about each other because of my book. You know the uh Christmas letters I am talking about, those letters you used to get when They would tell everyone how fantastic their life is and how great their children are, and you would compare them to you and you would feel very inadequate. I had a friend who received a Christmas card from a friend of his who told of all the ski trips he had taken to Tahoe the previous year. And he enjoyed was enjoying his pontoon plane that enabled him to land on the sh shoreline of his lake property. My friend and his family on his teacher's salary could not relate In my first year of youth work, Bobby Lynn and I received a Christmas letter from a family that was unknown to us. It told of Aunt Beatrice and her gallbladder. We learned of Uncle Fred and his ringworm. We were informed of the insights, of the insights to a family squabble. The problem was we didn't know any of the people that were referred to in the letter. And this made us indifferent at best. After being at the church for a year, we finally came to know the family better and finally cared about what was told, although, you know, a little bit too much in the letter. And this is a problem when you're reading someone else's mail. Imagine randomly going through the mail of a person you did not know. Now, of course, I'm not suggesting you do that, but to make this point When you found something interesting, you would be frustrated due to the lack of details, not knowing the parties. Other items would not appear interesting because, again, you didn't know the persons involved The persons and situations referred to most likely have been written by the writer as if they could be understood by the parties that are reading it as well as the parties being referred to. People being in the know. You would have to read between the lines if you wanted to be in the know. Well, such a scenario is exactly what we have when we pick up chapter 5 of Paul's letter to the Corinthians. Paul is aware of a sin within the church that the people of the church were also aware of, which allows him to not go into much detail. But simply point to how they should respond. The description of the sin by St. Paul is described enough for us to get a general idea. And vague enough for us to speculate with several theories. The apostles' response to the sin is also vague enough for us to wrestle with his wording and try to imagine what he means. It is because of these reasons that our approach to the text will be a little unique this morning. We're going to Try to break it down in in verse sections, then try to have a running commentary with verses one through eight Hopefully this will help clear up some ambiguity while at the same time providing some necessary insights in order to interpret and then apply the message to our contemporary context. At the close of the sermon, we will summarize the passion of this section, which I believe is a passion for moral purity. Moral purity. At the end of the last chapter, the apostle warned that he could either come to the Corinthians with a rod of chastisement or with love and gentleness. The manner of his coming would be determined by the humility or the pride exhibited by these Christians at Corinth. Now the apostle is going to address a specific sin amongst them. So in chapter 5, verse 1, we learn that there is fornication. for sexual immorality amongst them. The phrase sexual immorality is translated from the Greek from the Greek word pornea Pornea. From this word we receive our English word, as you can imagine, pornography. The word is comprehensive in that it covers all sexual sin falling under the seventh commandment, which we know as thou shalt not commit adultery. When our heavenly father gave his ten commandments, he did so without extensive commentary on each one Later, within the laws given to the Levites and the second law given to Moses that we know of as Deuteronomy, God does expound on each one of the Ten Commandments. Regarding the seventh commandment, the Lord lists numerous acts of sexual behavior that are forbidden. Knowing Knowing that without such case laws described, his people would have justified their sin by proclaiming that God wasn't clear enough. Now adultery has been wrongly interpreted to refer only to the forbidding of sexual intimacy between a person who is married and a person he or she is not married to. With this understanding, those who are not married would be free to be sexually active as long as they were not with a person who was married. The command to commit not commit adultery, however, is actually a positive And the positive is it encourages sexuality only within the context of marriage. Any sexual intimacy practiced outside of the context of marriage is sin. That's not complicated. Pretty straightforward. Sexual intimacy is even sin when practiced by an engaged couple For no vow has been made before God and his witnesses, and therefore such activity falls under adultery. Because of possible ambiguity, it is necessary for a list to be written of all the sexual intimacy that God forbids. Therefore, in the Levitical law, we read that bestiality in all its forms is forbidden. Homosexuality and all of its forms is forbidden. Incest in all of its forms is forbidden. And unfortunately, this latter category is where the Corinthians have their guilt. So again at verse 1 of chapter 5, the sexuality or fornication being practiced in the church He says is so corrupt that not even it's not even accepted within the Gentile or unbelieving culture. And this is a telling criticism The first century of the Greco-Roman world, and especially in Corinth, had a reputation for all kinds of sexual impropriety. This devastating criticism places the morality of the Gentiles on a higher level than God's people at Corinth. The sin criticized is described as a man having his father's wife. The phrase to have a woman in the New Testament in certain places refers to marriage. The man may have thus married his father's wife. The chosen phrase of the apostle father's wife gives us help interpreting, for at first it may appear that this man has married his own mother. Because the father refers, because the apostle refers to this woman as his father's wife, it is most likely the woman is not his mother, but his stepmother, divorced from his father, now married to this man. Regardless of whether there is no blood relation This type of relationship is strictly forbidden in the book of Leviticus, chapter 18. There the law states that a man should not look upon the nakedness of his mother or his father's wife. Verse 2. Just as bad as the sin itself was the Christian response. Paul says they were puffed up. We described a week ago that to be puffed up is to be proud. Whether the Corinthians are actually proud of the sin itself, which is weird. Which they may have perceived as evidence to their tolerance. They're putting up with it. Or they were proud for other reasons already listed It is because of their pride that they ignored the sin of this man. Today you and I can identify certain groups who still call themselves Christians Who believe their tolerance of sin in their midst is a virtue more important than sexual purity or just moral holiness They are puffed up just like these Christians at Corinth. But regardless of the reason of their pride, grief, grief, not arrogance, is the appropriate response to sin. The right answer to this sin is not only grief, but grief followed by action. The man must be removed from among them. In a tolerant culture such as ours, this action seems too harsh. It is no more harsh now, however, than it was then. The removal of the sinful party is in line with God's law, which requires a guilty party of egregious sin to be executed. That's Old Testament law. Like Achan and his family from the book of Joshua, those who are guilty must be removed, for the remainder of God's people not to be polluted by their sin. That problem still exists today. People as a whole can be polluted by the egregious sin of others if those sins are not addressed. The New Covenant has done away with capital punishment within the church. We don't put people to death But instead, the church is called to practice a spiritual discipline upon members who are sinning, continuing to sin. Not have sinned once, but continue in their sin. Our Savior spelled this discipline out in Matthew chapter 18. You remember it read today, we were to confront someone once and then and then twice and then the third time before the church If no repentance is made, the man is to be outed and treated as a sinner. This type of discipline is known to the church as excommunication. The person is excommunicated, that is barred from partaking of holy communion until he or she repents and shows fruits of repentance. Because the partaking of Holy Communion is so readily associated with being a part of the church, the discipline has been practiced since the first century. But you and I know it has fallen out of practice in today's church. To be barred from the Lord's table was to be treated as an outsider, and for some who are nervous and frightened, Such discipline appears too harsh. In verses three through five The previous background we've been looking at is necessary for us to understand what the apostle was doing in these verses. When he refers to judging, although he is absent and delivering the guilty party over to Satan. By referring to being absent in the body, but present in spirit, it is apparent that the apostle is applying those words that Jesus said in Matthew 18. There in verse 18, remember Jesus tells the disciples, assuredly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Similar words are spoken in John chapter 20 when Jesus' spirit breathes upon them the Spirit And he says to them, if you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven, and if you retain the sins, they are retained. Paul seems to be applying that truth, Matthew 18 and John 20, to this situation in 1 Corinthians 5. As an apostle and spiritual father to the Corinthians, Paul has the authority the spiritual authority to bind or loose, to forgive or retain the sins of this guilty man. The description of delivering the man over to Satan, that's important to understand. It's a bit more complicated. This is a unique description he gives. And again, in light of Matthew 18, it is likely that a man delivered to Satan is one who has been ordered out of the church Satan, we know, along with his principalities and powers, rulers of this age, Satan has jurisdiction in the world. Within the Christian church, where the gospel is proclaimed, Satan is defeated. He has no rule in the church. This is protected territory. To turn the man out of the church and over to Satan would be to remove him from the safety of the church and to send him back to the onslaughts of satanic powers. It's quite dramatic. The purpose, however, of turning the man over to such an onslaught is not that he may be forever thrown out of the church. It is not the desire of the apostle that his soul be destroyed. It is the destruction of his flesh. That is what is desired. And this should not be far from our understanding. For anyone who has had a loved one who needed to reach bottom before he could get help, well, you know what the apostle means. A drunk or drug addict, a rebellious teenager, or a philanderer must reap the painful rewards of their sin before they are humble enough to seek help and mercy. We may think that the best thing for us to do is to help their flesh when it is it is their very flesh that needs to be destroyed In the end, the apostle believes that this discipline will save the soul of the guilty man, and that's what matters most. Paul is hoping that the difficulties the man encounters outside the church would motivate a change of behavior, repentance, and the possibility of being reclaimed by the church. Prior to the second coming of Christ. In verses six through eight of this passage, The apostle moves from speaking specifically about one man and his sin into a passionate plea for the whole church. The plea begins with the metaphor that all of us know well because it's part of our everyday diet. Spread. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. With leaven, the bread does not rise in only one spot, but the whole loaf is affected. Be not unwise, we are being told, in thinking that sin in the church will only affect those who are closest to it. Sin, unless it is dealt with biblically, as Christ has instructed, if it remains, will affect all of God's people. Understand, church. Understand that you are in Christ. You are the leavened, the unleavened, the unleavened, which means you are the pure ones. You as Christ's body are to operate out of sincerity and truth. Sin is not a part of who you are in Christ. To keep the feast is to continue to feast on Christ who is pure. To allow leaven is to allow the world in, which pushes Christ out. Have you ever wondered, if only for a moment, what would happen if the church, which is you and I Actually believed everything that is written in the Bible and attempted to follow it as best as we possibly could. Oh, I know that there are certain passages that are not as clear as we would like them to be, but let us be honest with ourselves that that is an excuse planted by the devil. Who wishes for us to give up the premise that we cannot understand certain passages or that we cannot do all that God requires Church. There are certain things that are clear, and we are able to do them. This is one of them. It is clear what type of sexual intimacy is sin and what is not If it is with your spouse, it is holy. If it is with anyone else beside your spouse, it is sin. If you become married to another who is forbidden by God's law, it is sin. If a person within the church wishes to live in sin, it is the church's responsibility to discipline that party in such a way as to move. To move him or her to repentance. That's the point. And here I need to address the sin of our day. Which is giving sexual urges such prominence of importance that some have decided to identify with the sexual urge that they have They describe themselves by their sexual urge. For the Christian, a sexual urge of any kind is not our identity. Our identity first and last is our place in Christ as we are children of God, inheritors of God's kingdom, little Christs, which is what the word Christian means Again, imagine for a moment what the church would be like if we believed and obeyed what the Bible clearly says. Would there be less people in the church? In the beginning, perhaps. Would there eventually be more of God's people forgiven and ready to meet Jesus on that last day? Absolutely. If we believe the word, the Bible, and follow its teachings as best we can We would be, as Paul describes us, of sincerity and truth. In the end, the holiness of the church would usher in the second coming of Christ. I believe that. But alas, for so many reasons that have nothing to do with the Scriptures or God's leading, too many churches do not confront sin in the manner that God prescribed. We fear that we will turn people away. We fear we will alienate. We fear a reputation of being judgmental. We may even fear that with such standards we could be next. Such fears, I will be bold to say, are from the pit of hell. For they focus on the immediate and not the eternal. I have asked whether you have imagined such a church. I have. And I'm tired of imagining. Let us not merely imagine, but start believing and start obeying. Amen. Let us pray. Our God, we do confess what is clear in your holy word. And we confess it goes against the spirit of our age. It always has. But Father, make us a people who are committed to your word without apology and without fear. Father, where we need to be disciplined, discipline us. Where we need to be holy, make us holy. And may you come again. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.