In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn your Bibles to Judges chapter 4 Judges chapter four I am grateful That the story from judges we are examining today falls on Mother's Day. You might think that I will You may think that I will draw parallels between the courage of mothers needed in order to be mothers and compare that with the same courage of Deborah needing to lead Israel. I will draw comparisons but not parallels. What needs to be done first of all is to provide a literary examination of chapters four and five. We did not read chapter five today, but I will refer to it But chapter five covers the same material as chapter four, only as poetry rather than prose. The chapter 4 prose are like most Old Testament narratives. The story is told with an emphasis on the facts Logic is a driving force in what is told. This is quite different from the poetry in chapter 5. Hebraic poetry does not emphasize rhyme, which we are familiar with in the West. It is instead impressionistic. and dependent upon parallelisms, which are lines that say the same thing, only in a slightly different way. Our study of this story will focus on the prose and be informed by the poetry. We will save a close examination of poetry for another time. You have noticed how important facts are in telling of these stories of the individual judges, and how important it is to note when facts are not told to us, for that too provides lessons. Last week we learned that Israel too often overestimates an enemy, and that God uses means to perform his will. We were introduced to the doctrine of concursus, which is God concurring with the natural world to complete his plan. The story of Deborah is another example of concursus, while highlighting a different lesson for us today. The story of Deborah has become a very important one for those who have a feminist agenda. As you know, the issue of women ordination within many Christian circles is hotly debated. Despite what certain passages in the Old and New Testaments clearly say regarding a masculine place behind the pulpit, The story of Deborah proves to some that women are also called to lead God's people. A counter-argument, also using this passage, In Judges, is that Deborah is an anomaly due to the sinful state of Israel. And as the text says, Barak was supposed to be the leader But in acquiescing his responsibility, the glory he would have received is lost to a woman Hopefully, as we consider what we have learned thus far about the message the author of Judges is trying to convey We are able to realize that this narrative in chapter 4 has nothing to do with women ordination or women in ministry, either pro or con. As far as the narrative is concerned, once again we are told that after the death of the previous judge, Israel falls back into sin. The consequence of their sin is the Lord, God himself, selling them into the hands of a foreign king. And again we see that Israel overestimates the enemy, for the kingdom that now rules them was defeated by Joshua just a few generations earlier. Israel's failure to get total victory over their enemies means that they came back again like a thorn in their side, again and again. We also learned that the iron chariots are a problem once again. When Israel cries out to the Lord because they do not like the consequences of their sin, Something different is in the land than was before. A woman named Deborah, called a prophetess, is acting as a judge for the people. Deborah is different not simply because she is a woman, but she is not said to have been raised to judge Israel like Uthniel and Ehud. They were raised up by God. Deborah was not. She just is. She just shows up The judging that she does in Israel is also different than the ones previously mentioned, for she delivers no one and does not judge an oppressing power. Deborah speaks on behalf of the Lord, which is why she is called a prophetess. She is in the same line as a Miriam in the story of Exodus. or Anna, who identified the infant Jesus to be the Christ child. As a spokesman or spokeswoman For the Lord, Deborah calls Barak as the Spirit of the Lord led her to do, and commands him in the name of the Lord to form an army and then overcome the enemy. Barak does not stand well on his own, and so he insists that Deborah goes with him It is obvious to him that the Lord is with Deborah, and so he believes her to be the guarantee for a victory. Deborah agrees to go, but states that because Barak has responded this way, the honor that would be afforded to him will now go to a woman. It is natural to conclude that Deborah is referring to herself, but she is not. In fact, Deborah is with Barack just before the battle, and then no longer is mentioned in the narrative. Almost like she disappears. Deborah's willingness to stand in the gap between the people of Israel and God is comparable Comparable to wives and mothers of every age who stand in the gap between God and their children because their husband will not. A wise woman knows she can never be the earthly father to her children and their needs, but because teaching a child to pray is a desperate need And teaching the children biblical stories and how to live out a faith in Jesus are also essential needs. A courageous woman finds her inner Deborah and provides those spiritual needs to her children. Well all the while praying, her husband will find the courage to lead, like Barak needed, just as God has told him to do. But getting back to our narrative, the description of the battle is brief, as Israel's victory is swift and definitive. The story now follows Sisera, a highly regarded general of the Canaanites, who tries to flee for his life after the defeat of his army. The character JayL comes into the picture and by means of some deception and inappropriate behavior by a woman, she is able to rend Sisera defenseless. When the time is right, she takes advantage of the moment and kills the general by driving a tent pig through his temple. As she was plotting this killing, Baroth was searching for Sisera, and when he finds him, he is already dead. The honor then was JL's. As the poetry notes in chapter 5, verse 24, it is the same honor prophesied by Deborah. Hear these words starting in chapter 5, verse 24. Most blessed among women is Jael, the wife of Haber the Kenite. Blessed is she among women in tent. He asked for water. She gave milk. She brought out cream in a lordly bowl. She stretched her hand to the tent peg. her right hand to the workman's hammer. She pounded Sisera, she pierced his head, she split and struck through his temple. At her feet he sank, he fell. He lay still. At her feet he sank, he fell. Where he sank, there he fell dead. The reference to a crushed head should hearken us back to the Lord's prophecy to Eve after she ate the forbidden fruit. The prophecy was that her seed, a son, would crush the serpent's head. The Lord's prophecy referred to the coming of his son, who would crush the head of the devil And every mention of such a killing in Scripture, like David cutting off the head of Goliath, or Jael driving a tent pig through the head of an enemy. All of it is a precursor to what God will do by way of his son to the ultimate enemy, the devil. The other details of the story are worth mentioning again. JL, you recall, is a married woman. For her to invite a man that is not her husband into a tent would have been scandalous to anyone who knew of it She is able to lure Sisera in because he is desperate to be hidden. The milk offered is a means to comfort Sisera. Milk was considered a luxury and had a nurturing connotation as it still does today. The hospitality of J. L. shows to Sisera a lull it lulled his senses and it made him vulnerable. That a woman who is neither a warrior nor an Israelite was able to kill the general confirms the emphasis in chapter 4, verse 23. Which is that God was responsible for subduing Jabon, the Canaanite king, and making Israel stronger. God did it until the Canaanite king was completely destroyed. God was responsible. Not Barak, not Deborah, nor Jael, but God. This lesson we are going to hear over and over again. God was responsible for the victory of the first judge, the second, and the third, and now the fourth. We are going to hear this lesson over and over again because Israel was slow to learn it. And when they did learn it, it did not stay with them. Each sermon from this book thus far has mentioned, in light of this lesson, that God alone is responsible for our salvation. All praise goes to Calvary, the hill on which Jesus died. Added to that lesson is that God uses means to accomplish His will, our salvation. The lesson for us this morning is that God uses means, he uses people as means, people who have faults. Each of the characters in this story is flawed. The most obviously flawed is Barak, who is a man of weak faith, and in a true sense, he's a coward. Deborah says this to his face, mentioning the way he is responding to the Lord's command. And because of his cowardice, a woman who is not even an Israelite Will finish the deed he was commanded to do, and she will receive the honor of the victory. But here's the thing. Here's the thing. Despite Barak's dependence upon Deborah in both to have faith and courage, when we read Hebrews chapter 11, where men of faith are listed, Barack is on the list. He's there with Abraham. He's there with Isaac. He's there with Jacob. We might expect Deborah or even Jael, who can be compared to Rahab. But it is neither of these. Barack, the man of seemingly little faith, is in the whole of faith. The message then is clear, is it not? God uses men who are flawed, even men with but a mustard seed of faith. Upon closer examination of that list in Hebrews, we also notice that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were flawed. There is not a man or woman in the Hall of Faith who was not flawed. Being an idealist at one time in my life I had expected that the persons God had chosen to lead his people would be near perfect. Certainly not perfect like Christ Jesus, but near perfect as in better than average. I recall my first reaction upon learning the history of our traditions, Anglican traditions, as found in the prayer book and the 39 Articles of Religion. My reaction was one of embarrassment. The Church of England was started because King Henry VIII wanted to get a divorce. Such a start is certainly not as noble as that of Martin Luther, John Calvin, John Knox, and even Ulrich Zwingli Some have tried to get away from this beginning by stating that the Church of England was established much earlier, possibly in the first century, and it was, at the time of King Henry VIII, simply reclaiming its independence. We like that version because it sounds more noble. The truth is that the beginning of Anglicanism is flawed. But so was Luther flawed, as he had repeated bouts with depression and crises of faith. Along with contributing to a riot during the peasant wars where many poor people were slaughtered. Calvin was flawed with poor judgment, leading to a man's death. Knox lacked charity as he condemned all other Christians who did not believe in the same doctrines that he believed. In the same arrogant spirit, Zwingli, in a similar fashion to Calvin, approved of the drowning of a man named Felix Manns, one of his former students and a leader of the Anabaptist movement. Thomas Cramner, the primary architect of the Book of Common Prayer, was also flawed. You are aware of the story of him recanting his Protestant beliefs while imprisoned under Queen Mary He only recanted his recanting when they still planned to burn him at the stake. Cramner was brave when facing the flames, but flawed when he was imprisoned. One of my heroes in my early studies was John Wesley. His discipline, intellect, and servitude would put many contemporaries to shame. And yet there was a time in his life when his jealousy got the better of him. While he was a missionary in Georgia in the United States, he fell in love with a woman named Sophie Hopke. Sophie either did not return the admiration or was impatient with Wesley's slow advancements, and she ended up marrying another man. Wesley was heartbroken. It so happened that during his ministry in Georgia, Sophie and her husband missed one Sunday service, just one. Imagine that. Missed one Sunday service without inquiring as to why the Reverend Wesley placed both of them under church discipline and did not allow them to receive Holy Communion the next Sunday His petty motivation for such action was clear. Certain behaviors at certain times in no sense outweigh the many godly attributes of these Christian leaders down through the centuries. The godly men God has used, by and large, have much more godly attributes to highlight than sinful ones. And yet the sin is there. Personally, I used to be overly hurt and embarrassed when someone would point out that I was flawed. I have been told that I am too prideful. I have been told that my manner at times is careless. Such were blows to my self-image indeed. Eventually, however, I came to understand that my flaws serve a greater purpose. First, they humble me, which causes me to go to the cross and seek God's forgiveness. Second, they prevent any misconception that might arise believing that I am anything more than a sinful man being used of God for the building of his kingdom. As a minister, I am a tool in the hand of God. I am flawed and useless unless God is using me. It's actually rather humorous to be offended by someone believing it is necessary to tell me my faults. I can no longer be surprised that I have them, and no one else should be surprised that I have them either Throughout the Bible, we are taught not to put our trust in man or princes, neither a believing man or a believing prince. God is the only one that can save us, and we need to be sure that we never put our trust elsewhere. Men are merely broken reeds if leaned upon. We can only lean upon the Lord. There would not be so great a disappointment and disillusionment in the church if we would learn not to place our hopes in men as we tend to do. The Bible gives us the following warnings precisely because we are susceptible to this error. Isaiah chapter 2, stop trusting in man. Who has but a breath in his nostrils? Of what account is he? Jeremiah 17. Cursed is the man who trusts in a man and makes his flesh his strength. Psalm 49. But man, despite his riches, does not endure. He is like the beasts that perish. This is the fate of those who trust in themselves. Psalm 118. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Time and time again, the Lord is reminding his people that they are trusting in the wrong thing. The wrong thing is usually another man or themselves. It is good then for us to be asking ourselves who we might be trusting in or giving praise to other than God. It is easy to give credit to a man when he may have helped you come to the Lord, or when you are shown a truth that is life-changing. I might say of a man that without him I would not know the Lord today. Such a statement is humble, but it is also untrue. God can use a man or a woman, a child or a donkey to bring his will to pass. Regardless, it is the Lord who is responsible. Barak is a lesson in faith. It teaches us to look past the things we can see. To the God who is there, but we cannot see, and the faith we need, even though it be small. It is mighty. We are to look to God, even with our small faith, every hour of every day that we live in this world, until we are before God face to face. With no possibility of failing to give him credit, credit where it is deserved. Let us pray. Our God, we only want to give you credit for all the good that is in our lives. We want to give you and you alone praise. We want to put our trust solely in you. And so we receive these warnings and we receive these examples. And we say, Lord, we believe. But helped our unbelief. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen