In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 2. We'll be covering our epistle reading, verses 1 through 4. I begin, however, with a story that perhaps is humorous, at least after the fact. Wasn't humorous at the time when I thought I was going to die We were vacationing in Myrtle Beach a number of years ago. Extended family and had a couple of days in the ocean having a good time, but I was jealous of some of the families I saw playing in the ocean with a ski tube. You know those tubes that you can sit in and then got a bottom to it and people can ride on at the same time. It looked like a lot of fun. Well We were staying in a condo that faced out onto the intercoastal highway, if you're familiar with Myrtle Beach and that w river of water that runs through into the ocean And we were I was looking out from our deck upon the intercoastal waterway and I saw a ski tube in the water there and I thought, well that somebody must be skiing and then I realized it was unattached. So then I had the great idea that could be mine. And so I ran down the stairs and ran on the dock and I jumped in the water to retrieve this ski tube. Well I didn't adjust to the fact that I wasn't in swimming shape. And I didn't adjust to the fact that, you know, as you dive in, the tube keeps going. So as I jumped in, I realized after taking a few strokes It's going away. And then I realized that either I catch that tube or I die on the spot. I couldn't go back, so I swam as hard as I could and I finally did catch the tube and I did every ounce of energy I had to get on top of the tube and then I coasted for about 15 minutes down the river just trying to regain my breath. And as I was regaining my breath, I remember thinking that would have been horrible to my children having to go to a funeral service because their father thought that a ski tube was more important than being their father. As I remember that, I still we had a great time on the tube, by the way, after we brought it to the ocean. But I want you to keep that story in mind because I'm gonna come back to it Now, we're going to review first about this epistle. Remember I said that it is more of a sermon than a traditional letter or epistle? And within this sermon is a continuous message to these newly converted Jewish Christians that they are to persevere in their faith. And there's a reason why they needed to hear that. They were tempted to go astray. Now we said last week that Jesus is greater than the angels and we talked about why that message was necessary, because in the intra-testamental times Jews could put their faith and trust in angels. Well, uh this community now that is tempted to only look for a savior in the light of Moses, which the Essenes taught or or look for a savior like Michael the archangel which the Essenes taught. Well these Jewish Christians now needed to realize that Jesus is it and sufficient for them And in the beginning of chapter 2, we receive the application of this sermon. Right away, they need an application. We are to understand how the points made throughout this sermon so far are to affect the hearer, to change us, and hopefully lead us to a greater faith. And the key word that tells us of the importance of what has been already taught is that word therefore. You know in literature and highlighted in the study of logic, that word therefore is an indicator. It indicates that a conclusion is about to be stated. In the NIV, the word therefore, which was read, actually occurs in the middle. It shouldn't. It should occur at the beginning because it is going to tell us The importance of all that he's already taught us in regards to Jesus being superior. Now, with this example, let me take a moment to highlight the method of this preacher. How he's going about his craft. You know and I know there are many a good men who stand behind pulpits with minds much better than my own, and their Sunday preaching is provoking and Deeply insightful, but unfortunately they have no apparent application to the listener. It is indeed unfortunate that some preachers exhibit quite an intellect With ignoring the parishioners' ability to comprehend. One of my heroes of the faith is John Wesley. John Wesley, the evangelist preacher from the Anglican Church, but forming the Methodist way. Um it is said that when he was preparing his sermons, he would actually preach many of them to his servant girl and trusted that her, being uneducated, if she could understand his preaching, well Then most everyone could understand his preaching. But John Wesley, as I said, was an itinerant preacher. He wasn't a preacher who came up every Sunday and talked to a congregation helping them be sanctified in the Lord. He preaches preach messages of salvation. So I am finding myself not able to preach a sermon on salvation every Sunday, but focus you on overcoming your sins, being A Christian living a holy life and helping you on your way to that celestial city. Now What's difficult about sermons that don't really help people is that they don't, or people don't understand them, is that people are not challenged to become more holy when the sermons are going over their heads. And so I'm simply saying to you that it should be that after you hear a sermon, you should be able to have more faith, repent from sin, be challenged to love more deeply. Live more responsibly, think upon God correctly, etc. And thus my prayer is that everything you hear from this pulpit has application in that sense. It goes beyond just knowing Jesus as Savior, but knowing the Christian life in its totality. But let's go back to the text. The conclusion of the argument presented is that each of us must give more earnest heed or pay more careful attention to what we have heard. Okay? Earnest heed, careful attention to Jesus being superior. Without question the preacher in his language has urgency. Perhaps it is a general generational gap. Between those in their teen years and myself. But I am concerned about this generation coming up and their ability to keep their attention. You know that we live in a culture that does not expect you to sit for an extended period of time without being entertained. We have televisions in nearly every room in our homes. Video screens and video players in any standard SUV or minivan. There are television screens even in restrooms. Our phones are our first link to a world that begs to entertain us. If we wish to be entertained continuously without interruption, we have access to that in our very pockets. And what we don't heed as a grave warning is how such access to entertainment easily damages our ability to concentrate. To maintain our focus to be disciplined learners. Our access to continuous entertainment has had a dangerous effect on our ability to simply pay attention in a moment. Especially pay attention to what easily bores us. Try sometime to count the number of seconds of a particular shot on a television commercial. See how long they keep that particular shot. And I'm guessing you won't go beyond four seconds before the shot changes. Because they don't trust that you can pay attention long enough And in case you're wondering just why I'm concerned, in a recent lecture I gave to students in the logic classes that I teach at Stevenson University I was showing my notes on the screen for the lecture, and I was reading to them those same notes, rewording it So they could understand it differently. And then I wrote on the whiteboard an example. And the simple lesson was to show them how to find the middle term in a syllogism Now the middle term is one of three terms in a syllogism. A syllogism can only have three terms, and the middle term is the one that's not in the major, not in the conclusion, but is found in both the major and minor premise. Basically I'm going to sum it up to say there's only three terms and the middle terms not in the conclusion but in the other premises. Well after I get done with this lecture, and it happens every cross A student will raise his or her hand and say, yes, I understand what you said, but but how do you find the middle term? Now, I do not hide my emotion to such questions very well, and I need to get better at that, but I kind of give this, you know Didn't I just say that? But I I I answer and I just repeat myself exactly what I said before, and then I'll have someone else. I get that. Yeah, thank you, Professor, but can you help me find the middle term Well there are times that I wonder in those moments if I'm on the old candid camera show, I'm looking to be pranked or punked, or someone surely is trying to pull one over on me But in reality, they don't have the attention span. They're not paying attention Consider the likely reason why so many people do not attend church each Sunday, especially the young. For them, it's boring. Many churches have attempted to accommodate by entertaining. The result are worshipers becoming audiences and ministers and song leaders becoming entertainers. I've spoken about this enough times from this pulpit, I will not elaborate further. What the preacher to the Hebrews has said is important. And those who have heard are in danger of not paying attention. And they didn't have televisions or phones to distract them. The preacher to the Hebrews understood that if they do not pay attention, they will drift away, literally float away. And this takes us back to the opening story. The truth of salvation is like the ski tube floating downstream. It goes by us, and if we do not jump in the water and climb onto that tube, there is no guarantee another will come by. This may sound like a warning of doom because it is. Again, he's being urgent here The picture is not so much the truth floating away, but of a person who says he is a Christian and not paying attention to the truth right in front of them. The way of the world, the spirit of the age, is a stream flowing hard and flowing rugged. It dashes the weak and unattentive upon its rocks. If we don't jump on the tube of truth, we will smash against those rocks. If we do not pay attention by believing and living what we have heard, we will float away. and suffer at the consequence of that current. The reason for the warning is given in verse 2 and following Warning in verse 1, the reason in verse 2 and following. Verse 2 describes the message spoken by angels, he says. The law given to Moses was understood to have been delivered by angels. Thus, the message spoken by angels is the law of God. The law of God, of course, is binding upon all men, even those who have not heard it. No one is without excuse, the Apostle Paul tells us in Romans that the evidence of God is ever-present. The law being binding upon all men must be obeyed. If not obeyed, a just punishment is assured for every violation, every act of disobedience. This is not qualified. There are no exceptions. If the law of God is binding and the disobedience to such law is to be punished, the question that follows must be asked. And we need to answer it. He says, how shall we escape if we ignore such a great salvation? How shall we escape? Escape what? Escape punishment. Because all have sinned, as we hear in Romans, all have fallen short of the glory of God The only way to escape from the punishment of such sin is what we are to pay attention to. It just went by us. It's floated by us. It is to trust in Jesus as our Savior. That is what the word escape is trying to help us understand, to save us from what is our Destiny in our sin. Now consider that there is no weight to the warning unless what is escape is harmful. Unless we escape. Escape what? Oh, it's no big deal. Oh, it is. In this text, the warning is in reference to eternal damnation. And we need to use the word hell. That's what we are to escape. Hell. The Bible teaches us. Orthodox Christianity confesses that hell is a real place. Weeping, wailing, gnashing of teeth. Consisting of torment, excruciating pain, unsatisfied desires. That's hell. It is not a place where demons in red suits and pitchforks wander around making men work, nor is it a place where partiers go to be uninterrupted by the morally uptight. Hell is described in Scripture as eternal, a fire prepared for the devil and his angels, a place of divine punishment everlasting. And the reality of hell should be spoken of more often in the church today. Although Christians do not need to dwell upon hell, it should be in our consciences and it should keep us from going astray. I recalled in preparing this a story that my oldest nephew told when he first started college He said he shared a dorm room with what he called likable pagans, I thought was a nice description. He said they sat around to get to know each other, and of course the topic came up was sex And one of the gentlemen there said that he had three heroes, God, angels, and Hugh Hefner. And when my nephew was asked what he thought of Hefner He responded as a Jorgensen might, stating bluntly, well, Hugh Hefner's going to hell. Well, after the group's initial shock at that statement, they actually started to agree with him And realizing that Hugh Hefner had probably broken every commandment with no repentance, and today we know that he is now deceased, and I have no knowledge of him repenting. But what is positive about that story to me is the effect that the truth of hell and even mentioning it, the effect it had upon these young men. If we truly believe the words of our Lord and understand hell to be an actual place of actual punishment for sin, that it should be on our lips and it should be part of our conversation. A main concern is just how literal people understand the place of hell, or they don't understand it literally. I know my children have told me as they attended McDonough School that many times they were asked by their fellow students, am I going to hell? And then they would point to someone else, is he going to hell? Is she going to hell? And of course they'd get a kick if one of my sons said yes Yes, they are going to hell. But those questions easily were asked because the hell to them wasn't a real place. It was just something to laugh at. It is to be for us something that scares us into God's kingdom. According to a decade-old survey conducted by Barna Research Group, Only three out of ten adults in the United States believe that hell is a literal place. Three out of ten is significant because four out of ten claim to be evangelical Christians. And even more revealing than that is that Christians generally in general think that a good person gets to go to heaven and a bad person to hell. We should recognize the result of this type of thinking is catastrophic, for if we take away the threat of eternal punishment and allow the entrance to heaven being for those who are generally good. Then we take away the whole purpose of Jesus and his sacrifice and the whole meaning of salvation itself. There is no need to escape, for there is nothing to escape from. There is no need for Jesus to die on the cross, for there is no wrath of God to be satisfied. This is what John Henry Newman was concerned when he wrote the following: Quote: Hell is the turning point between Christianity and pantheism. It is the critical doctrine, you can't get rid of it, is the very characteristic of Christianity. It is my contention that many Christians do not believe in the literal hell simply by the evidence of their unfaithful living. If hell were truly understood and accepted as a real place, it would be a deciding factor in the prevention of purposeful sin by Christians. If the place of hell was in our minds and conversations when we are tempted to please ourselves over obeying God's commands, the fear of such a possible torment would move us toward the cross. As we considered the alternative. But alas, it is not on our minds, on our tongues, as much as it ought to be. And furthermore, we are tempted to believe that God would not do that to anyone, would He? We have heard he is too loving, too loving to punish in such a manner Well, God's love, of course, does not contradict his punishment. The presence of hell and the punishment we all deserve makes his love toward us all the more amazing and all the more merciful. Well the question asked in verse 3 is really a question that cannot be answered. It cannot be answered by men or by angels. No one can say they escaped if he neglects so great a salvation. If you neglect it, there is no hope. There is no other way to prevent the fires of hell but by faith in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's what's going by us. That truth should always be on our minds and on our lips. The remaining words of verses 3 and 4 give reason as to why this great salvation should be believed. It was spoken first by Jesus. That is first in that Jesus revealed these truths to us. God bore witness to the truth of what his son was and did and said by signs and wonders. And thus we can ask again. How shall we escape if we reject so great a salvation? Hell is our destiny. The lake of fire is our eternal place of residence if we reject Jesus as our Messiah. And this message, this truth, should not be silenced, it should not be hushed. Our Savior placed it before us. The apostle placed it before us. It is there, whether we acknowledge it or not, whether we are comfortable with the subject or not. And finally, I fear that the topic of hell falls on too many ears like so many other cliches. Hell is like a cliché. The devil wants it to sound sophomoric, imaginary, cartoonish, or anything else but a real place. Because he is evil. And he wants the souls of humanity to dwell there with him. The devil wants you to neglect your salvation. He wants you to leave your faith in Jesus or die. He inhabits false teachers who deny the faith. Those who are professing Christians, teaching falsely, and leading others astray. And he inhabits Cray's gunman. who go into schools and take the lives of too many. Either way, he gets what he wants. The preacher in Hebrews wants to scare us, scare us away from the plans of the devil. And the way for each of us to resist him is to pay attention. Because the salvation message is going by us. Let us pray. Our Father, we want to take the urgency of the preacher here, and we want to apply it to each of our lives. And you know, and Holy Spirit, we ask you to speak to each of us. Where we are not paying attention. Father, restore us, forgive us, restore us, and Father Keep our attention upon the truths as they are in Jesus, because we do want to enter our heavenly home. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.