In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are looking at both passages read this morning, 1 Thessalonians 4 and then Matthew 15. The following story was told by Father Robert Hart and found in Touchstone Magazine 2004. The name of the subject is withheld. The lady seemed to be very healthy. She lived in Turner Station, an old suburb of Baltimore, practically in the water of Baltimore Harbor. A very traditional black neighborhood. It has a church of some kind on every corner, and in a way, characteristic of the city's black community. The Christians speak with an unashamed faith that quickly names Jesus in any place at any time. This joyful lady, young as a widow, made no secret of her love for Christ. It was difficult to believe that she already had been murdered by her late husband. And not only by him, but also by the laws of the United States. As understood and carried out by the Maryland Department of Corrections. Her husband was imprisoned for a fairly lengthy time, and she waited for him. Raising the children by working at menial jobs for small pay and keeping the house ready for the day on which he would come home. She would take the children as often as possible to the prison to visit their father, reminding them that he was coming home someday. She waited for that day, and it finally came Long imprisonment has the unfortunate effect all too often of providing men, even girl men, with a temptation they could not have prepared for. After a few years of being away from women, locked up like animals, they find that they are drawn toward other men. This unexpected temptation had overcome her husband during his years in prison. He gave in He engaged in sexual acts with other men, no doubt only after a very long time of being locked up. He had a faithful wife at home, a better wife, no doubt, than many of his fellow prisoners. Most of them, if they had been married, found themselves divorced shortly after beginning their term. Perhaps their wives' actions is not hard to understand Why be alone day in and day out doing time as a celibate spouse? All too often to endure proves to be too much for a wife of a jailbird But not for this Christian woman. Her commitment was not only to her husband, but to her Lord. She waited I, Robert Hart, have always supplemented my income by working on special cases for an attorney who helps uninsured patients obtain eligibility for medical assistance programs. Medicaid. Many of them are strippers on Baltimore's infamous block who have been infected by HIV to a life of heroin addiction and often prostitution. And eventually die of AIDS. I suppose someone could, lacking charity, shrug off their deaths as simply the consequence of their deeds. But this client had lived a virtuous life, from all that I learned about her and her time on trial. This infection was no consequence of careless living. Her husband was a criminal, but that was not known to her until he was caught. He became capable of perverted acts with other men, but this was kept hidden also from her. Hidden as well was the disease that had been diagnosed by the doctors at the prison hospital. To reveal to anyone that a person has AIDS is strictly illegal. And so fearful are medical providers of giving any perception that confidentiality may have been violated that I have sometimes had trouble getting them to fill out forms even at a patient's own request when he needed them to obtain medical assistance. The husband had engaged in gay sex while in prison, and that is a fact that the prison doctors were afraid to reveal. He was coming home as a man unworthy of such a wife, a faithful Christian woman of good character. His right To sexual pleasure, even then, even with a disease that would surely infect and eventually kill her, was thus created by a legal right to special confidentiality. So she must die. Perhaps no sacrifice is too great for a society that worships the creature more than the creator, and specifically the creature we call sex. The law has been made the servant of this worship, and this lady was only a small sacrifice. She was no one rich or famous, no one to be missed just the widow of a deceased convict living in a small, poor neighborhood. Policy required that she must die if necessary, infected by a man whose right to confidentiality was a higher priority than the life of his wife. She had done no wrong, mind you, that the state would seek to punish. The authorities had no intention of killing her They simply believed that they had no legal right to try to save her. This amounts to complicity on their part in her death. But by the legal definition, they were not murderers. They obeyed the law. Now read this story Not to undermine the legal concerns of the author, but to highlight what we might miss, which is a woman Who maintains faith in Christ Jesus while her husband is in jail, remaining faithful to God and her husband until he returns home. Only to be sentenced to death in spite of her faithfulness because of the acts of sexual immorality. And it is it is easy to question where was Jesus for her? The warning against sexual immorality in our reading from 1 Thessalonians seems to some to hamstring Christianity. Is one of the few subjects that turn people away from Christianity. They like all the love spoken about, They love the teachings of Jesus when he speaks about loving God, loving your neighbor, and God loving them They embrace the teaching of not worrying about tomorrow and that God will supply all that we need for today They like that their past sins can be forgiven and that the yoke that Jesus places on them is light. Being born again sounds liberating. But then there are teachings about strict sexuality and suddenly the burden of Jesus does not appear light at all, but actually as a millstone that is not worth carrying around Thessalonica was a Greek city. To understand what Christian churches in historically Greek cities were up against culturally regarding sexuality I want you to hear this description from an article written by Jeffrey R. Stone, a law professor from the University of Chicago. Quote, from the sixth to the fourth century BC, Greek culture attained its most impressive achievements in literature. philosophy, politics, science, and the arts. The Greeks of this era generally eschewed the legal enforcement of moral or religious notions of right sexual conduct. Classical Greek morality and law focused not on sexual sin, but on whether an individual's conduct was harmful to others. To the ancient Greeks, Eros was a primal force that permeated all facets of life. The Greek gods indulged freely in sexual pleasure in Greek mythology. Zeus variously became a bull, a swan, and even rain with the goal of seducing mortals. Aphrodite was the goddess of love and of sexual rapture. They called it the things of Aphrodite. It is said that during the festival of Aphrodite, her priestesses had sexual intercourse with strangers as a form of worship. The Greeks approached the human form with no sense that nudity was inherently shameful. To the contrary The phallus was a potent symbol of fertility, a central theme in Greek religion. A pillar topped by the helmet of Hermes, adorned with an erect penis, stood at nearly every Athenian's front door. Vases and terracottas depicted explicit scenes of vaginal and anal intercourse, masturbation and fallacious Moreover, the Greeks had no concept of obscenity, a legal notion that would not come into existence in Western culture for another 2,000 years. Thus, there is a reason why St. Paul's letters written to churches in Greek cities necessitated a call to sexual purity. And perhaps there is no time more similar to today than what early Christians were exposed to in the first century. Whereas in our time decades ago, sexual exploitation and sexual gratification of all types were found in just a few Particular cities in the United States, such as Las Vegas or New York. Now it is in every city, and in our living rooms and on our phones. But this is not a contest regarding who lived in a more salacious time. Regardless of how salacious our culture is regarding sexuality, the same teaching applies. This is God's will for you, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality. Mind you, it would be enough to say this is God's will for you, your sanctification. That is to say, God's will for each of us is to be made holy, which is to grow in holiness, which is to be made more and more like Jesus. And that means holiness would apply to every area of our lives. This is a go-to verse for me when people want to know what is God's will for my life I know what his will is, and so do you. It is your sanctification. It is for you to be made more holy. It is to be made more and more like Jesus. But because of the sexual culture the Thessalonians were surrounded by, Paul goes into greater detail detail of pressing concern He calls them to be made more holy in their sexuality. Now a careless and faithless reader can see Paul's words and quickly conclude that he is a killjoy. And nothing more. But there are reasons for the call to sexual holiness that are beyond being anti-pleasure. One of those reasons is found in the text. And noticed during our Sunday school class a couple of weeks ago when we looked at this very passage. Paul calls for the Christians to be sexually sanctified, and then he coaches the Christians not to behave like unbelievers in their sexuality. And then in verse 6 says, no one should take advantage or defraud his brother in this matter. In what matter? The matter of sexuality. The meaning is that if you participate in sexual immorality with another person, the word brother here can be male or female Then you are taking advantage of them by defrauding that person, meaning you are the transgressor against them. In simple terms, you are hurting the other person. And we know from St. Paul's teaching to the Corinthians that there is a spiritual component to our sexual intimacy. Thus our souls are injured, and we injure the souls of others when we are not sexually sanctified God does not want our soul injured, and he doesn't want you injuring others, and so he calls us to be sanctified in general, and then specifically in our sexuality. Consider our opening story. The husband's immoral sexual behavior and his not disclosing it to his wife resulted in her being transgressed against. And the result of that was the taking of her life. But again, we can ask, where was Jesus for her? To answer that, we turn to our gospel reading and see a Jesus that some do not recognize nor like. Some commentators try to soften the story by insisting that Jesus ignored the woman and then spoke to the disciples about her and then called her a dog, all with a wink. As if he was simply joking with her. But there is no joking suggested in this story. No one is reported to have laughed. Consider that the woman was a Canaanite. She was a Gentile. Gentiles were unclean people according to Jewish law. Jesus didn't have to speak to her, and most certainly he didn't need to do what she asked him to do. There was no law that required it. And when he was encouraged by his followers to rebuke her, which would be to send her away, he doubles down, reminding them that he was sent for the chosen people of God, the Jews. In response to her worship of him, he does indeed call her a dog, or at least having some of the same worth as a dog, and then her response. Her willingness to take the place of a family dog is remarkable, and it shows no personal pride in her heart. as well as a love for her daughter that will take her to the lowest of positions in society. And she was also wise, very wise. What she said is true. Dogs are permitted the crumbs that fall from a family table. And a faith, a faith that trusts that the crumbs of Jesus can heal her daughter is a great faith. The Greek word here for woman, what Jesus next calls her, can also be used for wife or lady. She is indeed not a dog, and Jesus makes that clear. But let us not think that Jesus was surprised by her response. He knew what was in her and he also knew how to get it out. We see this by his unwillingness to answer her initially, to remain silent. He is testing her. This is one of the ways Jesus disciples his followers. He is showing us what is inside of us, and one way is not to answer initially. Jesus then speaks to his followers, reminding them that he is there for the Jews only. But he wasn't, and he knew he wasn't. But they didn't know this, and so he tests them. And then the woman's biggest test of all: what humility was within the woman that she would have faith in crumbs? Her response revealed a faith in the crumbs of Jesus, and Jesus calls that faith great. Remember that Jesus is usually complaining about the faith of his followers, complaining of their lack of faith, especially the disciples closest to him. This is the only time he uses the phrase great faith. It is the only time he uses the Greek word megalay. To describe someone's faith, Meghalay means large or in the widest sense, thus, her faith is vast. The great lesson from this story is the need for persevering faith, which is a great faith. A persevering faith does not quit, but keeps knocking, keeps seeking. A persevering faith is not detoured by silence. A persevering faith is willing to go as low in humility as possible in order to be heard by the Lord. In general, a persevering faith is not derailed by circumstances. As Minister Rob Rayburn said. True faith must believe, excuse me, true faith must believe the Word of God sometimes in defiance of appearances. That woman, whose husband infected her to a death sentence, while being faithful to him, needed to believe in God in defiance of appearances. And I will answer the question. The question, where was Jesus for her? Where was Jesus for her? He was with her, being infected by AIDS, and suffering with AIDS until her spirit left her body. So that she could be with Jesus, awaiting a natura reward promised to her. God's will for us is to be sanctified, and in particular, sanctified in our sexual expression. And that may seem too difficult in the age in which we live and the culture in which we live. But persevering faith is not derailed by circumstance. True faith in Jesus defies appearances. When I was a youth pastor, I was green, really, really green. I had not taken one Bible class. I was making it up as I went. One of my first days as a youth pastor, I was visiting a home where there were a number of teenagers from the church. A parent asked me to speak to them. I had not planned to say anything formal. But I had to prove myself. So as they gathered around sitting in a circle, I said something like You have all heard that God loves you and loves you just the way you are. And that is true, that is correct. But He wants to do something more for you. It is like the old saying. And then I stopped. I stopped speaking because I forgot the old saying. And I looked to one of the mothers who was listening in and I said Do you remember the old saying? And she said, I have no idea what you're talking about. And I swear she wanted me to squirm. But it did pop into my head. And I said it again God loves you just the way you are, and he loves you enough not to let you stay that way. That is an informal manner of God saying, This is God's will for you. Your sanctification. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for this specific word to a people who are surrounded by immoral sexuality. And no doubt tempted in many ways to give in to their desires of the flesh. And so we don't live much differently in the culture we now reside And so we pray that you'd help all of us overcome those desires of the flesh, that we might be first ruled by the Spirit, and that we might be truly sanctified in all ways. guarded by your wonderful Holy Spirit, to protect our hearts, to protect our minds, and to protect our souls. Sanctify us all, we pray, in Jesus' name.