In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated Our series again is The Summer of the Saints, and I want to force upon you a commercial. of sorts. Last week after uh dwelling and and conversing with Bobby Lynn after the service I realized that the sermon that I preached last week is a good description of how I see St. Stephen's in the future. of what we stand for, what we strive for, of what we want to do and be. So I encourage you to Take advantage of that sermon online if you haven't. It gives you opportunity to get a picture of where I am going as a rector in regards to leading this parish. Today, again, we look at another saint, but we start with the Apostle John. John was the last surviving apostle. He moved to Ephesus to serve the church by writing his gospel. He was nearly a hundred years old when he died, but it was John who ordained a man named Polycarp as bishop of Smyrna, which was a city just north of Ephesus. Ignatius, we learned about last week, passed through the city of Smyrna on his way to his martyrdom when Polycarp was 35 years old. Polycarp took it upon himself to collect the letters of Ignatius and have them passed throughout the Christian church. Several Christian historians record that very fact. Polycarp was martyred himself at age 86, which means that he was given a good amount of time in life to minister to the Christian church. His martyrdom is important to repeat to each generation of Christians, for it was not the simple fact that he was willing to die for His Savior, but the manner that he died is to be appreciated by all The events that led to the martyrdom of Polycarp saw many young Christians dying in the arena during the reign of Domitian, Emperor of Rome. Many were tortured before they were fed to the wild beasts. Because so many young Christians suffered bravely, the crowd got a little anxious and started to cry out for more Christian blood. And the crowd got so excited at one point they started to chant for the blood of Ponycarp, a well-known leader of the Christians. When Polycarp heard of their chant, he wanted to remain in town, but members of the church persuaded him to leave and distance himself from the city. While away three days he spent every day praying, until he had a vision of a pillow burning, which he interpreted as his necessary fate. Although Polycarp was not yet captured, a young man who knew of his whereabouts was captured and tortured until he confessed what he knew. Troops with weapons as if they were arresting a robber came at night to the sleeping place of Polycarp, and although he was given enough time to escape He relented, saying, The will of God be done. When he met his captors, they were so very impressed by his health and by his mind and by his graciousness that they stayed with him to eat and drink, and even allowing him a personal time, an hour of prayer alone. When his prayer was done, they placed him on a donkey and brought him back to the city of Smyrna When in the city, the captain of the captors tried to persuade him regarding the easiness to have the charges dropped against him if he would only burn incense to Caesar. Of course, he refused. At his refusal, all decorum was lost amongst his captors, and they started beating him. But he did not let out a cry, but made his way swiftly to the stadium. And when he came into the stadium, The noise was so loud, they say, that not a single human voice could be heard. But there was a voice, and it was heard, but it was not from men. It was heard by those around Polycarp, a voice from heaven that said, Be strong, Polycarp, and play the man. Once again, the leaders who condemned him tried to persuade Polycarp to give allegiance to Caesar and to condemn the Christians. He refused. Instead, he asked if he could have a chance to testify what it means to be Christian. The proconsul said that he could speak to the crowd, but Polycarp, hearing their chants for his blood, knew that they were not there to listen to him speak. He requested an audience of the pro-council personally, but that was denied. Again, a magistrate tried to persuade him to swear an oath to Caesar and to revile Christ And Polycarp responded with the following. Quote, 86 years have I been his servant, and he has done me no wrong How then can I blaspheme my king who saved me? By threat of being torn apart by wild beasts to threats of being burned alive, they continued to call him to repent, ironically, of his Christian faith. Their hope was that if a leader of his stature, of his importance, of Christians If his leadership he would turn from them, well the rest of the church would follow Soon the crowd called for him to be burned alive, and the followers of Polycarp remembered his vision. What happened next was with great speed, the crowd immediately collected timber and sticks from workshops and the baths, and the Jews more especially assisted. He removed his clothes so that the flames would touch his skin quickly. They desired to nail him to a stake, but he insisted that he would not flee the flames, and that he would remain unmoved. Before the fire was lit, he prayed a loud prayer, thanking God for the privilege of knowing Jesus as his Savior, and for the privilege of dying a martyr's death, to honor his God. After his death, there was great disagreement as to what to do with his body, for some leaders feared the remains would be worshipped by his followers His bones were eventually collected and placed in what they said was a suitable place. Afterward it was said that Polycarp, even by unbelievers, That he gave up his life in a distinguished manner. Polycarp did indeed play the man. Yet I wonder when I read that quote from the voice of God, for Polycarp to have courage and to play the man, how many of you were curious as to exactly what does that phrase mean? The phrase is a translation similar to what is translated in the King James Version of 1 Corinthians 16 verse 13, where Paul said this. Watch ye stand fast in the faith. Quit you like men, be strong. Now the word quit has changed quite a bit. The meaning in the Old English used to mean to conduct oneself in a specified way. Not to give up, but to conduct oneself in a specified way. The specified way in the Corinthian passage is like a man. Today we might translate it more loosely to mean be like a man should be. That is not politically correct, for today we are told that men are not masculine by nature or by calling, but by social constructs that need to be torn down But we here are not politically correct. We embrace what it should mean to be a man Which is to say we believe in courage, in bravery, in fortitude, and being steadfast in the truths that God has revealed to us. That is what God calls men to be. And so quit like a man is to live like a true man. And thus to play the man is to live up to the standards God has set for men. And in the context of Polycarp, it was to remain firm in the faith, in his faith, in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the midst of suffering. In the midst. The need, the need to remain steadfast was not new to Polycarp when God's voice instructed him. In his writings, specifically his letter to the Church of Philippi, he instructs deacons to be servants of God, and he says, be servants of God, not men. Ministers can become servants of men when they fear men, for when a minister fears men He will work to appease them, and that will cause him to compromise. When a minister compromises, he doesn't instruct directly what the scriptures say. He doesn't touch on the sins of those in his congregation because they might disapprove and show that they disapprove. He doesn't rebuke and exhort as he should because men are more comfortable being told how righteous they are as opposed to how they need to repent. Many a church has floundered and then died, and families have gone to hell because ministers have compromised the truth for fear of men. To play the man in the church is to serve God first, middle, and last. But playing the man did not mean for Polycarp that he didn't need to be gentle and understanding. Playing the man means that as well For to the presbyters he said, quote, Let the Presbyters be compassionate and merciful to all, bringing back those that wander. Visiting all the sick and not neglecting the orphan or the poor, but always providing for that which is becoming in the sight of God and man Abstaining from all wrath, respect of persons, and unjust judgment, keeping far off from all covetousness. not severe in judgment as knowing that we are all under a debt of sin. End quote Thus, to play the man, to be strong as a man, includes being as God, as God is. which is slow to anger, having compassion on the weak, and desiring people everywhere to repent and find mercy. A person who plays the man understands he is a sinner, and therefore he has compassion on sinners. Polycarp understood that playing the man also meant to practice the fruits of the Spirit in all circumstances. It meant persevering in our hope. It meant being imitators of the patience of Jesus. It meant to exercise all patience, all clothes from Polycarp. Hear these words describing what it means to play the man. He said, Stand fast, therefore, in these things, be firm and unchangeable in the faith. This type of message we remember from Ignatius. It is very easy to bend to the ways of the world, for that is what most people are doing around us. To be on the narrow road as Christians are to be means that we cannot bend with the wind. We cannot shift with the shadows. When Jesus asked the rhetorical question that when he returns, will he find faith on this earth? He did so to imply how difficult it is to remain faithful amidst an unbelieving world that doesn't like people remaining faithful, especially religious people remaining faithful. In remaining faithful, if it wasn't difficult, then no one would be called to do it. Polycarp writes about a presbyter who gave up his call and therefore left the narrow road. His name was Valens V-A-L-E-N-S. Polycarp said of him, quote, he so little understands the place that was given to him in the church. He continued, I am deeply grieved, therefore, brethren, for Valens and his wife, to whom may the Lord grant true repentance. Although we don't know what Valens did to give up his calling in the church, Polycarp alludes to it by his instructions in the context of mentioning this valence. He said, I exhort you therefore that ye abstain from covetousness, and that ye be chaste and truthful For if a man cannot govern himself in such matters, he shall how shall he enjoin them on others? If a man does not keep himself from covetousness, he shall be defiled by idolatry And shall be judged as one of the heathen. But from these words we are to understand That to play the man is to live with a fruit of the spirit that we know of as self-control. Being a man means To be under control. And a major part of self-control is controlling the tongue. It is the opposite of living virtuous, to let your tongue wag as you feel it should. The devil gets people to think that they are being virtuous when they are bold to express their feelings about something, or to get something off of their chest, as we like to say. Bold expressions of opinion are not godly, but of the flesh. And such expressions of the flesh usually lead to having to apologize later. A person who is playing the man doesn't need to express his passions in words, but he is instead self-controlled. speaking when it is appropriate and to the advantage of those who would hear him. Being self-controlled in the context of Polycarp's words about balance was to appreciate that one has what one has as opposed to what others have. The sin of covetousness is so easy to practice. It is a natural part of our fallen sinfulness to want what we don't have and want it just because we don't have it. As a minister, it can be difficult to know that people who might have much less of an education can make twice as much, even more, than you do. But that is the way of it, and has always been the way of it, television false prophets being the exception But I have never been in need. My daily bread and that of my children when they were under our roof has always been provided. The way political candidates talk today, you would think that most Americans go to bed every night hungry. The truth is we are the most wealthy people the world has ever known, and that's a historical fact And poverty around the world is at its lowest point ever. The point being that we have what we need, despite what the devil places in front of us, tempts us to covet. Those who witnessed Valens betray his clerical call because of coveting needed to be warned against such a sin, and so do we. With the call to live under self-control, we can see that to play the man is not just a masculine thing to do, but rather a call for all Christians. in all circumstances. And this gives us insight to be able to say that to play the man is more than to behave like a man should, it is to be like Jesus. who was and is the very essence of what God intended humanity to be. Hence we can conclude that when God told Polycarp to play the man, It was more than a reference to behaving like a man should. It was pointing to the man who was also God. Now the martyrdom of Polycarp played a very important role in our Anglican Way heritage. But before I get to that, I want to say a word about being Anglican. There are some Christians who don't like titles or distinctions such as Anglican. They seem to think that such distinctions betray the purity of what it means to be a Christian. Without any distinction. Such thinking is ideal, I agree, but is without a sense of reality Being Christian today and for quite some time means different things to different people, many different things. For example, there are people who claim to be Christian who do not believe Jesus was God Which is a primary doctrine for Christianity. There are people who confess Jesus as Savior who do not trust what the Bible teaches. There are people who say they are Christian and who have been ordained as clergy to serve the church who say that the resurrection of Jesus never occurred and that Jesus wasn't even a historical figure. Thus, to say we are Anglican is to say that we are following a certain understanding of the Christian faith that is rooted in the Holy Scriptures. and in the liturgy of the church handed down by Christians of the English-speaking world, that's Anglican. As Reformed Episcopalians, we are identifying as a unique expression of Anglicanism that expresses our Christian faith by teaching and preaching the whole Council of God, all of the Bible. And worshiping God according to the order of the historic book of common prayer. The historic book of common prayer. In short, to say I am Anglican is like saying I am Jorgensen or I am Smith or whatever your surname is. By identifying with the same name Jorgensen doesn't say I'm not a part of the human race. It is merely saying that I am a particular tribe of the human race. Thus to say I am Anglican is to say I am Christian of a particular tribe. But back to Polycarp's contribution to our Anglican heritage. In 1555, moving way up on the calendar, Hugh Latimer was a former Bishop of Worcester And an influential priest-preacher of the Protestant way. Nicholas Ridley was Bishop of London and a supporter of Lady Jane Gray to be Queen as opposed to who we now know as Bloody Mary. When Mary took the throne, both men were arrested for treason, and both were declared guilty after their trials and sentenced to death. Before the judgment was carried out, they were called to repent of their Protestant ways, but they refused They were next chained to their respective stakes, and a bag of gunpowder was hung over each man's neck, around each man's neck. And it was at some point during that time that Hugh Latimer said, quote, Be of good comfort, Master Ridley, and play the man. For we shall this day light such a candle by God's grace in England as shall never be put out. Vladimir was remembering the martyrdom of Polycarp as he was being martyred. It is a story to tell every generation. As a conclusion to remembering St. Polycarp, we can be challenged to commit to being willing and able to die for the gospel. After several years teaching introductory philosophy at college-level classes I will remember most how the majority of students confessed that they could not think of anything that they were willing to die for. Not even a family member was worth their own life being sacrificed. This means that for some people they do not have in their lives enough love for something That they would do anything in order to keep that something alive. How sad. And yet that is what the good news of Jesus does for us. It gives us something to love so much, we are willing, and for some, even happy to die for it. May we, along with Polycarp, play the man every day we are given in this world, and may we be able to say in the end something similar about Jesus as All my days have I been his servant, and he has done me no wrong. How can I then blaspheme my King who saved me? Amen. Let us pray. God, we thank you for the persons like Polycarp. We thank you to see how much the gospel affects lives to the point of giving up those lives. Father, we see the standard and we embrace it. May it be so for all here. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.