In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You will do well to open your Bibles to John chapter twelve. That's where our focus is this morning. I got into an argument with a student in one of my college classes last week. And he was visibly upset at me. We were talking about determinism versus libertarianism Libertarianism believes that human beings have free will in all things, and thus are able to choose their own destiny. Determinism, and in particular hard determinism, states that our choices are only illusions. And that the choices we think we make are actually caused by outside sources that we cannot control. Every decision has causes before it, and thus what we choose is really the only choice we had or have. The problem with hard determinism is that it takes away human responsibility. The reasoning goes that if all things are determined, then no human is morally culpable, responsible for his or her actions. Thus, to punish a person for acting immorally is unjust because the guilty person did not have a choice. Philosophers try to answer this objection by introducing a soft determinism theory. which identifies internal causes as part of the equation when it comes to decision-making, and thus providing personal responsibility back in to when immoral choices are made. Now, if all of that doesn't interest you, then I simply point to the point I made that caused this student to become so angry with me I suggested that freedom to make choices is not true freedom, because all of our choices are restricted by the options themselves. Consider that if I put a candy bar before you in one hand and I put an apple before you in the other, and I say you can choose which one you wanted. And you chose the candy bar, most people probably would, and I asked you how you came about to make that choice, you could answer by your own free will But I could argue that your will was not free to choose because your options were restricted to the apple or the candy bar, candy bar apple only. And thus if you define freedom as having no restrictions, no restrictions, then you cannot say you chose freely because you were restricted to one of the two options. Now the student who got upset insisted that whenever we make choices, we are doing so freely because the one no one No one forces us to choose one thing over another. I countered with the point I originally made that the options themselves limit us in our choices, thus, because there is restrictions on our options, there is no true freedom. He made his point again without addressing my definition, and so I challenged him to do so. Challenge my definition His counterpoint was no, and that ended the discussion. My main point in telling you that story is to give us a working definition of the word freedom. Freedom having no restrictions. And when I say no restrictions, I mean just what that universal negation says. Zero restrictions. When we examine the actions of Mary pouring out oil on the feet of Jesus, we are to understand That she was a woman who loved Jesus without restrictions. And such love is the standard that we are to love the Savior as well. The story told by John in chapter 12 is also told in the Gospel according to Mark, and that means we're going to use both of those stories to inform us. Because John calls immediate attention to Lazarus, we can rightly assume, and he actually says in there, that people wanted to see Lazarus. So as much as this was for Jesus, it was likely also a dinner for Lazarus as well. And we are told also that Lazarus reclined at the table, and this informs us that Lazarus was of good health. Mark tells us that the meal was held in the home of Simon the leper, who very likely was someone that Jesus had healed and possibly was related or at least a close friend to Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. Lazarus being raised from the dead was so very much on everyone's mind who were at this dinner party that Mary being so close to Lazarus as his sister, and having sat at the feet of Jesus, taking in every word he spoke, was rightly Overcome by the greatest of loves, and found a way to express herself to the Savior with no restrictions. A Roman pound of spikenard would have been approximately twelve ounces, we are told. Mark tells us that the oil was in an alabaster flask, and this would have been evidence to those viewing this moment that this was expensive inside. While Mark focuses on the oil being poured on the head of Jesus, John focuses on it being poured on his feet. And being wiped upon his feet, spread upon his feet with Mary's hair. John's memory has Mary in a most humble position. A position that every Christian should take before the Savior. And another reason while kneeling to receive bread and wine at communion is so very appropriate. For we believe we are kneeling before Christ when He offers us that bread and that cup. He is in our midst, like no other time, when we partake. Thus kneeling is most appropriate. By John informing us of the perfume filling the room, he is describing an aesthetic moment that was beautiful to the senses. And while Mark makes the point that others in the room thought the costly perfume to be wasted, John tells us the objection was led by Judas Iscariot. John fingerpoints him. And by John's commentary about Judas being a thief and caring nothing for the poor, We can understand, I believe, the one whom Jesus loved had no pity on the man who betrayed his Savior. As a side note, it is interesting to hear of a man who was a disciple of Jesus. use a claim to care about the poor as a cover for his love of money. Such is so very common within our political circles today. It doesn't seem to matter if the populace knows our politicians are pretending to care about the poor. They know it's a facade for re-election. And I would also like us to notice that Judas' love for money is a great contrast here to Mary and her love for Jesus. She was unrestricted, free to love Jesus, just as Judas loved money, and that love was unrestricted. Only his bound him and Mary set her free. Because a denare was a day's wage, Judas calculated that what was poured out on Jesus was nearly a year's wage. It would have been nice for him to skim off the profits of that perfume if it was sold and he was given the authority to distribute to the poor. Now mind you, the answer uh that Jesus gives to this objection about the poor is not to be used to justify not caring for the poor, as some have done. It is simply a declaration. A declaration that the moment was greatly unique. And such a unique moment necessitated a unique gesture of love. There has always been, until Jesus returns, always will be, opportunities to help the poor. But there was only one opportunity to anoint the feet of Jesus. for his burial. Anoint him out of unrestricted love. Now when Jesus refers to his burial here, we naturally wonder what his disciples were thinking. They had heard him speak of his death a few times before, but they didn't understand the necessity of his death. It was not in their psyche. And we all may also wonder what Mary actually understood. Did she know she was anointing Jesus for his burial? Did she herself intend this act of symbolism? To know Jesus' death is coming, we cannot know. Well we can conclude Is that she either had an understanding or that the Holy Spirit moved her to do an act, the only act she knew how to do or what to do, out of pure, free love for him. That is what the Holy Spirit moves upon those who follow Christ. Now what John leaves out is a It's fair for us to add in because John's gospel was written later, and he probably thought Mark covered that, I'll cover something else. Mark tells us Jesus saying, wherever this gospel is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be told as a memorial to her. Now consider with me how many acts of love and kindness and mercy have been done by people who follow Jesus. How many things have been done to sacrifice for their Savior? And ask yourself, what made this act of Mary anointing Jesus with expensive oil so worthy? of being remembered. Why this? We've noted several times during our examination of John's gospel That the purpose of John writing was to show all who would hear his words that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God. That was his purpose. That is sung loudly from the stories and teachings John chooses to tell about Jesus. The actions of Mary are unique. The actions of Mary are described by John with a different purpose. Her actions are to be an example to us as to what it means to be a follower of Jesus. Little detour here for a moment. While preparing confirmation new members class last week I was struck by a necessary understanding about being a disciple of Jesus that I have failed to emphasize in my preaching and teaching all these many years. I was looking up several metaphors to use to describe how the church is described in the Bible. You know, metaphors that the church is a body and that the church is a bride. And that the church is a city on a hill, and the church is a family, etc. My plan was to use those metaphors as I have in the past. To help the class understand how the church can be a benefit to them. That is the way I have taught the confirmation class since I have served here as rector. What the church can do for you. See? And the Holy Spirit moved upon me that I was doing this all wrong. Parishioners should not be sold on how the different ministries of the church could benefit them Instead, they should be considering the planning and planning how they can benefit the ministries of the church, how they can show their love for Jesus through the church. Christians are not to look to the church to see how the church will benefit them. That is wrong thinking, and it's Western Christianity thinking. Christianity today, Christians today are so consumer-minded that they go to this church over here because it does this for them, and this one over here because it does that for them That is not picking up your cross daily. That is not putting others before self And we ministers speak a similar language when we present the church in these terms of what it can do for you. Or even when we present a sermon in a manner of what this information can do for you. I'm convinced that this way of thinking and presenting the church is all wrong. And Mary would agree. For Mary, following Jesus, was doing what would show Jesus her love for him. Following Jesus is showing unrestricted love for him. It is showing freedom in expressing love for Jesus. This thought of unrestricted expressions of love led me to consider the Song of Solomon. Contemporary Jews read the Canticle of Canticles or the Song of Songs during Sabbath of the Passover. For they understand it to be an allegory for describing God and his relationship with Israel. Christian interpretation understands it to be between a man and a woman, seeing love back and forth. But it also in certain circles is understood as the relationship that Christ has with his church. Well I believe whatever the actual intended meeting, I believe all three of those understandings serves God's purpose well. The Song of Songs is a model of unrestricted expressions of love. It is a song that Mary could have sung because of its passion. I have read that ministers of the gospel should not refer to the Song of Songs as an allegory between Christ and his church because it turns away men in the pews. For they see such imagery as effeminate, for it makes them out to be the bride. But I say that that is foolishness If the Bible uses the metaphor of the church being the bride of Christ, then this imagery of unrestricted love must include Eros. And if there is any passion that men understand most, a passion that drives them to be unrestricted in expressing love, it is Eras. The first lover to speak in the song in Solomon's song is the bride. She speaks first as a response to what her man has already done for her. His love has moved her, and she must say something, or the rocks will cry out. She must speak how his love for her has moved her, causing her to lose grip with reality. Resulting in only seeing him and thus only serving him. She said, May he kiss me with the kisses of his mouth. For your love is better than wine. Your oils have a pleasing fragrance. Your name is like purified oil. Therefore the maidens love you. Bernard of Clairvaux, who I saw was the writer of our last hymn we sang, he was a French abbot from the 11th century. And in his commentary on the Song of Songs, and in particular these verses I just read from the Song of Psalms, he describes what I believe Mary would understand as she poured out that oil on the head and the feet of Jesus. Bernard of Clairvaux says this about the bride. Quote, She loves more chastely who seek him whom she loves and not some other thing which belongs to him. She loves in a holy way, because she does not love in fleshly desire, but in purity of spirit. She loves ardently, because she is drunk with love, so that she cannot see His Majesty. What? He it is who looks on the earth and causes it to tremble. And she asks him for a kiss? Is she drunk? Indeed she is. And perhaps then when she burst forth, thus she had come out of the wine cellar. She said afterward that she had been there, glorifying in it. For David too said to God concerning such, they shall be intoxicated with plenty of your house, and you will give them the torrents of your pleasure to drink. Oh, what force of love, what great confidence of spirit, what freedom Did you hear that? Freedom. Unrestricted expression of love because of having been so loved. As scholar Anthony Esselin states, quote Only love, so ardent that it supersedes prudence and logic could presume to ask for a kiss. Logic must yield in humility. The seraphim burn in love. The cherubim burn in wisdom. The seraphim are closer to the divine vision than the cherubim. The wedding feast of the Lamb will be no meek affair. And indeed it will not. The freedom to love in an unrestricted manner is claimed by the bride in the Song of Psalms and by Mary, who pours out her oil. Both are free with either actions or speech. Both toss caution to the wind. Both love and receive love in return. The freedom in love that they both claim are to their credit. They make free before the Lord because the Lord they love wants them to be free. This is from Essalin again. And he, Jesus, is not prim. So does he not want primness in return? Her freedom. Sets her free. Jesus, setting Mary free, makes her free to express her love for him And that is why she is to be spoken of wherever the gospel is preached. You want to know how to follow Jesus? Do as Mary did. Unrestricted love. She is what every follower of Jesus is to be. We are to be free, unrestricted, to express our love for the Savior. And thus, it is no longer what is in this relationship for me. Everything has been done for us already. Mary was not there to get from the Lord. She was there to give. And she gave the greatest gift we fallen humans can give to God, and that is unrestricted expressions of love to him who first loved us. Notice how brazen a heart is when the love of God is received and then needs to be, needs to be expressed. This is from John Dunn to our Saviour. Take me to you. Imprison me. For I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free. Nor ever chaste except you ravished me. Beloved the Lord has ravished you. Pour out your oil. Amen and Amen. Let us pray.