In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Exceeded. Turning your Bibles to Saint John's Gospel, chapter thirteen Maya Angelou, an African American poet and author, now deceased. Answered when she was asked what was the most important virtue. Courage is the most important of all virtues, she said. Because without courage, you cannot practice any other virtues consistently. It is a thoughtful answer, but it has problems. A person can be an angry person and still practice the virtue of courage. A person can be a bitter person and still practice the virtue of courage. And a courageous, angry person, well that's a dangerous person. Dr. Andrew Taggart, a philosophical counselor, said in an article back in 2012 That the three most important virtues were patience, courage, and phonesis. Phonesis is good judgment. This helps because the virtue of good judgment would tell an angry person or a bitter person that it is not wise to be angry or bitter. But a patient person, a courageous person, and a person of good judgment can be all three at the same time and still be a jerk Yes, being a jerk isn't necessarily showing good judgment, but that is the weakness of virtue ethics as a theory. For words such as good and judgment are honestly ambiguous. A person of a certain mindset can convince him or herself that being a jerk to a certain person in a certain situation is indeed good judgment. Another weakness of upholding virtue as an ethical theory is that you have to choose which virtue is the most important depending on a given situation. For instance, a man facing an enemy on a battlefield is going to need much more fortitude and courage than he will need justice or honesty. And so the most important virtue is a virtue that is depending on a given situation. Some have argued that love is the most important virtue. And I would agree, because love can apply to every given situation. But I don't agree that love is a virtue. Love, properly defined as unconditional, selfless caring, Is instead not a virtue but a characteristic of God. Love is of God. Love is not a virtue, but is to govern all virtues. And so, with the challenge of identifying the most important virtue in the context of human relations, I conclude that the most important virtue is humility. Humility, governed by love, is the most important virtue we can practice as we relate to one another. That humility would be our focus should not be surprising, for we are studying the act of Jesus washing his disciples' feet. Which is the model regarding Christian humility, the model we are to display to one another? Let us look at the passage itself. From verse one, we learn That the foot washing took place before evening dinner on the Thursday, before what we now call Good Friday And this is why we recognize Bondi Thursday as it follows the same timeline of Jesus and his disciples, the same one they walked on his last week. You recall that it is called Mandi because Mandi means commandment. And Jesus gave a new commandment. He said it was new. Love one another. Also, in this verse, we are to note that John uses the word world, and he's going to use that word world 40 times in the next five chapters. He's using that word world to draw a contrast between those who followed Jesus and those who did not of the world. And this whole idea of being in the world but not of the world is alluded to here The end of this verse indicates that what follows is a demonstration of what it means to follow Christ instead of the world. Verse 2 provides further commentary by St. John as he is able to understand what had happened here and what he's describing post-resurrection, post-ascension. Verse 3 is another commentary by St. John, and it links back to the end of chapter 12, where Jesus explained where his authority came from. It came from the Heavenly Father. John calls it this authority, power over all things. And this is to leave us to conclude that nothing, nothing that happens next has caused, is caused by anything other than the will of Jesus. He is in total control. Verses 4 and 5 begin a play-by-play of what happened next. Now catch this, please, if you would. It's fascinating. While the New King James Version that we have in our pews translates John's description in the past tense, Jesus got up. The original Greek is actually in the present tense The present tense. It is as if John is seeing the image of Jesus standing up in his mind as if he's right there. For John actually wrote, he rises. Present tense. As if he's looking at it, he rises. Describing Jesus getting up from the table. Then he says, he places Describing Jesus putting aside his own garments, like he was right there. By describing it in this Present tense, John is communicating how momentous this occasion was. For him, he could go right back there and see it as it all was. His mind's eye could take him there, and it was real to him at that moment. And the meticulous manner he describes Jesus serving It reminds us of what's going to happen when they come to the tomb, and he has laid his bedclothes, his graveclothes folded to the side neatly, meticulously. Before Jesus came to Peter in this washing, we can imagine how stunned the disciples were watching Jesus serve them in such a manner. The washing of someone else's feet was a menial chore. Ceremonial washings were practiced on a regular basis, so it was common that only the feet needed to be washed because of a day of walking. But the job of washing another's feet was so menial, so menial that some Jews thought it beneath the dignity of any Jew of any stature. They thought it was worthy of a Gentile slave. This was the Christ, the Messiah washing their feet. They did not know what Jesus was going to do for them on the cross, but they knew that he was their Messiah. For the Messiah to wash their feet must have been an embarrassment, for they desired that the roles would be reversed, as Peter states. And as everyone came to expect, Peter was the first to speak. And he says what everyone else wanted to say. The reply of Jesus shows that he is giving an illustration, an illustration that doesn't speak much to them now, but will speak to them volumes. Later on. The foot washing is an example of how the suffering servant would be obedient unto death, even death on the cross. He tells us. It was also an example of how the disciples were to serve one another. By serving one another, they then are serving Jesus. In verse 9, Peter takes a step too far, again as expected. Peter exaggerates, but with gusto. The logic is, it's fair logic. If you need to wash my feet, then wash all of me. All of me needs to be washed by Jesus. But the reply of Jesus is more than expected etiquette. Jesus is teaching a theological truth. Even though a person is made right by God and justified by faith in Christ, having confessed Jesus as Savior, having been baptized. There still needs to be forgiveness sought each and every day. And this is why John writes in his first letter to those who are already saved that they are to continue confessing their sins and then be forgiven. Daily. In verse 11, we have to understand that Jesus washed the feet even of his betrayer. He knowingly washed the feet of his betrayer. And we will say more about that in a little bit. Jesus goes on in verse 12 through 16, explaining what he has done, and it is what we have already pointed out. As their teacher, they are to do as he has done, and they are to do the same to one another. This is stated plainly in verse 17. Now there are some Christians who have taken these words of Jesus in verse 17 to mean that Jesus wants his followers to literally and thus physically wash each other's feet. I don't have a problem with that. None of us should. I participated in a foot washing when I was 19 years old, and I can attest it is a very humbling act. Then any group would make it such practice a right, as in a ritual, as in baptism, like baptism or holy communion. Well that's going beyond the church historic. But again, there is no harm in doing this act. It is. It is, however, what the act represents that all Christians are to practice. And what it represents is the virtue of humility toward one another In the collect prayer of the second Sunday after Easter that we prayed last week, I remind you that we prayed That as Jesus lived an ensample life, that we would daily endeavor ourselves to follow in his blessed steps of his most holy life. And this Sunday, from the third call-up after Easter, we prayed that we would follow all such things that are agreeable to our profession of Christ Jesus. Thus, the virtue of humility that Jesus displays for us, we have prayed that we would follow, that we would do the same. And that requires us to examine his humility more closely. In the narrative written by John here Jesus got up from where he was reclining. He took the initiative to humbly serve his disciples. Thus, practicing the virtue of humility, beloved, is looking for opportunities to serve. It is not waiting to be asked. It is not waiting to be told. It is getting up on your own initiative and doing something for someone else. And this is a very stark contrast to the disciples of Jesus who were still talking among themselves regarding who is the greatest, who is going to be sitting next to him when he had his earthly kingdom. When he claimed his earthly rule, they didn't get they didn't get it until after the resurrection that the role of Jesus was much greater than any political rule It was to take his rightful place as ruling over all that there is. And to rule in such a manner, he had to be a humble servant. Recall St. Paul describing it to the Philippians, but made himself of no reputation by taking on the very nature of a servant. We are to emphasize today, made himself, as if it was his choice to become a man and to serve humanity. We heard from John 10 Jesus say that he laid down his own life. It was all his choice, as any humble service should be. You know, one of the more strains that occur between a husband and wife is motive behind an action. A man can take out the garbage, clear the table, pick up the living room because his wife told him to do those things. Or he can do it. Because he saw such things needed to be done and he wanted to be a help to his wife. I ask you, which motive receives the most praise from his wife and the most kisses at night? It's the latter. It's the latter because we see behind it a motive that cares, that wants to show love. Such is naturally received as an act of love. That is what Jesus did. Now if a husband takes out the garbage, clears the table, and picks up the living room just because he wants more kisses at night, I can't speak about that this morning. Next, Peter objects to Jesus washing his feet. And as was noted, Peter spoke for all of the disciples with this objection. And Jesus responds with kindness, honesty, and patience. You are already clean, Jesus tells Peter. And this says to Peter that your sins have already been forgiven. Here, Jesus shows that the virtue of humility practice includes patient instruction. Patience is long-suffering, and long-suffering is practicing love. It is recognizing that not all people are gifted with the same spiritual gifts. Not all have the same learning abilities, the same spiritual sensitivities, the same attention to detail, or the same maturity level. Humility practice motivates a teacher to adapt to the strength of a student, to the strength of a disciple. Jesus is understanding where Peter is in regards to his maturity. And so Jesus adapts. Now the response of Peter to Jesus adapting is a warning to us what humility is not. Humility is not exaggerating the situation. He did not need to be so overt as to say, Jesus, then wash all of me. Humility practice is not drawing attention to oneself publicly by loudly showing how humble you are. It is not rejecting praise when people are already giving you praise. It is not confessing sin and then when someone else confesses more sin, you try to top them by confessing even more than them. Of course, we call this false humility because it actually brings more attention to the person as he as he tries to display a greater humbleness, which actually causes more praise to come his way. For the Christian, the follower of Jesus, as our example, humility is to be genuine. When Jesus says to Peter, You are not all clean, we know now what Peter did not. Jesus was referring to Judas who would betray him. Well the first part of verse 12 says, so when he had washed their feet, plural, John was using such as a segue to what Jesus would teach next, but it is also told to us That the one who was unclean also had his feet washed. Jesus washed the feet of his betrayer. And by doing such, Jesus shows that the virtue of humility practice bends the knee and serves the lowest of sinners. The humility of Jesus served a sinner who would never repent. You know, you and I identify more easily with the imprecatory psalms. The impregatory psalms are those psalms that call God to curse the enemy. They are psalms that invoke the justice of God. Here are a few examples from Psalm 5. Pronounce them guilty, O God. Let them fall by their own counsel. From Psalm 6, let all my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled. From Psalm 12, may the Lord cut off all flattering lips and the tongue that speaks proud things. From Psalm 35, let those be put to shame and brought to dishonor who seek after my life. These are the type of words that you and I would pray regarding Judas. And yet Jesus washes his feet. Jesus humbles himself before his enemy and serves him. Consider when Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mount that his followers were to love their enemies, and pray for those who persecute them. Such teaching could easily be dismissed as hyperbole. Jesus doesn't actually expect his followers to pray for their enemies, right? That requires great humility. No one can be that humble, right? Jesus was. Jesus was humble before Judas, his betrayer. Psalm 41 is a prophecy of what Judas would do to Jesus. It says, All who hate me whisper together against me, against me they devise my hurt. Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me. I wonder, have you ever had people whisper about you? They talk low, and when you enter the room, they even talk lower. And then their eyes divert back and forth between you and their co-conspirator. Sure you have, we all have. Now let us say that those who whisper about you are planning your death Do you want to love them? Do you want to pray for them? Do you want to wash their feet? Thus, the remarkable humility of Jesus. I found a poem. That summed up this sermon so well, you would have thought I wrote the sermon after I found the poem. It is by Wayne Van Horn, a professor at Mississippi College, a Christian college. It goes as follows. Jesus wrapped a towel around his waist that night, and then gave his disciples an unforgettable sight. The King of Glory knelt and washed their feet till clean. He loved these men dearly and wanted his love to be seen He washed the feet of Peter, who protested all the while, but Jesus did it anyway, wiping and drying with a smile. Unless I wash you, you have no part of me. Wash my whole body, Lord, for I must be with thee He washed the feet of John, the disciple whom he loved, knowing this one would someday write about his saving love. For John one day, for Jesus' cause, would live in long exile, and write the revelation there on Patmos Isle. He washed the feet of Thomas, the one noted most for doubt, who yet had come to know that Jesus with God had clout. For Jesus had told him, Thomas, you must believe. So Thomas turned to Jesus, his soul from sin relieved. He washed the feet of James, the brother of dear John, and knew that he would serve well but not live too long. Just fourteen years past Calvary for faithfulness to God's word, King Herod had James killed, putting him to the sword He washed the feet of Andrew, who brought his brother Peter to the Lord, and knew that his disciple would be a man of his word. And so it was. Jesus made his way, washing the feet of all these men. The cross of Calvary growing near, where he would die for sin. And then one last disciple, thirty pieces of silver was his pay, this devil of disciples, whom his own Lord would now betray. What were his thoughts when Jesus knelt to wash his cruel Judas' feet? He knelt and washed and dried with care and then took his seat. Do you understand tonight what I have done for you? You must take a towel of your own in order to be true. And when this world, one by one, in humble service fare as you, my saving love, with poor lost sinners share. You must serve and share with everyone, not just the ones you like or love. Share even with your enemies and point them to me above. Let us pray. Our Father, we hear the call to be humble, and we recognize that it is a call for each and every one of us that we cannot ignore. And so from this place and from this hour, Father, remind us each and every moment to take that position of kneeling before our fellow Loved ones, before our fellow Christians and before the world. And may you win them one by one by such love. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen