In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Encourage you to turn to John seventeen. Following along there with me this morning. A man and a woman, having been married forty years, sat on a couch together in the office of a marriage counselor. The wife was teary and sad. The husband was grumpy and stared at the floor. The wife began the session by telling the counselor that she does not feel loved. She cooks for her husband. She cleans for her husband. She serves her husband by providing every need that he has ever had, and yet she did not feel loved. And she revealed to the counselor that the husband does not even tell her that he loves her. Is that true? The counselor asked the husband. You don't tell your wife, you don't say to your wife that you love her? The husband glared at the counselor for an uncomfortable ten seconds and responded Forty years ago on our wedding day, I told my wife, I love her. If anything changes I'll let her know. Now it's hard to argue with that logic. But the story informs us of how important speaking words of affection in a relationship, especially a marital relationship, how important it is. But have you ever wondered why? Why is it important, why is it necessary for the health of a relationship with my wife that I tell her on a daily basis that I love her? I agree with the grouchy man. I said it when we got married, it should stand until something changes. That should be enough, shouldn't it? But it is not, and I wonder why. We will come back to that question. The prayer by Jesus in John 17 is labeled by some to be the high priestly prayer. That is because Jesus serves here as our high priest, in that he offers to God what is needed for our forgiveness. He is our intercessor who goes to the Father for our sake, that we might obtain forgiveness for our sins. But as you know, there is a uniqueness about Jesus, for he is both the one who offers to God the sacrifice for our sins, and is himself the offering. Thus he is a high priest like no other high priest. The high priest normally stands in an objective position between God and the sinner as a mediator. Well he takes the name of a the the life of a nameless animal. Jesus is both the high priest and the sacrifice, and this causes his mediation to be very, very personal. We are to realize, having the very words of the high priestly prayer revealed to us, that it is very rare for us To know what Jesus prayed. We are told, of course, that Jesus did pray, but this is a privilege for us to hear what he prayed. And consider this, and I did not realize this until studying for this sermon, that Jesus never prayed with his apostles. It's not recorded that he prayed with them. And also it is not recorded that Jesus corporately worshipped with his apostles. Although we can reason that he likely did, it is not recorded. It can be argued, I believe, that when Jesus was teaching his apostles, he was, in a sense, praying with them. But that is not how you and I normally think about the traditional way of praying with one another In not praying with the apostles, or at least not recording it, it seems to be exemplifying that prayer is a very personal thing between the believer and God. In John's Gospel, we have three accounts of Jesus praying out loud. In each of these occasions, it is evident that Jesus wanted to be heard. He wanted these words to be heard and remembered. In fact, when Jesus prays outside the tomb of Lazarus, you'll remember we covered that story, he overtly prays out loud and he states that he's praying out loud for the benefit of those who can hear him, those who are standing around. Thus, we can understand this prayer to be the same. It's prayed out loud for our benefit, to hear it and remember it. And John provides an eyewitness detail of this prayer as he begins describing that Jesus looked toward heaven and prayed. We know, of course, that you do not need to look to heaven to pray, as we can bow our heads and close our eyes like we normally do, and pray to God in our own minds. But we should also acknowledge that posture for prayer helps us in making what we want to be true on the inside to be led by our outward position. Thus, if I want to be humble inside, I take the posture outside of kneeling. There are three postures of prayer as described in the Bible. The first is kneeling, which is our willingness to humbly serve God. Another is standing, symbolizing our readiness to serve God, and finally lying prostrate. Which communicates our awareness that we are not worthy in and of ourselves to approach God or His throne. John, our gospel writer, places the high priestly prayer after recording a lengthy teaching by Jesus, which we have covered in most recent weeks. And thus we can understand this prayer as a summation of the teachings of Jesus up to this point. I see three themes in this prayer. Three themes. The first is the obedience of Jesus to the Heavenly Father. The second is the glorification of the Son through his death and resurrection. And the third is God being revealed to his disciples, the disciples of Jesus then and disciples in the future, to separate us from this cursed world in which we live. We could, and some would argue, we should hear sermons about each of these three themes, breaking it up into three different sermons. As so often with the great texts of Holy Scripture, one could preach many sermons on many different themes from some few verses. We have the doctrine of predestination in this prayer. We have the kingship of Christ. We are to see how he reigned even when he was on the cross. That even in his greatest humiliation and suffering, he was exercising the authority the Father had given him, conquering sin and death. We also have in this prayer the nature of eternal life, the doctrine of two states of Christ, the doctrine of the Trinity. And each of these could be preached about, of course. But instead, I want us to focus on what our Lord Jesus did in this prayer, and I want to communicate it to you as something that you and I should be doing. how we should pray. And I don't always like to do that, for I perceive Christians make the mistake. Of looking at the life of Jesus and concluding that we're to do whatever he did. Remember the pop popularity of the WWJD initials? What would Jesus do and try to live out our lives? We can figure out what he would do in our situation And I always appreciated the intent of such initials so as to remind us of how we are to live Christian lives all of the time But the truth is the WWJD missed the mark, specifically missed the mark. For what would Jesus do is that he would humble himself He would be born as a servant. He would live a life of sacrifice. He would die the death of a criminal, and he would rise again. That's what Jesus would do. That is what Jesus would do, and we know that because that's what he did. We are to copy what Jesus did. We are not to copy what Jesus did, excuse me, but we are to live our lives in honor of what Jesus did But Jesus prayed this high priestly prayer out loud for a reason. He prayed it so that we might learn from what he prayed and so that we might follow the example in our own prayers. So again, start with looking up. As was said, we do not need to look up But looking up symbolizes that we are dependent and that our help comes from above. It does not come from beside us, it does not come from below us. If you need help overcoming sin, look up. If you need help forgiving someone, look up. If you need your heart to be calm, look up. Make your body do what needs to be done in your heart. Second, pray for the glory of God to be revealed Oftentimes we say that we do not know what to pray when we hear of violent outbursts, another mass killing. Another act of terror or a natural disaster. What do we pray? But a simple yet profound place to start is to pray for the glory of God to be revealed. Notice how Jesus wants to be glorified so that he can return the glory right back to the Father. Each of them wanting to glorify the other is the unity that we are to practice as we follow Jesus But here he wants first to glorify the Father. And so we pray. From the fires in California that have taken land and lives, God, let your glory be revealed. From the floods in West Virginia, Lord, let your glory be revealed. From the shooting in San Bernardino, in Paris, in Orlando, and now the bombing in Turkey, Bangladesh. Baghdad, Heavenly Father, let your glory be revealed. We do not know how it should be revealed, and we do not know when it's going to be revealed, but we do know without any shred of doubt. That the best thing for mankind is for the glory of God to be revealed. God's glory being revealed This is what we pray when we pray the Lord's Prayer. We say, Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. In heaven, God's glory is revealed, and that needs to happen on earth. For the sake of the unborn children, God, let your glory be revealed. For the sake of abused children, Lord, let your glory be revealed. For the sake of abused women, Jesus, let your glory be revealed. For the care of the poor and the downtrodden, Holy Trinity, one God, let your glory be revealed. Do you hear how such prayers resonate with the mind and the spirit? Do you feel how appropriate and fitting such wording is in every given situation? Praying God that your glory be revealed is saying little in terms of word count, but a great deal in terms of what needs to be done. Next, we are to pray for one another. That's what Jesus does. Prays for his disciples. After he declares the glory of God being revealed as he lived a holy life, he then asks the Father to keep his disciples. Keep them By keeping, he means sustain them. He means protect them. He means that he wants the Heavenly Father to protect them from leaving the faith, their faith in Jesus. Remember folks, the devil wants to either lead you to deny Jesus or kill you. And he can't have you dead unless the Heavenly Father allows him to do so. And since God does not allow your death yet. The devil works instead to tempt you toward non-belief. That is the devil's goal. It is what he works for daily. To have you give up your faith in Jesus as your Savior and as your God. And Jesus knows this, and so he prays that those who believe in him would not be lost. And Christians, we need to pray for one another. Of course we do, and of course we practice it. But we often limit those times of prayer when someone is sick. Here Jesus prays for his followers to remain faithful, and he does so before his disciples are not faithful. Again, we too often pray for one another when we hear of a person struggling in his or her faith, and we pray for people who have walked away from Christ. And we should keep doing that. But Jesus gives us an example of praying for one another before the struggle begins and before someone walks away. And Jesus next praise, and this is this, I feel humbled that I never have seen this before. Jesus prays next for his followers to be sanctified, to be made holy. Have you ever prayed for someone to be holy? He prays for his followers to be holy both in their heart and in their behavior, for by living in such a way they glorify God, and such living keeps them in the faith. Jesus wants the good work that God has begun in his disciples to continue until it is completed and they enter into their rest. Do we pray like that for one another? Do we pray for one another to live holy lives? I know that I pray for my children not to get into trouble, not to do foolish things that they will regret later. I pray for the physical safety of my grandchildren. But I have yet to pray for any of my children to be holy. At least I hadn't until I studied this. To pray in the manner that Jesus prayed. Our children, our loved ones, one another, to be holy. And Jesus next prayed for us. He prayed for those who would come after the first disciples. And he prayed for us to be kept in the fold, to not walk away. And he prayed for us to be holy. Thus, we should be praying for those who will follow us. We should be praying, of course, for our children and our grandchildren, and even our great-grandchildren, yet to be born, that they might know Jesus. We should be praying for the spouses of our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren, that they too would have eternal life. We should be praying for parishioners, yet to be known. I should be praying for the next pastor of St. Stephen's parish, that he might be faithful and true to the gospel. All of this, of course, is for the glory of God. And finally, what I want us to learn from this prayer of Jesus So that we would pray in a similar manner is how Jesus prayed for certainties. Jesus prayed for certainties. A certainty is that which will come about, regardless of how or what or if we pray. We are to pray for certainties. Praying for a certainty is, for example, when Jesus prayed that he would be glorified. Even though he already knew how things would come to pass in terms of how he would be glorified. He knew it was going to happen, yet he prayed it anyways. He had told his disciples often enough what was to come, how he would die, how he would rise again, how he would ascend to heaven And yet he prayed to be glorified. A certainty. Another example is how he prayed that he might give eternal life to his disciples. Even though he had often said before that he would indeed give them eternal life, and that no one would be snatched out of his hand. And yet he prays that they might have eternal life, a certainty. And yet we see in that action of praying certainties that words need to be spoken. In fact, the praying for certainties is characteristic of Christian prayer. We pray for God's will to be done. In the certainty that it will be done, regardless if we pray that or not. We pray for Christ's return in the knowledge that the day is already fixed and nothing in the world can prevent it from coming to pass. Well let me ask and answer the obvious question: why does someone pray for things that are certain to come to pass? Sounds unnecessary. The simple answer is that prayer is not a formula. Do you remember that faddish book, The Prayer of Jabez? And how it presented prayer as a formula, like a spell that needed to be said in a specific manner for it to work? The book was a fad because it did not communicate what Christian prayer truly is, which is an act of love between God and his people. It is a conversation with the one true God that we love and trust. This takes us back to the older couple in our marriage counseling. While the logic of the husband was sound, it was still foolish. For he did not understand that he was in a relationship, and that was to include all that he was as a person And all that his wife was, and that includes emotions and the inherent need for expressed affection. Words of love need to be heard, and so they need to be stated, for that is how God created humanity. We are relational. And just as words of love need to be spoken, so do words of prayer need to be spoken. For they are a part of what it means to be in a relationship with God. Yes, what we pray can be certain. What we are praying to someone that we love, that we trust, that we revere. This takes us to what it means to be a Christian. Fundamentally, being a Christian is to have a loving, trusting, and eternal relationship with God. Who, of course, is Jesus Christ, our Savior and our Lord. And to be in relationship is to be in communication with God. And we are privileged to speak with him, to speak with him in constant prayer. Pray without ceasing, Paul instructed. And we do that by talking to God, talking to Jesus all day, every day. Prayer can sound like a daunting task because we think we have to come up with something beautiful, something right, and something theologically astute. Sometimes words like that don't come to us. But Jesus modeled a prayer for us here. First, in what we call the Lord's Prayer, and hear how he prayed to the Father. He prayed for the glory of God to be revealed. All of us can do that. He prayed for his disciples to be holy. All of us can do that. Praying for one another to be holy. And he prayed for those who would come later. All of us can do that. Prayer doesn't sound so daunting when it is summarized like it is here. And we are to pray to a God we love, we trust, we revere, meaning that He's someone we already want to talk to. So with that said, let us pray.