You have to make your love, you are not. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. I encourage you to turn to first John chapter five, looking at verses fourteen through sixteen. We will not be going through word by word or verse by verse, but focusing on the general message of this section of Scripture. Consider that prayer. Prayer is the most faithful thing we can do as Christians. Prayer, especially when done in private, is the most faithful act we can perform. It is the most faithful act because there is nothing before our senses. We see nothing that we kneel before. We hear nothing that we talk to. We feel nothing but the pain on our knees, and yet we kneel We bow our heads and we speak in our minds or with our lips. We speak to God. Anyone looking upon us without our knowledge, and if such a person is not a believer, is going to think that we are either foolish or delusional. There is nothing there, they claim. We are talking to air, they insist. And yet, and yet and yet we pray. We pray because we believe. It will be 14 years ago this summer that my family and I attended Bruton Parish in Williamsburg on a summer Sunday. We heard a sermon that I am quite positive didn't last more than 10 minutes, likely barely over five. And the message could be summarized with this statement: it is good to pray. It was a memorable service and sermon for several reasons. The first being that we attended the service in a rain downpour. We had camped out the night before, and this was before computer phones So we didn't know what time the service was scheduled. They had several services on Sunday morning, so we pulled up near the church, and to those of you who have been to Williamsburg, it's a bit aways from the church that you can pull up your car Well we pulled up before the church, and I took it upon myself to run in the pouring rain to see when the next service was scheduled. I am from the Seattle area. We don't have umbrellas in Seattle. But it doesn't rain in Seattle like it does here. Although I was wet when I arrived, I found the schedule, and I started to make my way back to our van And as I was running in to the van in this downpouring rain, the van started to pull away. My van I yelled and I waved my hands to no avail. So I was stranded in the pouring rain. While my wife was driving the family van in a circle. And I see it crossing the road, full of blocks ahead of me. I found out later that she was concerned about the people behind her getting upset that she was taking up so much time and so much space. She felt like she had to take the man back and come back around. And she never saw me running or waving. And when I got back to the van, it was as if I had taken a shower in my Sunday clothes. When we finally attended the service, we had to sit in the balcony because Well, there's not enough room in that parish for a family of eight to sit in the lower pews. So we had to go up to the balcony. And sitting in the balcony means that you're the last one to receive communion. And it just so happened that I was the last one down the stairs, and thus the last one to receive communion, and as I approached, they said Not enough room at the altar. So I had to stand there and wait. And then they ran out of elements. So they had to reconsecrate the elements as I'm standing there soaking wet. And finally when I received the communion elements, I started to walk back. And if you've been in that sanctuary, everything is wood and everything is loud and so every creak, every noise included the squishing of my shoes as I stepped every step, breaking the silence and the prayers of the people as I climbed back up to my balcony seat. And all of this was for the message that it was good to pray. I am aware that because of the mainline Episcopalian Church has a Abandoned the historic Christian faith and thus abandoned Holy Scripture, that that sermon could have been a lot worse than it is good to pray. At least the preacher had it right. It is good to pray. St. John tells us with great confidence that it is good to pray. And he wants his readers to have that same confidence that it is good to pray. We have confidence because of the Son of God, because of Jesus That is what he says in verses 12 and 13, as Jesus is the one who we are to believe in. He is the one we are to trust in. And because of the one whom we are to believe in, we can have confidence when we pray. God wants to hear us. He wants to hear us speak to him, but we must do so in the name of Jesus For it is Jesus who makes us righteous so that we can speak to the Heavenly Father, who again wants to hear us. The confidence that John has is first in Jesus, and then next, next in what we pray, the content of our words. John gives us a very helpful qualifier, and the New King James I think says it better, when he says that if we ask anything, quote, according to his will, God's will, that is the will of the Father. He will hear us. Now, if we had stopped at just Asking anything. If you ask anything, then the Father will hear you. We might think that God would be as a Sears catalog for those who are over 50, a Sears catalog. For those who are younger, a shopping website where you simply need to place your order and whatever your heart desires, you will get it. In James' epistle, you will recall, we have a similar qualifier, as James tells us That we have not, we have not what we want because we ask not. We don't ask of the Lord. And then he says, and then when you do actually ask, you ask out of selfishness That's not, of course, what God wants. Instead, the prayers that the Father readily answers are according to His will. And Jesus left us the perfect example when he prayed, not my will, but thy will be done. Finally, regarding prayer, John wants us to know that God hears us. And we could say God hears us because we pray in Jesus' name, and that is absolutely correct. But we can also say that God hears us again because he wants to hear us. The Heavenly Father wants to be our God. He wants us to call upon Him. He wants us to relate to Him. After all, that is why he gave his son, is it not? He wants us to know him. It is the subject of prayer that then leads John to address two very important topics. The first of which is when a brother or sister in Christ is living in sin The second subject is in regards to the sin that leads to death. We're going to have to hold off on that. Connecting the need for Christians to pray with the unfortunate reality that Christian siblings will find themselves caught up in sin, personal sin. shows the very loving heart of Saint John. Again, all of these apostles are wonderful pastors. When we were children, I want you to consider this. Consider this when you were a child. He found it strangely gratifying. When a peer got into trouble, especially when a sibling was disciplined. If you had siblings growing up, remember that you found some type of satisfaction when your brother or sister got into trouble. Now I noticed this in my children. They quickly, quickly testified against their sibling who was guilty of the wrongdoing. And I often considered how much my children could have gotten away with if they had decided to work together and not turn one another in. It could have been an easy coup d'état. But there seems to be something something about an immature person that wants to see his his or her peers get into trouble. I remember that about myself having four other siblings. I remember being lined up. With my four other siblings and my father investigating who left the iron on. Now growing up we had one of those big irons where you would sit down and it was a rolling type thing and you hit a switch and it would come down and it would roll and and and and and you put your clothes through it as it as it brought it through. And if you left that pad on the iron part, well you'd ruin something very expensive and so someone had done that And he lined us all up. And my sister stepped forward and she said, I cannot tell a lie. She pointed to me and said, He did it. And the problem was, I didn't do it. But within immature minds, it is gratifying when anyone else gets into trouble but ourselves. And unfortunately, and this is a lamenting thing, unfortunately some people don't mature. And still, as adults, enjoy watching their peers get into trouble. And I must speak about the moment, for a moment, excuse me, to the crimes and unrest that has occurred in the city of Baltimore this week. I am politically conservative. No surprise to anybody here But what I have been troubled by is when I hear other conservatives on the radio, television, or on the internet who seem to find some satisfaction in the rioting Because it gives them an opportunity to say, see, I told you so. These people become opportunists regarding those criminals who were also opportunists. They become opportunists by condemning liberal policies in the city, claiming that such policies are the cause of the rioting. Whether the argument has any merit or not is irrelevant because there is nothing to be satisfied about when crime and chaos reign. The mature, those who are sensitive to the Holy Spirit, they mourn with those who mourn. Amen. In the Christian faith, in the Christian church, the mature who have been baptized in the Holy Spirit do not take satisfaction when a Christian sins. Those who would say, see, I I I told you so, when a fellow Christian chooses sin over obedience to God That person is not loving as John has been teaching us to love. And right here, at this moment, I need to Share a personal burden that I have felt since I became an ordained minister, something that I have been sensitive about as I have viewed it in my past ministry. The first church I was called to pastor, the only other church I have pastored, but St. Stephen's. Had an attendance when I arrived at about 20 people on an average Sunday. I was assigned to try to rebuild what had fallen apart. It was a in a parish college, excuse me, it was in a college town, a parish in a college town. It had a nice sanctuary. It had an unattached fellowship hall. It had plenty of office and Sunday school classroom space. It was actually set on a hill, like a church should be The entire city could be viewed from this position. And during its most fruitful days, the parish had just over a hundred people in attendance on Sunday mornings. But the church lost a number of families, and the reason it had lost a number of families was how the core people, the main people, Responded to one another when their children became teenagers. You see, when Christian children become Christian teenagers And Christian young adults, yeah, they make some bad decisions And that was what was happening at this church. Some young people experiment with alcohol. They do, with tobacco, with drugs. premarital sex, and other sins of youth. And that is what happened in this church I am describing. That is what many families endured. And when some of the church youth began these sin experiments, The reaction of the other parents in the church was not to come alongside and support the family with a wayward child. No, no, instead they talked amongst themselves. They gossiped about the family who had a children, a child who had children, a child who was in sin. And soon the family that was struggling with to reign in their child felt alone, unloved, and hopeless. And so they left the church. And not soon after, the parents who were gossiping had to deal with their own wayward child. And that led to another family being gossiped about, and thus another family leaving the church. Well loved this sin The sin of man does indeed occur among us. Sin has and is going to happen among us. Our children, our children, our children are going to choose sin and not obey God. And when they do, when they do. When they do, what is the Christian response to be? And it is not teenagers and young adults only that choose sin. There have been, and there are going to be marriages that are going to become troubled among us. There are going to be fathers among us who act like fools. There are going to be mothers among us who do or say what they should not have said or done. And what is the Christian response to be when these things happen? It is most certainly not to gossip. It most certainly isn't to smirk and say, I told you so. I saw it coming. Instead, the church should be the place where parents can go for help, encouragement, support, and what John is teaching us here, which is prayer. The Christian response toward other Christians who are guilty of choosing sin instead of obedience to God is prayer. Because prayer is good. And the prayer need is simple. It's simple. We are to pray that this person in need, this person in sin, would come to repentance and then would be restored to the church in good fellowship. A Christian practicing the love of God wants those who claim to be Christian to find forgiveness and to find peace with God. Within this encouragement for us to pray for fellow Christians, John then mentions, here it is, the sin that leads to death. The sin that leads to death. And although there is great interest as to what this sin actually is that leads to death, I submit to you that it is quite simple. The sin that leads to death is the same sin that Jesus said is the sin against the Holy Spirit The sin against the Holy Spirit and the sin that leads to death is the denial of the truth of the gospel. Plain and simple. And when I say denies the gospel, I am not referring to someone who says they're a Christian and then goes out and sins. That's a person who's a disobedient Christian They're still believing in God, but they want to go their own way. That is not the sin that leads to death. Let me share this extra biblical story that some of you who took the class on Erasmus will remember. When the Apostle John returned from exile, this is the John who wrote this letter, again, extra biblical story. When he returned from exile, he ministered to a young man in whom he saw great promise. And John left the child with a churchman who had the youth baptized and raised him to know Jesus as his Savior. But when this child was older, he became corrupt with other youth of his age. And then he lived a life of petty theft, running with a gang of bandits and practicing violent deeds. When John returned to check on the boy, the churchman pronounced that he was dead. The boy, the churchman said, was dead to God. When John heard this, he tore his clothes as a symbol of mourning. He heard where the youth was hiding, he quickly got on a horse and rode out to the hot hideout And when John approached the young man, the young man immediately recognized John and he felt shame But John ran after him and he said this, Child, don't fear me. If necessary, I will gladly suffer death and give you my life for yours as the Lord suffered death for us. Stop. Believe Christ has sent me. The young man stopped. He threw down his weapons and he wept bitterly. He then flung his arms around John and he begged for forgiveness. And the story finishes by saying John did not leave the man until through prayer, fasting, and instruction, he was restored to the church. Such a story exemplifies that those who choose sin can be forgiven. They are where our prayers are to be focused. Those who commit the sin that leads to death, they don't need our prayers. And it may sound harsh to say this, but John says that. They do not need our prayers. The sin that leads to death is practiced by people who at one time claimed to believe Jesus as Lord and Savior, and then at another time denied Jesus as the Son of God. And note again, it is not that they start living in sin. No, what they do is specifically and willfully deny who Jesus is and what he did. That's the sin that leads to death. Some of you might have heard of a preacher by the name of Rob Bell. He's been popular in uh certain evangelical circles. He was a pastor of a megachurch, 10,000 members at one time. He uh wrote a few books, a couple of books well known, Velvet Elvis The Sex God. These books were quite popular until he came out in 2011 with a book called Love Wins. And in that book, Bell claimed that he no longer believed in a real hell. Well, his denial of this orthodox doctrine, this caused a great stir, and so in response, he decided to resign as pastor. He then became the spiritual advisor of Oprah Winfrey. Those of you who have heard me teach and speak will know how I feel about Oprah Winfrey. Bell said in an interview from this past February that Oprah has now become his spiritual advisor. Among his new beliefs, Bell now only believes in a Jesus who loves, and get this, not a Jesus that atoned for the sins of mankind. The very heart of the gospel. Bell also said publicly that the Bible is irrelevant to modern-day reality. And I choose to be bold to say that Mr. Bell is an example of sin that leads to death. Such a sin can also be traced to the confessions of Jennifer Story, the current pseudo-bishop presiding of the mainline Episcopal Church. Now it is a temptation to stay on this subject of the sin that leads to death because we can think about all the people that it might apply to, but that's not John's point. The point of John is that Christians, out of love for one another, ought to pray, and more specifically, they are to pray for fellow Christians who are caught up in sin. The love we are to practice towards one another wants to see victory in the lives of one another. We want addictions to be overcome. We want marriages to become stronger. We want children to walk with the Lord and that continually. We want friendships to remain. We want to witness forgiveness and practice it toward one another. We want to see the fruit of the Holy Spirit displayed in one another We want to see Satan under the feet of one another. What do we do when we see a brother or sister in Christ sin? What do we do? We pray. Dear Jesus, deliver my brother, deliver my sister from the bondage of sin Give them victory over their flesh and the devil. Dear Jesus, deliver them. Amen. And all of God's people said. Amen.