In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. I encourage you to turn in your Bible. to the end of chapter four of Ezra and the beginning of chapter five. Ezra chapter four and into chapter five I have been asked several times how a man can know that he's called to the ministry. There is an ununderstandable hesitation by some who pursue holy orders, and that is as it should be. St. Paul warned that God will judge teachers of his word using a higher standard than everyone else. Gospel preachers are stewards of the greatest story ever told. They are keepers of the pearl of great price. False teachers and poor teachers can do great damage to the body of Christ. Their fate is truly a sinner in the hands of an angry God It is true, as St. Paul said, that a pastor is a high calling, thus it is not to be entered into lightly. And I imagine the hesitation by some men is also caused by making observations of those who are presently serving in the ministry. A man who is truly trying to make a difference for the kingdom of God is going to face opposition. And the local church has no shortage of critics. Every pastor that is accomplishing anything positive for the kingdom of God will tell you that he has questioned his call to the ministry several times. even after his training is over and he is ordained to the task. There are many moments. As you know, that a pastor falls short. It could be that he is not up to the task of helping someone in need. He may find himself failing to get the trust of certain parishioners. He can fail to connect with Christians who need his counsel. And his tongue can be the untamed horse just as any other Christian, resulting in him saying the wrong thing or saying the right thing in the wrong way. There are times when a minister can't get out of his own way, causing him not just to wonder why this certain person doesn't come to church anymore But actually he is surprised that anyone would come to the parish where he is a pastor. It is at those times that he needs a more objective source to confirm his calling. And so he must remember that the church did examine him, and God, via the church, ordained him, and that should be enough. To keep him going, to not give up. But there is a subjective side to this call of a minister as well. I consider it just as important as the objective parts. It is an internal burning, as the prophet Jeremiah described That will only be quenched if he, as a preacher, speaks the truth from the Word of God. The need to speak the truth of God must be a burning desire. If a man has such a desire, he finds that no other calling in life can satisfy. The truth must be preached, and he must preach it. If a man has that, it can sustain him Through lonely times and barren seasons. The call on the man to preach is relevant to our study in Ezra chapter 5. Because God called Haggai and Zachariah to prophesy God's word to the Israelites, having been stalled 15 years From rebuilding the temple. Ezra does not inform us regarding the details of the words prophesied by Haggai and Zechariah But we only need to look at the books of Haggai and Zechariah to find out what God had them speak. Haggai is listed first, and he comes in our Bibles just before Zechariah. The name Haggai. It means to make a pilgrimage. And it is likely that Haggai had to make a pilgrimage to Israel to preach or prophesy to them. But the meaning may also refer to why the Israelites should be rebuilding the temple. It was so that the Israelites could make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem to visit the temple. It would be to visit the temple that again the project had been stalled for 15 years. Nothing else. Nothing else about Haggai but this call to prophesy. Nothing else is known. And such is as it should be. For it is not the man Haggai that is important, but the message he spoke. Haggai was to be an instrument of God to his people, and thus the personality of Haggai is irrelevant. When Jesus instructed his followers to die to themselves, to lose their lives in order to gain eternal life. And when St. Paul said that he no longer lived, but instead it was Christ Jesus that lived in him, in these descriptions we hear a higher standard than has ever been required by God. And yet it is a standard that, if met, would allow people to see Jesus in us instead of just seeing us. Several years ago, I was asked to preach at the installment service of my brother-in-law into the parish that today he continues to serve in North Carolina. I chose a passage from the gospel according to St. John Where there is a group of men who are coming from Betheda, who come to Philip, one of the apostles, and said to them this short request, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. That verse stood out to me because uh when I first preached, the first places I preached That verse was behind the pulpit. That same verse engraved so that only the preacher could see it. Sir, we wish to see Jesus. And so I admonish my brother-in-law that if he is to be an anointed preacher to the people God has given him responsibility for, He is to work so that when he preaches, they see Jesus. Because that is why they come. They wish to see Jesus. But even while I preached that sermon, I couldn't get out of the way of myself. I have my own quirks, I have my own sense of humor, and that can easily get into the way And most certainly gets in the way too much from behind this pulpit. God hearing preacher A God-fearing preacher is to remember that the people who attend service every week come to see Jesus And for that to happen, a preacher, a prophet needs to get out of the way. But it is not easy to get out of the way. It is not easy to die to sell. And yet that is the standard. Now the message that Haggai was to prophesy to the Israelites, all we need to do is read Haggai. was that they had become reluctant builders. And they had become reluctant builders because they had become complacent. And then they became lazy. And then they became faithless. They were reluctant because their progress had been thwarted by their enemies around them. They had received orders not to continue building because the Samaritans kept writing letters to the kings of Persia, and the kings of Persia kept siding with the Samaritans And the more letters that cited with the Samaritans, the more Israel forgot the promises of God They forgot that God had promised that they were to go back to that promised land and rebuild the temple. God told them they were to do that, but they forgot. And when the promises are forgotten, because their cause keeps getting thwarted and derailed, that's when faithlessness creeps in. And faithlessness says Did God really say that that's what he wanted us to do? Is God really on our side when our enemies are so successful around us? So prayers offered then start to become weakly spaded. Offerings are still offered, but with less zeal. Apathy and acceptance set in as present circumstances become more comfortable. And soon the people no longer care whether the temple gets rebuilt. And so it is required that God speak through a man to stir up the people. Hence, the word of God must be spoken. The word of God must be spoken to make the people of God uncomfortable about where they are sitting. The word of God must be spoken to make people so uncomfortable they cannot stay sitting any longer. The word of God must be spoken so that the people of God get out of their position of sloth and get something done for the kingdom of God. And some people like to hear the word that wakes them up and gets them moving. And, well, others do not. And those who do not also don't like the messenger because they don't like his message. They are uncomfortable in they are comfortable, excuse me, in their sloth, and they want to remain in their sloth. And they say, who are you, prophet slash, preacher, to tell me what I am to be doing or what I am doing wrong? But the prophet slash preacher must speak the word of God. It must be spoken. And he must speak while knowing that some will reject what he says. And some will reject him because of what he says. But he no longer lives, but instead Jesus lives in him. And so he can't be concerned for himself, but only for the word. A prophet, slash, preacher, also takes comfort. In knowing that what he says to God's people, no matter how uncomfortable it is to say, are not his words, but the word of God. And I've been using Prophet Slash Preacher title to make that point that it's the Word of God. You see, I know that when we hear the word prophet, we might be prone to think in terms of words of God that are new, or words that describe the future. But the words of Haggai were not words that were new, but words of God that God had already stated. And it was the call of Haggai to bring those words to life in the present circumstances of the people of Israel who were stuck in their sin. And that call of Haggai to bring the Word of God into the context of the people of God so that they would start building again. That is the same call preachers of the gospel have upon them today. Ordained ministers of the gospel are to bring the Word of God to bear in the lives of the people of God, the people that God has given him to care for. And in doing so, the preacher does not say anything new, but only shows that what God has already said applies to every life circumstance of every believer. When I was in my charismatic circles during some of my college years I recall men talking about wanting to hear a new word from God. They would word it that way, requesting a fresh word from God. And I have become wiser over the years to now see such a request as unnecessary and unfortunate. Such a request is unnecessary because what God has said in Jesus is sufficient. And what we have in Holy Scripture is more than enough. To learn the truths that we need to live holy lives. It takes more than many lifetimes to digest and practice all that the Bible now teaches us. So much so that we don't need anything new. Besides, when something is eternal, as the Word of God is eternal, why does it need to be new? It lasts forever. As I said, the word of God must be spoken. And just as importantly in this passage from Ezra, just as importantly the Word of God must be received. The reception of the Word of God is the responsibility of the laity. And frankly, I don't know what is more difficult. To speak the Word of God or to receive the Word of God? As a preacher, I've experienced, of course, both. I know when the word of God that I'm going to speak is going to hit a nerve and it might get some visceral reaction from some. And I know when the Word of God preached has tempted a visceral reaction within me. And both ends are difficult to experience. After all, we are all still in the flesh. We all wrestle for the flesh to be put down and the Spirit of God to reign within us. And thus we are when we are told that we are not living how we should, or we are not thinking how we should, it's not pleasing to God. And it needed to be pointed out to us because we couldn't figure it out ourselves Well that's difficult to hear, no matter how many years you have called yourself Christian Yeah, on the other side, every preacher likes to be liked. No matter what tough exterior we can put on, acting like, oh, it doesn't matter how people perceive me. The truth is We all like to be liked. So when you have to proclaim something that makes it possible for people to not like you, it's not easy So God's word needs to be spoken, and God's word needs to be heard, and neither of those things are easy. Both can be hard. To embolden us to do both, we must consider the alternative. What if it's not preached and not received? Recall where Saint Paul instructed Timothy to preach the word He said to be ready in season and out of season. And then he said the following, for the time will come when people will not put up with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear. To be sure, a description of a time when people have itching ears could apply to all ages. But I wonder if we are in an era when there is more scratching going on than ever before. A man who preaches in one of the largest churches in the United States was asked whether people who don't believe in Jesus will go to heaven. His answer, well, I I'm very careful about saying who would and who wouldn't go to heaven I don't know. Well oh, I don't know if I believe they're wrong. When asked about issues such as abortion and same-sex marriage, he replied, you know, I don't go there. Do I hear some scratching? When asked why they attend the positive message megachurch known as the gospel with a smile, a couple said, because the messages are always uplifting, always positive. Scratching and more scratching. But the megachurches don't have a corner market on satisfying itching ears. Liberal mainline churches have been scratching such ears for decades. In mainline liberal Christian churches, God is both feminine and masculine. And humanity is needed by God to achieve his divine aims. Scratch. Scratch. The Bible, congregations are told, tells stories that are metaphorical, not literal. Even the story of Jesus being raised from the dead. Scratch. Scratch. According to liberal theologians, Jesus held transformative values that were progressive. And thus, Christians today must have an ethics standard that is progressive as well, which is to say that ethics change over time. Scratch. Scratch. Because ethics change with time, abortion, homosexuality, divorce, contraception, adultery, and even prostitution, these are not hot buttons, but instead are private decisions. Scratch, scratch. And from the top of the leadership to the lowest of the laity, universalism is preached and embraced. So that all feel good when anyone dies because everyone is going to heaven. Scratch, scratch, scratch But megachurches and liberal churches don't have the corner market on scratching ears. Churches that claim to believe the Bible to be fully the Word of God and hold to the Orthodox Christian faith, these have itching ears and ways to scratch them. I know of a wealthy donor in a local church that wanted his daughter to marry in the church by the present pastor. Even though she wanted to marry a Mormon. The pastor stood his ground. That would be unequally yoked. So he refused. But the father of this young girl was a great donor and threatened to pull his financial support from the church. Which required an immediate elders meeting called to talk some sense into the preacher. Scratch. Scratch. I know a preacher who discovered that when he preached topical sermons that tried to help people be better businessmen or better friends or better married couples or find peace of mind. Well, those sermons received the greatest praise from the congregation. And so he abandoned expository sermons that looked closely at the Word of God and he replaced them for what the people wanted most. Scratch. Scratch. Beloved, in order for the kingdom of God to come In order for God's will to be done on earth as it is in heaven, the word of God must be spoken. Not the words of a man, but the word of God must be proclaimed. And the word of God spoken for it to have an effect at building the kingdom of God, it must be received. And by received we mean acknowledged as true and then acted upon Look at verse 2 from Ezra 5. I love this verse. Verse 2 of Ezra 5, it simply states that after Haggai and Zechariah spoke the word of God, the leaders and the people rose up, got up off of their slothful posture And began to build. Thus, all that it took to get the people going after 15 years of sloth All that it took was the word of God to be spoken and the word of God to be received. And the verse ends by saying that the prophets then helped the people build. So there it is. The prophets, the preachers of God's word are in the kingdom of God building project with the people. For the kingdom of God to be built, it must be built together with the clergy and the laity being faithful to the Word of God. It sounds so simple. And yet and yet so many do not do their part. Let each of us be sure to do our part. Let us pray.