In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are continuing in The Gospel according to St. John chapter 13. For those of you who are history buffs, you recognize the name Vitkun Chrisling, Vitkun Chrisling considered himself a patriot of Norway His father served as a Christian chaplain in Norway's military. Chrisling began his political career as a diplomat, representing Norway. Living in Russia. He then returned to Norway to serve as their Minister of Defense. When his party was voted out of office, he was not heard for over a year publicly. On the 9th of April 1940, when the German invasion of Norway was in progress Chrisling attempted to seize power in the world's first radio broadcast coup d'état by claiming himself the new Prime Minister of Norway. But the Germans, as you can imagine, had different plans. From 1942 to 1945, Chrisling served as minister-president Heading the Norwegian State Administration jointly with a German civilian administrator named Joseph Terboven. In truth, Quisling's leadership was nothing more than a pro-Nazi puppet government known as the Quisling regime. After the war, Quisling was put on trial by his fellow countrymen and found guilty of charges that included embezzlement, murder, and high treason. He was executed by a firing squad at Oslo on the 24th of October, 1945. The word quistling has since become a synonym for a collaborationist or a traitor. He is to Norway and their history what Benedict Arnold is to the United States. And so we ask, what prompts a one-time patriot to turn on his own country? Was it for power? Was it for the hate hate of the Jewish race? Or maybe it was just an evil seed always within him We cannot know. But we can ask the same about someone like Absalom that we read this morning. What was in Absalom to betray his very own father? And being a traitor must be very hard to live with. A person likely needs to believe he or she is not a traitor. but is fighting for a a different cause than everyone else, a greater cause, a more just cause. I would think that that is the only way that such a person could sleep at night. Some speculate that Judas, the betrayer, had what he thought was a greater cause in mind. Some speculate that he was trying to get Jesus to reveal himself for who he truly was. And he thought that he could help Jesus along by having him arrested. And then after being arrested, Jesus would show his power over mankind. greatly displaying his strength, followed by establishing his rule over Israel and then his rule over Rome. This type of speculation comes from the fact that Judas, you recall, returned those 30 coins. That he confessed that he had betrayed innocent blood and then with such great remorse went out and hung himself. Did this all because Jesus refused to enact any vengeance. He refused to show any strength, but yet still chose to die on the cross. Such speculation about Judas, from the fact stated, I think is very kind. It's a glass half-full perspective about the character of Judas. It ignores that John exposed Judas earlier as a thief who had been skimming off the top of their treasury. And it ignores that Jesus referred to Judas as responsible for his own betrayal. And it fails to remember John's commentary stating that the devil entered Judas when he took that bread. from Jesus' hand. But such a description by John does not allow us to come to a complete conclusion about the ways of the devil. But his account about the devil entering Judas at that point gives us a hint that when Certain people turn themselves over to their sin and no longer try to resist, no longer have any hesitation. Well then the devil has the transition sealed. He has their soul. It is incomplete and fully under the control of the devil And consider people's lives that you have witnessed, who gave themselves over to a specific sin, ending up ruining them. And such behavior is no different than worshiping an idol and allowing the devil to inhabit the soul. On a side note, on a side note, have you noticed at this time how intense this Gospel of John is? He goes from one hard teaching of Jesus to another with no levity, no soft stories in between. And three weeks prior, we were challenged regarding what it really meant to see Jesus. And next to understand why people don't believe. To next, the most profound moment of humility ever witnessed, Jesus washing his disciples' feet. To this point, where a friend betrayed God in the flesh. I guarantee you will not hear any positive mental attitude preacher on television preach these types of sermons to his people. These are for the chosen people of God who want to walk on the narrow road. There is a great deal of agreement. Among biblical commentators, that the story of Judas and his betrayal is to be a warning, a warning story for you and I. It is a warning that we do not allow greed to take hold of us. It is a warning that we do not allow the riches of the world becoming an idol in our lives. One of the alternating prayers that we pray for morning prayer during the week says, put far from our families we beseech thee Every root of bitterness, the desire for vainglory and the pride of life. Such sins as desire for vainglory and pride of life are practiced while pursuing earthly success. And the things that people identify as earthly success. We are to do all things for the glory of God. We are to do all things for the glory of God because we do not Whatever other reason, we are not doing so for ourselves because when we do it for ourselves, it becomes an idol in our lives. And we slowly give our souls over to the devil. Yes, indeed, Judas can be a warning to us. Another aspect to Judas being a warning to us is the danger of hiding sin in secret. Sins which would not exist if revealed to the light. Remember, Judas was skimming off the top, money that was provided to Jesus and his disciples so that they could minister without the weight of worrying about their dignity. Bread. Judas did it thinking that no one would find out. But God is not a keeper of such secrets. As Scripture says, some people's sins go before them, and some people's sins follow after. And that means that some people's sins are more obvious. We can see them, we watch them. But some people's sins are in secret, and they will be revealed for all to see on the day of judgment. Secret sins are still sins. They require the wages of sin. They require death. Yes, indeed, Judas can be a warning to us. Another warning that comes to us from the life of Judas is the danger of listening to the lies the devil tells you and the lies that you tell yourself. Although we don't know exactly why Judas did what he did, we can at least conclude that he was listening to lies. We can rightly guess that he believed lies, and the belief of those lies led him to betray the only innocent man that ever lived I have come to realize in my own life that I win every argument in my own head. I realized this fourteen years ago while I was riding a lawn tractor. There was a family that used to attend this parish, they no longer do. And I was in serious disagreement with this family I thought they had misled me, and when I said as much, even more was said that should not have been said. Well while mowing I was playing and replaying this argument in my head and I was coming up with point by point by point that showed that I was right in this conflict And then it hit me. No one was rebutting my points. Of course I was in the right in my own head, because no one was there to tell me I was in the wrong. When you reason to yourself and reason to yourself alone, you can justify just about everything that you plan on doing. And the devil will help you. He will bolster your lies, the lies you want to believe. Yes, indeed, Judas can be a warning to us. But along with Jesus Judas being a warning to us, I want us to recognize that Judas as a warning breaks down. It is difficult to make Judas a full example of a warning to us because Judas was ordained by God to do what he did. We must acknowledge that Judas was born to do what he did. Dare I say that Judas was predestined to betray the Lord Jesus? I realize that saying such might sound salacious to some ears who are not used to hearing that God would choose a particular person for the purpose of destruction. But we cannot ignore the facts. First, there are those words that we read this morning from Psalm 41. They are words of prophecy. Even my own familiar friend, whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me To lift up one's heel is to turn and go the other way, away from a friend who is in need. Second, in Psalm 55, David's words speak to the same type of betrayal that is another prophecy. Quote, if any enemy were insulting me, I could endure it. If a foe were rising against me, I could hide. But it is you, a man like myself, my companion, my close friend, with whom I once enjoyed sweet fellowship in the house of God. As we walked among the worshippers. Third, there was the prophecy of Zechariah. That spoke of a person asking for thirty pill pieces of silver, which was the asking price for Jesus. Zechariah also said that the money would be thrown into the house of Jehovah, and that's exactly what Judas did. Then there are the words of Jesus himself. Jesus predicted to his disciples that Judas would betray him And in his high priestly prayer, John 17, Jesus prays to the Father about his disciples. And he says this While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition, that the scripture would be fulfilled. Perdition is another word for hell, and thus Jesus is describing Judas as a product of hell and a person who is destined for the same. The betrayal of Judas was meant for evil. The betrayal by Judas was a work of the devil. And yet the betrayal by Judas was the will of God. Well, after having shown that we cannot come to any other conclusion but to say that Judas was predestined by God to betray Jesus, all sorts of questions follow. Again, as we asked a few weeks ago, where does the will of man fit in with the sovereign will of God? We even may dare to ask, how can Judas be blamed and then punished for something he was predestined to do? If we're going to ask such a question and truly want the answer, we need to sit up straight. And we need to take the answer God gives us like mature Christians, if we're going to ask it. And what is the answer that God gives? Well, recall that something similar is discussed in Romans chapter 9. Now remember, and you can turn in your Bibles to Romans 7, but remember Romans chapter 9, preceding Romans chapter 9, excuse me. St. Paul is taught that if a person wanted to be redeemed by keeping the law of God, then such a person would find himself failing and falling woefully short of God's standards. And thus he would have no hope. In chapter seven, Paul describes living a life in which we want to do right We want to do the right thing, and yet we do not do it. We know what is wrong to do, and yet we find ourselves doing just that. He ends up crying out to Jesus at the end of the chapter. And in chapter 8, things turn around because Paul shows how the Christian life can be lived by the power of the Holy Spirit. There does not need to be a concern of how the law condemns, because the Christian is not bound by the law, but made free by the Spirit. And then in chapter 9. In chapter 9, Paul begins to teach the difference between those who are truly the chosen people of God and those who are not. Those who are chosen of God live by the power of the Holy Spirit, whereas the impostors are people who think they are in God's favor and are not, because they live by their flesh and not by the Spirit. By living in the flesh, they're trying to earn God's favor. But as Paul has already shown, that is not possible. Only living in the Spirit, living by the power of the Holy Spirit, can the people of God find peace. And from this discussion, Paul naturally follows the logical conclusion that there are some people who live by the flesh, and always by the flesh, and there are some by the spirit. and only overcome by the Spirit, and the two groups are exclusive from one another. And to explain this exclusiveness of people of the flesh and people of the Spirit, Paul uses an example of Holy Scripture. He points to the sons of Rebecca, and he comments that before those children were born, Neither one having done good or evil, but instead for the purpose of God to be fulfilled, it was God's choice that the younger, that the older, excuse me, serve the younger. Paul then quotes the unexpected words from the prophet Malachi, Jacob I have loved, Esau I have hated. Again, this was God's decision before the twins were born. He chose to love Jacob and he chose to hate Esau. Anticipating what everyone who read his letter would question, Paul next says, is there unrighteousness with God? That's a rhetorical question. But he answers it to be certain that no one would ever consider such a thing. Certainly not, he said. And to explain this further, Paul then quotes from Exodus, where God spoke to Moses, so that Moses would know him better. And he says this. I will have mercy on whomever I will have mercy. I will have compassion on whomever I will have compassion. And this makes sense, of course, because if God is that by which nothing greater can be conceived, then he has every authority to do as he sees fit. Paul then piles on this argument about the superiority of God's will by recalling his words to Pharaoh that explained that King Pharaoh was raised to a stature Raised to a stature because God wanted to use him to reveal God's true glory to his people. And with that point made, Paul anticipates the question we had asked before. How can Judas be blamed and punished for something he was predestined to do? The answer is what Paul gave to the Romans when he said this. But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Who are you to ask such a question? For you who have ears to hear, you recognize that this is a similar answer to the one God gave Job. When Job questioned the wisdom of God allowing Job to suffer, God started by asking Job, Where were you when I created the heavens and the earth? And God continues with such questioning upon Job to make it clear to Job that he is not at the vantage point of being able to ask God such questions. And neither are we. Job couldn't understand the will of God regarding his suffering. Moses couldn't understand it regarding the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. And we can't understand it regarding the predestined betrayal by Judas against Jesus. There are, as Paul underscores, vessels, which are people made for honor, and vessels, people made for dishonor. That is the way of it. And we, you and I, are in no position to question the morality of it. The fact that we are in no position to question the morality or wisdom of Judas being predestined to betray Jesus and thus be a son of hell This connects us to the example of Jesus washing the feet of his disciples. Because when Jesus told us to do likewise, he told us to be humble. We are to take on the humility of Jesus, exemplified by Jesus washing his disciples' feet, and the quickest way, the quickest way we are to be humbled is to understand that Judas And not John betrayed Jesus. That it was Judas and not Matthew who betrayed Jesus. It was Judas and not James who betrayed Jesus, and it was Judas and not me and not you who betrayed Jesus. Only by God's will did anyone but Judas betray Jesus. And you and I are to be humbled by that. We are not Quisling or Benedict Arnold or Absalom or Judas because God chose to be merciful to us. That is humbling. And beloved, while the million-dollar athlete says that he isn't humbled by losing because humility is for losers. And while the million-dollar politician doesn't confess his sins because confessing sins is being humble, and being humble is for losers And entertainers who think that their gift to sing, gift to dance, gift to act are all three, is all because those gifts were given to them by them. We know differently. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, the scripture says. And don't worry. Don't worry about being in such a humble state. For the scripture says also that if you do that, if you humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, He will lift you up. He will lift you up. And so we say, Lift us up, Lord Jesus. But first we humble ourselves before you. Let us pray