In the name of the Father, of the Son, the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. This is my last installment for this summer series I've been referring to as a rector's ramblings. And today I wish to speak to you about God's preferred mediums. By mediums, I mean his chosen means of relating to us, and those preferred mediums are speaking and speaking face to face. Amidst all the amazing things modern technology allows us to do, it should also be recognized what it does not allow. Let us think about what it allows first, and first medium we look at is television Television allows us to see dramas, comedies, plays, concerts, live broadcasts, breaking news, sporting news, talk shows, and a host of reality shows from finding a date for a geek to truckers driving across frozen water. And we can watch all of it right in our living rooms. Such things we could not otherwise experience, and thus it allows corners of the world to be witnessed by us. even though some of it we might be better off not seeing. Because television can be so enthralling And in most cases mind-numbing, we fail to readily see what television does not do. Television does not allow for human interaction And yelling at your television set because your favorite team is not playing good defense is not human interaction. Another medium that almost replaces television and radio entirely is the internet. The internet allows us to witness all that television allows and more. Because it provides access to the written word and provides avenues of interaction. There is email, instant messaging, recorded video, and video conferencing It is more than remarkable that a private in the army stationed halfway across the world can call home and speak to and see his family live, and they can see and hear him as well. What a gift that this is to those who serve so far away from home. Email and live video applications also have been a great gift to missionaries Missionaries who were cut off before from their families and homeland in terms of communication, letters taking weeks to arrive, whereas now they only need to click send or join meeting But what does the Internet not allow? What are its weaknesses? What the Internet cannot do is provide three-dimensional face-to-face interaction or most importantly human touch. To understand the importance of such interaction, we first turn to Adam and Eve, who were blessed to be able to walk with God in the Garden of Eden before they sinned. And afterward were needed to hide from God because their sin made them reproachable. Initially, there was holiness in their walking with God. And when they could not be in his presence, they lost that part of themselves. Mankind has been trying to get back to that face-to-face relationship with a deity ever since And that is part of the reason why men so easily revert to idols. Idols provide a face of the deity we think we are to worship. And because we are fallen, we too easily settle for images that are not the true God. What occurs face to face that does not occur through any other medium is the non-verbal communication which includes postures and gestures and facial expressions and eye contact. Eyes are indeed the windows to the soul. They give what we speak spiritual depth that cannot be duplicated. There is nothing that provides the intimacy every human being needs than to be face to face with one another. There have been times where I have been brought to tears. By social media, when I come across a series of videos that shows men and women from our armed forces coming home as a surprise to their family members. The sincere joy of seeing loved ones who have been absent for a difficult length of time touches the heart like nothing I can compare it to. Being physically present for one another is essential to have a meaningful relationship One of the struggles we ministers have with streaming our worship services is the dilemma of making it easy for people not to be physically present for one another. And yet, believe me, I am grateful for the streaming services we provide, for I know we are reaching people we would not otherwise reach. But there is nothing better than being face-to-face. When it comes to being face to face with God, we are talking about something much different. We find out through God's relationship with Moses That man cannot see God face to face and live because man is marred with sin. What we become dependent upon then by not being able to see God face to face was God's concession to us. Which was the incarnation, as the disciples and others witnessed God in the flesh in the person of Jesus. And now, after his ascension Those who follow Jesus are dependent upon the Word. St. John's choice in his gospel to use the term word or Logos to describe Jesus Teaches us about how we are to relate to God, which is on several different levels. The Greek term that we translate to be the word The word, excuse me, is Logos. And the text can read, in the beginning was the Logos. And the Logos was with God, and the Logos was God. He was with God in the beginning. The root of the word refers to oral communication or the spoken word. The term logos is also used to describe how we think as in reason or logic. Jesus then as the Logos is the thought of God. And since God so loved the world, he sent Jesus, and in sending Jesus, he sent his love. Love is his thought about the world. Because mankind is created in the image of God, and because we Christians have the Spirit of God within us, what we speak also has creative power. That is why Jesus tells us that our yes is to be yes and our no is to be no. Just saying yes or no carries power. What we say does not come to pass, but is, meaning that it exists once we say it. That is why it is unnecessary for Christians to make promises based on something besides their own word. We don't need to swear by our mother's grave because of what we promise will not only be but already is. And the promises we make, whether at the altar in marriage or at the baptismal font or in confirmation or at the Lord's table or any other ceremony where we bind ourselves The promises are made face to face. What I am arguing for is that we are to be a people of the spoken word and the spoken word face to face. Although television can be a tool to preach the gospel along with the internet and radio, nothing has greater effect upon human beings than face-to-face interaction, which includes the spoken word. Take, for instance, the means or medium God has chosen for converting souls. He tells us that faith comes by hearing, and hearing the word of God. Before that, he tells us that in order for the lost souls to hear the Word of God, men must preach. And for men to preach face to face, they must be sent. God sends forth Christians to convert the world by the spoken word face to face. We are to be a people that cherish and cultivate the spoken word face to face. Besides the importance of the preached word to convert souls, there is the importance of the spoken word face to face in order to encourage one another. The most memorable times families can share are simply being present before one another, to tell stories, sharing new things, challenging ideas, describing hopes and dreams. The Bible also tells us about encouraging one another face to face with psalms, songs and spiritual songs. When we gather as a family on vacation these last few years, Bobby Lynn and I have taught our grandchildren the songs we learned from Bible camps when we were young. We don't know if the grandchildren find those songs encouraging, but we do hope they will remember them fondly. One of the reasons why our liturgy Has us read the Psalms is because the words are encouraging to our soul, whether they are read or sung One of the failures of modern Christian worship is the lack of faith in the power of God's word being read and sung aloud. No matter how much you like your modern choruses or old-time hymns, you can never go wrong by reading God's word back to him. Our words may be emotional and catchy, but only God's words are eternal. Because the spoken or sung word has such a great impact, we have to be careful how we use them. Let us first be reminded of how damaging a negative word can be. In the Epistle of St. James, we are told that the tongue is to be governed because of how powerful it can be, for it is like a rudder of a ship or the bit in a horse's mouth. The tongue has been described as a restless evil full of deadly poison. The average person, it is said, speaks 7,000 words a day. And of those thousands of words, how many of them are positive? What wins out? Positive words to or about other people or negative? You may have heard the saying, sticks and stones can break my bones, but names can never hurt me. And while such a saying, such sayings are helpful to make people stronger and to help them overcome being called a negative name. The fact that such a saying is needed reveals how hurt we can be with negative words When Jesus tells us that we are not to call another person a fool, and if we do, we are in danger of hellfire He is not saying that when a person uses the term fool or calls a behavior foolish, that such a person who said the word is going to hell. The Bible itself uses the term fool to describe people who choose sin over righteousness, and it calls sinful behavior foolish behavior. The context instead of Jesus' words is not to hate another human being. For in doing so, we are killing them in our heart. Thus, the warning not to call another person a fool is the same line as hating them. It is to speak only negatively of another person out of spite. There is power in such words, and the effect upon the one who receives those words may be unseen, but it breaks them down inside. Another prohibition in Scripture is that Christians should not curse. In his letter to the Ephesians, the Apostle Paul wrote: Let no corrupt communication, foul language proceed out of your mouth. Foul language is language that has only the purpose of tearing down and being vulgar. It is not necessarily what the word means, but what is being communicated beyond the lexical definition. The meaning of the word poop and the vulgar word that many people use mean the same thing but are used very differently. The words we use to curse are words used to tear down. Thankfully, just as words have power to break down, they also have power to build up The rest of Ephesians chapter 4 refers to this communication, but that which is good to use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Grace, we recall, is unmerited favor. Applied to how we speak to one another, it means that we don't have to speak kind and uplifting words to one another only when we deserve it, but also when we do not. This is not saying that we are to make up things to say or to say what is simply not true. A parent who yells at their child playing baseball, good effort When he's got his glove on his head and dirt in his hat, are not speaking words of grace to the kid, but in fact are harming him with a false reality. What it means is that in Christ there is always something positive to say. St. Paul goes on to say, and be kind to one another, tender-hearted. Forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, have forgiven you. Words of forgiveness cannot be matched for their positive effect. Hear these words from Proverbs. The tongue of the just is as choice silver. The lips of the righteous feed many. The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom The mouth of the upright shall deliver. The tongue of the wise is help. The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright. A wholesome tongue is a tree of life. The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters and well springs of wisdom as a flowing brook. While we are many times warned what we are or should not say, we should also take to heart that if we have something positive to say, we should say it. And along with being people of the spoken word, we are also a people of the written word. We first learn of the importance of the written word when Moses wrote down all that God had told him on that mountain. And God Himself set the precedent when he wrote his law on those two stone tablets. Those tablets and what was written on them was a binding covenant document. That the people of God were to repeatedly read, believe, and obey. The words of the kings and prophets followed as a priority As Israel assigned men who were skilled in the language to keep a record of what God had done to and for and through his people. Thus when Jesus came as the physical word and then spoke the oral word, it was a natural consequence that what he did and said was written down and referred to then as God's word. We believe that the written word about Jesus is inspired by the Holy Spirit, making it a living word. We do not study the Bible merely for its factual content, but from it we believe we have words that make men's souls alive. As we read the books of the Bible and their various genres represented, we recognize immediately that there is nothing else like it. It contains history in both narrative and poetic form. It gives accounts of the faith and sins of the nation's fathers In the New Testament, we see personal touches in the Gospels written by particular men for particular audiences. The epistles are even more personal as they address certain problems in the churches and names their recipients. Think how excited we all get when we get a personal letter, especially if it is from someone we deeply love and miss. We hang on to every word we read. The personal touch means so very much. When I was a boy, around 11, 10 or 11, my best friend Jay, whom some of you have met. received a book for his birthday that was especially written for him. They do that even more commonly today. A publishing company back then came up with the idea of having parents submit the names of their children and family members and friends and pets. And the company would write a story with pictures and use the names submitted. And even though the story was not directly about me, I was in the story. And I was thrilled. It was the first time I had seen my name in print. We read the story over and over. We read the story over and over again because it was so very personal. The same personal touch is in the Holy Scriptures As God's people, you and I are mentioned. The book is for us. There are great advantages to the written word, even over the oral word. The written word preserves the oral word It also allows us to contemplate the oral word. We can dissect it, memorize it, and apply it. Compare, please, the written word of God to how we communicate in written form today. Imagine receiving the following from God. H F, H-I-G, B F F L O L, T-O-Y, T-Y-L, G D. What is communicated by such short abbreviated messages is that the person writing does not have enough time to be thoughtful and caring of his words. It is impersonal communication. Even the translation is lacking, and here it is. Hi friend, how's it going, my best friend forever? Laugh out loud. Thinking of you. Love you lots. God The written word of God has much more to offer, a much more personal touch to offer In summary, God's communication with us is not cut short because he is in a hurry or because he does not have much to say. It is face-to-face and oral. It is in script and lengthy While we might use the mediums of our modern age, we are always to be a people of the word in speech and in written form and face to face. Such are God's mediums, and they should be ours as well. Let us pray. God, we thank you. Thank you for communicating with us, coming down to be with us, coming down to be like us, and giving us an example of how you wish to be with us. Face to face and communicating, orally, written, communicating your love. May we see this example and practice it with one another. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.