I can just find some questions. In the name of the Father and of the Son, the Holy Ghost. Amen. He'd be seated It would be best for you to turn in your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 4. We will be working through verse 12 through 16. First Timothy chapter four, working through verse twelve through sixteen. Small talk. Some people like to share small talk. Small talk actually has an official definition. It is polite conversation about unimportant or uncontroversial matters, especially as engaged in a social situation. Small talk usually includes the weather, which includes what the weather is now, what it has been, and what it will be. Small talk includes the local sports teams. We discuss what happened last week, what we hope will happen next week, and how the referees robbed our team of a victory. Small talk includes a recent doctor's appointment, television shows we recently watched, restaurants we recently enjoyed, or Didn't enjoy. In general, small talk includes words that will soon be forgotten Small talk uses throwaway words. But as the official definition states, small talk is an attempt to be polite, which is the primary purpose of small talk. We may not know each other well, or we don't have time, or it is not the right place to talk on a personal business or something meaningful. And so small talk fills the space. The positive about small talk is that it is polite. The negative is that it is quickly forgotten. And frankly, quite boring. And I'm getting boring talking to you about small jumping. In contrast, when it comes to the Christian faith, when it involves the words of God, small talk doesn't exist. In fact, the most obvious display of God's power and authority is displayed by the words He speaks. And it is the call of a Christian minister to speak the words of God. For any other word a minister speaks is only the words of a man. But when he speaks the words of God, such words have an inherent authority. And so the minister must speak God's words for the salvation of God's people. Now I know that sounds dramatic. But we will get there. Paul's instruction to Timothy regarding how he was to personally minister in the church comes after his instruction to Timothy to focus on the fundamentals of the faith and not be carried away by what he calls old wives fables and the profane. What we read in verse 12 of 1 Timothy 4 is very personal regarding who Timothy was and how he was to fulfill the calling God had placed upon his life. Paul tells Timothy not to allow people to despise his youth. To despise in this context is to disregard. To ignore, to conclude that because Timothy was a younger man, perhaps in his thirties, he was not experienced enough to be wise or even knowledgeable But what do we know about Timothy? We know he was from the city of Lystra in Asia Minor. Which was one of the cities the Apostle Paul journeyed to with Barnabas and with Mark during his first missionary journey, or trip, which was in A. D. 46 through 48. Timothy was raised by his parents and grandmother, though Paul only describes his mother and grandmother, for we read from 2 Timothy 1, verse 5, quote, When I call to remembrance The genuine faith that is in you, which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded is in you also. His father was said to be a Greek, while his mother was Jewish. It is believed that when Paul was evangelizing in their city of Lystra, Eunus converted to Christianity and was even mentioned by Paul in the Book of Acts. In Second Timothy chapter three, verse fifteen, Paul shares what impressed him about Timothy It was his knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. He said of Timothy, wise for salvation through faith, which is in Jesus Christ. Some time later, Paul made the decision to bring Timothy with him in spreading the gospel and had him ordained and circumcised to avoid any questioning or ridicule by the Jewish Christians. Not much else is known about Timothy other than what is inferred in what Paul writes to him. To make up for his youth, Paul advised Timothy to be an example to his fellow Christians in terms of the words he spoke. His conduct in love, which is his everyday living, his spirit, his faith, and his morality Such counsel matches what is required as an ordained minister, as we learned in chapter 2. Such is a high calling. People are watching you as a minister. People want to know if a minister's life matches up with what he says he believes and what he teaches and preaches. People might even deny the faith or give up on pursuing a godly life if a minister is found to be a hypocrite. It is fair to ask if anyone actually believes what the Bible teaches, if no one is living by the standards of morality the Bible upholds. Some of you have heard this story, but I repeat it for emphasis. When I was teaching at the university, I assign students to consider a scenario of a person who was a Christian and thus did not believe in cannibalism. But was stranded on a mountain after a plane crash, and weeks had gone by with no rescue in sight and no food to eat. Should such a person consume the flesh of those who had died in the crash? One student was adamant that the Christian should practice cannibalism. Because the priority should be survival. When I challenged the student's answer by reminding him of the Christian conviction not to consume flesh, he looked at me and said I have never met anyone who is that serious about their religion. Let that sink in. I was greatly, greatly saddened by that answer. It got me wondering how many people are dissuaded from the Christian faith because they have never witnessed anyone who was actually living by the standards of the Holy Scriptures. To be sure, to be sure, all of us fall short of the glory of God. And as it says in 1 John, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. So all of us have sinned and do sin. However, however, we should still pursue righteousness and still pursue not giving in to sin. And we should also project humility while confessing our sins readily. Next, Paul instructs Timothy to give attention to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. And what reading was he to do? And from where was he to exhort? And from where was he to get doctrine? He was to read, exhort, and get doctrine from the writings of the apostles and from the Old Testament No. The canon as we know it today, the 66 books of the Bible we call the Old Testament and the New Testament, was not officially established and would not be for years to come But the gospels had been written and were dispersed throughout the Christian community, and Jesus said that the Psalms and the prophets spoke of him, and that Abraham saw his day and was glad And so to study the Old Testament, to read it, to exhort from it, and to receive doctrine from it, it was available to Timothy. Now I must say a word here about the word doctrine. Doctrine refers to a set of established beliefs. Too many soft-minded and soft-principled people say they avoid doctrine because it only divides people. Don't listen to such talk. Jesus divided people and said he came to divide because there is truth and there is falsehood There is what is morally right and there is what is morally wrong. There is good and there is evil. You can't simply say that you believe in Jesus, and that is enough doctrine for you. No. Who was Jesus? And who did he say he was? And who is he today? Was he and is he fully man? Was he and is he fully God? Did his life reflect what he taught? Did his death mean anything for us? Did he actually rise from the dead? Where is he now? And does it matter? All such questions need to be answered for the name of Jesus to have any meaning. And to have any purpose of a person putting his faith in that name. So embrace doctrine. We need it. The prophecy specifically spoken regarding a gift that Timothy has is not explicitly stated, and thus not specifically known. In the context of this section of Scripture, we can speculate that it might have been in regards to Timothy being a gifted communicator. Some people write better than others, such as the Apostle Paul, and some people preach better than others, such as the Apostle Peter. Whatever Timothy's gift was, it was in the context of God's Word. Verse 15 is a call for Timothy to put in the work necessary to be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Which was our topic last week. To meditate on such things is to be focused and attentive to the details of what is required to be a good minister of God's Word. And the work that Timothy puts in is to be noticed by those who receive Timothy's ministry. So let us be honest with one another. Most of us can tell when a minister is going through the motions when it comes to his preaching and his teaching. We can tell whether he put the time in during the week to prepare his sermon or if he mailed it in, as some like to describe. I have heard sermons that I knew were taken from a devotional the minister had read that week What else he did with his time during the week I could not tell, but because I read the same devotional, I knew there wasn't any original thoughts involved. Good sermons are words that stay with God's people throughout the week. They are words that come back to God's people when circumstances in life are difficult and God's word needs to be applied. Good sermons are reflected upon, edited, reworked, and meditated upon before they are ever publicly heard. Good sermons fit in the category of knowing them when you hear them. The last thought In verse 16 is what struck me hard this week. A minister who takes heed regarding what he reads, exhorts, and teaches regarding doctrine. Is saving both himself and those who hear him. Is there anything more important? Or is there any higher calling than that? When we worked through the requirements of a minister regarding his personal life and family life in Chapter 2, I tried to portray such a calling as difficult but also privileged. But I did not think about it in the manner Paul writes in verse 16. The salvation of a minister and of those he pastors is affected by what he reads, teaches, and believes. Such then is a call for me to impress upon you who hear me the importance of the Word of God in your life. Recall that at creation in Genesis it describes the earth without form, a place that was void, only having darkness going down into its deepest level. And then God spoke. By way of words, God's words, he made something out of nothing. By words, God made the stars. God made the moon. God made the sun. By words, God made all living things according to their deep complexities. By words, God made man and separated him from all other living creatures, giving man the privilege of being made in God's likeness. And giving him dominion over all the beasts of the fields. And when mankind, via Adam and Eve, were disobedient to God's words, God spoke words of judgment. And so his judgment is assured. And yet, within those words, God spoke a promise. And we were to be confident that his word would come to pass. And the pattern is repeated over and over, as God spoke words of judgment when the earth was flooded, and then words of promise never to judge mankind in the same manner again. And then more words did God speak as he called Abraham to a new land, and then gave more words of promise regarding that land. And the offspring that would come from Abraham that would be too many to count. And then Abraham's offspring were enslaved in Egypt, and God spoke words to Moses. To lead his people out of bondage and back to the land of promise. And as Moses led the people, God spoke ten words. For that is what the commandments were originally called. God's ten words were spoken, and the people received the standards God had set regarding their everyday lives. And when the people disobeyed God's words, he spoke more words, promising a Messiah who would Be there forever sacrifice for sins. And so it was not happenstance that when the Messiah came, he was called the Word, the Lagos of God. Jesus was what God spoke so that his people could be saved for eternity The Gospel of John begins, you remember, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And so Jesus taught his followers that because they were children of God, that their words were to matter. Their words were to be that of truth. That when they said yes, it was to be as if the promise had already been fulfilled. And when they said no, the subject was finished. All because We are a people of the Word. For a preacher To help save himself and those who listen to him, he is to teach and preach the word, which is contained in Holy Scripture. Timothy was to devote himself to knowing that word and knowing it so well that when he spoke, it was God who spoke. What he exhorted as truth was reflecting Jesus Himself. What he established as doctrine was to be the very character of God, and was a hedge of protection against falsehood. Of false teachers and the demons who motivate them. One of the clearest examples of the power of preaching God's word and hearing sound doctrine. is when our namesake, Stephen, as recorded in the book of Acts, preached God's word before the high priest after being arrested and taken to the high priest. He was taken there because he was so effective at declaring Jesus as the Messiah. When Stephen spoke, he started with the covenant promises God made to Abraham And from there told of Joseph being sold into slavery by his brothers, and yet God raised him up. From there he spoke of Israel in bondage and how God raised up Moses And then the rising up of David and then Solomon, and still the Jewish people repeatedly rebelled against God. And then finally God raised his only son to redeem his people from sin and death, and the people were too stiff-necked to receive him. And so they turned him over to be crucified, thinking they were done with him. When Stephen's sermon was done, the writer of Acts says When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. Then they cried out with a loud voice, Stopped their ears and ran at Stephen, casting him outside the temple and stoned him to death. And what for? What was the cause of such a visceral reaction? It was the demons who knew the power of the Word of God read, exhorted, and believed. Beloved demons don't care about your small talk. And please don't hear me saying that you shouldn't participate in small talk. My point is to make Paul's point, for Paul is speaking God's word, and such words are to be read, exhorted, and believed. Demons hate it. Hate it every time that happens. And so let us make angry as many demons as possible. Every time we open our Bible and read it, every time we participate in Bible study, and most certainly every time we participate in Sunday morning worship until Jesus returns. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and merciful Father, we thank you for this teaching of Paul giving us a heavy burden. to realize how important your holy word is for the salvation of those who speak it, preach it, teach it, and those who hear it. And so Holy Spirit guide us in all truth, we pray, and may we forever be praying your preaching and believing your word until you come. Amen.