Imagine that you can actually do the internet basically. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our redeemer. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. This being Mother's Day, we are veering off from studying the gospel according to Saint John. And as we do, I want you to keep in mind both Deuteronomy passage, Deuteronomy 6, our reading this morning, which is a warning. And then from 2 Timothy 3, which is a depiction of the culture in which we live today. I'd like to address this morning our culture's shortcoming when it comes to how we treat women. Along this line of of thinking, I did some research on how we treat women today as compared to what was expected of Both women and men back as far as the eighteen hundreds. Did you know That in the 1800s it was thought to be unladylike for a woman to yell in any social context? It was socially expected that a woman of a certain body type and temperament would marry a man who would complement her and Her hymn. For example, women with red hair and a flushed complexion were thought to be excitable and hot-tempered So they should marry someone with jet black hair and of a mild temperament A woman with the features of a man should marry a man with features that are more similar to a woman, and so on. Also, it was not ladylike to initiate a visit with a gentleman unless he was an invalid. Now moving to a century later, in Vogue magazine, 1948, the public was given these golden nuggets of advice. Quote A man should always offer a woman a cigarette when he takes one himself, but if she has refused by saying only, not just now, thank you He must repeat the offer every time he decides to have another cigarette for himself. And then this Deference toward older women is a point of good behavior. Women rise when an older woman enters the room unless there are more than ten or twelve present. And then this, I love this one. Regarding dance parties. Quote, it is not difficult for an older woman to accept the fact that she is not the universal ideal of the of a dancing partner. But it is not at all easy for young girls. When the situation seems completely out of hand, when there are no friends sitting in groups and no boys anywhere in sight, And everyone else is dancing gaily, the best thing to do is go home. And next, these are from a 1955 guide on being a good housewife, 1955. When the husband arrives home, quote, let him talk first. Remember, his topics of conversation are more important than yours. And this one. Don't complain if he's home for dinner late or even if he stays out all night. Count this as a minor compared to what he may have gone through throughout the day. And this one tops it off. Quote, don't ask him questions about his actions or question his judgment or integrity. Remember he's the master of the house, and as such will always exercise his will with fairness and truthfulness, you have no right to question him. Now, if such was preached in the church today, the preacher only needs to add Ephesians 5:22: Wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord, and the result would be every woman leaving the service. Serveth with service with their mouth agape and the husband with a smile. This past fall, I spent time reading blogs that were arguing about a certain type of marital relationship that was more biblical and thus more glorifying to God than other views of how a couple should be. should entertain one another in marriage. Complementarianism is very popular in conservative Christian circles. It argues that men and women are equal in value, but have very different roles in marriage, and that these roles complement one another, and they are not to be confused. Nor to be crossed over. Complementarianism tries to avoid the negative connotations of words like hierarchy and patriarchy. And yet some argue they are all the same. The base of complementarianism is the acceptance of the biblical role of the husband doing the leading and the wife doing the submitting. And everything else comes under those primary rules. And some take complementarianism so far as to believe that such roles should also be played out in the social world as well. You shouldn't have any woman as a CEO and certainly not a president. The reaction to this type of teaching is Christian egalitarianism, where men and women are seen as equal in value and equal in responsibility. Some even teach matriarchalism, where the biblical language of men leading and women submitting is completely rejected, and women are seen in this case as spiritually superior. I don't venture into such public discussions about such subjects because, first, I do not think that they are fruitful for the church. We have lost the cultural battles over abortion and homosexual unions. We are losing the battle over bathroom etiquette and women in combat. And all the while, prominent bloggers are arguing over whether women should be the boss over a man in a local corner grocery store, and the extreme position of whether women need men in the church at all. The second reason I don't get involved is that I do not think it is that complicated As I was lamenting to Mr. Mark Hammett last fall about my readings, he said to me in a dry tone, Men love their wives as Christ loved the church. Women submit to their husbands as under the Lord. That sounds like enough. And I echo that and say it is enough indeed. I had a chance to speak to the FCA Fellowship of Christian Athletes at Stevenson University and McDonough School both last week. And I took the opportunity to argue with these young minds that there are absolute moral values, the existence of absolute moral values. In the troubled waters of our culture, there are no strong rocks, no moral absolutes that people can cling to when they are confused. And so I've taught that there are moral absolutes that every culture agrees upon. And they are the same absolutes. We only differ, hear this, we only differ on application. And so we may have differences between cultures on how to apply the moral value of something such as modesty. But every culture has an understanding of the moral value of modesty. It's just how they apply it And it is the same way of thinking with Christians and the biblical values of distinct manhood and distinct womanhood. All Christians have such concepts of what a man should be and do and what a woman should be and do. What we argue about is the application, not the values themselves. Now when I'm speaking about Christians arguing, I'm not talking or including those who are very liberal and are already apostate, not believing the gospel at all, although they may still call themselves Christians. Their lamp has gone out, and it is a waste to knock on their door. They are not part of our discussion I briefly mentioned two, two so-called political issues of today. Gender-neutral bathrooms and women in the military. I mention them because I want to use them to illustrate this morning what God has placed upon my heart on this Mother's Day. I also want you to understand that this pulpit is not silent about contemporary issues I very much want to speak to contemporary issues, but I find that they happen so often and so fast. That if I use this pulpit every Sunday to address what is going on out of our walls, I would neglect the Holy Scriptures. And I cannot neglect the Holy Scriptures. But this Sunday, we're making an exception in terms of addressing what is going on outside our walls. This is the Lord's Day. And it is also Mother's Day. And I want to honor the Lord on His day by honoring the women he has placed in our lives who show us A special side of God's love. Nobody loves like a God-fearing mother. Can I get an Amen? Consider what is at the heart of the political and moral issue of gender-neutral bathrooms or bathrooms Where establishments allow for people who are of one gender but identify with another gender, use the same bathroom facility, the gender that they identify with Instead of the bathroom that is anatomically designed for them. What makes such a dilemma a moral-political issue In the positive, in the positive, I believe it is the virtue of mercy that is involved. The virtue of mercy. The political liberal will label it tolerance. But when tolerance is practiced, not to make a political statement, which is mostly why tolerance is brought up, to make a political statement But when it is only to be kind, when it's only to be kind, tolerance then becomes a subcategory under mercy. It is carrying about the least, the most disenfranchised among us. Or so it seems that way. And this is where the devil has been very clever. He disguises being understanding and then kind to people who are struggling with gender identity. And force a confused culture to accommodate the even more confused. But according to Holy Scripture, such accommodation is not wise. A confused person is a double-minded person, and a double-minded person is unstable in all of his or her ways. The conservatives say that by opening up bathrooms as a choice, you allow for the perverts to take advantage of women and children. Transgender people, gender-confused, and their defenders say that transgender people and gender-confused people are not necessarily perverts any more than a heterosexual is a pervert. They are simply different. And wisdom says that the point isn't the point isn't that transgender people and gender-confused people are perverts. It is that the policy of allowing anyone to use any designated bathroom or to have no designation at all is to give opportunity for perverts to be perverted. Whether they be transgender, gender-confused, homosexual, pedophile, ethobophiles, hepophiles, didn't know there was such a thing, or more common, simply a male teenager who wants to get his thrills. Or a perverted 50-year-old who wants to get his thrills. They all can be perverts who want to expose women and children. To give opportunity for such is simply not wise, and it most certainly does not protect women and children. Now what I uphold to you today is God's standard for protecting women. Hear this from 1 Peter 3. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. Showing honor to the woman as a weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. I am too constrained with time to dissect all that is said here by Peter, other than to underline that the phrase weaker vessel includes physical strength. God has given men the capacity for greater physical strength, greater than women, and as Christians we do not need a new chapter and a new verse in the Bible to conclude. That we are to use said strength to protect women. Especially the women God has placed in our lives. Hear this from St. Paul. But if anyone does not provide for his relatives and especially for the members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. And without question, what is included in the provision men are to attain for their families is protection, physical protection. Physical protection from anyone who would try to do them harm in any context To the Ephesians, where St. Paul made that supposedly so difficult command, wives submit to your husbands, he then says this. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. So just as we men protect our own bodies, so are we to protect the bodies and the dignity and the reputation and the privacy of our wives. Well, protecting even more. We are to protect even more because we are to love our wives as Jesus loves his church. And Jesus loves his church by laying down his life and fighting the enemy of his church and by playing the watchman. Playing the watchman to see that no one dishonors her Where our culture has failed our women by making them vulnerable in a restroom, we must counter by finding ways to make them feel safe and be safe. What those countermeasures are is a different application according to each home and each man's ability. There will be different applications in each different household. And I would even encourage, if we have a chance to boycott, to boycott. But the principle I point to us to this morning, the truth that I point us to this morning, is to protect our women. It is the responsibility of godly men to sacrificially protect their women. Now regarding women in combat, as many of you have heard Our military leaders have been discussing the likelihood of allowing women to participate in combat side by side with men. And that has now led to the discussion and the likelihood of requiring our young women to register for the draft when they turn 18 years of age. These moves are purposeful to blur the sexes, treating our society as it were androgynous. Let us first acknowledge that God used women such as Jael, as recorded in the Holy Scriptures, to drive a tent peg through the skull of a wicked army commander. He used Deborah to be a leader of his people when no man would step forward and take the responsibility. But these are exceptions and never written in Scripture to be understood as the norm or what would be the norm someday Such women are to be honored, and such men who were cowardly enough not to take responsibility should be shamed. We have already rehearsed the passages from Scripture that teach the duties of men to include physically protecting women. In the Old Testament, there were laws and plays to protect young daughters from being taken advantage of. For example, a daughter who made a pledge that was later proved to be to her disadvantage was given the right to get out of the pledge by the authority of her father. And this, a father was instructed specifically not to give his daughters over to serve the ungodly. And the sexual purity of a daughter was the lawful duty of her father. And these responsibilities of guarding our young women only strengthen what the New Testament commands regarding protecting our women. And treating them as young men and sending them to fight the battles of men is not protecting them. When visiting excuse me when visiting Israel, we had the experience of witnessing young girls carrying around automatic weapons. In Israel, every young person, male or female, ages 18 to 21, are to serve in the military in some capacity. If you witnessed the slideshow that we shared in our visit, you heard Bobby Lynn and I joke of the oddity of witnessing these young women carrying around guns that we had a hard time imagining they could handle. But such is the norm in Israel. It is the norm because every nation around them would like to see them overrun by Islamic jihad And every citizen, Jew and Christian in Israel, they want dead or enslaved. We can all understand that drastic measures require drastic action. When you are outnumbered and you believe in your survival, you train everyone to fight in order to protect what you have. When the enemy is closing in, men protect their women. And when the men are gone, women protect their children. That comes natural to all cultures. But the culture of the United States is not in such a situation, not even close. To treat our daughters as we do our sons is foolish, unwarranted, and most of all cowardly. As Greg Gibson and Owen Scratchon stated in an article titled, We Will Never Let Our Daughters Die For Us. Quote, any man who would ask his wife or daughter to endure the horrors of war to protect him has missed the very core of biblical manhood and Christ's own example as the savior of his bride. Lieutenant Josh Devers, our own Josh, sent me that article. And he is a man, as you know, that has three daughters to protect, a man who has seen the enemy and what the enemy would do to his daughters if they captured them. It is a passion of his to protect them as it should be. In another article written by a man by the name of Matt Walsh, also a father of daughters. This position is taken. Quote My daughter will not sign up for the draft, no matter what the government says. If it becomes law, I will break the law and do so proudly. I will not allow my daughter to be a part of this national disgrace. And if that means we must leave the United States altogether, good riddance. I honestly do not want to live in a country that uses its women as human shields. You have to love the passion and the courage of such a statement. It is a godly passion. While it is true, and I hate this, but while it is true that men can disguise themselves inside a church That upholds the biblical standard of men leading and women submitting, he can hide in the church so that he can abuse his wife. Why, that is a reality That does not discredit what the scripture clearly states. Men are to lead. And that includes protecting women And I add that any man who abuses his wife, or any woman for that matter, is a cowardly sinner who should be publicly shamed. And this should be the conclusion of all God-fearing men who know that their first responsibility is to protect their women. Moses Lewis, in his quite prophetic book, The Abolition of Man. Stated that the final stage of eugenics, which is modern science by the way of prenatal conditioning and by education and by propaganda, based on perfectly applied psychology, having obtained full control over himself, can then win the battle over human nature. He then can make the species whatever he wants it to be. Lewis says, the battle will indeed be won, but who precisely will have won it? What is the victory? For the power of man to make himself what he pleases means that, as we have seen, the power of some men to make other men, and that includes women, what they please them to be. Our culture with its pseudoscience is trying to make our women to be men While there are many things that our culture does that appall us Christians, and yet we do not interfere, I say this is not one of those things. They will not do as they please with the daughters of our Heavenly Father. Men of God are called to protect, first protect our women. So let us, Christian Church, as the Christian church and as Christian men within the church, let us say, Happy Mother's Day. As a pledge that we will protect our women as Jesus called us to do. We will not allow men to make our women what they please. But instead what God has intended. And I ask of all of our men to say, Amen. Let us pray.