In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our study in Proverbs brings us to the subject of friendship I chose this sermon for this Sunday, being very moved by the celebration of Jen's father Paul, his life, this past week. If one could describe him, a friendship would certainly be included in that. And it's well fitting, because I know that Susan, one of Susan's closest, dearest, best friends, was her mother. And uh and these words will apply to those relationships quite well I begin by referencing Aristotle. I dabble a bit in philosophy and have read much of Aristotle. The fourth century B. C. philosopher, he was known by St. Thomas Aquinas as the philosopher. The philosopher. St. Thomas wanted to be sure when he referred to Aristotle as the philosopher, that all would understand that to him Aristotle was the only secular philosopher that should be listened to, that should be studied. Aristotle spoke on a myriad of topics, and within his work on social ethics is a section That very few philosophers or ethicists touch on, and that is a section on friendship. He believed it was one of the highest virtues. Aristotle defines friendship in three distinct ways. The first way is friendship of utility. Such friends occur when people exchange goods and services with one another. We see these friends in business transactions. We get to know them, get familiar with them, and appreciate them because we exchange goods with one another. It is a you scratch my back, I will scratch yours relationship. When utility friends are no longer needed. That is, we're no longer needing to exchange goods, well, the friendship ends. The second definition of friendship is of pleasure. And this occurs when two people have similar passions, and when they come together, they are able to enjoy their passions with one another because they have a common interest. Now, simply because I use the word passion does not mean that I am referring to sexual pleasure Friendships of pleasure could include friends that we have at the ballpark because we're both rooting for the same team. Or friends that we ride horses with, or friends that we hunt with, or friends that we sow with, a common interest, a common enjoyment. But the friendships even in there in those circumstances, those friendships end when the passion ends, when the game's over The final definition of friendship for Aristotle is friendship of virtue Friendship of virtue. Friendship of virtue occurs when two people hold the same moral values and are hoping to bring out the best in one another's character. Regardless of the utility in the relationship or the pleasure in the relationship, they just care about the virtue of the relationship. Regarding friendship of virtue, Aristotle calls it, quote, a complete sort of friendship between people who are good and alike in virtue. This type of friendship is long lasting, and it's tough to obtain. It's tough to obtain because these types of people are hard to come by. And it takes a lot of work to have a complete virtuous friendship. Aristotle notes that there cannot be a large amount of friends in a virtuous, uh virtuous friendship. And a culture like we are in that tells us that we can have many, many good, close friends, Aristotle would not fit. For he would argue that the standards are too high and the commitments are too great for any human to have more than a few virtuous friendships. Aristotle further explains that there are similarities between the friendship of virtue and the friendship of utility and the friendship of pleasure. However And it's a big however. It is only truly good people that can endure virtuous friendships. Good meaning moral. As Aristotle put it, it is clear, quote, it is clear that only the good can be friends for themselves, since the bad do not enjoy their own kind unless some benefit comes from them. End quote. Friendship virtue is only experienced among good people, between a few amounts of people. And as such, it's resistant to slander, and it is long-lasting. Such is the type of friendship all of us want. What Aristotle has to say about friendship is important to us as Christians for at least two reasons. First, we see that truths about friendship. Are innate within the natural order. The natural order is what God created. An order of friendship. It's within God's plan, his design. Second, if anyone should be able to achieve the friendship that is described in virtuous friendship, it should be Christians. It should be Christians who have the love of Christ within them and are able to love in this manner, to be a friend in this manner. So let us examine what Proverbs teaches us regarding friendship. We start with part of our reading this morning from Proverbs 27, verse 10. Do not forsake your friend or your father's friend, and do not go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity. Better is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away. There is obvious but necessary state of wisdom in this problem. What is obvious is that we need friends. All of us need friends. We need friends because we need help in this life. Friends are the people that we turn to when we can no longer turn to ourselves. We can no longer help ourselves. Friends are needed because our gifts and our resources are limited. We can only do so much. Friends are needed because God created us for living in community, so that each of us would share one another's burdens, fulfilling the law of Christ, as Paul said. If you forsake your friend or your father's friend, you cut off someone who could help you in the future in times of need. When you cut off friends, you reduce the number of people who can and who would want to help you. I can say Positively, a hundred percent of the people that have come through this church will call me on the phone needing help in some way, a stranger off the street or a stranger on the phone asking for help from this church, I can say 100% that all of them do not have close friends. They come to the church and I ask them, do you have a church of your own? The answer is always no. Do you have family nearby? No. Do you know anyone that can help you? No. Beloved, that ought not be. A wise person has friends around them in times of need. Now the second part of the verse Tells us to be satisfied with our neighbor in a time of crisis rather than a brother. Again, what is obvious but needs to be stated. That in an emergency, you have needs, and those needs are immediate needs. Waiting for help from a family member who is far away is going to take too long. If a brother or family member is your neighbor, well that's not an issue. The point being that for a friend to truly be allowed to help you, they must be close to you Because they are able to help you when you need it. I wonder if you agree with Aristotle's three definitions of friendship. I'm sure each of us has all different types of friends, and I wonder if you could categorize them. Where does this person fit in my life? But the better question is always, where do I fit? And other people's lives that I call friends. See, our friends can be a positive influence on us, or they can be a spiritual hindrance Good friends are characterized, according to Proverbs, by at least four qualities that I have found. Those four qualities that a good friend has, according to Proverbs, are these: consistency, candor, Wise counsel and consideration. Consistency, candor, wise counsel, and consideration Let's begin with consistency. A good and faithful friend is a friend who is consistent. This is from Proverbs 17, 17. A friend loves at all times. And a brother is born for adversity. While in seminary, Bobby Lynn and I became friends with a couple that was our age. They were raising two with children as we were raising three the first year in seminary. And we got along well. The wife was uh outgoing, she was educated, uh she was willing to help, had that southern hospitality, that southern twang, and told Bobby Lynn, whenever she has a need, just give her a call and she'll be over to help. Well, when Bobby Lynn was pregnant with Joel, she had many needs. And she called this young woman twice for help. And twice having reached out, she was turned down because the request was too inconvenient. Her heart was hurt, seeing that she really didn't have a friend. A friend that loves at all times does not do that. A friend who loves at all times does not allow circumstances in life to determine the friendship. The second part of the verse, a brother is born for adversity, tells us that the very purpose of a close friend is for times of adversity. Of course we can enjoy a friend anytime, but all of us know that a true friend shows themselves to be true when times are hard. In the midst of hard times. If we were to take the use of the word brother in this verse literally We might think that God gives us biological brothers for times of adversity. But alas, there are many Bible stories that describe adversity actually dividing biological brothers. Rather than bringing them together. When adversity comes, we get to see who are our true brothers Two brothers are brothers in the faith, brothers of virtue. But alas, even friends in the faith will fail to come through You may realize that a friend you thought you had was simply using you. I have experienced that. So have you. It was utility in its friendship on their part. When you thought it was more That happens. And that is why Aristotle explains that we shouldn't expect a friend of virtue will be everyone that we know. And therefore we shouldn't be bitter when people don't come through. There's only a very few that will. From Proverbs 14, verse 20, an interesting twist here. The poor is disliked even by his neighbor, but the rich has many friends. Being rich is not a blessing when those who want to be your friends are those who want to use you. Being rich means you have to be wary of your friendship, and that is not a blessing. Such friends are friends of opportunity, not consistency. Friends of opportunity are similar to fair weather friends. They are of no value for real needs, for real support. Hence, choose your friends wisely From Proverbs 18 verse 24. A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. Of course, there is nothing wrong with having many companions, but there is a decided difference between companions and a virtuous friend. Next we see from Proverbs that a true friend possesses candor. Candor. Having candor towards another person is being open, honest, and sincere. Here from Proverbs 27, verse 6, faithful are the wounds of a friend. The wounds of a friend are faithful. Profuse are the kisses of an enemy. Initially, we might not think highly of someone who speaks candidly. Now, before I continue talking about speaking candidly, Let me say to those who might like to speak candidly, that speaking candidly in a manner described here in Proverbs is not simply telling your opinion in a rude or unkind manner. That is not speaking words in love. To those who receive candid speech, admittedly, it can be hard to hear that we that we talk too much. Or that we are acting foolish in the moment or behaving childishly. It is tempting to blame the messenger when we are told that we are wrong. When we are told we are in sin. But those who speak the truth in love to us are giving us faithful wounds. Faithful wounds that will eventually bring healing. A flatterer, one who kisses us when they are our enemy, they are doing the exact opposite. They hide the truth for us for their gain, from us for their gain. This is from Proverbs 29, verse 5. A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net. For his feet. That sums it up. We ought to be thankful when our friends offer criticism. We ought to take it as constructively as we can as an opportunity to be sanctified, to be more holy before the Lord. Here is another. Whoever rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue. Proverbs 28, 23. Succinctly put, candor is a quality of a true friend. Next, Proverbs tells us that a genuine friend offers wise counsel. Even a healthy clash of views, but wise counsel. Real friends provide constructive advice. From Proverbs 27, verse 17. You know this verse: iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another. Of course, sharpening sharpening iron is not quarreling, but it may be arguing. It may be arguing. It may be pointing out a weakness in a friend's reasoning. That is helpful, most helpful. The Jorgensen Dinner Table has been known to consist of heated debates. I like to hear my children express their views and challenge one another about their views. It was allowed in our home, still is. It is only when the arguments turned uh personal that it became sinful. name-calling, keeping record of wrong, personal attacks, that is not sharpening iron. But arguing can be. Respectfully disagreeing very much is. Counsel, even in the form of loving disapproval, as shared among friends, that is healthy From Proverbs 27, verse 9, oil and perfume make the heart glad, and the sweetness of a friend comes from his earnest counsel. He is worried about you. Let him be and let him tell you. We must be careful, of course, here. Do not assume that Because you want to be closer friends, that gives you automatic opportunity to tell a person what you think they should do. The relationship needs to be more organic, certainly not forced. Friendship involves recommending even the difficult and conveying the unwanted counsel. We just need to tell them because they need to hear it. Such a counselor is a friend, and a friend to be cherished. Well next, Proverbs teaches us that a trustworthy friend has consideration. And that goes with the counsel. By consideration, Proverbs means demonstrated compassion for the feelings of a friend A friend ought to have a deep sensitivity so that he can say the right thing in the right way at the right time. It is difficult to counsel a friend, but when you do, there is much fruit. If difficult counsel is what a friend offers, then consideration is how it is to be said. This is from Proverbs 25, verse 20. Whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day or like vinegar on soda. And see, that's the same truth stated in a negative way. You're not seeing what really needs to be seen. You're not doing what really needs to be done in that moment. And this truism is stated more straightforwardly in Romans 12, where St. Paul instructs Christians to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. A true friend does for his friends what they most obviously and naturally need at the time. An unfortunate difficulty today is that women can have close friendships with other women, and it is not assumed to be of a sexual nature. For men, that is not the case. Too many people, even in Christian circles, become suspicious of two men being close friends. But of course, the greatest example in Scripture of friendship is David and Jonathan, a non-sexual relationship. Their bond was a godly friendship that matches the standards of being consistent. Of having candor, of providing counsel, and practicing consideration An article was recently recommended to me that was posted on the Orthodoxy Today website. It was written by a man named Ronald G. Lee, a man who was once involved in a homosexual lifestyle. The article described Mr. Lee's emotions as he lived out his sexual desires through other men. His conclusion over time was that all of his male relationships were based on eroticism, and once the eroticism dissipated, so did his relationships. And this forced him to be honest with himself and admit the conclusion that the homosexual lifestyle was unfulfilling to him. It never satisfied his true needs. He then began searching for other homosexuals who were having or had the same experience. And what he discovered was that there were many who had known the same experience, but were instructed not to talk in such a manner because it was best for the homosexual community to present to the world that their lifestyle was as helpful. as a heterosexual lifestyle. Of course, heterosexuals who commit adultery and practice fornication can attest themselves to finding themselves empty. But Lee makes a confession for the male homosexual community that there is an obsession with male genitalia. It is an idol for them that demands their allegiance. And what I found most interesting about the article was toward the end when these states That the advice he most received was that he should just keep trying to be satisfied in the homosexual lifestyle. Defining himself insanity as repeating the same behavior over and over and expecting a different result, this is what he said to this advice to keep on going. Quote, I would be nuts if I took this advice. It took me 20 years, but I finally reached the conclusion that I did not want to be insane. He continues. So where am I now? I am attending a militantly Orthodox parish in Houston that is one of God's most spectacular gifts to me. My best friend, Mark, not his real name, is, like me, a refugee from the homosexual insane asylum. He is a devout believer, though a Presbyterian, no one is perfect. Here's a little line there. From Mark I have learned that two men can love each other profoundly while remaining clothed the entire time. Continuing his quote, we are told that the church opposes same-sex love. Not true. The church opposes homogenitalia love. Or sex, excuse me. Which, in my experience, is not about love, but about obsession, addiction, and compensation for a compromised masculinity. Mr. Lee's testimony is simple and for fact. It is a testimony of true friendship. Those who said that they were his friends told him lies. Those who were his true friends were closer than a brother and thus told him the truth and continued to tell him the truth. I hope we have all heard in these lessons about friendship from Proverbs that we are to be working to be friends, working to be consistent. To have candor, to provide wise counsel, and to be considerate. This is what we want from others, and thus it is what we should give to others. And I also hope that we connect how friendship in the Christian life is gospel-centered. It is not gospel and then friendship. Remember, Jesus said, greater love has no one than this, then one lay his life down for his friends. You are my friends, Jesus said, if you do what I command you. Jesus is our friend. He sets the bar high for us to be his friend and then friends to one another. I close by encouraging each of us to be a friend. Husbands, be the best friend, dear wife. Wives, be the best friend, dear husbands. Siblings, be best friends to one another. Christian brothers and sisters, find people in the church who need a friend and be a friend. You need to be one. And you need to have one. Let us pray.