In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I want to go off notes to begin with. When I was in seminary We had a homiletics class where we would meet in the chapel, a small little chapel area, where we would practice our preaching. And before we would the student would get up to preach, we would sing one line from a hymn And someone chose to sing this hymn. And the first line, as you know, ends with, For still our ancient foe doth seek to work us woe. His craft and power are great. and armed with cruel hate, on earth is not his equal. We finished and sat down, and the student said, We can't stop there. You gotta keep singing. So uh indeed you gotta you gotta keep singing. Alright, turn if you would to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. We're going to be covering verses 1 through 13, and then we'll make our transition to our gospel reading, which was Matthew chapter 4. So 2 Corinthians chapter 6, begin with uh referencing the movie Goodwill Hunting. The movie was set in 1959 at a fictional, elite, conservative Vermont boarding school named Welton Academy. It tells the story the movie does of an English teacher who inspires his students through his teaching of poetry. On the first day of classes, students are surprised by the unorthodox teaching methods of the new English teacher, John Keating, who is played by Robin Williams. A wealthy alumnus himself, Keating encourages his students to make your lives extraordinary, a sentiment he summarizes with the Latin phrase Carpe diem, meaning seize the day. In an early scene, Mr. Keating takes the students to a separate room and shows them an old photograph of former students and gives a rousing speech with an important message. He said this. They're not that different from you, are they? Same haircuts, full of hormones, just like you. Invincible, just like you feel. The world is their oyster. They believe they're destined for great things, just like many of you. Their eyes are full of hope, just like you. Did they wait until it was too late to make from their lives even one iota of what they were capable? Because you see, gentlemen, these boys are now fertilizing daffodils But if you listen real close, you can hear them whisper their legacy to you. Hear it? Carpe. Carpe diem. Seize the day, boys. Make your lives extraordinary. Because we are food for worms, lads Because believe it or not, each and every one of us in this room is one day going to stop breathing, turn cold, and die. Are you motivated? I thought about that phrase, carpadium, while studying Paul's words in 2 Corinthians chapter 6. With further study, I discovered the original usage of the phrase carpe diem was not related to what Paul was communicating. The first usage of Carpe Diem was by the Roman poet Horus, who advocated for getting as much enjoyment out of each day as possible, because the next day is unknown. Mind you, Paul is not against enjoying a day. It was simply not the message he was conveying to the Corinthian Christians. So let us examine that message from chapter 6, beginning at verse 1. Paul has already said in chapter 5, verse 20. That God makes his appeal to men through Paul himself. He wants the Christians at Corinth. to be assured that it is God himself who stands behind the message he gave them What is hard to know is precisely what Paul means when he speaks of someone receiving God's grace in vain. How is it possible to receive God's grace in vain? It may be best to think of him appealing here to the Corinthians here to stand firm in the grace they have already received. Just as he once said of himself that after preaching, he himself could possibly be disqualified. Verse 2 It is being underlined that God has visited these people with his salvation and have done so through Paul's own ministry. Paul's authority, which had been disputed by the Corinthians, was demonstrated by the work that God did in them through him. The word now drives this thought home. This is the time. The very moment of this letter was God's favor toward them. This is the time for them to give heed to his words. Not tomorrow, not next year, but now. A similar thought can be found in the prophet Isaiah: Seek the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Verses 3 and 4. In these verses, Paul both denies the charges that the false teachers have been making against him. And asserts the faithfulness of his ministry, largely by indicating how much he has suffered, suffered on behalf of the ministry God gave him to fulfill. He begins by saying that his personal behavior has not been inconsistent with his message, as this had again been one of the charges against him. We know very well today what damage is done to the credibility of the gospel and the reputation of Christianity when ministers are exposed to have purposefully gone on sinning. Paul was painstakingly careful to avoid giving any offense by the manner in which he lived. He did not want to put any obstacle in the way of people believing the message that he was bringing them Now, the list of hardships that Paul endured for the sake of the gospel has been called an apostolic identification card. We remember from a few weeks ago that this page is elaborated on in the same letter in chapter 11. We can see how this shorter summary prepares the way for that longer, more detailed account that Paul gives. Verse 5. I want you to notice the first triplets that are here: troubles, hardships, and distresses. Those are general terms to describe what he's been through. The second listing the triplet, beatings, imprisonment, and riots. Those are more specific to what we know In the New Testament, of what Paul went through, especially from the book of Acts. The third triplet are hard work, sleepless nights, and hunger. Those are difficulties more of a voluntary nature, which means that they were difficulties that Paul imposed on himself, believing them to be a testimony to others. His reference to labor may refer to Paul's practice of supporting himself by the trade of tent making while devoting himself also to preaching. The fasting was at times voluntary in order to increase his godly self-control At times to demonstrate to God the sincerity of his prayers, and at other times fasting was involuntary, being caused simply by the lack of food. Verse 6. Paul turns here from sufferings that he endured for the gospel's sake to the virtues of the Christian life. If the false teachers had pointed to Paul's hardships as a sign of his weakness, he points to his character as a Christian, showing that it had remained unchanged even with the difficulties of life. Verse 7. The phrase by the word of truth is best taken to be a reference not to the way that Paul speaks, but what he proclaims. The gospel. He preached the gospel, as they well knew in the power of God. Chapter 8, excuse me, verse 8 through 10, we have here the first of what we call antithesis. He says, as deceivers and yet true. It is the first of the seven antitheses that follow, in which the perception is contrasted to the reality, or the judgment by the flesh rather than judgments by the spirit. And then verses 11 through 13. Paul has demonstrated his affection for his spiritual children in Corinth. All he is asking is that they return the affection. So let's now turn to Matthew chapter 4, the gospel account of Jesus fasting in the desert 40 days. A passage we are very familiar with. I want us to see a connection between Paul's words in Corinthians to what Jesus is experiencing in the desert. What we note first is that Jesus was led by the Holy Spirit. So let us ask and answer why, what does it mean to be led by the Holy Spirit? The phrasing of being led by the Spirit occurs in two other places. The first is in Romans 8, where Paul is contrasting being led by the Spirit as opposed to being led by the flesh. They're opposites. The second is in Galatians, where Paul also contrasts Christians being led by the flesh as opposed to being led by the Spirit. So from these we know what being led by the Spirit is not. It is not living according to the desires of the flesh. And related to that, it is not avoiding godly counsel or godly teaching or godly preaching that would expose sins of the flesh. That's what we tend to do. We don't want to hear it, and so we just stop listening. Hence being led by the Spirit is doing things that are contrary to the living by the flesh When Jesus makes his way to the desert, he is consciously going to live out the discipline of his flesh. To show that he is not only led by the Spirit to the desert, but led by the Spirit in all of his living on earth. Jesus was going to the desert to bind the strongman and then plunder his house. And let us not ignore the antithesis in this account. For whereas the nation of Israel wandered in the desert forty years because they did not have faith in God to enter the promised land, So Jesus was in the desert 40 days to practice faith in God so that you and I can enter heaven Whereas Israel, while in the desert, complained of not having enough food or drink, Jesus goes without food, taking the human body to its limit. Whereas Israel tempted God with their discontent, Jesus withstood temptation of all types. And along with contrasting Jesus with the nation of Israel in the desert, we should also contrast Jesus in the desert and Adam in the garden. Adam was in paradise, where life was abundant and all was at peace, whereas Jesus was in a parched land with death and the means of death all around him. Adam could and did eat as he willed, except one particular fruit, whereas Jesus did not eat at all. Adam was tempted Adam was tempted by one thing and failed, whereas Jesus was tempted in all ways, his flesh being tempted to eat, then his mind being put to the test, and then his heart being tempted to bow. And Jesus was obedient. Jesus was without sin, and when Satan left Jesus in the desert, there was no more tempting him, for he had overcome it all. I'm now going to bring these two things together, these two passages, but I need to introduce you to something that I'm calling purposeful Christianity. Purposeful Christianity. When we teach parenting, we talk about purposeful parenting. Purposeful parenting is When you are not just going along in your day while accepting moments to teach and train a child as the moments come up, but instead you are planning ways to train your children. I might call my five-year-old son over to me and tell him I want him to pick up after the dog who had just chewed up a toy. I'm asking my five-year-old son to do so because he needs to learn how to be a part of the home, which means to do his part in the work that's needed. But I am also checking his heart to see if he is willing to obey me. If I sense hesitation or resistance or even a slight complaint, such as, well, why me? I then know that my son's heart needs more training, so that he obeys cheerfully and right away. To answer criticism, that this personal parenting approach seems to have the goal of the dad running the household like a tight ship, and all are to obey him as captain. That's not it at all. Instead, the end goal of purposeful parenting is to make it natural for my child to obey his governing authorities, the first one being God. So when he is being led by the Spirit to befriend a neighbor or to do service work for the troubled, he has a heart that's trained to do such. Also, purposeful parenting has the goal of giving your child, which I think is the greatest gift you can give besides faith in Christ, to give the child self-control. By being able to say no to what the flesh wants to do, but instead to do what the spirit wants to do. Now take those simple principles in purposeful parenting and apply them to the Christian life and you get purposeful Christianity. Look again at verse 12 of 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Paul and his companions had hearts that were open wide for a free exchange of Christian love. But the Corinthians were closed of heart. He says, restricted by their own affections. They could not control their affections They could not rightfully direct where their affections should go. They did not have self-control In order to grow out of their immaturity, remember he spoke to them as if they were children, in order to grow out of their immaturity, they needed to make decisions purposefully Do things that would free up their hearts to love and be loved by Christ Jesus. The season of Lent gives us opportunities to purposefully discipline our flesh So that we become more sensitive to the leading of the Holy Spirit while also increasing our self-control, so that we less and less live in obedience to the desires of our flesh. As opposed to the spirit. But of course, we need to be disciplined in our lives throughout the year, to be sure. But Lent grants us an emphasis of discipline. So what does this look like practically? I love to answer my own questions. Those are the easiest ones to answer. Practically, I can purposefully fast from food so as to learn how I am not to be a man led by my stomach, but is fed by the Spirit of God. And I can know that to do so is where the Holy Spirit leads because it would be the opposite of where my flesh leads and where the devil wants me to go. Fasting, and this point I can't underline more, fasting also helps me control other desires of the flesh. I learn how to deny myself in always. For example, and this is my testimony to you, I can be a very impatient man. Surprise, surprise. Especially while while driving in heavy traffic. But fasting has helped me say no to the feelings of anxiety that I have when traffic is slow and all the other drivers are stupid. And it doesn't take going into the desert 40 days to officially fast. Jesus did that so that no one else has to. In the year 604 A. D. , in a letter to St. Augustine of Canterbury Pope Gregory the Great announced the final form of abstinence that soon actually became law, that had Christians abstaining from flesh meat And from all things that come from flesh, such as milk, cheese, eggs, and butter. This was during Lent. This applied also, except to those of ill health Many Christians, especially in the East, still fast in this manner. For Christians today, what you do is up to you. You can fast a meal. You can fast a day. You can fast multiple days. You can fast from certain foods that you crave, fast from certain drinks you like It is between you and God. But once you make that commitment to fast, keep it, or there is no benefit from it. But even if you fail, try again. That's the Christian way. Then there is fasting from entertainment. One of my sons, when young, fasted from swinging on our swing set. He made it all the way to Easter Sunday, and the first thing he did after church was swing. But you and I have more distractions than swing sets. Our distractions we carry around with us or look at them on our desks or in our living rooms Denying ourselves of unfruitful habits is a means to be sensitive to where the Spirit is leading and help us see where and how we have been desensitized. And be assured, good Christian, that the devil wants you to watch more television, spend more time online, be more distracted by political hacks. Anything and everything he would like you to do besides being still and to know God In one sense, this sermon is very practical. I am calling us to be led more by the Spirit of God. The way to do that, as Paul said to the Romans and Galatians, is to no longer commit sins of the flesh. Such sins were part of the Greek and Roman culture. They were what everyone else did. The same is true for today. Our American culture, having thrown off its origins of Christian ethics, promotes sins of the flesh So we, like the Roman Christians and the Galatian Christians, are to live by the Spirit and not by the flesh conscientiously. And to do better at living by the Spirit, we have to purposefully do things that train ourselves to listen less and less to the flesh and more and more to the spirit. But we must do so now. Now is the time and not tomorrow. Today is the day of salvation. In closing, the following words from the combination service that were read on Ash Wednesday fit well with our passage from 2 Corinthians 6. We say there, therefore, brethren, take we heed be time, while the day of salvation lasteth. For the night cometh when none can work. But let us, while we have the light, believe in the light, and walk as children of the light. That we be not cast into utter darkness where is weeping and gnashing of teeth. Let us not abuse the goodness of God, who calleth us mercifully to amendment. And of his endless pity promiseth us forgiveness of that which is past, if with a perfect and true heart we return unto him For though our sins be as red as scarlet, they may be made white as snow. And though they be like purple, yet they shall be made white as wool. Turn ye, saith the Lord, from all your wickedness, and your sin shall not be your destruction. Cast away from you all your ungodliness that ye have done Make you new hearts and a new spirit. And I add, do it today. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, as we think upon our weaknesses, and we recognize how much more discipline we need to say no to the flesh and to be led by the Spirit. We give you thanks for every opportunity you give us to turn away from the direction of our flesh and turn to you. And we see today this is another opportunity May it be done to our salvation and your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.