In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Once again, I encourage you to turn to Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes chapter 9. We're picking up at verse 11. This is a series of sermons that it is most helpful if you follow along in your Bible. It's going to be explaining a lot of what might seem to be obscure statements in these passages. I'm wondering if you are on the boat, do you remember what you wanted to be when you grew up? You want to be a doctor, a lawyer, an astronaut, a policeman, fireman, teacher, politician, engineer, or any one of the other popular professions? And did you achieve what you wanted? It'll mean to pour salt and a wound if you didn't and that you have regrets. I ask this because studies have been done since 2010, and every year since then has come out to be the same, that half of teenagers When they are fully grown, they have the vision, the goal of being famous. When learning of this, it was new to me that being famous is an occupation. Thanks to social media, there are those who have achieved fame and made a lot of money. based on nothing more than being salacious contributors to social media. For Christians, the idea of pursuing fame should be seen as a contradiction To what we are to be pursuing in the short-spanned lifetime that God has given to each of us. The catechism teaches us that our purpose for existing is to glorify God. Our songs say, to thine be the glory, meaning to God be the glory. And we sing, if I receive any praise, let it go to Calvary. And all glory, praise, and honor to be Redeemer King. The Bible tells us to worship God alone and to seek his kingdom first. From these examples, there doesn't seem to be room for anyone who follows Jesus to seek out personal fame. Of course, it is not that easy to simply say Christians are not to seek personal fame, but it is with the same breath that we tell our children To do all for the glory of God. Whatever you do, do it to the very best you can do it. We read it last week from chapter 9, verse 10 of Ecclesiastes, where it says, Whatever our hands find to do, do it. We are told elsewhere that we have to live out our days, being fruitful and multiply. And so we are to be successful in this life. And with a certain amount of earthly success, someone can find personal fame. But with personal fame comes along greater responsibility, especially for Christians, because we claim to represent more than ourselves. We claim the name of Jesus. And with that, people expect that we live up to what we claim to be. And many, unfortunately, hope that we don't. Because it gives them another reason to reject the Christian faith. I remember the likes of athletes like Tim Tebow. becoming famous because of his football skills while also claiming to be a Christian while also publicly stating that he was going to remain a virgin until marriage Plenty of people were hoping for his downfall so that his Christian witness would be marred, so that those same people who hoped for his downfall could justify their own moral failings. Another fault line of fame for Christians is the elevating of Christian pastors to celebrity type status. Just last week, I saw another headline of a pastor of what are called mega churches being forced to step down because of indiscretions And the fact that him stepping down made headlines with certain media groups shows how some people are looking Looking for such hypocrisy in order to denigrate the Christian faith and to make themselves feel better about their own hypocrisy. But the problem is not only the indiscretions of men who are pastors, but includes the congregations that give their pastors celebrity-like status. We cannot sing if I receive any praise, let it go to Calvary, while also thinking And let it go to Pastor Mike as well, because he is just so wonderful. He understands me and he's so funny. I love his last sermon. The pattern seems to be that men with outgoing personalities and oratory skills with some feminine tendencies, let's be honest about it are elevated to the point of being praised by their congregations while also being allowed to live lives that have no accountability, for they have no one in leadership above them. And such fame feeds their ego to the point that they start to believe they are untouchable. It has gotten bad, but it has also gotten good when such men are exposed. But such exposure should include the members of those churches that elevate such men to that celebrity status. In our reading of Ecclesiastes, we have heard this morning about the superiority of wisdom. Instead of pursuing fame, God's people are to pursue wisdom. Because Solomon is our preacher. We remember that when the Lord said that he could ask for anything, and it would be given to him, Solomon asked for wisdom. And the Lord was so pleased, so pleased he gave Solomon enough wisdom to be claimed by all who met him to be the wisest man they had ever known. But wisdom, like most anything else we pursue in this life, has its limitations. It doesn't bring about all that we had hoped it would The observations made in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, verse 11 describe what wisdom cannot explain. We would expect a race always to go to the swift, and the battle to the strong, and the bread to the wise, and riches to the smartest, but that does not happen. The use of the word chance is to be understood as referring to events that happened that no one could have foreseen. And those same events change the outcome from what was expected. And wisdom also does not determine the time a man will die. We all know too well that people who have left us too suddenly and unexpectedly, wisdom also cannot foretell the future. Wisdom seemed great to the preacher, to King Solomon, but he provides a story next to show again the limitation of wisdom. It starts in verse 13 by presenting a contrast between a small city and a large kingdom. A great king would be a king who had a great army. It would be a king who had at his disposal the finest of weaponry. It would be a king who had the wisdom and skill to use his great army to defeat most kingdoms around him. For such a king to besiege a city would be quick and simple. Such a king and his army could quite easily make a full assault on a small city without losing many men. But this king, apparently wanting to give the people of the city a chance to survive, decides to surround the walls with men and traps. In order to keep the people inside the gates and force them to surrender. Why this city was besieged, we do not know But we can guess by the manner it was saved. We can speculate that there were a few bombastic citizens that would not give homage to the great king We can surmise that there were rich men in the city who thought themselves to be kings and who were unwilling to submit to the authority of this great king. We can imagine that their pride got the best of them and their tongues displayed their pride. And the king responded how any great king would respond, which is to bring the prideful to their knees. Within the city, however, there was a wise man. He was wise but poor. Just as the preacher said earlier, there are those who are wise and still have need of bread. And so this wise man rightly suggested that he go and try to reason with the great king. The wise man, excuse me, the wise man. Would not have been regarded in the city because he was not wealthy, but he did have a reputation of being wise, and so it was given to him permission to intercede He may have likely gone to the great king, found out what the great king wanted, and compromised with the great king for what was reasonable, and brought the information back to the elders of the city. The elders likely heard what was reasonable and concluded that it would be a small thing for them to comply as compared to losing their lives. and losing their families to the swords of the great king's army, and so they conceded to the compromise. The city was saved And there was likely great rejoicing and great feasting and much to be thankful for after the seed was over. But when all the celebrating died down, No one remembered the poor, wise man that saved them. So, wisdom does not always bring fame. No, it does not. So what is the point of being wise? Such a question would be hard for young minds. to answer today, again, because of the obsession for fame. The scenarios that follow in the text describe a world That does not work in the manner we hope or expect. Wise words should be heard over the shouts of a fool. Wisdom should be preferred over war, but it takes but one man to destroy peace. Perfume can be pleasing until it is corrupted by flies. One foolish word can sully a wise man's reputation. Fools can rise to great places of authority while wise men sit in low places. The digging of a pit can be useful, but a place of misfortune if the one who dug the pit falls into it. A man can break through a wall to defeat his enemy only to be bitten by a serpent on the other side A man can clear land of rocks only to be crushed by one of them. A man can split wood to warm his home, only to be impaled by a shard. One of the points of all these observations is that an entire plan can be thwarted by one small oversight or an event outside of a man's control. This is not stated, mind you, to dissuade a man from making plans or from digging or building or clearing or cutting. It is again simple observations of how the world actually works. In verses 11 through 15 of Ecclesiastes chapter 10, the lesson for wisdom is a comparison between the careful words of a wise man and the senseless talk of a fool. These words remind us of the wisdom in the Epistle of James as he warns us of the sin that is brought about because of the tongue. A foolish person reasons that because he or she lacks knowledge, they can make up for it by out talking others. A fool makes confident statements regarding life and his understanding of it. He believes he has it figured out and that he controls what is out of any man's ability to control. The last section of chapter 10, verses 16 through 20 teaches us that what we think we may want politically and socially is not always what we think it will be. We might think we want a ruler as innocent as a child, but innocence does not necessarily provide wisdom. We might think we don't want someone born of prestige and position as a ruler, but with prestige and position comes education, life experience, and these provide wisdom. Verses 18 and 19 provide another lesson on the virtue of work versus idleness. And the phrase money answers everything. can be interpreted to mean that you are only able to enjoy a feast when you are able to provide for a feast, which is to be able to pay for it. The last verse of the chapter brings us back to our relationship with our leaders. Again, there is no wisdom in a person setting himself up to be an adversary of a ruler or an adversary of those who hold high positions because of their wealth. For this preacher, there is a primary lesson for us. From this section of scripture, we have covered. The preacher of Ecclesiastes has instructed us that it is best to pursue wisdom in this life. And then And then he spends a great deal of time explaining how wisdom has its limitations. It does not provide fame. It can put you in conflict with foolish rulers. It can confuse you about the world around you, because what you expect to happen doesn't always happen, and what you expect should be doesn't always occur. The lesson for this generation is for us to recognize how much we have been influenced to pursue what is popular, prestigious, and trending and to pursue wealth by any means necessary. And speaking of what is popular and trendy Those of you who are seasoned might not be aware of how quickly information is disseminated and wrong information is disseminated via the Internet The young are able to receive information through tweets or Instagrams within seconds to their phone devices And what is happening is that a story breaks and it's reported in a tweet or on X or WhatsApp or WeChat or TikTok And that story is regurgitated with alarm and shock or immediate opinion without knowing any more of the story than the original two sentences. And because this information is so fast, those who are swimming in this social media ocean move on quickly To another social media story without bothering to follow up on the first story to find out more information The result is that nothing is thought about thoroughly. No opinion is substantiated with necessary facts. The devil, the devil has fostered a spirit of immediacy that tempts people, especially young people, to want to keep up, to never be out of the loop. And what is really happening to the devil's glee is that people are chasing their proverbial tales. What is needed? What is needed is wisdom, but wisdom that is sought after because of where it eventually leads. What is needed is wisdom that leads to Jesus. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the light. The wisdom of Ecclesiastes can only be understood and applied when understanding and embracing the gospel of Jesus Christ. As followers of Jesus Christ, we can be aware that the world does not operate in a manner we would hope or expect, that there are certainties of life. For while there are many things that we don't understand and cannot understand in this vaporous life we live, we can know Jesus. Jesus brings sense and perspective and peace to issues in our lives we cannot grasp. But on second thought. On second thought, following Jesus isn't the wisest thing we can do in this life, if it is this life we care about most. Jesus divides. Jesus sets standards we cannot achieve on our own. Jesus will have no other God before him. Jesus is not put up with people who step on his road to heaven and then look back. When Jesus prays for us to not be taken out of this world so that we might be witnesses, he also says that he has made his followers not of this world. To be of the world is to be a product of the world. It is to be pushed along by the evil spirits of each age. It is to go the way of the wide road that most people travel off. To pursue fame simply to be famous. To support a candidate for office because famous people do? To form an opinion about a moral issue because a popular person tweeted the same? To not test every spirit, which is to say every fad that comes along, is to place yourself right in the middle of the wide road that most people are traveling on. I tried for several days to find a story about a person giving up fame to follow Jesus. But I realized that such a story would continue to focus our attention on the allure of being famous. And so I decided to tell you a story from my own average life. I came to know Jesus and confess Him as Savior just before I turned 18 years old. And just after that, deciding to follow him, I went to a high school basketball game, involved in that, and afterwards Usually got with my buddies and did things teenagers shouldn't be doing. And as I walked out in the parking lot and my buddies pulled up, get in, let's go! I said to myself, are you gonna follow Jesus? Or follow them. And I decided to follow Jesus. And so I said, no, not going today. And I went home. Sat in my basement with my parents. I watched TV. Choosing to follow Jesus. Give me as simple as going home and watching TV. I believe every Christian, whether you grow up in the church or not, needs to have moments like that. And I say moments as in plural instances because there could be several instances where you need to make a choice that leads to Jesus. That is the wisest decision a person can ever make. Amen. Let us pray Gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for that goal of wisdom, but we also thank you for the testimony of this preacher. It tells us that wisdom has its faults, wisdom has its shortcomings. And so we thank you for where it needs to lead ultimately to your Son, our Savior. May all of us make that choice. To follow Jesus. Amen.