In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It helped you to turn in your Bibles to Ezra chapter 10. Ezra chapter 10. And I would say that it was obviously providential that I learned this week about an upcoming movie to be released by Paramount Pictures That is based on Ezra chapter ten. It is called the Family That Stood Alone. It is a story based off of the narrative of Ezra chapter 10 and specifically verse 15 where we ended. A man by the name of Jehosiah stands against the leaders of Israel, and specifically against Ezra, the high priest. As he decides that he will not go along with the apparent forced divorce from his wife Halafa. He chooses instead to live in exile amidst pagan tribes in order to devote himself to the woman he decides is his only true love. The story depicts the hard decision made by Jehaziah to leave his family's faith, withstand persecution from his own Jewish people. And have the decision to live for the love of his life, even to embrace her gods. The story is summarized as love conquering divisiveness and love conquering dead traditions. Can we imagine watching such a movie and getting sucked into this love story of Jehosiah and Hallah as they are determined to overcome the stubbornness of their traditional leader Ezra, overcome their family that's stuck in their prejudicial ways The love of Jehosiah and Halal on the movie screen can be believed to be more pure than any religious conviction and certainly more important than any religious law. I will not be watching the movie The Family That Stood Alone. And well, no one else will be watching the movie The Family That Stood Alone because I made it up But it sounded believable, didn't it? I hope it sounded believable. At least based it off of generic love stories that Hollywood displays that have the underlying message that human romantic love conquers all circumstances, even religious circumstances. Well, just as Ezra 9, chapter 9 was a difficult passage of Scripture to address and to embrace, so too is Ezra chapter 10. For it is the outcome of the sin that was revealed in Ezra chapter 9. The sin revealed, you remember, was Jewish men who having returned from exile and settled back into the city of God, Jerusalem, they began to marry pagan wives. As shown last week, such behavior is clearly forbidden by God And it should be acknowledged that there was no possible way for any of these Jewish men not to know that to do so was against Jewish law unless they had been sleeping throughout all of their synagogue and temple worship services. And Ezra chapter ten The narrative takes us to the moment of decision regarding what is to be done about the sin of God's people intermarrying with people who worship false gods. From chapter 10, verse 1, the truth of the sins committed is verified by the weeping of the people. They are either guilty of committing such sin themselves, or they are living amidst friends and family who have committed that sin. Verse 2 is the confession, and it is a confession not just of a few guilty families, but of the entire people. For it is acknowledged that where one family or one person of a family sinned, and nothing was done against such a sin, That all of God's people are then complicit in the sin, which means guilty. The restoration stated in verse 3 is the obvious necessary response to a guilty plea. The men who took foreign wives must put away their wives, which means divorce their wives. In order to take away the godless influence that was in the midst of God's people For Ezra, the matter was not easy. It was not easy because of the re Lational and thus emotional pain of what it meant to put away these women Ezra the high priest is not a callous man, and that he is only concerned about the law of God being upheld. With no care or concern about obeying God's law and how that's affecting the people, emotionally, relationally But he cares most about not putting away godless influences that will affect the people's relationship with God. That's most important. And so Ezra displays a mourning for the sin of the people. He displays a bereavement for a loss of relationship. the brokenness that was between the people and their God. The loss of relationship will be, yes, between husbands and wives. But more importantly, the loss of relationship between God and his people. And Ezra displays the heart of God, Who does not want any to perish, and that includes the people who worship pagan gods. Instead, as he says, he desires that all people come to repentance. Not continue in their sin, but repent. So in Ezra we see a type of Jesus, how Jesus is for us. He is the intercessor between God and the sinners. He is the one who mourns for our sins. It is not his sins for which he mourns, but the sins of God's people. Jesus mourns for us when we sin. He mourns and goes through bereavement when we choose to break God's commandments He laments our decisions that choose pleasure in this life as opposed to obedience that leads to pleasures forevermore. Jesus is like a husband at the wake for his own wife For he mourns for us when we choose to be indifferent about what influences we allow to direct our lives. And so the only possible way to rectify the scenario is to put away the sin. It is to stop sinning, and to stop sinning, the guilty must separate themselves from their pagan wives. As we consider the emotional pain of such separation, I wonder if it can be softened a little bit. Maybe a little bit. Consider first how easily Mosaic law allowed for men to divorce a wife. It was not required of a husband to find anything morally wrong in his wife to justify a certificate of divorce. Now Jesus will make moral failing the requirement of his followers for divorce, but Jesus explained that God allowed for easier divorce under the law of Moses. because he knew the hardness of the hearts of the people. Thus God allowed for a lower standard to be applied until the time of Jesus He now is the eternal standard. And so divorces were not uncommon in the days of Ezra, and certainly not difficult to acquire. Many of those pagan wives could have expected to be handed a certificate of divorce for any reason at all and be sent back to their pagan tribe. Does that help? Does that soften what it meant to put away these wives? In verse 3, we have the character Shechaniah. He makes the general confession for the people And he includes in his confession the children of the wives as part of all that should be put away or sent away after the divorce. In verse 44, the last verse of the chapter and of the book, we are told after the listing of all the families that had wives taken away and sent back to their pagan tribes, that some of the couples did indeed have children. The note that some had children tells us that children were involved in possibly a few of these family situations. Does that make us feel any better? There's just a few. The one commentator I read believes that because verse 11 mentions only the wives being sent away, that that allows the reader to conclude that the children born in these marriages were able to stay with their fathers. He even speculates that the children were taken care of, which to him means that they were educated in the religion of Yahweh and entered the Jewish faith as converts. Does that make us feel any better? Even if the happy ending proposed by this commentator occurred There were still mothers who had empty arms the rest of their days. Beloved, we are to remember. That the wages of sin is death, always death. And with death, there is pain. The pain is an unnatural tearing away of life from a body, whether the life is spiritual or physical. But the people of God, but for the people of God to return to God, meaning to be in right relationship with God They were to return to Jerusalem and to worship God as God had prescribed in his temple And to follow his laws that he had given, so that the people of Israel would be his people and they would be his God, their God, and they would be his people. And to do all of that, they must first repent for the sin of marrying pagan wives. And to do so was painful. Relationships had to die. And a question for us today is how we are like the Jewish people of Ezra's day. Are we like the Jewish people of Ezra's day? What influences are we married to in our individual lives that lead us away from worshiping the one true God? Now the most obvious example is the same one Israel faced. The problem is and has been Christians who desire to marry non-Christians To do so is to do the same as the men in Ezra's day. It is to go against what God has clearly forbidden, and even repeated in the New Testament through St. Paul, who said Christians are not to be unequally yoked. Meaning joined together with unbelievers. To even consider such relationships is a revelation As to who or what is being served as a God in a particular life It has been said from this pulpit before that besides choosing to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, The most important decision anyone can make is whom he or she will marry. And that decision will greatly affect how serious you follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Do not turn away your ears from such a prophetic statement. Another example as to who we allow to influence us is who we allow to teach us. Government schools can be similar to pagan spouses as they tell us who we are to believe, and they want us to believe them first and last. Who we are to trust as our sources, and even what we are to conclude about the beginning of time and the existence of God. These schools want to own our children from pre-K through graduate school. By then they believe they have succeeded in filtering out any notion of a benevolent God. And have replaced it with a trust in a supposedly all-caring government bureaucracy. Every teacher we allow to influence ourselves or our children, we are responsible for, which means we will answer to God for them. It is no longer an acceptable excuse that we send our children to school just like our parents sent us to school. Times have changed, and schools have changed, and changed to the detriment of the souls of our children. I must also mention what teachers in the Christian faith we allow to influence us There are preachers who will not preach certain sections of the Bible because the content is too controversial. There are Bible teachers who will not speak sound doctrine because they don't know it when they read it. For some teachers the word doctrine is too divisive Whenever we choose a teacher to influence our understanding of God, we must examine ourselves as to what motivates or causes us to choose such an influence. If there is pride, jealousy, ignorance, or immaturity, in our decision-making, we must confess it and put it away. Another example of who we allow to influence us is who we allow to inform us about our daily news, and who helps us understand the news. A survey finished this past summer found that nearly 70% of millennials get their daily news from a source on social media. That should concern us all no matter what source that is. Older folks such as myself still rely on newspapers online or hard copy and television news And too many, by my count only, get their news from the Opras and the Ellens of the world, especially their understanding of the news. And what can be said that is absolutely for certain is that none of these sources are trustworthy For their God is the devil. And none of these provide wisdom, for they have not the Holy Spirit to guide them in their comments towards the truth. Now a list of all possible influences in our lives cannot be exhausted here But each can be examined regarding its effectiveness to our faith in God and our confession of the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, it is easier to separate ourselves from a news anchor as opposed to a teacher that we love It is easier to stop reading news on Twitter than to give up our favorite talk show that makes us laugh every day And that brings us back to Jehosiah and his like-minded buddy Jonathan, verse 15 These did not agree with Ezra, and the decision to have the guilty men of Israel divorce themselves from their pagan wives was rejected by them. Jahazia may have been in a profound romantic love with his pagan wife, and that meant that the answer of divorce was not obvious nor a reasonable option in his heart. Emotions can play a very, very big part in a person's decision-making and how serious they are at following God. Emotions of the heart can appear to have the power of a thousand men, causing us to feel like we can do nothing but follow our heart. But when we hear words of Jesus who said that his followers must love him before they love their own families, can we not conclude that what we feel at times Must be disobeyed. When our emotions tempt us to do what is in opposition to God's law, the Holy Spirit says, put them away. When Jesus instructed his followers that they must pick up their own personal cross, their own dying instrument, and follow him. Does that not mean that for each confessing Christian, that our closest friends who do not have faith in God, that they cannot be a source of counsel to us? When friends tempt us to follow the wide road where many travel, we must hear the Holy Spirit say, put them away. When St. Paul instructs believers in the Lord Jesus Christ to be transformed by the renewing of their minds He expects Christians to challenge every way of thinking that they had used before, as well as questioning what had been accepted as group think. Usual ways, popular ways, conventional ways of thinking, when such goes against Holy Scripture, must be put away. That requires Christians to go counter culture. And yet Going counter-culture today is like sticking a wet finger in the air to see which way the wind is blowing only ten minutes later that the wind has changed What Christians need to trust is that to go the way of the Savior is to go the way of counterculture, no matter which way the wind is blowing. We take the example of the daily headlines that we have been reading News anchors and male politicians being exposed because of their sexual abuses, even though these same people have been praised multiple times as defenders for the causes of women. The wind blew one way and then another. And all the while there's this vice president who says that he won't be alone with another woman and that is not his wife. And all of a sudden he seems like a stable source. That is what the church can be to a lost and dying culture. the culture we have around us, if we put away the proverbial pagan wives To put away the proverbial pagan wife is to put away any influence that would pull us, tempt us, counsel us against Jesus as our Savior and our God. Put it all away. This Advent season, a season of preparation. There is a good message for us. Put it all away. As the preacher to the Hebrews stated. Let us throw off everything that hinders. Put it away. Let us pray.