I got locked out of my iPad and it didn't recognize my face. Sometimes I wake up in the morning and Turn it on and it looks at me and goes, I don't recognize it. We are in Ephesians chapter 4, part of our reading from Ephesians 4, starting at verse 17. The epistle reading assigned to us this nineteenth Sunday after Trinity finds us in the middle of St. Paul's letter to the Ephesians It is a letter that I least like to preach from because it is so perfect a letter that I feel inadequate To comment about it. But that is my job. And so I reluctantly try. In the first three chapters of this letter, Paul reminded these Christians of their great salvation Which is given as a free gift by God the Father, accomplished by God the Son, and placed in their possession by God the Holy Spirit. At the beginning and at the end of those three chapters, he prayed that they would come to appreciate the greatness of God's love for them and to appreciate how much the triune God has done for them. Then, with the so often used word therefore, Paul turns from theology to ethics in chapter 4, verse 1. From God's grace and gift to us, to our expected response of love and obedience to Him His main point is that we Christians must walk worthy of the gifts God has lavished on us. And what Paul is proceeding to tell us is how to do that and what it looks like. In verse 16, in the first 16 verses of chapter 4, he focuses on the unity of the people of God And they're maturing together into a loving fellowship that works fruitfully in his service. He has reminded us Christians that we derive the strength to live this holy life from Christ Himself, to whom we are connected as the body is connected to the head. We have no excuse then if we do not live as we ought. Now, in the section that we are looking at today, Paul is going to speak in general before descending to the particulars of the Christian life. He is going to talk about putting off the old man and putting on the new man. That is, he is going to describe the Christian life as new creation. Christians are as new creatures. New men and women. God has made them so by the Holy Spirit. Now they must live according to that new nature. That is how a mature Christian lives. Paul spoke about growing up into maturity in the previous section and now defines how that is done in the verses we are about to read, starting at verse 17. This I say therefore and testify in the Lord that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk in the futility of their mind. The section begins with another therefore. This is a continuation of the therefore in verse 1 of the chapter. It is, as the grammarians say, a resumptive. And indicates that he is still building his ethics out of his theology. That is indicated further by the fact that Paul once again uses the word walk Again, in verse 1, walk. We must strive to walk in a certain way because Christ has saved us to walk that way. If we have been saved to grow up into Christ and become mature in Him, if each of us as part of Christ's body, we must build itself up, the body entirely This is what we must do. This is what we must set out to become. We will have another, therefore, in chapter 4, verse 25. where Paul finally descends from the general statements of the nature of the Christian living that occupied his first 24 verses of the chapter. to the particular of Christian living that will take him to the end of the letter. But before we move on, we must appreciate Paul's insistence on this connection between doctrine and life. Our daily living ought to always flow from what we say we believe. Who we know is God, and what we know He has done for us. And we must understand what the end goal is, where we're trying to go. If your daily Christian life does not flow naturally from what you say you believe, and if you still find yourself envious of the world, These words by Paul are for you, and for all of us who will be tempted later in life to fall back into the sinful habits we thought we laid aside so many years before. He says the futility of the mind. The futility of the non-believing mind mentioned in this verse is thinking That sins of the flesh are natural, and that the futility is exposed when people prefer to be defined by their sins of the flesh. Futility of the mind is further thinking that the meaning of life is solely subjective and thus self-determined. Futility of the mind is in the thinking that each individual person is the master of his own fate, including the fate of his or her own soul. For many, such thinking will be found futile only at their day of judgment. Verse 18 Having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. The problem with the life of unbelief is that it has lost touch with reality. Those of us who came to the Christian faith with years of unbelief behind us, we marvel at how foolish we were in our thinking and in our actions. What really mattered, which means eternally mattered, didn't matter to us at all. And what was fleeting and harmful was what we cared about most. But, as Romans 1 also says, the ignorance of an unbeliever is no excuse, which means that non-believers are responsible for their unbelief. Verse 19 Who being past feeling have given themselves over to lewdness To work all uncleanness with greediness. The past feelings mentioned are feelings of shame and guilt from sin. The longer a person lives in sin, the more callous they become to God and thus to truth. We also notice that lewdness refers to sins of the flesh, and greediness is a love for money. Sex and money were idols then, and they still are today. And we notice that Paul describes the unbelieving world as very dark and void of meaning. As Dr. Rayburn points out in his comments about this verse, quote, Paul says nothing at all about the positive features of that life. that have long been very impressive to those who have studied the classical period. We hear from Paul nothing about their achievements in art or building or government or civilization. Paul is interested in the moral dimensions of life and in that dimension as viewed from God's perspective and the perspective of the last judgment. You can build remarkable buildings that are still the amazement of the world. You can engineer an aqueduct that still, these thousands of years later, carries water hundreds of miles You can write literature that still moves men's minds and hearts in our modern world. You can do all of these things and still go to hell In verses 20 through 21, Paul reminds the Christian Ephesians that what they have learned about Jesus is the opposite of the unbelieving world. In verses 22 through 24, Paul summons Christians to grow up into Christian maturity by putting off the old man. Or the old self and putting on the new self. Christian readers of the Bible instinctively know what Paul, what St. Paul is talking about Even if theologians and preachers preach around the idea. The theologians and preachers' problem is created by the fact that in the New Testament, even the writings of Paul, the old man, or equivalent terminology for the human being still in sin and unbelief, not yet renewed by the power of Christ and the Holy Spirit, not yet reborn. Not yet a new creation as spoken of as dead and destroyed. In Romans 6 Paul says that because we were in Christ when he died and rose again from the dead, we have been freed from sin. Is that your experience? Saint John in his letter, first letter, puts it even more strongly. He says, no one who is born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in him. He cannot go on sinning because he has been born of God. 1 John 3. 9 Is that your experience? And Christians know what this teaching means. If they became Christians after living as unbelievers for years, they know very well how dramatically their lives have changed when they said, I believe. They know that a revolution has taken place in their morals and their desires and in their behavior itself. Isn't that all of our experience? They know they are new creatures, and that the old things have passed away, and all things have become new. Isn't that true for all of us? And even if a person has been a Christian for as long as he or she can remember, they know very well how fixed and how inescapable is their commitment to Christ. Isn't that it for you? They can compare even within themselves the life of sin and the life of righteousness, and they know very well that they are unalterable. Committed to righteousness, that they belong with the Lord, and that they must live for Him and cannot do otherwise. Isn't that true for all of us? They have died to sin just as surely as the man or woman who has dramatically converted in their twenties or thirties and who underwent a remarkable and obvious revolution in their life when she or he or she became a Christian. We all have that identity, don't we? But if the old man is dead, If the old man is dead, how is it that we are commanded to put him off? If he is dead, shouldn't he just fall off? I think that is a very important question to ask. For thus far I have been describing an ideal Christian life. Where a person, whether converted later in life or growing up in the faith, truly loves God and truly hates sin, and the fruit of their life reveals as much. Whereas many of us find our lives not so victorious and our living not so self-controlled. We speak poorly to our spouse. We eat what is unhealthy and unnecessary. We talk disparagingly about someone out of turn. We are ungrateful for the blessings we clearly don't deserve. And we don't give God the glory that He deserves from us. And that last sin of not giving God the glory he deserves from us is quite dangerous. For Paul teaches us in Romans that Abraham was strengthened in his faith by giving glory to God, whereas prior he explained that the people who did not give glory to God were turned over to the power of the sins they so desperately wanted to serve. And I hope you have noticed that all the sins I have described thus far, I did not mention sexual immorality or the love of money, because those sins are usually the focal point But there are so many other sins that we commit and return to without considering that, although not as popular, are just as damning. The good news of Paul having to tell the Ephesian Christians to put off the old man and to put on the new man is that it is necessary for all Christians to do. Meaning that it did not happen without needed instruction and needed obedience. And that means that all Christians struggle to live as they should. All of us do The old man may be able to be be put off, but we need to do so again and again Earlier when I spoke ideally about how Christians should be living as compared to their unbelieving days, or how Christians should be able to see clear improvements in their lives as they walk with Jesus. Some of you may have checked out on me psychologically, concluding that such maturity may be for others, but not for you. And that there must be something spiritually wrong with you because such described victories over sin are few. Even though evangelists can present the Christian life as victorious and carefree, because all guilt and shame are set in the past. Because of the forgiveness and thus freedom Jesus offers, those of us who have lived the Christian life know differently. And that to walk with Christ is to be blessed at one moment and suffer blows the next moment, with most of those blows being self-inflicted. And such a cycle repeats itself again and again. Consider how many ways the epistles in the New Testament instruct Christians to break away from sin, especially sins of the past. And then to receive what God has made new for us. This wouldn't happen unless it was a problem. The Romans were told to be transformed by the renewing of their minds. Paul didn't write that unless they weren't being transformed by the renewing of their minds. The Corinthians were to be strong and courageous against being divided. And he wrote it because they weren't. The Galatians were to walk in the Spirit and not the flesh. Why? Because they were walking in the flesh and not the Spirit The Ephesians were to put off the old man and put on the new. Why? Because they weren't. I trust you get the point. All Christians have sins to confront and to move past. All Christians have something to die in them and something to be made new. And I don't preach this because misery loves company, and therefore I want you to have company. I preach this way because the devil tempts us to give up. I see it all the time in coaching, whether it be an older player or a young child. You teach them a new skill skill, and they don't do it properly the first few times, and there is a fear of failure that quickly can be seen in the player's face And the next temptation is to quit. The worst part of being a pastor The worst part of being a pastor, worse than all the complaints about your personality, about your hard words, about song choices. About hymnals chosen, about service times, about Sunday school demands, about counseling the obstinate, about masks About being made aware of sins in the home, none of it is as difficult as watching people quit the faith. Some do it outright, telling me they no longer believe. Others do it by claiming To still be Christian while no longer worshiping God and then living with the boyfriend and then not thinking about God in any serious sense Thus, their life is then lived as if they officially denounced the faith. Regardless of how you are constantly taking off the old man, And because you keep returning to your former sins and constantly putting on the new man because you want to be that new man, Regardless of how many times you repeat the cycle, do not quit the faith. Never, ever quit. In our gospel reading, we have another example of imputed righteousness in the form of healing. The text says that Jesus saw their faith, which would have been those who carried the paralytic and the paralytic himself. And because of that faith, Jesus chose to forgive the paralytics' sin. The carriers And the paralytic were likely initially confused because they came for a healing of the body. And they got a healing, but not the type they initially came for. Of the type that they all needed, that we all need. Let us be reminded of why the scribes accused Jesus of committing blasphemy. Only God can forgive sins, and by Jesus claiming to be able to forgive sins, he is also claiming to be God. And no man is God, therefore Jesus committed blasphemy. But he didn't, because he is God. He then asked, Jesus then asked, what is easier? Which is to ask what is harder. Is it harder to forgive sins than it is to heal? For healing in this life is a momentary power of God, restoring a body, only for that body to become sick or injured again and then die. But to forgive sins requires death by sacrifice. And a sacrifice that is sinless. And such a life is repeatedly and constantly saying no to desires that go against God's law and to your own personal will. And all of that sacrificial living leads to sacrificially dying by willing to give up one's life, give it over to the authorities to be beaten, mocked, and then crucified. That is why forgiving sins is harder. And that forgiving of sins is not in this world only, but in the next. And thus it is eternal. And the eternal forgiveness of sins is why you do not quit. What Jesus offers is forgiveness for your eternal soul. And your eternal soul will never quit. It will continue, and it is for you to decide whether it will continue for eternal life or death. If it is for life, never quit. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God for this message, for the reality of those who have quit. We pray that they would repent and be given better minds. And we pray here for all who are hearing this sermon, hearing this message. May they never quit. May they always turn to you and find forgiveness of sins. This we pray in Jesus' name and all of God's people said, Amen.