In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You may be seated. The Church of the Nazarene, a denomination I served for over nine years. Elects ministers to a position titled District Superintendent. The position of District Superintendent gives a man the responsibility to oversee a number of churches within a particular region. The position is very much like a bishop Only it is not an ordained position or a permanent position like a bishop, but is one that is voted on every few years. In 1996, 25 years ago, at a district council meeting where we were to elect the next district superintendent to a region in the Northwest. A minister by the name of Steve Fletcher, a man I did not know personally, preached the sermon for the worship service that day. He began by describing a plane flight he was on that had television screens that were displaying World news. Back then flights had video screens every ten rows or so and everyone watched the same video, whether a news or or a movie. Today we are quite spoiled with screens on the back of seats or using our own devices. But he described spellbound the people at that worship service. as he depicted a newscast that showed the separate nations of Europe with their various boundaries, and then showed those boundaries wiped out and the whole Europe becoming one nation. What the newscast was anticipating was what is known as the European Unification. What the Reverend Fletcher did was use that newscast to describe the end times The belief in the end times that the whole world is going to come under one government ruler who is the Antichrist. And from him, people would be forced to receive the number 666 in order to be able to buy food, shelter, and clothing. Those who refuse the number of the beasts would be refused basic sustenance and would suffer in the great tribulation. The Reverend Fletcher painted such an urgent message that he was elected that day to be the next district superintendent. And I remember listening to that sermon and watching the reaction of the members of the council be spellbound, and I realized how obsessed people can become about the subject of the end times. If you want to make money off of Christians, write a convincing book about the end times. Our gospel reading From Luke chapter 21 is very similar to what is called the Olivet Discourse in the Gospel according to St. Matthew, which are a series of teachings by Jesus about what is to come And many interpret it to be describing a future not yet seen. Looking at verse 25 from Luke 21, We can add from other passages that the sun will be darkened and the moon not give light. The moon not giving light would be the result of the sun being darkened. The perplexity of the nations would be the mental confusion, for if the sun is not shining, there would come upon all persons on earth a confusion regarding day and night. and the inability to see clearly to perform everyday tasks. The sea and the waves roaring is a clear metaphor for nations being in chaos, which means that individuals will be in chaos. We can be sure of this metaphor because elsewhere in the Bible where it describes the exodus of Israel from Egypt, the waters are gathered up. So that Israel could pass through on dry land and that's a metaphor for the nations giving way to Israel as she enters the promised land? The metaphor is further taken up when the book of Revelation describes Jesus sitting on his throne, and before him is a sea of glass, which is the way of describing how Jesus brings calm to the nations. In verse 26, we hear of the reaction of those alive who witness the lights of the universe going out. The phrase, men's hearts failing, literally means that their souls are going out of them, which is another way of describing a person who dies. The powers of heaven being shaken is a repeat of what is described in verse 25. Verse 27 clearly describes Jesus returning to earth to judge the nations. It is his second coming. With that second coming, there will be no doubt who it is or what he has come to do. Jesus encourages his followers that when that day comes, they are to look up and lift their heads, which is an expression of anticipation and hope. They are to anticipate and hope because their final redemption will be a present reality. I want to pause here for a moment, for it is important for us to know that simply dying while believ while being a believer. In Jesus Christ is not when our final redemption is a present reality. The Bible tells us that believers in Jesus Christ at their death will be with Jesus That is for sure. That is their spirit will be with Jesus. But the final salvation of God's people is still yet to come. At that final salvation, our bodies, in whatever form or shape they are, will be raised, and Christians will receive new bodies and receive a heavenly reward. And that is the time where there will be no more tears. Until then, those who have died in Christ are with Jesus, and they are awaiting that final resurrection. So when Jesus returns, it will be the final redemption of all believers. Jesus' next point points to what is very natural. Excuse me, Jesus' next point. Next points to what is very natural to them, as they lived in a part of the world that readily grew fig trees. The time of year Jesus said this would have been in the spring where everything was growing around them A modern image for us who live near the United States Capitol might be the blossoming of the cherry trees. Times in life provide signs that something else is coming. Thus, when the nations become disturbed and distressed, so we can know that something else is coming, and that something else would be Jesus. Where some Bible readers get tripped up is the promise in verse 32. Such a verse has led some interpreters to believe that the destruction of Jerusalem was the subject of this prophecy By Jesus, for that occurred in 70 A. D. , and there certainly were people who heard those words of Jesus and who witnessed the city fall to the Romans. But of course, the fall of Jerusalem did not immediately usher in the return of Jesus as judge. So, what are we to do with this apparent discrepancy? Well, we take the time to answer this apparent discrepancy because we believe the words that Jesus speaks in verse 33. Which is that the words of Jesus will not pass away, meaning that all he says will be true This lines up with St. Paul's words that we read from Romans regarding the Word of God. After quoting Psalm 69, Paul reminds the Romans that all that was written before, which was called the Old Testament, Was written for the comfort of the Christians, being able to see how God's word was fulfilled in the person of Jesus And it is the person of Jesus, I remind you, that causes us to conclude that the Old Testament is God's word, for Jesus confirmed that it is. But believing in the Bible to be the very words of God, both the Old and New Testament, doesn't go far enough. The scriptures have to be read, understood, and in order for them to be edifying and comforting and informative, we must read them and understand them. One very important tool of rightly interpreting the scriptures is to begin with the original audience and the historical events that transpired and would soon transpire. For example, at the time of Jesus speaking these words in Luke 21, nations were already raging. As Rome was engaged in a civil war just a generation earlier, while also being at war with every nation around until they conquered the land of the tribes that would make up the Roman Empire. From Israel's perspective, Rome wasn't an enemy, Rome was the enemy. Their occupation was a gross injustice to the freedoms of every Jewish citizen. The only way Israel gained political clout was to be ruled by Herod the Great, who was loyal to Rome while also being loyal in a political manner to Judea. In fact, Herod saw himself as a Messiah for Judea, which is why he was so brutal regarding the killing of babies when Jesus was born. And why he interrogated the wise men as they followed the star. He didn't want his messiahship to be challenged. But when Herod died, Judea lost a great deal of favor from Rome and were given over to selfish governors who mostly wanted to feed their own pockets. But the Jewish historian Josephus tells us that for a number of years prior to that, from at least about 60 A. D. up until the outbreak, that there was growing tension over the last few governors of the countryside. He tells us that they were pretty abusive and corrupt administrators, robbing people again in order to lie in their own pockets. Josephus also tells us that there was another source of growing tension in the country at this time because there was an increasing number of bandits and rebel types coming out of the woodwork in the country. And so between growing banditry and the rise of zealots, an urgency movement, and then the corruption of the administration, the situation in Jerusalem was becoming very, very tense indeed. By the year 66 A. D. , it would break out into a full-scale war, a Jewish revolt against the Romans. Now, allow me to continue a little bit of history. We need to know all this in context. Apparently there was a riot in the city of Caesarea, and the Roman governor required Reparations to be paid. The Jewish inhabitants of Caesarea had apparently gotten angry over their relationship with their Gentile neighbors and had gone on a rampage. The governor naturally wanted them to pay for the damages. When they refused, he went to Jerusalem and demanded the money should come out of the temple treasury. And for the Jews, that was the last straw, and that started the revolt. Unfortunately for him, the governor didn't count on the level of popular sentiment that had grown against him. He thought he could take a bully approach and the people would cower and he would get what he wanted. He was wrong and was rebuffed. When he called for reinforcements and tried to march on Jerusalem, again he was ambushed on the way, and apparently some Jewish men thought Such was a sign that God was now ready to deliver them from the Roman rule. That this was the coming of the Jewish kingdom. And so quickly a small skirmish burst into an open revolt and consumed the entire country. The war lasted from 66 A. D. to 70 A. D. The Roman general Vespian, who would soon become the next emperor, led the troops to occupy Galilee and stop the revolt Vespian basically decided to divide the country into two parts. He thought he could get control of the north and then move south toward Jerusalem. Jerusalem was his ultimate target, but he wanted to isolate it before he ever tried to take it. In the year 68 A. D. , the Emperor Nero was assassinated. leaving leading to a Roman civil war with three people claiming a right to the throne. Because of the interfighting of Rome, some Jewish men once again thought it was a sign from God That God was acting in their favor to be free from Rome. Vespian eventually was recalled to Rome and was made emperor. His son Titus, who would succeed him a few years later and be emperor himself, was left in charge of the armies It was Titus, then, who would proceed to undertake the siege of Jerusalem and finally end the war in the year 70 A. D. It is the siege of Jerusalem that we have been leading up to. For if you look at the prophecy of Jesus prior to our gospel reading, You will read him describing the very city of Jerusalem being destroyed. If you would turn to Luke chapter 21, and we'll pick up at verse 20. Luke 21, verse 20. He says, this is Jesus, but when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is near. Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, let those who are in the midst of her depart, and let not those who are in the country enter her For these are the days of vengeance that all things which are written may be fulfilled. And he goes on. The Jewish historian Josephus was an eyewitness to this siege that Jesus prophesied about. He tells of some of its events in gruesome detail, and I'll get into that later on tonight. Josephus describes walking around the walls of Jerusalem and pleading with people on the inside to give up rather than go through the suffering and agony that would come from a long, protracted siege. Josephus also tells us that there was a lot of infighting going on in the city among the different rebel factions who occupied different parts of Jerusalem. The loss of life during the siege before the Roman attack was catastrophic to the Jewish population as a whole. For two years Jerusalem was under siege. Starvation, disease, murder were the order of every day. In the month of August in the year 70 A. D. , the fate of Jerusalem was sealed. On one fateful morning, the Romans attacked Josephus describes the armies breaking through the walls of the city and the Roman soldiers running through the streets, going from house to house and killing everyone they found. Interesting for us today is that there are a lot of evidence between the artifacts scattered throughout this layer of archaeological record. Discovered were arrowheads and spears and other kinds of instruments that indicate a pretty serious hand-to-hand combat in all parts of the city. The lower city of Jerusalem remains to this day largely uninhabited, but in Jesus' day and up to the time of the first revolt, that was the most popular part of the city. But in those final hours of the battle, it was burned to the ground, including the temple. Again, all of this Jesus warned about. So what does all this mean? Well, it means that when Jesus promised that the generation he was speaking to would experience what he was describing, he was referring to the fall of Jerusalem. But that fall did not mean that Jesus would return soon after. It was just one sign. A pretty painful sign, to be sure, but a sign of many to come that precede the second coming of Jesus. What we must do is not make the mistake of making our Bible reading generationally centric, meaning that we interpret Bible passages in the lens of our own personal generation. Consider this embarrassing example. In the late nineteen eighties, some preachers were teaching that the locusts coming out of the smoke in Revelation chapter nine are actually Black Hawk helic helicopters Which meant that the machines of modern warfare of the late 20th century were being described by John, the revelator, meaning that Jesus was coming back late in the 20th century. There are preachers and teachers and bloggers today who are claiming our political unrest in the West And the pandemic around the world are fulfilling end times prophecies and indicating that Jesus is returning soon. He may be. I hope so. But the signs we see are no more relevant than the signs seen by those who lived during the Revolutionary War, the Civil War, the First World War, the Second World War, the tumultuous 1960s. And so on. What we have that generations before did not is modern media that can easily draw up a map of a one-world government Causing the gullible to be sure Jesus is returning in our generation. Beloved, according to the scriptures In the book of Acts, Saint Peter quotes the prophet Joel and confirms that the last days were inaugurated with the first coming of Jesus, and that we have been living in them ever since. And because, from God's perspective, a day is as a thousand years, we are about into the third day. I want you to follow my logic. Because of a calendar error, if you're not familiar with this, we know that Jesus was actually born around 4 B. C. , because Herod died in 4 B. C. and Jesus was born during Herod's reign. If he started his ministry at the age of 30, which we believe he did, then he started his ministry in 26 A. D. He was crucified after three years of ministry, making his resurrection in the year 29 A. D. Again, if a thousand years is a day to God, then 1029 A. D. was a day to God. Finished. And that means that 2029 A. D. will be a day to God finished, meaning that 2030 will be the beginning of the third day from God's perspective. And we all know what he did at the beginning of the third day. You get where I'm going? I should write a book. But beloved, what does the scripture say? The scriptures say no one knows the hour, and that includes the day, and that includes the year. We are to be ready always What we are to be certain of, without a doubt, is that all that has been promised about Jesus coming again will be fulfilled. In the meantime, as our collect says, we are to hear, read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest the words of the Lord. But that is what a Christian is doing while he waits for Jesus to return. Amen. Let us pray Our God, we thank you for this call to digest your word. And that is what we need to do. Through our Bible studies, through our Sunday schools, through our daily readings, digest your word and trust that all of it's going to come to pass in your time at your will. May it be done, may it be so. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.