We're preaching today on our epistle lesson on Romans chapter twelve. But before we do that, I note that Romans twelve In our lectionary, has been divided up in such a way that it starts with a therefore I hate it when they do this, because that means there's something you needed to know right before the reading began. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. And so before we go on to Romans 12, I want to back up and remind you about what Paul had been talking about in Romans 11. That, of course, was the great chapter with the olive tree, where Paul discusses how it is that you Gentiles, even you Gentiles from Maryland, have been grafted into Israel into the cultivated olive tree that God had tended all those centuries since his promise to Abraham The olive tree that is a tree of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, in Isaiah's words. And I want to remind us also of our psalm this morning, which was Psalm 72, because that also is intimately connected with what Paul is going to argue in Romans 12. and with what he says in Romans 11. Psalm 72 is this marvelous vision of the messianic age. Give the king your judgments, O God, and your righteousness to the king's sons. The vision of the dominion from vivid to the end of the earth, dominion from sea to sea. This is the final prayers of David, it says. David saw Jesus' day and was glad. But I want to especially focus on Psalm 72, 10. The kings of Tarshish and of the Isles will bring presents. Of course, this is the first Sunday after Epiphany, which is Wednesday this week. It's a Sunday on which we commemorate, as we just did, with our first Noel hymn, the coming of the Magi from the East to worship Christ and to present him with the presence of gold and myrrh and frankincense. The kings of Sheba and Seba will offer gifts. Yes, all kings shall fall down before him, all nations shall serve him. And then visions of what the messianic age will be like, the abundance and the peace. But these kings from foreign countries coming to bow down and worship The Messiah, the anointed king of Israel. This is a vision we get elsewhere in Isaiah, the concluding chapters of Isaiah, 61 and following, and also in Jeremiah and other prophets of the Old Testament. It's a vision of the future of the people of God, when all the earth, including the Gentiles that are currently under the bondage of idolatry will be turned to Israel's God and become worshipers of the true God and members together with Israel of a new and purified people of God. And that, of course, is what Paul is celebrating in Romans eleven. If we turn to that for a second. God has committed unbelieving Jews to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all, not just Gentiles, but also Jews, are to be saved through an act of God's mercy. Through repentance and faith. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsociable are his judgments and his ways past finding out So this is what Paul has just finished talking about in chapter 11, before he embarks in chapter 12 on what many theologians have presented as merely a section of ethics. Paul's done with his eschatology and his theology, and now he's going to talk about how you should behave Well, this is true. Paul has things to say about how we should behave in Romans 12, 13, and following But we need to understand that everything he says in those chapters is about how you are to live as members of this new people of God. This people of God living in the inaugurated messianic age. For this is a change from previous Jewish understandings. When Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, he encountered Martha before he raised him. And Martha told him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Jesus replied, Your brother will rise again. And Martha said, Yes, Lord, I know that he will rise again on the last day. I'm a good Jew. I understand that there's a present age of suffering, and that there will be a resurrection. and a future age of glory in which God's people are raised from the dead and given an inheritance of eternal life in his new creation. And Jesus says, okay, yes. You have this Jewish understanding of this age and the age to come. But I tell you, Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. So that the coming age, the age of the glory of the people of God The age of the Messiah has burst into the present age. That age spoken of by Psalm 72 Had its inauguration in the person of Jesus, and we are living in it. He is currently reigning We are not waiting for Jesus to come down from heaven and set up a camp in Jerusalem and reign from there with tanks and bazookas and atom bombs. Some people are expecting. No, he is currently reigning from heaven. And so chapter 12 gives us instructions about how to live as the people of God, since we have this king enthroned at the right hand of the Father. Let's look at verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. I remember when I was a kid, I used to think reasonable service As opposed to unreasonable service. Pharaoh used to make the people fulfill their quota of bricks without any straw. That was unreasonable service. But that's not what Paul means here. The words for reasonable service are logique latreia. And logique comes from logos. That is, God wants us to be serving him. With word and reason, with our minds. We'll have more to say about minds in a minute. But I want to focus first. On how this is tied to the previous chapter. He just said: God is having mercy on unbelieving Jews. He will turn them back to himself. And he's hardened them in the meantime so that he can graft Gentiles into his arrow tree, so that Gentiles too have been granted repentance unto life. He's shown mercy to the Gentiles, and he will show mercy to unbelieving Jews, Paul says. So when Paul says, I beseech you, by the mercies of God, he's calling his Christian readers' attention. To the fact that God has had mercy on them in the way he's discussed in chapter eleven. And he says I beseech you to present your bodies a living sacrifice, not not practicing self-slaughter or human sacrifice by killing people, but a surprising thing Living sacrifices. I'll never forget the time this is twenty fourteen. That I came back from the Philippines, where we were missionaries, we have been missionaries, came back for the consecration of Bishop Grote. As the new presiding bishop of the Reformed Episcopal Church. And I'll never forget that after having been consecrated, he led all the assembled presbyters and laity In Holy Communion. If you have a prayer book, you can turn to it, page 102 The prayer of oblation. Oblation is not a word that we toss around in ordinary conversation much But if you have had Latin in your classical Christian school, you know that oblation comes from fero, fere, tuli, latus. So Latos is the last principal part of Pharaoh, and that's the verb to offer or to bring So oblation just means offering. It's a fancy Latinate word. This is the prayer of offering We are offering something to God when we have communion. We're not offering what the Roman Catholics might suppose. We're not re-sacrificing Christ by breaking a wafer and offering that to God as a new crucifixion, so to speak. We're not paying for sins by performing the Mass Rather, what we're offering is stated here in our prayer of Galatians, page 102. And I never forget how Bishop Grote read this prayer. He paused Our Lord and Heavenly Father, we thy humble servants, earnestly desire thy fatherly goodness mercifully to accept this our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving. Most humbly beseeching thee to grant that by the merits and death of thy Son, Jesus Christ, and through faith in his blood, we and all thy whole church may obtain remission of our sins and all other benefits of his passion. And here we offer and present unto thee, O Lord, ourselves. Our souls and bodies. To be a reasonable, holy, and living sacrifice unto thee Bishop Gloat was calling everyone's attention to the fact that you are the offerings that are presented to God in the Holy Communion. We are offering to him our bodies, our souls, our lives, all of our powers and faculties, everything he has gifted us with to be able to do and to think and to say. All of it is to be presented to him. That's what we're doing in the prayer of ablation, in the Holy Communion. Living sacrifices are not a common thing in ancient Judaism, nor more you slaughter the animal before you offer it. So Paul is urging something new and different for the new people of God, a people given life in the Messiah. I think also the great hymn by the great evangelical Anglican theologian Henry Gwyncar Mule. Who wrote a hymn drawing on the imagery from the Old Testament about the willing slave who wants to stay in his master's house? It's called My Glorious Victor, Prince Divine. I read it to you. I'm not going to sing it. My glorious Victor, Prince Divine, clasp these surrendered hands in thine. At length my will is all thine own, glad vassal of a Saviour's throne. My master, lead me to thy door, Pierce this now willing ear once more Thy bonds are freedom. Let me stay with thee to toil, endure, obey. Yes, ear and hand and thought and will, use all in thy dear slavery still Self's weary liberties I cast beneath thy feet. There, keep them fast. Tread them still down, and then I know these hands shall with thy gifts overflow And pierced ears shall hear the tone which tells me, Thou and I are one. That's what it means to be a living sacrifice, to offer all that we have to God that He may use it. Come back to Romans 12 now, verse 2. It says, Do not be conformed to this world. And he wright translates it, do not let the world squeeze you into its mold. And that's a little more vivid, maybe. The Greek is May suschema teach us that. Do not be conform to the outline. Don't go along with the world's way of doing things and thinking. And when it says this world, I want us to capture the full Jewish flavor of that phrase, too. Because that's not an accurate translation, perhaps. Those of you who heard our missionary presentation this morning heard me talk about why it's necessary for pastors to understand Greek. Well, this is an instance. If you do not understand Greek, you will not get that this is not talking about the globe or planet Earth, the third rock from the sun. That's not what is meant by this world. The Greek is to aionituto. The word aion is often translated age. As in the Jewish eschatology of this age and the age to come, the age of the Messiah. Do not be conformed, Paul is saying, to this age. This foreign, flesh-we age, still laboring under the Torah and under the dominion of Rome, and under all the curses and problems Thorns and thistles infesting the ground, sickness and disease and death are features of this age. There are many ways that we get conformed to this age if we're not careful. Paul elsewhere calls this age, refers to it as the basic principles of this age, the stoicea, the weak and beggarly elements. Christ has triumphed over the basic principles of this age, trampling them down and subjecting them to public disgrace. Paul says that the church, Jews and Gentiles dwelling together as a new people of God, Present, he says in Ephesians 2, a spectacle to the principalities and powers in the heavenly places That Satan and his fallen angels may know that they have been defeated because they see Jews and Gentiles worshiping together in a new people of God. Because they see the unheard of behavior of Christ's followers, cooperating and mutually ministering to each other Doing so in ways that indicate that the hold and dominion of the principalities and powers has been trampled down and broken. This age would divide the people of God. Social and racial and economic divisions would keep apart Jew and Greek, slave and free, male and female, adult and child. Arab and Jew, North American and Asian, white and brown. The basic principles of this age, the weak and beggarly principles, have been defeated. And Paul says, you're not to think that way anymore. You need to think in accordance with the age to come which has burst in upon us in the resurrection of Jesus Takes vigilance, however. I think of the book of James, chapter two. We get an instance of what it's like for people to slip back into this worldly or this age thinking. My brethren, James says, do not hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, Lord of Glory, with partiality, with favoritism. If there should come into your assembly a man with gold rings in fine apparel, and there should also come a poor man in filthy clothes, and you pay attention to the one wearing the clothes, the fine clothes And say to him, You sit here in a good place, and say to the poor man, You, stand there, or sit here at my footstool. Have you not shown partiality among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? James says, Listen, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world? To be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him. But Paul points, and James points, both of them point. To the age to come, to the messianic age. So this is what needs to shape your thinking. It's not going to happen automatically You have to watch out lest the world slip in, press you into its mold again, conform you to its ways of doing things. Paul back in chapter twelve says, he wants you to be transformed. Metamorphosa. Like a caterpillar becoming a butterfly. That's what the age to come is like. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And I'm afraid this is necessary. Some people might like to try to live a Christian life. without changing the way they think. And T. White says, they hope that they'll be able to live up to something like Christian standards while still thinking the way the rest of the world thinks. It can't be done. If you have a steady diet of television and movies, if you are addicted to Facebook If you are imbibing the message of the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, whole hog, then you are being conformed. to the way this world thinks, to the basic principles of this age. And Paul calls us to be transformed and to think differently. How do we habituate our minds to think in a age to come way? Sometimes we do it the way I'm doing it now. Talking to you, arguing, making a case, and you're sitting in your pew stroking your chin and thinking, hmm, I don't know about this young man. It's not Pastor Jorgensen. I don't know if I believe what and you evaluate critically, as you should be. Be Bereal. Don't just believe whatever comes from this pulpit. But of course that's that's maybe the least effective I shouldn't say that it's it's a frontal attack. You see, I'm charging up, I've got my army, and my cannons and now I'm gonna fire some biblical truth at your head and you're going to have to evaluate whether you let it in. But Madison Avenue knows better. And Google, with its targeted ads, knows better. They know that your thinking will be shaped by what you see and what you look at and what you hear on the radio over and over again. You've got commercial jingles from your childhood that you cannot expunge. Do you still remember them? And they shape. They shape our thinking This is why we are a liturgical church in the Reformed Episcopal Church. It's why we do the same thing, week after week, to ingrain it in our thinking. And to shape our minds. That's why we will have Holy Communion yet again today, and we will say the prayer of humble access and the prayer of ablation. To shape who we are, to habituate us to thinking in an age-to-come manner. Nothing is more important. There are other ways. Christian education. Christian art. Listening to Christian music. Memorizing the Bible. Catechism. all time-honored and tested ways of habituating ourselves to think according to the age to come. Back to 1 Corinthians, I'm sorry, to Romans 12. Romans 12. What is the purpose of this transformation of your mind? He says, it is that you may prove this microphone. That you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God This word prove is one of my pet Greek words. Dokimatso. It is the word that's used in 1 Corinthians 11 when Paul says Concerning the Lord's Supper, let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the cup breast and drink of the cup. Of course, what he's talking about in 1 Corinthians 11 is the behavior of the Corinthian church, that some of them are Eating too much, engorging, getting drunk, and others are going hungry, and they're humiliating the poor, and there's class divisions in their church. They are fleshly, Paul says. They are not spiritual They are not thinking according to the age to come. They're still under the dominion of the principalities and powers, even though they're supposed to be, in Christ, they're supposed to be free. And so Paul urges them to examine themselves. And it doesn't mean that you sit in your pew and, as I did when I was a teenager, ask yourself, do I really believe the apostles' creed? Check, check, check, okay, I can have the Lord's Supper. This morning. That's not what Dokimatsu means. Paul tells us what it means in 1 Corinthians 11. And so, brothers and sisters, wait for each other. When you come to eat the Lord's Supper. Eat immunity. That's what he wants the Corinthians to do. That's what it will mean for them to prove themselves, to demonstrate by their behavior that they are truly followers of the Messiah. We see the same verb in Ephesians chapter four in terms of meaning that chapter four twenty four. Be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Same, same sort of language. Put on the new man, which was created according to God in true righteousness and holiness. I'm sorry, I don't have yokimatsu there, but we do have this transformation of your mind. Um Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, still writing to this troublesome Corinthian church that hasn't cleaned up its act completely. Um and he he urges them uh second Corinthians 2 Corinthians 13, sorry. 2 Corinthians 13, 45. We also are weak in Christ, but we shall live with him by the power of God towards you. And then he tells the Corinthians, Dokimato yourselves. as to whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed you are disqualified? And the word is the opposite of Dokimaso. It's adokimos. You flunked the test. for Purdue chicken. This is one and it's kind of yellow and stinky and stamps it with not for Purdue and flings it over his shoulder in the garbage can. It's adokimos. Reject it. It's not fitted for the purposes that all the chickens are coming down the assembly line for. Paul uses the same kind of language in 2 Timothy 3. Yeah, 2 Timothy 3. 8 and Titus 1. 16. He's talking about false teachers there False teachers are adocimoi concerning the faith. And in Titus 116, they profess to know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and adocimoi Rejected for every good work. Being part of the new people of God United in the body of Christ. Being a member of the body of Christ means performing A function. There are no vestigial useless body parts. Some people think the appendix is useless. It's not true. It contributes something. Or the cocks, the tailbone, or the small toe. I've heard that it can be difficult to balance for a while after you lose a small toe. There are no useless body parts in the body of Christ. And therefore, we must show by our works and by our function, by carrying out the jobs that God has given us, that we are partakers of this new life. So that we may inherit this resurrection that is promised. Back in Romans twelve. I say, through the grace given to me to everyone who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly. As God has dealt to each one a measure of faith, if God has apportioned out a measure of faith, a share of the faith. This doesn't mean, oh, you have more faith than me, so you're more important in the church. I don't have very much faith. Sometimes I doubt, or my faith is tiny I'm not very important in the church. That's not what Paul's talking about. God has distributed to each or dealt to each one a measure of faith. God has made us have a share in the body of Christ. That's what Paul means. The Mishnah says all Israel has a share in the world to come. The Jews believe every Jew will share in the resurrection and the future life of the age to come. But Paul says those who are in the Messiah will share in it. And if you are in Christ, then you have a share. But you have a share as a member of the body of Christ. It's not a bunch of individual transactions. It's not even, oh, the REC follows God. Or St. Stephen's church follows God. And they will have a share of the HP government. No! Paul's very concerned with this idea. In 1 Thessalonians 4, that famous passage that many people mistakenly believe is talking about the rapture, Paul is addressing the concerns of Christians who are worried That they will be forever separated from their fellow believers in Christ who have died before they have. And in 415 Paul says, This we say to you by the word of the Lord, that we who are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord will by no means precede those who are asleep. We will be together. Or again, the book of Hebrews, 11, 39 to 40, after it lists all the heroes in the hall of faith in Hebrews. Abraham, the patriarchs, and Moses and Samson, Barak, and Shepherd, and on and on. It goes It then says, but all these having fallen asleep or died in a fit did not receive the promises, God having prepared something better for us That apart from us, they might not be made perfect. The inheritance of the age to come is given to all God's people Not to some apart from others, not to some important ones as opposed to unimportant ones, but to every member of the body of Christ. Many members in one body I want now to uh to talk a little bit I apologize I'm going a little bit longer than I expected, but I want to talk a little bit about Missionary work. For the vision of the body of Christ as including different members with different functions, who are members of one body. This is what really animates and drives the Colvin family, and I think also the REC's vision of missionary work. I I don't I'm not going to be going to Indonesia with a view to convert a whole bunch of people, count their scalps, put them on my belt, and Pat myself on the back for having made a number of converts. Though there are missionaries and missionary societies that count that as success To my mind, it might be the beginning of getting sometime later to something that might resemble success. But mere conversion is not the goal of the missionary enterprise. The biblical way of measuring missionary success is for the various parts of the body of Christ, including parts that are in the Pacific, or in Africa, or in Eastern Europe various parts of the body of Christ, broken and sinful and insufficient as we all are, to be nonetheless put to work, put to work in the organic whole that is the body of Christ. The different parts cooperated in a way that transcends cultural, linguistic, and social differences. Jews and Gentiles together at one table. That was Paul's immediate goal, but he knew what he was about. We're beyond only Jews and Gentiles in the Mediterranean, we're talking about Indonesians now When we found ourselves called to go to the Philippines when our daughter, Hosanna's Filipina Sunday school teacher, gave her a big hug after church one day. When someone is moved to become a financial supporter of missionary work, or prayer warrior for missionary work, or you see missionaries come to your church and you're inspired to go become one yourself These are things by which the unity of the body of Christ and its attainment of the goals that God has set before it and the work that He's put in front of us Is demonstrated. When these things happen, then the body of Christ is alive and vigorous. Then the powers and principalities have truly been defeated and their death and destruction has been proclaimed. Then, indeed, the life of the age to come is made real here and now. I say these things about foreign missions, but of course the same is true of all the other activities of the church. The body of Christ involves different members doing different jobs, with a mutual upbuilding of the body Such activity requires not just belonging to the body of Christ, but belonging to each other. When my wife is working as a midwife on the mission field, she's in a birth clinic and a baby is born, one of the things they sometimes do to that baby is put little mittens on its hands. You know why they do that? Yeah. Babies as soon as they scratch themselves, they can scratch their eyeball and have a problem thereafter. Why? There's babies just kicking around and sometimes I remember when Ezekiel was a baby. He's 14 now, but he's a baby. I think I have a photo of him Looking like an astronomer looking at a new planet. What is this thing in front of me? Just didn't realize that his hand belonged to him. There was part of his body. Eventually you learn. Ancient Stoics called this ocheosis or appropriation, realizing what belongs to you, realizing what is part of your body as opposed to the world outside of you. For Paul, belonging to the body involves thorough feeling. He talks about this using himself as an example in 2 Corinthians 12. Besides the other things, he's just been boasting about how much he suffers for Christ. Besides the other things, what comes upon me daily, my deep concern of fellow feeling for all the churches, who is weak and I am not weak? Who is made to stumble and I do not burn with indignation? Do you have fellow feeling for the other members of the people of God? For your fellow body parts in the body of Christ? Does your heart burn within you when you hear about ISIS massacring Christians? When you hear about church burnings in Indonesia? Are you indignant and hurt when false teachers seduce people into sexual immorality in churches in North America? Fellow feeling is what is involved in being a member of the body of Christ. Otherwise you're not a member. You might be there taking up space, but you're gangriness and need to be amputated. So it needs to be belonging, feeling the suffering of other members of the body of Christ. I'm going to abuse the pulpit now. I'm going to put out a call one more time. After our missionary presentation this morning, let me invite you, individually, as members of the body. This church supports us. We have been blessed by St. Stephen's corporate support. But let me also ask you individually, is God calling you to support foreign missions? To help us go to Indonesia to strengthen weaker members of the body of Christ to manifest the life of the age to come. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you that this life has been given to us That we have it now, that our head Christ is in heaven, reigning over us, the members of his body, that we are one with his church in all nations. Speaking all different languages, with skin of all different colors, in every economic condition We thank you that you have made us members of this body, and we pray that you will help us to see, as we pray this morning, what you have set before us to do our calling under God. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.