Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We're looking at Revelation chapter 22. We're winding down our series on the book of Revelation. How do you know when someone is telling the truth? You cannot really know unless the person has a track record. If I have lied to you in the past Grossly exaggerated a story, sugar-coated a message, or misrepresented myself, your first inclination would Be to not trust me when I spoke. Everything I said would carry a background voice That would drown out my words. You would be saying to yourself, he is probably lying, or I can't believe a word he is telling me. When we have known people for a long time, we tend to weigh their words. We learn when they are likely telling the truth and when they are exaggerating. We can believe what someone says in certain instances and doubt what they say in others. For instance, when our emerettis senior warden Would tell me something about the building or church finances or a story concerning a ministerial need within the church, I would believe every word he uttered But when he would tell me about his exploits as an athlete when he was younger, well, I tend to listen with different ears When the subject is the Holy Scripture, we should always be confident in that what we are reading is the truth. And yet, some struggle believing the visions and miracles. I knew of a young adult convert to Christianity that he said he believed in the Lord Jesus Christ as his Savior, but the stories such as Jesus walking on water and the feeding of five thousand people with only Five loaves and two fish, those were harder to accept. It took the young man time, walking with the Lord and seeing personal miracles in his life. To relieve any doubts that were first there. Applying all of this To the vision of John that we've been reading about in the book of Revelation. And the passing of time works in the favor of our confidence and then works against our confidence. The passing of time, since John wrote this epistle, has allowed us to see God's promises, his word through his prophets come to pass. We are told, for instance, through the prophet Isaiah, that a sign would be given of a virgin giving birth We were told through the prophet Micah that Bethlehem, although a small city, would be chosen as the place of the Savior's birth Some 700 years later, Isaiah's prophecy was fulfilled. Some 500 years later, Micah's prophecy was fulfilled. I was just reading this week how both secular and Christian scholars believe Jesus was indeed born in Bethlehem within a cave. A cave that was written about by historian figures dating back to the 2nd century A. D. , and where the Church of Nativity sits today. Our Christmas depictions are usually of a wooden stable, but in the days of Jesus, wood would have been scarce. Stables were likely small caves. But back to the dating I was referencing. As we examine John's revelation, his vision of the second coming of Christ and the new heaven and the new earth. We are approximately one thousand nine hundred and sixty-eight years removed. I get that number speculating that John received his vision, his revelation at A. D. 55. That is over. Twice the amount of years that it took for Isaiah's words to be fulfilled, and almost four times longer than it took for Micah's prophecy to be fulfilled While time has proven God's word through his prophets to be true, before the vision of John, it seems like a long time coming in John's vision, comparatively. Thus it can be asked, can we still trust in John's vision? And simply ask, is Jesus actually really going to come again? So far, we are given no reason not to trust. We can recognize John's words of warning and judgment and apply them to the fall of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. We can identify the suffering of Christians that John describes as those that were experienced by the first century church We can also draw connecting lines from John's described persecution of the church to every century since his day as somewhere in the world Christians have been a chief target of oppression. Even today, in Muslim, communist, and pluralistic countries, John's message of enduring under persecution brings hope to Christians Although much of what John describes has already taken place, again, what about the return of Jesus? Is he simply slow in keeping his promise? Does the delay tell us that it has a chance of not being fulfilled? Well, before we answer such questions, let us look more closely at the beginning of Revelation chapter 22. The beginning of the chapter 22 finds John in the middle of being shown what heaven will be like when all that is evil has been thrown into the lake of fire. And the Son of God dwells permanently with his people. What John sees is paradise restored. This is Eden, only it is not Eden. It is the heavenly Eden, or we can say the true Eden. In Eden, four rivers flowed, giving needed nourishment to all life. Now there is one river, the river of life. The prophet Ezekiel described such a river. Jesus testified that he had water from the river, calling it living water, to give to those who followed him. And here is that living water that nourishes all who are living in the true Eden. Next, the tree of life is described. Described as spread all along the great street of the holy city and by the river of life. What was once forfeited by Adam and Eve and denied to succeeding generations is now fully restored. In Ezekiel, there are multiple trees bearing fruit monthly and growing leaves for healing. Those many trees are here, one tree. The healing power represents the far-reaching power and effect of death and resurrection of Christ. From the tree and in the holy city, eternal life only found in God is perpetually available to his people. With the described river and tree of life available to all within the city, the curse that was placed upon the human race because of Adam's sin is here forever lifted. The reference to the throne of God and the Lamb being in the city is similar to the description in chapter 21 of them being physically present among God's people. This is more intimately described as the people will be able to see God, to see God face to face. Such closeness to God could not be known before because man was in sin Simply seeing the face of Almighty God, who is holy and true, would strike a man dead. Now that sin is removed, there are no more barriers between man and God. Men may see God and serve him Although perpetual service does not sound appealing in this life, let it be understood that with the chains of sin having fallen off Men will know for the first time that freedom is service, and that mankind will fulfill what he was created to be. We should notice that although John is shown the river of life and shown the tree of life, he does not actually see the face of God in his vision. From verse 4 on, he speaks about these events in the future tense. Even though what John sees is in one sense real, It is also yet to be realized in its fullest measure. This is why verse 6 is necessary and where we today must receive our confidence. The angel said to John, and so he says to us, quote, these words are trustworthy and true. The Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show his servants the things that must soon take place. It was necessary for the angel to speak these words to John and to us, for while living in the present. It can be difficult to imagine and even appreciate the heaven that is to come. And as stated earlier, with the with the passage of time, our confidence can be weakened that what is promised here regarding the return of Christ The defeat of evil and the coming down of a new heaven and a new earth come to pass? Will it come to pass? So how can we know that what we read here will actually take place? First, we can have confidence because God spoke these words himself. These are not the words of men, but of God. As a person of simple faith might say, God said it, I believe it, and that settles it. But a logician would not let us get away with such reasoning because it is circular. Logically, we cannot defend God's promises by arguing that God said it. To say I can believe what God says because I can trust what God says is not an airtight argument. Although it might be enough for some, there is more we can offer. The second reason we can have confidence that these things will come to pass is the prophecies that have been fulfilled. Have already spoken of two of them, both regarding the birth of Christ, and of course there are many others. No one can read David's words in Psalm 22 or the prophet Isaiah's words in chapter 23 of his prophecy, and not know that the suffering of Jesus on the cross is being described. The point being that since God has a track record of always keeping his promises, we can have confidence that he will keep these promises of his second coming. This only works for a while, however, and as time passes, our flesh becomes discontented. We may even argue that God has never waited this long to fulfill his promises. After all, God's prophecies to Abraham took about a thousand years to fulfill through Moses. His promises to Isaiah took, as I said, over 700 years. His promises regarding the coming of the kingdom of heaven are now, again, 1,968 years and counting. It would appear that God is off his average. But actually, but actually he is not. But the first promise, the first prophecy was that a seed would come from Eve, that is a sun, and that sun would crush the serpent's head. That seed was Christ making the promise fulfilled over 6,000 years earlier. If God's track record is not enough, then we can look at the veracity of the Bible as a whole For to doubt this word in the book of Revelation regarding the coming of Christ and the kingdom of heaven is to doubt Holy Scripture as a whole. Archaeological discoveries have again and again confirmed the stories told in the Bible The city of Jericho has been uncovered. Tablets from Egypt referencing the Haburi people sweeping through the land of Canaan have been found. Secular documents have corroborated the gospel accounts of the regions described, the customs of the people, and the political leaders of the day that the Bible describes. And although there are not artifacts that confirm the kingship of David, for example, or actual writings of St. Paul. There have been no discoveries that disprove David's reign in Israel or that Paul wrote 13 letters that are now a part of the New Testament. As I challenge my confirmation class and new members class every year, try and uncover an archaeological find that contradicts anything in Holy Scripture. Not one exists. Another reason we can trust in the veracity of the Bible are the eyewitness accounts. John's vision, for example, was seen by John, who then wrote it down. He did not write down what other people saw. He wrote down what he saw. It is the same for his gospel. He states his eyewitness account in the first chapter of his gospel. Quote We have seen his glory, he said of Jesus, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. Matthew. Matthew was an eyewitness to what he wrote. Mark wrote down what Peter witnessed. And Luke wrote down what the rest of the disciples remembered. These are not the words of what someone else said about what someone else said. They are the accounts of those who lived amongst Jesus, tasted the food that he ate, heard the words he spoke, and embraced him when they greeted and when they parted. Another reason we can trust in the veracity of the Bible is its moral consistency Even though there are differences in moral behavior, such as man of old having more than one wife and even having concubines, The condemnation of extramarital relations is for every age. In certain places, the Lord said that He overlooked the sin of man for a time. That means that he waited for the right time to call men to a higher moral standard. The standard was always there. Whereas men of old might have more than one wife, the Lord then called his people to have only one wife, and after that he called each man to no longer lust after another woman besides his wife Other moral standards were raised as well, such as going from thou shalt not murder, to warning us that if we hate a man, we have committed murder in our heart. The moral consistency is a high standard of morality for those who claim Christ as their Savior. Thus far we have quite a case built up For believing the promises of God regarding the coming again of Christ and the establishment of the kingdom of heaven. But above all Above all that we have said so far, the primary reason why we can believe the promises and all that the Bible says is the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the primary reason we believe the promises of heaven. In fact When it comes right down to believing anything about the scripture, it is the person of Jesus Christ that validates it all. You see, the skeptics may convince themselves that the creation account in Scripture is a fable, and that the existence of this earth and all its inhabitants are a result of chance But they cannot deny the person of Jesus. Literary scholars can doubt that John wrote the three epistles attributed to him and the book of Revelation, because they see variations in the style of the Greek. That they cannot deny the person of Jesus. Scholars can doubt the integrity of the Apostle Paul And portray him as a man out for power, power over this small band of Christians of the first century, but they cannot deny the person of Jesus. All of these issues can be cause for doubting the scriptures, but every man who is honest must answer the question of Jesus. Who was he? Who was Jesus? That question gets more and more important. For today, it is popular to question whether Jesus ever existed at all, which actual historians, actual historians do not doubt. In fact, in a debate between John Lennox and Richard Dawkins, Dawkins frustratingly admitted that historians do not doubt the existence of Jesus. But who was he? Who was Jesus? If you settle for the answer that Jesus was only a man who taught good things, You then have to account for the miracles that are attributed to him. If you for a moment believe the miracles were made up, then you must account for the eyewitnesses. Consider that the most important miracle, his resurrection, could have been easily proven false if it were false. If you settle for Jesus being a madman or Jesus being a liar, then you must make account for the wisdom of his words and the integrity of his life. When the person of Jesus is looked at honestly and sincerely, there is only one conclusion a person can come to. He is who he said he is. Once that is established, Jesus' verification of the Old Testament is good enough for us. Jesus' teachings and standards are good enough for us. And Jesus' words that he is coming back. And coming quickly to establish a new heaven and a new earth are words that we can place our confidence in. Jesus is coming, bet your life on it. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, the evidence is before us, and we thank you for it. And we do put our confidence in your word that Jesus is indeed coming again. And so we can say adamantly, as John did, Amen. Come. Lord Jesus, Amen