In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are looking at 1 Timothy 3 verses 1 through 7 and as always it would be helpful for you to follow along in your pew Bible First Timothy chapter 3, 1 through 7. I had a friend in the state of Washington who went to a different high school than myself. But he told me a story of recruiters from armed forces coming to his assembly in his school's gymnasium And each representative of the armed forces gave a pitch for why young men and young women should sign up for their particular branch of our armed forces. The representative from the Army was first, and then the Navy, then the Air Force, and so on. All gave inspirational speeches, except one. The representative from the Marines was last to speak. And when he got to the podium, The only thing he did was stare at the crowd, glare at the crowd, giving them all a look over, and then he said the following. There isn't one person here good enough to be a Marie. And then he sat back down. When the assembly ended, each representative had a booth where students could get more information about each branch of the armed forces. And the longest line by far was the line for the Marines. Now I picture a similar scenario. Where I am invited to an assembly where different professions are being introduced to the students Where they can hear what it takes to be a part of different professions, such as what it was like to be a doctor, a policeman, a firefighter, a chef, and so on. And then it's it's my turn, and I too go last, and I scowl at the students. And I also give them a lookover, and then I say in a gravelly voice, there isn't one person here good enough to be a pastor. And then I sit down. And we too are given booths where students can find more information. And I guarantee you. I guarantee you my line would be the shortest, and it's quite possible that no one would come to my booth. My point is that being called to serve in the ministry of the church is not attractive no matter how it is presented. Beloved, I am on the board of our seminary. I am on the examining chaplains committee that gives oral exams to potential presbyters, priests, and deacons. Thus, I can report to you from firsthand knowledge that the seminary is poorly attended, and not all who attend are going to serve in the Reformed Episcopal Church. And we are in no sense busy giving oral exams to potential priests or deacons. For example, in Maryland, for several years, over a decade, St. Stephen's was the only parish that has two priests And Father Bill has been the only replacement our churches have had if a minister is necessarily absent. Stating it plainly. We need more men. The church in general needs more good men. And I am sincere when I add the word good. The church does not need more warm bodies. The church does not need salary collectors. The church does not need more men to preside over dead and dying churches. We have plenty of those The church needs good men. It is easy to see The train of thought that St. Paul had when he starts to address the qualifications for men to serve as ordained officers in the church. He had just explained, as we went over last week, that he did not want women to teach or have authority over men in the church. And so it is natural to ask, what does God want in leaders? And so Paul sets out to answer the question. As he does, we should consider why these subjects need to be addressed. And part of it is likely because of the false teachers in the midst of the church at Ephesus. And you will remember that Timothy was indeed ministering to that church. Those false teachers caused Paul to send Timothy on his behalf and straighten out the church. And so when Paul says that a minister must not be a lover of money, There was likely false teachers who loved money. Such can be assumed about all of the qualities mentioned And so we come to verse one of chapter three. The word translated here To be the English word bishop is episcopoi in the Greek, and it is where we get the word episcopal. It is fair to say that the Presbyterians have gotten a few things correct, and one of those things is recognizing that the word bishop and the word elder in the New Testament are interchangeable and thus are referring to the same office, and both words mean overseer. It was not until the apostles died out that the church used three offices, for they needed to have an office to do what the apostles were doing, which is defend the faith and ordain priests and deacons. That happened in the second century by the second generation Christians. Paul expects men to desire such positions and to encourage them, he says, those persons who desire such desire a good work. But many people see it, but not many people see it that way. They don't see it as a good work. And I can speculate why. In your average church, the pay for a minister will likely not be what they can get in a secular job. Properly feeding the sheep, which is properly teaching and preaching, can be time-consuming and burdensome. Carrying the burdens of numerous people can be emotionally draining. A minister soon realizes That with every trip to the hospital, there is only one good reason, and all the others are bad. But those are the negative side. The joys are plentiful. As a minister, you get to be a part of some of the most joyous times in people's lives. The baptisms, the confirmations, the weddings, the graduations are just a few of those joys you get to be a part of. Although you do realize at times you get invited just to say the prayer at the beginning. You might as well leave after that. And the privilege of preaching, the privilege of preaching God's word, never gets old, at least not for me. So it is desiring a good work. Verse 2. Here we have a full verse on what is needed of every man who desires this good work. To be blameless is not to be sinless, but is more of being a man of a good reputation. Notorious. Notorious sinners should not apply. Now, if you are notorious in the past, like Paul, But have shown fruits of repentance and a new life in Jesus, then you can still desire this good work To be a husband of one wife does not mean you have to be a husband, for neither Paul nor Timothy were married. And there was polygamy being practiced by a few in the Jewish community, but it was very difficult to afford two or more wives. For a man who had been divorced, as you remember, how easily it was according to the Mosaic Law to get a divorce, which was simply to hand your spouse a piece of paper That is not what Paul is specifically addressing, and most churches have decided to handle such on a case-by-case basis. To be temperate, sober-minded, and of good behavior can be summarized by living a life of self-control. An overseer's temper must be under control, his drinking habits must be under control, and his overall behavior must be under control. One of the greatest gifts a parent can give their children is discipline, which leads to having self-control. Having self-control in all areas of your life is a great gift. Being hospitable is next, and that means that if a man does have a wife, she better be on board with him serving the church. When we examine possible candidates for ordination, we want assurances from the candidate that his wife is on board. We have even talked of including the wife in a portion of our examinations because having people in your house being hospitable is part of what it means to be a pastor of people. Being able to teach is next, and that is a given. The last thing Jesus told Peter was, feed my sheep. And it is to be a priority in ministry. Next is not being given to wine and not violent. And the two might go hand in hand, for people are more likely to be violent when they are drunk. And this again may be a direct reference to the behavior of those false teachers. The importance of not being greedy for money, and soon after mentioning not being covetous, is speaking to similar realities. An overseer can think that the money people give is because of him, or primarily for him, and some churches allow the minister to handle the money. Thanks be to God. That is not how things are done in this parish. I don't see the money. I don't know who gives or how much you give. I don't touch the money. And what I spend on behalf of the church, I am accountable for. All ministers should have in place a protection system that prevents accusations of being greedy. The not being covetous part means to be satisfied with what you are paid and how you are cared for. And to accept the reality that there will be people in your parish that have more and nicer things than you have. When you are desiring to be an overseer, you are in it to serve the Lord. And so what you get in return needs to be enough in your heart. Finally, in between those two words are the standards of being gentle and not quarrelsome. Being gentle can relate to not being quarrelsome because words can be powerful and they can hurt. As a younger man, I took pride in my ability to win arguments. But the best challenge I received during those days. was to be asked if I wanted to win arguments or if I wanted to win people, because you cannot do both. That has a has certainly calmed me down over the years. If we were to stop at verse three, We would recognize that the standard of an overseer is quite high, especially when the character of a leader is to be displayed day in and day out. But then there is verse four. And perhaps this verse scares most of the people away. An overseer is to rule his own house well. And by well, he means having his children in submission to his authority and In reverence to God. The principle for this standard is stated in verse 5, and it is impossible to refute If you can't do something in a small context, you're not going to be able to do the same in a larger context. You must be able to pastor your own family before you can pastor a congregation. I read one commentator say that this standard is the most violated one in the evangelical church of all the standards listed. It is a shame that people make jokes about the preacher's kid being the most rebellious in the church. The joke works because of how many examples we have seen down through the years. What I have never understood. It's how pastors know their son or daughter is in rebellion and they refuse to step down. Each overseer should know that the most important parishioners they have are their family members. The gesture of stepping down would hopefully show to the rebellious child that how important their soul is to the father. For such is important enough for the father to change his calling and to face an uncertain future. Such would give the greatest chance for the child to repent. Admittedly, there is a problem in saying what I have said. Just how long should a family wait in terms of when a child of a minister rebels? If a child of mine turns away from the Lord in his 30s, does that mean I am now disqualified? Paul doesn't address such a scenario, and once again, we might need to look at each case differently, but it is interesting to note. That at the Council of Carthage, the Council of Carthage in 397 A. D. , the Council where they settled such things as what books should be included in the canon in the Bible They also decided that no man could be ordained a bishop, a presbyter, or a deacon unless he could show that all of his children had converted to Christianity. I don't know how well such a practice would go over today. Next, the overseer cannot be a novice or someone new to the calling. We can imagine that it was tempting for first-century Christians, first or second generation Christians, to choose as their overseers men who were charismatic in personality. Or better looking than most. What they needed, what the congregation needed, was someone who was humble and who took his calling seriously. All others would be susceptible to pride for being chosen. And like Paul warns, they are susceptible to go the way of the devil. And finally, the overseer must have a good reputation in the outside world. He should be known to the unbelieving world as a man of integrity. He is to be a man people can trust. If he does not have a good reputation in the world, it is the church that can ruin its own reputation Now there are two points I wish to make, having said all that I have said regarding these verses. There is nothing peculiar in this list for all Christians. For there is nothing unique regarding Christian ethics to church officers. It is tempting to think that the type of life an ordained man is to live is of a different and higher standard than a common Christian. But Paul is actually describing the Christian life for all Christians. Every Christian should strive to live by these standards. But it is the man seeking to be a priest that needs to be examined regarding these standards. Examine in his personal life. Consider how these standards apply to all Christians. Number one, every Christian should strive to live a life that is above reproach. Consider that when the idea of blamelessness appears in the New Testament, it is in reference to all Christians, not simply to the leaders. Number two, similarly all Christians are to be faithful to their spouses. All forms of sexual or marital infidelity are condemned, condemned outright in the Word of God. Number three, all Christians are to be sober-minded, self-controlled, respectful. decent, dignified, and we are all commanded in other places in Scripture, such as in the book of Romans, Book of Hebrews, Book of 1 Peter, to show hospitality. which is to have an open and welcome home. Number four, no Christian is permitted to be drunk or violent or quarrelsome or a lover of money. We are taught repeatedly and explicitly that such vices are to be banished from our lives and also repeatedly warned of the consequences if they are not. Number five, every Christian parent is to raise his children in the instruction and discipline of the Lord. Paul refers to it as raising children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. 6. We are all to be humble. And we are all to be the salt of the earth, light of the world, a city set on a hill. Jesus instructed that the world should be able to see our good works and glorify God in heaven. So let us conclude that this sermon is for the purpose of a few excuse me. Let us not conclude that this sermon is for the purpose of a few. Or these verses apply only to those who are seeking the church office. They are in fact to apply to each and every one of us. My second point Goes back to my story about recruiters coming to a high school or an auditorium where someone will care to listen to their pitch. So here's my pitch. The church today needs men. And as I said earlier, the church needs good men. Fathers and mothers, you should be upholding the offices in the church with honor before your children And you should make them aware that serving the church as an ordained minister is an option to pursue as they search to see what they want to be when they grow up. And young men, there are great challenges ahead of you if you pursue the ministry There is spiritual warfare to engage in. There are words that need to be spoken in truth and with conviction that no one else is speaking. There are people who need to be fathered, pastored, led, and inspired. There is a world that doesn't believe the Christian life can be lived faithfully, and you will have the challenge to show them different. And there are plenty of souls who have not heard the gospel of Jesus Christ because it has been lost in cultures both in the East and the West Hemispheres. And the gospel won't be heard, and souls will not be turned from darkness to light without a preacher. We need men who have the courage as Isaiah did when the Lord queried who he should send to speak forth his word. And Isaiah said, Here I am. Send me. Send me no matter the cost. Send me no matter the pay. Send me no matter the ridicule or scorn I receive. Send me no matter the spiritual or physical danger I face. Send me And to the old men, there are still years you can fill by serving the Bride of Christ. You will find that serving the bride of Christ is one of the most privileged works. you will have ever done. It is indeed a good work to aspire to, but only for good men. Let us pray.