In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, our epistle reading. You'll want to follow along. Hebrews chapter 12 beginning at verse 25. A couple of notes need to be underlined before we get to the specific verses that we are covering today First, we need to remember that the chapters and verses placed upon Scripture are man-made, and therefore they are fallible. A new chapter could be marked where we are starting, verse 25 of chapter 12, and therefore I am treating it like a new chapter. Second, we must not forget the main point of this sermon, for we are treating the entire book as a sermon We must not forget the main point of this sermon, which is that Jewish Christians are being tempted to return to their Jewish faith by abandoning Jesus They are given warnings to the many dangers they face if they choose, in the end, to become apostates. The Israelites who abandoned the faith as described in the Old Testament are the primary example of what happens when faith in God is rejected. The instruction in verse 25 and verse 26 is for the Hebrew Christians not to refuse him who speaks. That is in reference to chapter 12, verse 19, where the preacher refers to the Israelites hearing God's voice along with trumpets And begging Moses that they would not hear God's voice ever again. It is a remarkable request for the people of God, chosen to be his very own people. And after being given the law of Moses, the covenant, especially for them. That they would beg Moses to no longer hear the voice of God. In the book of Exodus, It reveals that the people made such a request because the voice scared them to the point that they thought they were going to die when hearing it. We know, of course, that they would not die, and that it was an eternal privilege for them to hear God's voice. But their lack of faith turned the privilege on its head in their minds and made it a matter of life or death. Fools they were. And yet the preacher is explaining to Christians that the same foolishness can be practiced by them if they do not heed God today. God's word is the same. What he has said is the same. It remains If Christians reject it today, his word, then they are doing exactly what the Israelites did. Professing Christians can also ask that God not speak to them. In fact, what is what many that is what many who call themselves Christians have done Christians who consider themselves liberal or progressive, who have said that certain passages in the Bible need not be heeded because the teaching is outdated Or never should have been included in the Bible, or Jesus never really did say those things, such people have asked God to stop speaking to them. And Christians who only listen to positive preaching and will only attend churches that speak of love or of positive living Have also asked God not to speak to them, at least not speak to them about certain things such as sin, repentance, weakness, humility, and death. In truth, many a Christian, regardless of whether they listen to good preaching or not, can choose what they will accept as God's speaking to them and what they will not For example, if you hear a sermon on the dangers of bitterness and you choose to remain bitter, you have asked God not to speak to you. If you are reminded from God's word to love your neighbor as yourself and you choose to ignore the needs of your neighbor, you have asked God not to speak to you. If you have been warned not to lust, not to covet, not to slander, not to withhold forgiveness, and you do just one of those very things that you've been warned not to do. You have asked God to stop speaking to you. The warning is for all of us. We all need to heed God who is speaking. And the preacher is not only referring to what God has said in the past, but what the preacher is saying in the moment. And that means that they are to treat the preacher's words as God's words. That is going to come out more clearly in verse 7 of chapter 3, which gives them instructions to heed those who have authority over them, and we will get to that next week. Verse 27. Verse 27 is a follow-up to verse 26 to explain what it means for the heavens to be shaken by God's voice. What will be shaken are those things that are not of God. People can be shaken who do not want to hear the word of God. Principalities and powers and rulers of this age will be shaken because they are enemies of God. But truth and righteousness Cannot be shaken, for they are established by God and are therefore grounded in earthly and heavenly reality, for they make up the kingdom of God. Verse 28. Verse 28 gives us a concluding remark, for since the kingdom of God is clearly distinct from everything that can be shaken and thus destroyed. Our instruction next is to have grace. Now that's from the New King James Version. The NIV does not translate it that way. The translations vary from having grace to living thankfully. The English Standard Version replaces have grace with offer to God acceptable worship. A literal translation from the Greek reads this way, have grace that we may serve God well pleasingly. And I believe that that phrase, have grace, covers all of the Christian life. We are to have grace and that we are to receive grace from God. And we are to live in grace in that we give grace to others And thus we live as a person who both has grace and gives grace by the same measure. Then I realize that I have that that to have been given grace and to give grace to others by the same measure, that's asking quite a lot. But that is the standard. It should be obvious that if we give grace in all circumstances, a great deal of emotional pain can be avoided Verse 29. Verse 29 seems to tie a bow around the whole reason why we are to live in grace with reverence and fear. It is for the truth that God is a consuming fire. And as a consuming fire, he judges sin and guilt and purifies those that he wills to make holy. While some have said that the entire sermon could end with chapter twelve I notice that the instruction for us to have grace flows into chapter 13, verse 1. For there it instructs us to continue in brotherly love. Well, to love one another necessitates that we have grace. It requires grace to love one another. We are reminded that St. John focused a full letter to the Christian Church on the importance of Christians loving one another. And that love is to stretch to strangers, as verse 2 next instructs. A motivation to be hospitable is given to us there. saying that if you are hospitable to strangers, you may have indeed entertained angels, heavenly hosts. I will not spend time talking about angels here. Angelology is of great interest to some, but I believe it's more important to pay attention, to be interested in what the angels have to say to us, what they have to show us. Loving the brethren in Christ then stretches to being hospitable to strangers and then stretches to remembering prisoners. And in particular, those who are being mistreated, verse 3 of chapter 13. St. Paul warns all Christians to obey governing authorities. And he gives this warning in Romans 13 That if we fall under the judgment of such authorities, secular authorities, we may suffer greatly because of their sense of justice in an unsaved world. And this is particularly difficult for Christians who must disobey governing authorities when preaching the gospel is outlawed. So yes, even Christians get mistreated, even Christians suffer at the hands of unjust men. And we are to pray. Pray for the least of these, as Jesus told us. Brotherly love next stretches to marriage and the need for Christians to honor the marital bed by disavowing sex outside of marriage. Verse 4. Now this stretch seems to be necessary if these Hebrew Christians had been told by false teachers that to not marry is actually more godly than to marry. And that was a teaching that St. Paul had to address in his first letter to Timothy. And it is likely that The same teaching would have been heard by these Hebrew Christians who might use such a teaching to second-guess the teachings of the apostles. We could spend, as you know, a great deal of time on the subject of Christian marriage, but today we keep it in the context of this sermon. The need for brotherly love next stretches to a warning against the sin of covetousness. That's verse 5. And we shouldn't see this stretching too far. For in St. James's letter, you will remember, he makes the point that when when there is quarreling among the brethren, among Christians Many times the problem is jealousy. We want the spouse or or the job or the children or the house. or the spiritual gifts that someone else has, and when we can't get what we want, we take it out on one another. The simple response against the temptation to covet is to be thankful for what you have and let God be enough for you. Next comes the quote from Psalm 118, and I hope you see it as a defiant proclamation against the devil and against our own personal doubts. The Lord is indeed our helper. Because he is my helper, I will indeed not fear. I will not fear because I have reason that if God is my helper, man can do nothing to me that cannot be overcome. And so we finish through our verses this morning. And I want to come back then to the point made from verse 25. That point, which is that no person should refuse God in what he says. The Hebrew preacher Again, has us looking to Israel as a model of failure for not wanting God to speak to them And it should be pointed out that the generation that asked God not to speak to them audibly, but only through Moses They robbed. They stole from generations after them that would have well benefited from hearing God's voice. It was a selfish and foolish request to fear God in such a manner that they would rather not hear him at all. But let us examine how something like that happens. How do you get there? Consider the history of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, who just this past month were meeting for their general council and they were addressing They were addressing, changing the prayer book to be gender neutral, so that God is neither referred to as a male nor a female. How did they drift so far from where they started Could their downfall have started in 1784 when Samuel Seabury of Connecticut was consecrated to be bishop in America by Scottish bishops? Who were at political odds with England's bishops making the consecration invalid according to the Church of England? Could it have started then? Little rebellion Well, no. No, that was rectified when Samuel Provost of New York was consecrated as Bishop to America by the Church of England in 1787. All that officially occurs within the Episcopal Church in the United States after 1787 reveals a faithful expression of Christian truth and love. They started to ordain black men to the priesthood. The Chicago Lambeth Quadrilateral was adopted, making the Holy Scriptures the final authority of the church. And the creeds, their statement of faith. Next came the 1928 prayer book, which is a faithful expression of the Christian church And then the 1940 hymnal, which is considered one of the greatest hymnal achievements in all of Christendom. It was not until 1974 that the Episcopal Church moved away from its Christian heritage by ordaining women into the priesthood. They did so despite nearly two millennium of history before them that believed the priesthood was God's call only upon men. They were able to justify such a massive shift in direction because they started to believe the educated higher critics That started to examine the Bible as a 20th century text rather than a first century text. Because a first century text doesn't have proof required for validating what was required for a 20th century text. Scholars, and we'll say so-called, began to question the authority of much of the Bible and concluded that such letters as 1 Timothy where it clearly forbids women to have leadership over men. They conclude that that could not have been written by Paul And therefore, it no longer has apostolic authority. And therefore, Paul's instruction not to have women as leaders in the church thrown out. All other references to men as leaders in the church only are explained as prejudicial for the times, and since we live in a much more enlightened time, so they believe about themselves. We can excuse those Bible verses as well. So when certain passages of Scripture are erased, And others reinterpreted or just plain ignored due to prejudice, the church could then say that women can be ordained in the priesthood. But women being ordained to the priesthood is not the problem. No, the problem is not wanting God to speak anymore. The problem is not wanting to hear God's voice. And when you don't want to hear God speak, something has to fill the void. What follows after women's ordination is truly a slippery slope. After women are ordained in the Episcopal Church in America, a new prayer book is now adopted. A prayer book that is much weaker and effeminate in its language against sin and against the devil. It is a prayer book that was never recognized as usable by any other official Anglican body outside the Episcopal Church. Again, God's voice muzzled. Sadly, there are some ACNA churches using this prayer book today, and they should not be. What follows next was the non-disciplining of Bishop Spong, spelled S-P-O-N-G. Bishop Spong openly taught from 1979 to the year 2000 that understanding God as Christians have done for centuries is meaningless to the modern mind. He denied that Jesus was God, he denied any concept of creation, he denied the virgin birth, he denied miracles of the New Testament, and he viewed the idea of Jesus being sacrificed for sin as barbaric. All in all, he rejected God speaking. He rejected God's voice. And yet, with such teachings being contrary to the essential doctrines that make the church the church. Spong was never charged for heresy. He was never censored by the Episcopal Church. The bottom of the slope gets faster. When in 2003 an openly gay man was ordained to serve as a bishop in the Episcopal Church in the Diocese of New Hampshire, God's voice ignored. And this brings us to today when we have the church debating whether God should be called Father anymore Some have even joked that the Episcopal Church in America is going to vote next whether to remove any belief regarding the Trinity from their worship so that Muslims can feel more welcome. That joke sounds more likely to happen with each decision made by the church. And why did all of this happen? It happened because people didn't want to hear God speak. And when we request not to hear God's voice, Something must fill the void. And what usually fills the void is our own voice, or a voice that the devil has inspired. Consider how much God has spoken to us today. Examine yourself, inquiring if you plan to heed what God has said. With the summary of the law read, God has said for you to love him with all of your heart and to love your neighbor as yourself. Did you hear it as God's voice You have heard from the preacher to the Hebrews to continue in brotherly love, to entertain strangers. To remember prisoners who are suffering unjustly, to honor the marriage bed, and to not covet. Are you committed to obeying these instructions as God's word to you? If the latter, I'm sorry, if yes Then you want God to speak. And if no, then you'll ask God, just like the Israelites, to be silent If the latter is the case, then you are warned here this morning, just as the first audience to this sermon was warned. If you do not obey God's word, you will not hear God's most important words. Well done, good and faithful servant, enter into your rest. Please be warned that those words you will want to hear. Let's hear it again. Do not refuse him who has spoken. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God We have heard the warning. We have heard it read. We have heard it preached. And now it is up to each of us individually. We confess that. We are responsible Father, give us the strength, the constitution, the wisdom, the will to hear your word at all times. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.