In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I started this series on corporate worship two weeks ago Making the simple point that the God of Holy Scripture does not accept just any form of worship, but is instead is insistent that our worship be by His commandments. with a heart that loves him fully, and a love for our fellow man. Any worship that falls short of said standard is worship rejected. A number of years ago, I visited a home of a parishioner who attended this parish, but her husband did not. I visited the home because I wanted to see if I could convince the husband to believe in Jesus and then become a part of St. Stephen's. For the sake of his own soul and for the soul of his wife, who so desperately wanted her husband to be a Christian and to worship with her The husband thought himself a good thinker, and so he posed to me this question. Why does God need to be worshipped? It appears, he said, that God has an ego problem when he commands that he be worshipped. Up to that time I had not been asked such a question, but I have surmised since that many people who struggled to have faith have asked or thought something similar. Certainly, if any human were to demand to be worshipped, we as Christians would be appalled as that sinful ego was being expressed. And we look back at the pharaohs of Egypt, the Caesars of Rome, and the likes of Hitler and Mussolini, and we rightly disdain their egos. And their insistence on being praised by their followers. And then we make the mistake of thinking that God Might be worthy of similar disdain because of his commandments to be worshipped. That type of thinking is a very serious problem, for it reveals that we are tempted by the devil to understand God. In the same categories as understanding ourselves and as understanding our fellow man. It is a struggle For human beings to comprehend that God is wholly different. W-H-O-L-L-Y and H-O-L-Y. Wholly different from humanity. And in being wholly different, he is beyond our comprehension. And yet, because he's beyond our comprehension, That means that him coming to be like us is even more profound. But being our comp beyond our comprehension is what it means to be God. If we who are finite could understand God fully, then he would also have to be finite. But we can only understand fully what is finite and not understand that which is infinite. To realize God is beyond our comprehension Helps our faith to increase again as we contemplate his revelations to us, especially his glorious incarnation. Christian apologists have rightly described God as separate from his creation by explaining that everything that has existence Either exists as being caused by something else, or by the necessity of its own nature. I'll say that again. Everything that exists has come into being by the cause of another thing. Or it exists by the necessity of its own nature. Thus it is argued that while all things that exist require an outside agent that caused its existence. There is the possibility of God because God exists by the necessity of his own nature, which is eternal. To put it another way, God does not have to have a beginning, because the word beginning implies the existence of time. And it was God who created time, making God before time, and we only say that To help us comprehend God's eternal existence, since there could not have been a before, before time, because the word before only makes sense in the context of time. Hang in with me? What I said makes sense, only you might have to listen to it a few times to follow the track of logic. But my point to go on in such a manner is to show how difficult it is for finite minds like ours to understand the full nature of God. The great mind of St. Anselm of Canterbury, the 12th-century theologian, put forth his famous ontological argument for the existence of God By defining God as that by which nothing greater can be conceived. That by which nothing greater can be conceived Such a definition works well within the ontological argument, but it has a flaw. In that it seems that God's existence is based on what man cannot fully comprehend. Of course, God's existence isn't dependent upon anything that humanity can or cannot understand, but the definition of God being that which is nothing that nothing greater can be conceived At least gets to the point that to compare God to humanity or any one man ever but Jesus Is to fall embarrassingly and shamefully short of coming close, close to knowing God It is only after we try to comprehend just how much we cannot comprehend that we can reasonably see why it is necessary for us who are created beings To worship the one who created us. So God is beyond our comprehension And yet there are truths that God has revealed to us about Him that He wants us to focus upon. But we find it difficult to focus upon God, what he has revealed to us, because we who are worshipers by nature are also sinful due to our fallen nature. Having established the argument that God, because of his nature, is worthy of praise, our praise, It is next necessary for us to examine the nature of humanity, and in particular, examine our nature as compared to God. Interestingly, it was mentioned to me a couple of times before service that some people are having a hard time staying awake during my sermons. And I assure you that God does not have a hard time staying awake. God reveals to us that we are worshipers by nature, telling us of our first parents, Adam and Eve. You remember who were placed in a perfect environment where food was plenty, temperature was such to where no clothing was necessary, and because there was no sin, there was no shame, requiring nothing to be hidden. All of it was given by God, and therefore God was to be thanked and honored for giving such gifts that required no toil of humanity, but only to enjoy the fruits of the garden. Except one. Except one. The fruit of the knowledge of good and evil. By the way, it's not in my notes, but as a Washingtonian, that fruit of the knowledge of good and evil was not an apple We don't know what it was, but we from Washington take offense if you say it's an apple. Apples are good for you. The fruit of the knowledge of good and evil was the only fruit God instructed Adam and Eve not to eat, and with that instruction they were placed in a position of possible failure. Interesting. God knew they could possibly fail. To not eat would require them to fully love God, as God would reign supreme in the hearts of Adam and Eve. And to disobey by eating said fruit would bring the curse of death. From the choice that our two parents made, it was revealed that they loved something other than God. And we know from the sermon two weeks ago that obedience is an act of worship and disobedience a rejecting of proper worship. When God curses Adam and Eve because of their disobedience, he reveals then what is meant for Adam and Eve to know good and evil. No one, to my knowledge, has better explained what it meant for Adam and Eve to know good and evil better than C. S. Lewis. In the second installment of his space trilogy titled Paralandra, Lewis describes a planet that has been recently occupied by two human-like creatures, human-like. They are male and female, but something different than human. They are given the duty by God to procreate and to fill this new planet with their own kind. But they were not alone, for a demon-possessed man who on Earth was a scientist named Weston had created a ship that enabled him to land on Paralandra. With the goal of corrupting these undefiled creatures and eventually corrupting the whole planet. This plan of corruption was interrupted by another scientist named Ransom. And you should note that from the theories on atonement. He is the hero of the story who works diligently to expose Dr. Weston to the innocent creatures while helping these new creatures resist temptation to disobey God. And just like the biblical story, the possessed Dr. Weston tempts the female creature while she is unwillingly separated from her mate. Now the story is more complex than I am able to describe for this sermon. But what Lewis brilliantly shows from the conversations the female creature has with both both the possessed Dr. Weston and the hero Dr. Ranson, is the difference between, and here it is, The difference between knowing good and evil from the devil's perspective versus God's perspective From biblical narrative of the fall of Adam and Eve, some have interpreted it that God did not want humanity to know good and evil at all, or ever. What Lewis explains is that God did and does want us to know good and evil only from the side of obedience and holiness. rather than from the side of disobedience and sin. Because of the choice of our first parents, all of us know good and evil from the side of disobedience and sinfulness. And that perspective makes our knowledge of good and evil distorted, limited, and corrupt. Remember in our covering of the book of Hebrews, when the Hebrew preacher teaches us That Jesus knows our weaknesses because he was tempted in all ways like us without sin. And we learn that Jesus as a human being Then is first to know good and evil as God intended it to be known. Again, from the side of obedience and holiness. From such a side, it can be said that Jesus is the only person to ever truly know good and evil. For the devil himself only knows it from the side that we are on. Now, because we know good and evil from the wrong side, the distorted, limited, and corrupt side Everything we do, every act we perform, even listening right now, even my preaching right now. Every thought we have, every project that we complete, every relationship we have, every motive that we use, all of it is tainted by sin. All of it. This is the same as where it says in the Bible that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. This is, as I have described, is confirmed by the prophet Isaiah, who said, that all we like sheep have gone astray. The Apostle Paul said of humanity, there is none righteous, no not one. Now reminding you of the fallen state of our humanity is Depressing? I must interrupt your thoughts to say that it is not my goal, of my words, to depress you or the goal of the words of scripture to depress us, but rather to awaken our consciences to the need for God's forgiveness. Every time we are reminded of our fallen condition, our sinful condition, it is to awaken our souls. So that we might utter the same words spoken by the crowd that heard that wonderful sermon by St. Peter on Acts 2. And hearing that sermon, they say, What then shall we do? If you are a Christian, you know the answer. It is to repent and be baptized. And if you are a Christian, then you have been baptized, then you know your next duty is to repent. The Christian life is indeed a life of repentance. Thus, repentance plays a central role in Christian worship. And God help all those churches that worship today who do not repent in their service. It is central to our worship. And after we repent of our sin, we are to believe that God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It is when we have believed that God has forgiven us that we next give him thanks. We give him praise. We give him our worship. And we must give him our worship because if we do not, then we will give it to something other than God To be convinced that we humans are by nature beings that must worship, allow history to teach you For there is no civilization known to history that does not have some form of worship of some form of God or gods. If history is not enough, then examine people you know and observe their obsessions. If a person is not a follower of Jesus, he or she is a follower of something else. People give themselves over to anything to serve as their God. Substances we refer to in the context of addictions, they are worshipped. Money is worshipped. Fads are worshipped. Material goods are worshipped Social causes are worshipped. Politicians are worshipped. Sports, athletes, celebrities are worshipped Recreation is worshipped. Even laziness is worshipped, as there are people who work hard for the purpose of avoiding work. We can also see how emotions are worshiped as people, on one end of emotional expression, pursue a high of joyfulness, while others pursue a high of anger and bitterness. Every emotion in between can also be made a God to follow and to submit to. If history and observation is not enough, then be convinced by Bob Dylan, who you've heard before, you've got to serve somebody. It might be the devil, it might be the Lord, but you have to serve somebody. Now putting this sermon puzzle together, you need to see that the piece that shows that the nature of God is naturally to be worshipped. And the human nature's need to worship, those two things go together. The troubled piece that doesn't seem to fit is that we are sinful in our natures, our fallen natures. So the missing piece that helps our fallen nature fit with the creator of the universe is, of course, Jesus, who fits perfectly between us. So that we are no longer estranged from God, even while we have yet received our heavenly holiness. Before we do receive that heavenly holiness, we are to be acting out the task of worshiping God. The question remains, how? How are we to worship God? That question is going to be answered more fully next week, as this is a sermon series. And two weeks ago we were shown biblically how God is not to be worshipped. And what I want to end on in this sermon. is how modern worship has failed to answer the question of how God is to be worshipped, so that he accepts it There is a British satire television series. I think it's older. I've only seen it on YouTube. It's called Yes, Minister. And they performed dialogue skits giving humorous insights into the British culture, including politics. In one particular scene, the Prime Minister is to appoint a new bishop, but is having trouble choosing from the candidates. He discovers that all of the politically acceptable candidates are not true churchmen, but rather politicians. He learns that the primary candidates for bishop no longer dress for their position as Christian ministers, but instead for social status. The Prime Minister is told that their modern dress is for the purpose of relevance. The Prime Minister responds to this by asking, relevant to God? The answer comes back, no, of course not, Prime Minister. I meant relevant as a sociological term And it is that term, relevant, that has dogged the modern church as many bodies of believers have worked hard to be socially relevant. There is the attempt to be relevant in terms of society, resulting in what are called liberal Christian churches. These churches, as you know, have abandoned Judeo-Christian morals set forth in Holy Scripture and instead have adopted moral standards that set no standards at all Except the virtue of tolerance, and even that virtue is rejected if it is tolerance for those who still uphold Judeo-Christian morals. The other group that wants to be relevant are the independent Christian gatherings who confess to abide by Judeo-Christian morals. but who worship in a manner that they think is appealing to the greater masses of people, especially younger people. And so these groups replicate popular music styles while placing Jesus in the lyrics. Some even use light shows and fog Because, well, such staging is thought to make worship more relevant The begging question is relevant to whom? Relevant to God? No. And there lies the very serious problem. I submit that the more relevant Christian worship becomes to humanity, especially particularly Western humanity, The more God begins to look like Western humanity, and such a picture is not worthy of any worship. I also submit that if you examine the worship as commanded by God in both the tabernacle and for the temple, and the worship that is described in the book of Revelation You will realize that corporate worship of the one true God is to be heavenly relevant, not earthly relevant. Christian worship is only relevant when it ascends into heaven where the Father and the Son reign. I submit that we are only relevant to the kingdom of God when our worship is relevant to heaven. That should be our goal, our standard, and nothing less. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father, we come confessing that our worship being received by you is a privilege And it is not to be offered lightly and unseemly in any manner. And we thank you for the high standard. And Father, as we pray that your kingdom would come, your will be done, may that occur in our worship. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.