Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Forgive my voice. Some of you know that I helped coach the Liberty High School football team. We had a playoff game last night and I was yelling out the plays to the players, the numbered plays, and then I woke up with this whatever it is inside my throat. So it's a little rough this morning. Oh, and we lost forty-five to forty-three. It was a terrible loss. We're looking at Philippians chapter 1, starting at verse 1, our reading started at verse 3, but we're starting at verse 1, and then we're going to jump over to the Gospel of Matthew I purchased a boat just over two years ago. I should say we purchased a boat. Three of my sons invested with me I did it for the sake of the family. Fun. Family fun with the hope of spending summer Saturdays out on the water with the family towing the grandchildren around on ski tubes. The boat is 21 feet long, has a stern drive engine, and packs 220 horsepower. We put in a new floor, new seats, and new wiring for the trailer. I took a required course to get a boat license. I got a trailer license from New Hampshire because if you don't want to pay a lot of money to to the state of Maryland, you go through New Hampshire In the two summers, oh, we bought life jackets and ski tubes and a tow rope. In the two summers that we've had the boat, we have taken it out four times. And no one has been tow, and no fun has been had. There are various reasons for that that I will not go into. My main point in telling you this is to show how easy it is to have plans, to make plans, and never fulfill your plans. The book of Proverbs tells us that many are the plans of a man's heart, but the Lord's purpose prevails. Examine yourself and consider how many events you have wanted to attend, how many things you have wanted to experience How many purchases you have wanted to make, how many items you have saved up for, how many places you have wanted to go, and you haven't done any of it. Just how reliable are we? Even reliable to ourselves. Many Christians have a difficult time with the doctrine of predestination. The problem seems to be about the understanding of an individual person's free will and an apparent injustice being done by God by not choosing all people. If God chooses who will be saved, where does that infringe on a person's ability to choose for themselves? And how is it just for God to choose some to be saved and not others? Well the Calvinists have answers to these objections. Because every person before he or she is saved is dead in their sins and trespasses, no one has the ability to choose God. Thus, God must intervene and enable people to choose the good, which is to choose Him. To the second objection made by babies and others, the base truth is that if justice were fulfilled Then no one would be saved because all persons deserve damnation. That God would save anyone shows him to be merciful. For he fulfilled his own standard of justice by sacrificing his own son. Such answers are logical and reasonable to the objections But none of what I have just said gets to the heart or the purpose of the doctrine of predestination. The heart or purpose of the doctrine of predestination is security in salvation. Security in our salvation. It is for Christians to be at peace with the fact that our salvation and our heavenly hope are so solely dependent upon God as opposed to ourselves. And for that, we are to be most grateful. Let us now examine how this is declared by Paul to the Christians at Philippi. The opening verse of St. Paul's letter is unique in that it includes Timothy as a source of Paul's writing. We learn later in the letter that the people of the church requested that Timothy be sent to them. So Paul assures them of his present condition, which is ministering next to Paul. To refer to all of them as saints is gracious and loving as a reference. Were all of them behaving like saints? We can say no, because there was some disunity among them that Paul needed to confront. But Paul was loving and gracious to all of them, regardless of their troubles, and it is an example for all of us. In fact, I speculate that if we were to refer to each other as saints, it would have at least two effects. If we greeted one another, if we greeted one another in the manner of good morning, Saint Stan or Saint Fran. Or good morning, Saint Suzanne. Or Saint Larry's not here. Not going to call him a saint. Those who were called a saint Would be encouraged to act like a saint, and those who call people saints would be encouraged to treat them like a saint. Either way, it's a win win. Next, the line, Grace to you, and peace. That's a typical greeting by Paul. Years back when there was some social tension in this parish, and I noted two things about the tension. Some people were not being gracious to others, nor were they practicing feast, but were instead unnecessarily riled And so I started ending my pastoral correspondence with the phrase grace and peace. Because we all need grace in terms of getting it and giving it. And we all need to be at peace because there is nothing worth being disturbed about except your own sin. And Paul closes his greeting by giving God the Father and Jesus the Son the same billing. For in the Father and the Son is the source of grace and peace. Verses 4 and 5 reveal the intimate relationship Paul had with the congregation as a whole And that affection displayed reveals how important such relationships are. When Paul prays for them, he has memories that are filled with joy. And such speaks to the impact that these people had had on his life. They had fellowship with him Which is a sincere friendship where he could trust them and they could trust him. Such is a genuine relationship, which is where honesty can be expressed without condemnation. And with commitments made to one another that will be fulfilled without reservation, and where love, true Christian 1 Corinthians chapter 13, love is exchanged And at the center of it is the good news of Jesus Christ, which is that sins are forgiven and heaven is our certain hope. Because of the genuine fellowship just described, Paul turns to the confidence that he has in their salvation. Not because of how good a people they are, or because of how much he feels loved by them, or how much they have helped him in the past. No. He is confident in their salvation because of God. God, he says, who began a good work in them. Which means that he revived them and revealed the truth of himself to them and brought them to be converted to the Christian faith That such was the beginning point, and that God is sure to complete, which is to keep them in the faith until Jesus returns to take all of his people to their eternal home. And so I take you back to my voting plans. Or maybe we can look at your travel plans. Or house renovation ideas, or the new garden that you have been wanting to start, or maybe you started it but didn't finish it. I recall growing up with several of my father's projects going unfinished, and I always wondered how he accepted it. We had a stairwell that was half painted. And I would think that such a reality would feel like it was mocking him every time he walked up and down those stairs. If the walls could speak, they would say to him every time he walked those steps Yeah, I'm still here waiting for that spackling to be sanded, waiting for that first coat to be finished. I'm not going anywhere, still available anytime that you need me. The point being that we humans, our species, are not reliable. We should not depend upon ourselves because we cannot depend upon ourselves. Thus we are to say, thanks be to God, that it is He who will finish the work He started in us, and it is only Him that we can trust. How grateful we are to be that God is solely responsible for our salvation is underlined and highlighted by the parable of the unforgiving servant in our gospel reading. The story is familiar to us, so I am simply going to place a spotlight on certain aspects of it. Jesus tells the parable in response to the question about forgiveness. How many times should I forgive a brother who sins against me? With the possible number of seven. And so we ask, why seven? The number is sacred in that it is the days in which God used to identify time And it is the numbered day in which he rested while calling his creation good. Thus it is a number of completion. Number of completion. Jesus answers with the same number multiplied to a much greater number of completion. Which was his way of exaggerating the point to absurdity, which tells us that there is no number to completion regarding how often Christians are to forgive one another. To explain how forgiveness is to work within the lives of those who followed him, Jesus describes a king making a common business action. A king wants to settle his debts, which means he wants people to pay him what they owe him. This is unlike the world economy today. Which seems to have countries indebted to one another with no one able to settle debts, but that commentary is for another time. So this wealthy man or king calls those indebted to him to pay up. And one man owes a lot and could not pay. So the king, the wealthy king, treats the situation like any business transaction, or any businessman would, and calls for the man to be thrown in prison as a thief, because that's what he was. It was not personal, merely business. The debtor panics and asks for mercy, with a promise to pay the debt eventually. The wealthy king sees the humbleness and desperateness of the debtor and rescinds his call for justice, and next extends mercy by canceling the entire debt. Such was unexpected. The debtor didn't even consider asking for such forgiveness Such as the second example of human fickleness in the story, with the first being the debtor who took out a debt he couldn't afford. Having then been freed from the debt, which we can all empathize with, or we can feel what that must have been like emotionally, having, as they say, a great weight taken off your back. The debtor also has people indebted to him and decides to settle those debts, being now the collector. So he comes upon a fellow debtor and demands his money, money considerably less than what was just recently forgiven. And the fellow debtor also cannot pay, and also asks time to pay it. But the first debtor refuses to be patient and has his fellow debtor thrown in prison. Such is a display of grace received, but not given. And Jesus warned elsewhere that to whom much is given, much is required. I found an article this week titled Presidential Promises Broken Since Nineteen Sixteen. Here are some of the highlights. Woodrow Wilson ran for re-election in 1916 on the slogan, He kept us out of war. The result, just 29 days after he was sworn into his second term, Wilson asked a joint session of Congress for a declaration of war against Germany Citing Germany's broken promise to suspend unrestricted U-boat warfare and an attempt by Germany to talk Mexico into joining an alliance against the U. S. Congress granted the request two days later. Then there was Lyndon Johnson taking office, as you know, in 1963 after the assassination of JFK. Running for re-election in 1964, LBJ painted his opponent, Barry Goldwater, as a war hawk And promise we are not about to send American boys 9 or 10,000 miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be doing for themselves. The result? Johnson sent combat troops to Vietnam and escalated the war many times. After public opinion turned against him LBJ pulled out of the 1968 race. Then there is the first George Bush. In his acceptance speech in 1988, He said to the crowd, you remember it, read thy lips, no new taxes. The result, the Bush administration found itself plagued by a persistent recession while the federal deficit increased. After months of trying and failing to hammer out a deal, Bush admitted his failure and raised taxes. And then there was a president who I can't remember, but he said something about his healthcare system and that you could keep the doctor if you wanted to keep your doctor. And then there was a president who said he would build a wall and then that didn't happen. What's the point? People don't keep their word. In fact, we could even say they can't keep their word. There is no one beside the Lord Jesus Himself, the Apostle Paul, who understood the human condition more clearly than Augustine of Hippo. In his work titled Confessions, he thoroughly explains his outward struggles with lust of the flesh and inner pride. After he turned his life over to the Savior Jesus and became a new man, he explained how difficult it was to control earthly desires still when you sleep. This is what he said. Speaking to the Lord, he says, This Verily thou calls me to continency from the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the ambition of the world. Thou calls me to continency from concubage and wedlock itself. Thou hast cancelled something better than that. Thou hast permitted. And since thou gave it, it was done, even before I became a dispenser of thy sacraments. But there still lives in my memory whereof I have much spoken. The images of such things as my ill custom there fixed, which haunt me, strengthless when I am awake, but in sleep not only so as to give pleasure, but even to obtain agreement. And what is very like reality? Yea, so far prevails the illusion of the image in my soul and in my flesh. That when asleep false visions persuade to that which men waking they cannot be true. Am I not then myself, O Lord my God? And yet there is so much difference between myself and myself within the moment wherein I pass from waking to sleeping, or returning from sleeping to waking. Such sentiment is very close to the description St. Paul gives to the Romans in chapter 7. describing that he does what he does not want to do and fails to do that which he does that he knows he should do In the end, all of us are to say, along with Augustine, along with St. Paul, woe is me. And so we can't trust others. And we can't trust ourselves even when we're asleep. Thanks be to God. We are not left to our woeful condition. But instead we celebrate the deliverance Jesus offers and provides, along with the power of the resurrection, to overcome sin when awake and when asleep. But while we struggle in this life with the flesh and the spirit, and while we admit our inconsistent character, And an inability to be altogether true in keeping our word and doing as we should, we come back to the promise given by Paul. He, God, who began a good work in you. Which is to open your eyes to the spiritual world and the realities of the destruction of sin, and to believe Jesus is the Son of God who overcame sin and death. That's what he woke you up to do. Such a faith is what he began in you. Will be, God will be, faithful to complete it. To complete it is to be standing before him while he extends himself to us and says, Well done. Thou good and faithful servant, enter into your rest. God did the saving, is doing the saving, and will complete the saving. And our lives are to be lived, reflecting the gratefulness we have in our hearts that He will complete it in us. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly father We thank you for what you started, we thank you for what you are doing, and we thank you for the promise of completion. May our hearts be increased all the more this day to serve you faithfully until the end, until our end, until you greet us and welcome us home. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.