In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn your Bibles to 2 Peter. Second Peter chapter one beginning at twelfth verse. St. Peter has taught us Thus far in this his second letter, the Christians have been given enough by God to enable them to live holy lives. A holy life is a life pleasing to God. And our Savior Jesus Christ is the model of the holy life we are to live. In verse 12 of chapter 1, where we pick up for this sermon, Peter acknowledges that every Christian who will read this letter That his readers are already established in the truth that he is teaching. Which is to say, they already know what he is saying. But he admits that he must repeat it, for that is his duty. Remember that it was Jesus who asked Peter if Peter loved him Peter said, Yes, and Jesus said, feed my sheep. The exchange occurred three times. And even though Peter became discouraged by Jesus repeating the question, the three times were poignant, for they were symbolic of the fact that Jesus had been forgiven. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, that Jesus had forgiven Peter for denying him those three times. And it was also to underline how important it was for the apostles to feed the sheep of Jesus. To feed the sheep was and is to teach God's people. And if that was not done, Peter would have been negligent. Recall that in the book of Acts, the apostles devoted themselves to preaching and teaching about Jesus. That focus is to continue today. Pastors are called to preach and teach about Jesus. Unfortunately, that does not happen as it should in many churches for a number of different reasons. Some pastors simply don't believe in Jesus, resulting in the pulpit becoming a place where they share their political opinions or their shrink-think. Other pastors want to be entertaining, and so they spend most of their time behind the pulpit telling stories and sharing anecdotes. Others want to draw a large crowd, and so they treat the pulpit and Christian worship as self-help gatherings. where people can practice thinking positively about self and learn how to be a better businessman or woman, better husband or wife, better father or mother, better friend, better coworker, have a better marriage, etcetera. Etc. , etc. Preaching Jesus apparently does not draw large crowds. It has gotten so bad in churches in the United States that one conservative preacher put out a satire that said, how to be a better preacher than 99% of pastors His answer? Simply preach that Jesus died for you. Simply preaching that Jesus died for you, you have preached better than 99% of what is said in pulpits today. And I fear that sarcasm is not much of an exaggeration. St. Peter didn't preach or teach to gather large crowds. In fact, he said that he knew he was reminding the Christians of what they already knew. Now, how boring is that? How boring it would be to come to church to be reminded of what you already know. It would be boring because we don't forget, do we? It would be boring because what we hear we already fully understand. We already have applied the truths in all of our ways of our lives. And we would be bored because, well, you can only hear that Jesus died for you so many times, right? Can I get an amen? No, don't say amen. We need to hear the truth again and again of Jesus dying for us. Because we need it to increase our love for him. And then increase our love for one another. And then increase our devotion to him. And then increase our dedication to him. And then increase our resistance to sin. And then increase our boldness to stand up for him. And then increase our words to evangelize for him. And then increase our praise for him. And then gather together to hear again that Jesus died for you. Now can I get an amen? Now St. Peter next doubles down on this emphasis of reminding Christians of what he knows they know. And explains his motivation, which is his inevitable death. We are to understand his use of a tent metaphor as a way to explain how the body is a vehicle. that houses the spirit of the individual, that has been made alive by the Holy Spirit, and that that said spirit in each of us is eternal. Peter, however, does not want us to mistake the understanding of our bodies as tents in terms of the spirit needing to escape the body or the tent. Remember that God made our bodies and he said they are good. The problem is we are subject to mortality because of the curse mankind is under. Our spirits need new bodies in order to be free and to live eternally as whole human beings, just as Jesus is. From the last line in verse 14, we can accept that the Holy Spirit has pressed upon Peter, that his life in this world will shortly end. And it did. As verse 15 explains, by Saint Peter writing these reminders down This is to ensure that Christians will always have the reminders, the necessary reminders in front of them. Reminders of who Jesus is and what God had done in Jesus for our salvation. In writing it down, it remains with them always to be referred back to after Peter's death. And this means that we need to be reminded of our need to be reminded. Remember when Saint Paul wrote to the Galatians, and he was expressing his aghast that they had so quickly been led astray into false doctrine. False doctrine is thinking falsely about God. And so what is true for the Galatians could be true for any of us if we are not reminded. And beloved, this is the way of the devil. He leads people away from believing in Jesus by corrupting their way of thinking about Jesus. He leads them away by tempting them to think in terms of life circumstances instead of terms of eternal truth. And so when life circumstances change, the way we think changes. And the way we think that changes includes doctrine. And doctrine is what we think about God. The most common example, how easily absolutes can change when the behavior of our loved ones change. And so if I believe the doctrine that homosexual behavior is sinful, and my brother reveals himself to be a homosexual, I am tempted to change my view on the morality of homosexual behavior because I want to think well of my brother. And when I change such a view, it allows me to question other teachings of the Bible, which could lead me to reject or redact all the doctrine the Bible teaches And so my relationship with my brother becomes an idol. I wish to serve rather than the doctrines that are taught me in Holy Scripture. And you have witnessed this type of changing of doctrine just as I have. We believe Divorce is sinful until our own child gets a divorce, or maybe I myself get a divorce, and suddenly it's not so sinful anymore. We believe sex outside of marriage is sinful until a sibling starts to live with her boyfriend. We believe Jesus is the only way to heaven until Aunt Beatrice becomes a universalist And by golly, we all like Aunt Beatrice, and we don't want to think about her going to hell, and so we change our doctrine, making Jesus a way to heaven and not the way to heaven. Such occurrences we all know all too well. Therefore, we need to be reminded of true doctrine. St. Peter next lets us know where his sound doctrine was derived. He was a witness himself. The origin is himself as a witness. The Apostle John used the same source of authority, his own experience. As eyewitnesses, the apostles could confirm what Jesus taught, what miracles he performed, and what was done to him. And it is the testimony of the apostles that the church today depends upon, and we do so unapologetically. Those of you who have studied philosophy a little bit, even, know the subject of epistemology, which is the study of knowledge or the study of how we know things. Most people don't search into what it means to know something or how knowledge is obtained. We just say that we know certain things and we don't know much about certain things. But epistemology asks what it means to say that you know something. For example, I can say that I know that 2 plus 2 equals 4, but what does that mean? Do I know how two plus two equals four? Do I have a knowledge of numbers and their eternal quality before I can say I know that two plus two equals four? It's simply stating a fact, memorizing a fact. Is that actual knowledge An empiricist would say that a person cannot say he or she knows anything unless it is experienced by the senses. Thus, according to an empiricist, only the apostles could say that they know Jesus because they experienced him with their senses. You and I, however, cannot say that we know Jesus because we know him by the testimony of others and not by our own senses. A believer who's more in touch with their feelings might argue that he or she has experienced Jesus with their senses and that they felt the presence of Jesus or heard his voice speak to them personally. And the empiricist would argue that such experience is not measurable and therefore cannot be counted as experience and thus no real knowledge. So how is the empiricist to be countered in terms of being convinced that Jesus can be known through eyewitness testimony of the apostles? Well the answer is actually simple. Consider that we cannot make good decisions in life unless we base those decisions on the knowledge and a great deal of knowledge that we use from somebody else Not by our own experience, but rather by the experience of others. If we only knew truth by our own experience, history would be meaningless, and as would moral lessons. In truth, we depend a great deal on the knowledge gained by the experience of others. For instance, I say that Mount Everest is over 29,000 feet high because I trust in the measurements made by others who have calculated its height. I am also aware that falling from such a height means certain death, because others have experienced it, and that's good enough for me to gain some knowledge. I know falling over 29,000 feet kills a human being. Testimony of someone else. And so we trust in the testimony of the apostles without reservation to trust them because we found that the words they heard from Jesus that they repeated to us, those words have life. Words like no other man has spoken. We believe their testimony that Jesus is alive, having been raised from the dead, because it makes sense. It makes sense in terms of what was prophesied. It makes sense of the consistency of the accounts of the apostles. It makes sense as to how those Roman guards were thwarted. But we also believe. We also believe because we experienced the weight of sin brought upon our own consciences. And we experience that sin lifted and gone from us, and we don't care if an empiricist can measure such a thing. We know it to be true. It is as real to us as anything we have seen with our eyes, touched with our fingers, heard with our ears, smelled with our nose, tasted with our tongue. Jesus is alive, my sins are forgiven, heaven's gates are opened wide. That's what a Christian believes. That is what Saint Peter reminds us of. The testimony of the apostles as a source of eternal truth known is in contrast to the cunning-devised fables. Now because St. Peter does not identify what these specific fables are, this allows us to say, in general, that false made-up stories are dangerous, some of them. A fable, you know, is a made-up story. Some fables are very effective at teaching moral lessons, as we know Esau fables. The fables that are told and written that attempt to evoke religious devotion, those are of a different nature altogether. Such can be told to detract from truth. We know the Greeks telling stories of the gods, who sound a lot more like human beings. Among the Norsemen there was the story told of Odin, their chief god, who gained great wisdom by going through various trials in order to achieve knowledge of the realm of the dead He sacrificed himself. It was after his sacrifice that he returned from the dead stronger than ever. The only problem with that story is that it was told of their God after Christianity had reached the Norsemen. These unbelievers wanted their God to be greater than Jesus, and so they made it up. Other religions such as Hinduism have resurrection-like stories, but none of them are witnessed by men who tell their eyewitness accounts. Christians, Christians are to be a people of truth, for Jesus is the truth. And this means that fables that engender faith or promote religious faith or teaches religious doctrine, these cannot be acceptable in the church. Maybe some of you have received emails that tell stories of young Christians standing up to their college professors and going toe-to-toe with them by way of cunning argumentation. Where in the end the supposed student makes the professor look foolish and all the while proves to everyone that God exists. In one story, a college girl proves that her professor doesn't have a brain by using his own argumentation that God doesn't exist. How clever. In another, the student who proves that God exists is identified as Albert Einstein. But no true story of anything remotely like these stories told have ever been documented as true. But they are passed around on the internet for the purpose of encouraging Christians that we have truth on our side. The problem with that is that we should not be encouraged that we have truth on our side by way of telling-coming fables. We don't need fables. Instead, we need to put our confidence in the same place Peter did. Who was an eyewitness and a person of faith as he trusted the Holy Scriptures. He trusted in the prophets who confirmed the Old Testament narrative as it spoke of the Jesus who was to come. The apostles compared the person of Jesus that they knew personally to the words of the prophets and found that Jesus fulfilled all that they knew and more. And notice how Peter accepts the knowledge passed on to him by the prophets as they were witnesses to God's word, writing it down from their hearts. His confidence of faith in the authority of Holy Scripture and specifically the words of the prophets is to be our confidence as well. As St. Peter confirms, the words of the prophets came from God. And Jesus came from God. And Jesus said that he speaks only what the Father tells him to speak. And Jesus died for your sins. And that is enough. While attending seminary, In the mid-1990s, the same time there was a gathering of so-called biblical scholars taking place at the Westar Institute. The gathering was called the Jesus Seminar. The seminar was made up of 150 critical scholars, I put scholars in quotes, who came together in agreement already that the gospel accounts of Jesus were more mythical than factual. Their presuppositions came to be because of their seminary training. That consisted of liberal scholarship that included that the Bible was an archaic book That did not stand up to the scrutiny brought upon it today by the Enlightenment. And thus the Christian church needed to develop a new way of interpreting the Bible. The conclusion of the Jesus seminar was that Jesus was nothing more than an itinerant, Hellenistic, Jewish sage and a faith healer. who preached a gospel of liberation from injustices. That same Jesus is what is preached and prayed to in mainline churches across the globe today. And that preaching of that Jesus has led to the ordination of women, the consecration of a homosexual bishop, the blessing of same-sex unions, the denial of Jesus being God. The denial of the historic resurrection of Jesus, and thus the corruption of the gospel. And if that is the real Jesus If that is the real Jesus, then you and I are condemned, or you and I are still in our sins. But Jesus died for your sins. And there I did it again. I preached better than 99% of the preachers preaching today. What Saint Peter knew was the Jesus who died for our sins. What St. Peter knew were the holy scriptures that confirm Jesus died for our sins. That was enough. And that is enough to know. It is enough to believe Personally, I have always thought it remarkable that any scholar, again in quotes, could spend his energy studying a new Jesus. When it takes eternity to know the depth of the revealed Jesus in Holy Scripture. Saint Peter reminded us May we keep being reminded. Let us pray. Our gracious Lord, how grateful we are, how you use men like Peter To maintain the faith, to teach the doctrines that are true, and to remind us of them over and over again. Father, may we never tire of hearing the truth, of believing the truth, of knowing that Jesus died for our sins. It is in his name that we pray. Amen.