In the name of the Father and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. The fourth Sunday in Advent. The season I believe We are called to prepare ourselves for the coming of the Messiah, and therefore some days in which we are to be convicted, challenged, brought to repentance. So let's do that this morning. Do you believe it is a telltale sign of a person's character And a sign of what a person loves if you assess what they prioritize in his or her life Can you evaluate what is truly important to a person if you document what he or she gives his or her time to? It seems at first that quantity of time would not be fair for an evaluation For most working fathers and some mothers who work spend much of their quantity of time at work. And thus it may appear that work is more important, a greater priority than family. We could instead make a quality of time evaluation. And still a person at work is giving quality time if he or she wants to be successful at his or her job and keep his or her job Of course, then we recognize that motive is important for a God-fearing Father who works hard. Does so not necessarily because he loves his work, but because his family is his priority, and therefore he wants to provide for them. His motive to be successful then is his family. And thus they are his priority. That word, priority. What we per put first in our lives. And then there's another word, principle. Principle is why we put something at the top of our priorities. A typical mantra we can hear among young fathers and young husbands Who fear God is, quote, God, family, and country The order of priorities is important because there is a principle embedded in the order of the list. God comes first. Well, because that sounds good. I believe in God, says the average God fearing American male. He created all things. I believe that. God holds all things together. Therefore, God comes first. Family next. Because nature and God tell me I am responsible for them. I am the stronger one. I am there to provide, to protect. I am to sacrifice, even lay down my life for them. So family comes next. Country! Well, we live in the greatest country in the world, some of us say. I love the freedom I have to acknowledge God and provide for my family, and the country I love gives me such freedoms and Opportunities God, family, country, in that order. Sound good Sounds good to most Americans. But is it true? Is it true? Is there not always a danger to state such a mantra because that is how you were raised? That is how your friends seem to order their lives? It is how your neighbors, well at least some of them, seem to order their lives. So you do it too. If a man puts God first on his priority list Should his behaviors and attitudes and habits conform to God being first? Yes. If his behaviors, attitudes, and habits do not conform to God being first, then is the mantra God, family, and country in that order An untruth. And isn't an untruth a lie? I don't mean a purposeful lie There is likely not an intent to deceive. Such a man is not purposefully deceiving when he says, God, family, country. It is just that what he is saying isn't true When a person says that God is first in his or her life, that necessitates that there are principles related to that stated priority. Principles need to be in place for the man's life in the man's life so that the mantra God, family, and country remains true in that order If a person does not have principles to protect his priority list, then what replaces those principles is circumstance or circumstances. And circumstances change. We all know that. They always do. And because circumstances change, And I am led by my circumstances, then when they change, so does my priority list change. And when my priority list changes, it is usually God that is removed from the top. Principles that protect priority are stated in the negative and in the positive, just as the Ten Commandments are. Worship God only, positively stated. Honor your father and mother, stated positively. Thou shalt not make for thyself any graven image. Stated negatively. Also, thou shalt not murder, and so on. When God renewed his covenant with Israel, which we read in Exodus 34, he stated principles. Actually, he repeated the principles that were already broken. He repeated those principles so that Israel would keep her priorities, so that the individuals of the nation would keep their priorities. First, in both a negative and positive manner, God instructed in Exodus 34 Israel to break down false idols and to worship God alone. Having no other gods before the one true God was not, was not, and is not negotiable. End of story. A faithful life starts there. No other gods. Next, Israel was given the directive to not make a treaty with the people of the new land, for the people would be a snare to them. For today's Christian, we are to not enter into obligations with the secular world that could lead us to compromise our faith. See the warning signs, the Lord says, ahead and avoid what would cause you to sin, cause you to denounce what you said first you believed Schooling, high school, and college are dangerous places that the devil will use to challenge our children to disavow their faith. And be open-minded, they call it, which is absolutely close-minded because it rejects the existence of absolutes. While at the same time giving praise to discontentment and distrust, distrust of anyone or anything that is not new and under 30 years of age. The letter that says your child has been accepted to Harvard could be a treaty for your child's soul. That's the truth. Next, the firstborn are required of God. Again, he's re-establishing his treaty with them. I want your firstborn. The firstborn are symbolic of trusting God that there will be a second and a thirdborn. The firstborn are test to see if we would give God everything. Because everything that we have has been given to us, the firstborn, also a precursor to God's first and only Son, who would be the firstborn from the dead. And next, what does the Lord command Israel to do under this renewed covenant that would be a principle that would set their lives in right priority And the only acceptable priority. God tells Israel that six days they are to labor and do all their work, but the seventh day Israel is to rest. Why is that stated here? Ask yourself why this is stated here. God had just rewrote the Ten Commandments on new tablets, and that means he already wrote, honor thy Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, the fourth commandment. And now he's repeating that principle again. Gee, it must be important. And then, and then it gets really interesting, when Moses hears all of these different laws that God wants him to focus on as this renewed covenant is given, he then descends From the mountain and meets the people, and the first thing, the very first thing he says is written in Exodus 35. Turn there, if you would, with me. Exodus 35, verses 1 through 3. Moses descending from the mountain, first thing he says to the people, verse 1, chapter 35. Then Moses gathered all of the congregation of the children of Israel together and said to them, These are the words which the Lord has commanded you to do. Work shall be done for six days, but the seventh day shall be a holy day for you. A Sabbath rest of to the Lord. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death. You shall kindle no fire throughout your dwelling on the Sabbath day. Now consider that all of the commandments and the nuances of the commandments God had given Moses The first principle Moses repeats to the people is the commandment regarding the Sabbath. And we would emphasize the phrase, a Sabbath rest to the Lord. To the Lord. Beloved, the principle of the Sabbath sets into our lives the priority of God first in all things. And you like me know where this sermon is going this morning. The pastor is going to preach on the importance of the Christian Sabbath worship. Well yes ayah. Last week in Sunday school class The Reverend Lamboy asked the class why Paul uses the analogy of disciplining one's body to be like disciplining one's spiritual health. And I could not get out of my mind the answer that the athlete trains to compete. And thus the spiritual leaders, the pastors, the main audience of Paul in 1 Timothy, well, they also train to compete. And what does a pastor compete for? Well, he competes for his own spiritual well-being, of course. And he competes for his family. They have to be saved for him to be a good pastor. And he competes for his flock, his church. He competes for members of his church. He competes for their souls. Many times do I feel like I am competing for each of you. I am aware of your attendance and your non-attendance to worship at St. Stephen's. I am aware of your Bible study and your non-Bible study. I'm aware of your devotion and your non-devotion. I'm aware of how your priorities fluctuate. I am aware that when your circumstances change, so can your priorities change. And so I'm competing this morning to overcome Whatever it is that has convinced you that the Sabbath principle need not be your principle I am competing against a thought, and dare I say a spirit, that is within the Christian community today that says that each Christian can worship God how he wants. When she wants, where she wants, and how he wants. It is the Jesus and me only doctrine. That says, if my circumstances change, I can choose not to worship God on the Christian Sabbath, and Jesus is perfectly fine with it. Well, I am here to preach, and I would say prophetically say that Jesus is not fine with it. I realized that I must defend certain common objections, and the first being that Christians Do not even worship on the proper Sabbath day as God designated it in the Ten Commandments. Well, this is both true and false. It is true because the Christian Church historically has worshiped on Sundays and the Jewish Sabbath, the original Sabbath. was the seventh day or Saturday, as it still is for faithful Jews. But if you don't know why Sunday is the Christian Sabbath, then you don't know history well enough. The first Christians were primarily Jewish. After the ascension of Jesus, they worshiped continually in the temple and in the synagogues on Saturdays. And they gathered together with only Christians on Sundays. This was natural for them, for they understood that Jesus was the fulfillment of the Christian Of the covenant God had made with the nation of Israel. And as long as that temple stood, so too did they continue to worship in a Jewish-like manner, only that they knew Who the scriptures were promising, and they made that more clear on Sundays. Sundays for the early Christians became known as the Lord's Day. We know that even from Scripture. Even in the days of the apostles, the Lord's Day, Sunday. And it was first the Lord's Day for two reasons for two reasons. First Jesus rose from the dead and therefore can claim victory on that day. And second, Sundays became a day when Christians Dedicated themselves to worshiping Jesus as their Savior, and thus it was a day that they gave to Jesus. And it just so happens that God the Father foretold of the forthcoming of the Lord's day. When in his law he prescribed special cleansing and special worship gatherings on the eighth day. On the eighth day, a child would receive the mark of the covenant by way of circumcision. On the eighth day, a newborn animal was no longer considered unclean. On the eighth day, a person coming into contact with leprosy, finding no spots, was declared clean. And when God instructed the Israelites how to celebrate the Feast of the Tabernacles, He commanded them to celebrate seven days. And then on the eighth day, they were to gather together for public worship as a people, united, offering sacrifices and praises to God. God could have said that he wanted that done on the first day of the next week, but he didn't. He said, I want it done on the eighth day. And so when we count the days that Jesus was raised from the dead, we can understand it is a day in which people are made clean. And a day when God's people gather together to offer themselves as sacrifices unto the Lord, and I emphasize, gather together to give him praise. Understanding and embracing every Sunday as a Christian Sabbath became More obvious to the church as the population of the church became more Gentile than Jewish. That is why when we read in the Epistle to the Colossians, Paul instructing those Gentile Christians not to allow other people to influence them as to what they should do on the Jewish Sabbath. He is resisting and rejecting the Judaizers who tried to make these new Gentile converts into Christianity both Jewish and Christian. And so Christians treated the day of Sunday as the Sabbath for over, hear it now, 1800 years. 1800 years. Throughout all the world, wherever the gospel spread, Sunday, Christian Sabbath. It was not until groups like the Seventh-day Adventists came along proclaiming in the 1860s that the Christians had gotten it wrong all these years, and now we now want to restore the Saturday Sabbath. And then you had liberal churches and Roman Catholic churches and Jesus and me only churches who were seeing their attendance numbers slip because of football. Recreation on Sundays. So now they offer Saturday evening worship so that the Lord's day could be Steve's Day. Or Joe's day, or Marcy's day, or Stacy's day, put your name here Such accommodations are examples of the church following the culture instead of leading it like it is supposed to do. Another objection made by Jesus and me only folks is what they think Jesus is saying when he says that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. And that Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. For the objectors of a Christian Sabbath Jesus, in these words, is giving Christians a get out of Sabbath responsibilities card Jesus is writing Christians by his words to the Pharisees like it is a blank check, so that they can do what they want on the Sabbath. Such interpretation is reading into the text, beloved, rather than receiving from the text. Responsible scholars, responsible Bible readers know that Jesus was combating the traditions of men. Traditions that the Pharisees had forced upon the people going way beyond the work restrictions that God had placed upon Sabbath celebrations. It was the laws of men, the traditions of men, that Jesus was rebuking, and not the law of the Sabbath. If Jesus is our Lord, and if Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath, Then we should do as Jesus would have us do. And I say that Jesus would have us worship on the Christian Sabbath. Circumstances change. Yes, they do. Out-of-town family comes to visit on Sundays. Yes, they do. Games are held on Sundays. Yes, they are. Christmas, New Year's, Boxing Day, your birthday. Sometimes Paul on Sunday. Yes, they do. The Christian Sabbath does not come with restrictions regarding what you cannot do on those Sundays. It only calls you to prioritize that public worship of Jesus is not to be compromised. Family can wait. In fact, some of them need to see your witness that Jesus is a first priority in your life on Sunday. Games can wait and even miss, or worship can take place before that important game. Ten years ago, when Christmas last fell on Sunday, it was reported that some mega churches, thousands upon thousands, closed for the day. The reason? It was family day. I haven't tried. Again, following, not leading. Christians need to step back and attempt to notice the absurdity of not worshiping in the church on Christmas Day. Especially when it falls on a Sunday. Presence can wait. Man-made traditions can wait They will all be there when worship is over. We have been lamenting from this pulpit and in our Sunday school classes And in our Bible studies and in our conversations with one another, that our culture has been backsliding into an abyss for quite some time. And we agree that something must be done. Somebody should do something. We agree that the church needs to lead. We agree that our town councils and our legislative houses and our public schools need to restore an acknowledgement of God Our society from the top down needs to reprioritize and God needs to be first. We all agree with that. God, family, and country, right? Well, for such a priority to take place, it needs to take place in the church first. And if such a priority is going to be actualized, it must be governed by principle. And the principle God gives us is the same he gave Israel. The same he gave Israel when he renewed his covenant with them. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. That is where Israel restarted. It is where each of our homes and our parish needs to restart. And so I end by saying, See you Christmas Day. Amen. Let us pray.