In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You be seated. As a child, it was discovered early on that I was completely deaf in my left ear. I have never been diagnosed as to what the cause of my deafness is, but I was told that it seems to be inherited from family, as I have ancestors who are also born deaf in one ear. It is easy to recognize that having youths of all our senses gives us important foundation stones so to live healthy and vibrant lives When you are without one of the senses, or when one of your senses is weakened, you have to compensate. Because I had full hearing in my right ear growing up, the deafness in my left ear was not so debilitating, although it created for some awkward moments, as it still does. Like most of us here, I was giving I was given hearing tests in elementary school And even though my hearing chart informed the testers that I was completely deaf in one ear, they would always say, okay, now let's try the left ear. Raise your hand, remember, when you hear the beep. And so I would try to guess when they were beeping in my left ear. And I wasn't messing with them. I was truly trying to hear a beep. And so I would raise my hand when I thought I heard a beep. And I could always sense a lot of fidgeting going on with the testers, as they would test my left ear, for I am sure I guessed right once in a while, and I'm sure that made the tester quite confused. But I wanted wanted to hear out of my left ear, so I wanted to pretend I could hear something. And today I continue to stand at a disadvantage. I have been accused of being rude because I don't respond to someone who has greeted me when, in fact, they were on my left side and I simply did not hear them I have carried on conversations with people at a dinner banquet who sit on my left-hand side, and I find myself nodding and And smiling, probably too much, because I am pretending to hear them and agree with them and think that they're funny when I really don't have an idea what they're saying But turning, turning my right ear to someone who's on my left side literally does make it look like I'm trying to go in for the kiss. And that can be most awkward. of all. And I tell you all of this not as a complaint, but as an example of when something fundamental to the human experience, such as hearing, is not what it is meant to be. And I wish to apply the struggle of what is fundamentally lacking in a particular person's senses. And the results of what is lacking to what occurs when a Christian is lacking certain fundamental faith principles That should be established and should have been established a long time ago. What I want us to focus on is what is needed in the Christian life that is fundamental. In order for a Christian to function in a healthy manner in this life. And I want to prove to you Then unless what is fundamental to the Christian life is established, that what we are, what we have in ourselves Is a handicap. We're handicapped in terms of what our Christian lives could be as we wait for our Savior to return. This sermon is the first in a series of what I will be preaching this summer in this common season in the church calendar. And I'm hoping these sermons will help us Re-establish ourselves so that we might grow in grace all the better, as St. Peter instructed us last week For just as, let's say, a marriage needs time of returning to first loves, time to reconnect with one another. So too do we Christians need to refresh, to renew, to reestablish what is fundamental to our Christian lives, to be disciples of Christ. And so I point us to what was read from our epistle reading and to what is, from my perspective, a text in Holy Scripture. That is underappreciated and often overlooked. In Hebrews chapter 6, the preacher Tells his parishioners that the discussion of the elementary principles of Christ Jesus needs to be left so that the Christians can go on to perfection. And such a passage fits well with our sermon last week that reminded us that Jesus instructed his followers to be perfect as the Heavenly Father is perfect. The preacher of the Hebrews is saying the same thing, only he is using a rhetorical technique that assumes, assumes, fundamental principles in Christ are already established. Causing the listener to do an inventory, to assure that such is the case for self. And it is, if it is not the case, then we are to examine ourselves and reestablish those things that need to be in place. And so we see the phrase not laying again. This implies that those things should be applied and only need to be applied once. And if they are not applied, then they need to be applied and only applied once. And so we will be working with these foundation stones this summer with the purpose of assuring that each of these is established in our individual lives The first foundation stone, as listed in Hebrews chapter 6. The first foundation stone to be established is repentance from dead works. Repentance from dead works. You for certain know what repentance is. It is turning away 180 degrees to go the opposite direction of where our sin was taking us. But what about this phrase dead works? The phrase dead works is full of meaning. And the first most basic meaning in Scripture are sins that lead to death In Adam Clark's commentary on Hebrews, he defines dead works as works that deserve death. Works that deserve death, according to Romans 6. 23, are all sins and trespasses. Sin in all of its forms is breaking God's commandments, and the penalty of such sin is everlasting death. Hence dead works are our individual sins. As those sins lead to death. Adding to the meaning of dead works being sins that result in everlasting death is an understanding that a person might think his good deeds are going to earn God's favor when in fact the opposite is true. They will earn God's wrath. Twice in the book of Proverbs it says this There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end the way is death. It seems right, but in the end, it's death. Thus, dead works includes those things that human beings do that they think will earn them favor or merit before God, but in the end are actually acts done That contain no righteousness at all. The most prominent example of this type of thinking and then actions Is the primary purpose of St. Paul writing to the Galatians? We recall that soon after St. Paul left Galatia They were exposed to the teachings of the Judaizers, who were false teachers, claiming that Christians needed to not only believe in Jesus, but be subject to the ceremonial laws of the Old Testament. in order to be in right standing before God. And so some Gentile Christians were circumcised and began to follow Jewish customs because they believed By doing so they would be better received by God. And when Saint Paul heard of their practices, he quickly wrote to them, and remember what he said, Who has bewitched you? The epistle then spells out how Christians are forgiven their sins and promised eternal life, not for what they do in fulfilling the law, but instead. What Jesus did, solely did in fulfilling the law. Dead works in such a context are works where a person believes he or she can do something. Anything to earn the forgiveness and earn even the kindness of God. The belief that God forgives or finds favor with people who do good in this life Is a serious problem and a serious curse that is a consistent plague upon all people of all cultures and all of history of the human race. Consider that it was Cain who first believed that he could earn God's favor by what he offered to God. Consider that when his good works were rejected, because they were dead works, his countenance fell, his personal pride increased to the point of killing Abel, his brother. Consider that every every religion that mankind has ever developed in all corners of the globe throughout all the ages of mankind, every religion incorporates Good works for finding favor with God or many gods. The Greeks believed their good works would stave off the wrath of the gods. The Romans believed their good works held off the angry gods. The pagans believed their good works satisfied the wrath of their gods, bribing them to send rain and provide healthy harvests. Consider how all of the organized religions of the history of mankind have good work clauses in them When satisfied, these good work clauses promise either worldly blessings or otherworldly blessings. And then comes Christianity. Jesus comes into the world saying that it is impossible for anyone to do good enough, to be good enough. In order to be forgiven or even liked by God. The plan of salvation was not that humanity would perform well enough to be forgiven. But that so God loved the world that he gave his only son. And the only son would offer himself as a sinless sacrifice. So that all who believe in him as their Messiah would be forgiven, would be saved. And so it was revealed that the only good works done by anyone are the good works of Jesus. And anything that we do that is good is good because it is done in the name of Jesus. For only he is good, and only works done for him for his glory are good. Every other work is death. What I have just spoken to you is truth from Holy Scripture, but there are objections to such words. And one of the objections is legitimate in that it asks, what about when people do nice things for other people? Because they are emotionally moved to do so, to just be nice. Do such actions constitute good? The simple answer is yes, if by good, we mean only that a need of a human being is being met. If a man is hungry and someone feels for that man and gives food to such a man because of empathies. Then good has been done so far as feeding a hungry man. But in terms of good meaning eternally good, well the answer is no. No, because whatever a person does in this life is not done for the glory of God. Those things have no value. Only that which is done for the glory of God in Christ's name has eternal value. Good. Now I mentioned that the belief that God forgives and finds favor with those people who do good things in this life is a serious problem, and So I point to evidence that when the average person mourns the death of a friend or a loved one. A mention of good works of the dead is always heard. Consider How many eulogies you have heard, whether given by a minister presiding over the funeral or a layperson speaking at a funeral? Consider how their words convey that the dead person is now, quote, in a better place, or at peace, or with grandma, or simply in heaven. Because of the type of person he or she was while living When a person dies, we naturally feel empathy, and so we want to think what is good about the person, and we want to say nice things about the person. And so we choose to remember only the good, and then the person is presented to all who mourn to be only good. And we think the good has to outweigh the bad in this great scale of eternal justice. Bringing us to the conclusion that heaven is this dead person's final resting place because of the good done in this life. But such good done are dead works. They don't account for anything that brings about the forgiveness of God Consider, please, that if it were so, if a good work done in this life did bring about forgiveness and favor by God, Then the suffering and death of Jesus was completely unnecessary. And therefore the Father sending his only son, that was a sadistic act at best. But God is not a sadist. God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. God satisfied his own wrath as Jesus was the propitiation for us. Another evidence that reveals how dangerous it is to believe that good works earn God's favor. Are the copycat religions that have sprung up over the centuries using the name of Jesus while including good works? The Mormons and Jehovah's Witnesses are the most prominent examples. As each of these false religions include the name of Jesus and their confession of faith, While denying the divinity of Jesus, and while insisting that their good works do earn God's favor. That's why the Jehovah's Witnesses work so hard at going door to door to share their false words. They believe God favors them the more they do so. And the Mormons add good works on top of good works as they teach that the more children a woman has, the greater her heavenly reward. And the more faithful they are at wearing their undergarments and abstaining from caffeine and fulfilling their mission requirements and increasing their tithe, the more holy they are seen by God. Of course, it is all nonsense, and most certainly contrary to Holy Scripture Which is why each group has their own version of the Holy Scriptures, as these versions enable them to describe Jesus not as God. But a man of good works as well, just as they are trying to be. The final example for us to look at that reveals the danger of believing that our good works earn God's favor. is the necessity of the 39 articles of religion as in the back of your prayer book listing the subject of the works of supererrogation. Works of supererrogation. These are godly actions lived out so as to receive excess merit from God. The necessity to make a statement against such works takes us back all the way back to the first century of the church. When it was taught by some that Christians could earn God's favor, score extra points with God by way of martyrdom or by voluntary celibacy. By doing either of those two things, a Christian was supposedly satisfying God's commands and even exceeding them. Hence, works of supererrogation were practiced within the monastic system of the church, where monks taught that their mode of life was a state of perfection. Because they not only observed God's precepts, but also followed his counsels, making themselves out to be a sort of super Christian. But while we can say there is a difference between precepts, which are commands given by God, and his counsels, which are directives to Christians to help them live out this life The scripture provides no defense that says that good works go beyond what God commands, granting a person any extra merit from God. The scripture only confirms that each person who is saved from the judgment of sin and from eternal death is saved only by the works of Jesus and his works. That is why the 14th article of the 39 articles calls extra works arrogant and impious. Not arrogant and impious because the good works are done, but only because that by doing them it is believed that God would ever grant us extra favor. With these examples, let us ask if there is evidence among us that reveals that we believe we can perform good works to earn God's favor. Consider the language some Christians carelessly use. For example, when something disappointing happens in a person's life, and it is said by such person What did I do to deserve this? Does not such a question reveal a belief that blessings in this life are a result of being good and curses are a result of being bad? And when one Christian describes another person as a really good Christian, oh, she's a really good Christian, or simply good Christian. Does not such labeling reveal that the person speaking believes a Christian is made good by the works he or she does? And when a person beats herself up or himself up over personal failings, does not such personal abuse reveal that he or she believes that if she works hard enough If he can do just a little bit more, that he or she is then worthy of more blessings. Beloved, the foundation of repentance from dead works turns away from any action or statement A belief or belief in thought that what we practice in this life earns God's favor. Repentance from dead works has us believing the opposite. And the opposite is that there is nothing we can do to earn God's favor, but only what Jesus has done. For what Jesus has done is the only thing that grants us forgiveness, that gives us hope. Repentance from dead works is a foundation stone that must be a part of our Christian foundation for anything else to be built upon us. If it is not, we are handicapped. If repentance from dead works is not established in our lives, if we are not confessing the sin of thinking we can earn God's favor. Then we are like a man with one deaf ear who is trying to compensate and it looks like he's trying to get a kiss. Don't be that guy. Let us pray.