In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You be seated. We are in Second Peter chapter two, our epistle reading for this morning. And I will be going through that section of Scripture verse by verse in a few moments. We continue our study of 2 Peter, having established in our minds That false teachers have always been a threat to the Christian Church, and having established that false teachers will be judged by God Which is to say, they will be condemned by God just as surely as God has condemned evil and evil men in the past. And that brings us to his next point, St. Peter's next point stressed, which is That evil exists in the world, and that evil is expressed in people, and therefore evil people exist in the world. But why does St. Peter need to make such a point that evil exists and evil people exist? Isn't that obvious? Both obvious The honest answer to that question is no. It is not obvious to all that evil exists and that evil people exist. There are times when cultures redefine good and evil so that good is now evil and evil is now good. We have this occurring before us today. There are also people who are naive When they can imagine false teachers purposefully being misleading, because they themselves would never be misleading. And they cannot imagine people doing unmentionable harm to another human being, well, because they would never do intentional harm to another human being But false teachers who are purposefully false and cruel people who are purposefully evil, these do exist. A new documentary titled The Keepers has been made available online recently. The documentary exposes the perverted behavior of a Roman Catholic priest in the city of Baltimore in the late 1960s and early 70s. The stories of the behavior of this priest are so appalling and perverted That men with any amount of testosterone who watch this documentary respond by wanting to beat that priest up and then have him thrown in prison or worse. Several years ago I read a book titled Sacrilege, which describes many Detailed testimonies about pedophile abuses committed by Roman Catholic priests And these include hebophilia, which is the attraction of pre-pubescent boys, and then epobophilia, an attraction to mid-pubescent boys. As if the accounts of the molestations and rape are not bad enough to hear about, what is included in these testimonies is how these perverted priests would include false teachings as part of their method to draw in their victims and then to keep them quiet. But Roman Catholic priests are not the only people, of course, who practice perversions in the name of Jesus. The number of Protestant pastors who have raped, molested, adulterated is just as numerous as in the Roman Church, just as numerous in the Jewish religion, and the number of abusers of Muslim And the Muslim religion is impossible to know because it's tolerated. And the reason why I am exposing these sins before you is to do as St. Peter did, which is to tear away any facade that would tempt us to see a neutral world where there is neither good nor evil. There is evil. And there are evil people. There are people who give themselves over to sin, and that sin takes a hold of them. and corrupts them further and further until it no longer satisfies, but still seeks gratification Until the most innocent victims in society become a target. And the only way to get to those victims, for some, is in the name of Jesus. And what is implied by Saint Peter exposing evil excuse me And evil men among Christians is to warn them against evil in general, and we can add to that warning against evil A call to receive the Holy Spirit. Because this is Pentecost Sunday It is most appropriate for us to emphasize the receiving of the Holy Spirit. For it is the Holy Spirit that enables us to overcome sins of the flesh. It is the Holy Spirit that enables us to bring words of Jesus to our minds that those words might be used to combat the temptations of the flesh and the temptations of the devil. It is the Holy Spirit that leads us to all truth, and therefore the Holy Spirit helps us resist false doctrine. And remember that the Holy Spirit is a gentleman. He is a gentleman and that he does not force himself upon us, but waits to be asked. And so we can hear first this morning, resist evil, and second, receive the Holy Spirit. Let's look at verse 12 of 2 Peter 2 To speak like natural brute beasts is to speak according to the flesh Which is to teach according to basic animal desires, which is to promote the giving into those desires. And so greed and lust and envy and rage and jealousy and the like are the motivations of these false teachers. To perish in their own corruption is to reap what they have sown in this life and in the life to come. As the writer of Ecclesiastes expresses, we too might think that the unrighteous don't get their right judgment in this life as we think they should And we are tempted to complain to God that justice should be immediate rather than those who do evil enjoying their rebellion. But we are under the sun. Our advantage point our vantage point is so very limited. God will condemn the wicked. We just need to know he will do it in his way in his time. For now, resist evil and receive the Holy Spirit. Verse thirteen. I remind you of the phrase that we used two weeks ago. Which was be not fooled by God's silence. The people being described in this verse They are fooled by God's silence. They conclude that they are getting away with their sins because they have not been punished in this life. Their carousing in the daytime is evident that they are fooled by God's silence. In Romans 13, St. Paul describes men who sin in the evening, and they sin in the dark because they are trying to hide from God. They're trying to hide from their fellow man. They're trying to hide from their own conscience. But these sinners, Peter describes, are past worrying about their conscience. They are living among the Christians to whom Peter writes. They're doing it out in the open. The enemy is in the gates. Resist evil. Receive the Holy Spirit. Verse 14. The description of these evildoers is further given as adultery being in their eyes. Now adultery can be both sexual activity and it can be linked to idolatry as they were linked in the Greek and Roman worlds. Having been given over to their sin, as St. Paul describes in Romans 1, these adulterers cannot help themselves. Their sin has become who they are. Their sin is their identity And they prey on the weak who are unstable souls, the new King James Version. Unstable souls can go either way, and these adulterers make them go their way. Their hearts are bent towards sin and that continually, just as the people who were before the great flood. And it doesn't matter how nice they are on the outside. Inside, they want what is not theirs to have. They are accursed. They are not simply non-believers, understand that. And they are not even demon-possessed. They are accursed. Meaning that they are so given over to sin that the possibility of redemption, the possibility of being forgiven of their sin, has passed by them As Bobby Lynn and I learned of the sins of the priest from Baltimore watching that documentary. And the manner that he took advantage of young boys and young girls, it could only be fathomed in our minds that such a man had lost his soul, having given it over to the devil years before. He truly lived a life that was accursed, which is to say a life that was absent from the presence of God. Beloved, that happens. Resist evil. Receive the Holy Spirit. Verses fifteen and sixteen. Here we are to be sure that these evil men and their evil ways, that they are their own. Peter says, they forsake. It was their choice. The way they went is the way of Balaam. Balaam, you remember, was the prophet that sold his gift of prophecy to King Balach, who wanted Israel to be cursed. But God intervened through the voice of a donkey. It is a short, simple story with a great moral lesson. God will speak the truth even if it be through a donkey. Resist evil. Receive the Holy Spirit. Verses 17 and 18. Now here is a metaphor that any traveler in Israel knows is very cruel. Israel is a very dry land. A well of water seen at a distance is oh so very desired and very needed and so the pace of the journey quickens only to find the well dried up and useless So too were these false teachers. They were giving hope that happiness and holiness could be found in the flesh. A teaching that was known by the second century Christians that matches up what St. Peter is describing is from the claims of the Simonians. A heretical group that followed Simon Magus, who was mentioned two weeks ago. The Simonians came to believe that Simon himself could bring them salvation As he was believed to be God the Father in human form. Simonians were perhaps the first. in a long line to come that would deny the truth of Jesus as the Christ and instead choose another Messiah type Who speaks great swelling words of emptiness? Great swelling words Of emptiness. Resist evil. Receive the Holy Spirit. Verse 19 The real message of these false teachers is to promise on how to become free from righteousness, to become slaves to sin. The freedom promised by false teachers is a freedom from guilt. It is an argument that says that the Bible's teaching on sin, well that's archaic. Such teaching says that Jesus was simply a man of peace, a type of guru for social justice. St. Paul, on the other hand, was a misogynist, prejudiced, homophobic, and a hypocrite who turned Christianity into a religion instead of a movement. Once Jesus and Paul are placed in such categories, their teachings become weakened and even irrelevant to modern humanity. And so the guilt of their teachings is removed, and don't we all feel better? But St. John's teaching, I mean St. Peter's teaching here is the same as St. Paul's in Romans, where he said, everyone who continues to commit sin is a slave to sin. And you and I know the drill, but it is necessary to keep the warning before us The drill is, a person is told by the evil spirit of the age that rules and laws restrict and bind the human spirit. Instead of being bound, we are meant to be free, says the spirit of the age. To be free is to be able to do what you want to do when you want to do it. And so if it feels good to you, then do it for you. That's the freedom we all need, we are told. And so said person takes the hit from the bong or sleeps with a woman that is not his wife. Or gets drunk at a party, or views pornography, or steals a candy bar from a corner store Or tells his parents to go to hell, or moves in with his girlfriend, or vandalizes his neighbor's car, or place your pleasure here, and he does it all in under the banner of freedom. But such sins demand more. Getting high on drugs creates a desire to get even higher the next time. Salacious sex desires more salacious sex. Rebellion against the establishment necessitates more rebellion. And the supposed freedom a person started with has become a series of false gods served. The whole thing was a trap. And now the person who thought he was free can only find true freedom in Jesus. Who breaks the power of canceled sin and sets the soul free. Resist evil. Receive the Holy Spirit. Verses twenty through twenty-two. For every person who has suddenly lost a close loved one in this life especially a parent losing a child. Describing such a loss as painful is not enough. But what will be much more painful is when human souls are cast into the lake of fire. Weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth will be experienced by all who choose to cling to their sin. And hell is especially maintained for the devil, his angels, and all persons who claimed Jesus as his or her savior. But chose to teach lies, to believe lies, and to live in shackles of sin. Recall that Simon Magus was baptized by Philip the Evangelist. He was supposed to be a follower of Jesus. But he soon returned to his sorcery and he created his own following. There is no repentance for the likes of such people. They are gone Their souls have been sold to the lowest bidder, and the lowest bidder is always the devil. If you have ever owned a dog, you likely have witnessed it eating its own vomit. The reason why dogs do so is simply because they smell a source of food. They think they are eating food that will fill their bellies. Such a simpleton reason is why sinners return to their sin. To them, it is a way of pleasure for self. That is all. Nothing more complicated. And just as there is no nourishment for the dog who eats its own vomit, so there is no pleasure, no true pleasure, in returning to one's sin. But the Spirit of God is so far removed from such sinners that it doesn't matter. It is all that they know to do. But we say resist evil and receive the Holy Spirit. It must be acknowledged after hearing these verses expounded upon that you might wonder if you know A person or people that have been described, people who have been given over to evil to the point where there is no longer a chance for them to repent? Well, let us know first that we ought not to come to such conclusions. For while there are indeed people walking the streets and in our lives and yes even in the church who have reached the point of no return. It is never for us to hunt them down, to point them out, or to come to conclusions about them. Instead, we are commissioned to go and make disciples. We are commissioned to baptize new believers. We are commissioned to love the brethren. The condemnation is God's responsibility. So the reason of St. Peter's words is not for us to have hunting parties and round up all the false teachers, false believers, and sinners trapped in sin. Instead, it is for us to fear. And yes, I said fear. We are to fear enabling false teachers We are to fear believing false teachers. We are to fear encouraging the trappings of sin. We are to fear ignoring the trappings of sin and fear choosing ourselves to live in sin. Fear is necessary when it comes to sin because fear causes us to fight or flight. It causes us to go away from what is dangerous and to cling to what is good. When you read about heinous crimes done to people, do you ever wonder to yourself if you are capable of acting out something similar? Bobby Lynn and I talked early last week, asking ourselves, are we capable of, am I ever capable of doing something that is being described? And I said I was capable, at least. I was before I knew Jesus as my Savior. Before then I had a lot of rage in me. I remember wondering then what I was capable of doing in my anger. And now I say I am not able because the Holy Spirit lives in me. But what if my circumstances change? Like Job. What if I lost my calling? What if I lost my income, my children, my health, and my wife is counseling me to curse God and die? What would I do then? Would I be capable of harming another person? Would I be capable of choosing pleasure over righteousness? And the answer to that is I would be capable. I would be capable, and you would be capable if you allowed your circumstances to determine your emotions. Feelings of unfair treatment easily turn into bitterness, and bitterness to anger, and anger to rage, and rage to doing harm to others. And then the guilt comes and it will come. And that needs to be drowned out by pleasures such as drugs, alcohol, adultery. And because such pleasures of the flesh never last, they need to be repeated over and over again. And the next act of sin becomes slavery to sin. And the end is a dog returning to its own bonnet. Resist evil, receive the Holy Spirit. Are you scared? I hope so. I hope we are all scared of the wrath of God so much. So much that we resist evil and receive the Holy Spirit. Let us pray.