In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. He'd be seated. We will be looking at first our gospel reading and then our reading from Galatians. But I want to start off with a story. The old gray donkey Eeyore stood by himself in a thistly corner of the forest. His front feet well apart, his head on one side, and thought about things. Sometimes he thought sadly of himself, why? And sometimes he thought, what? And sometimes he thought, in as much as which. And sometimes he didn't quite know what he was thinking about So when Winnie the Pooh came stumping along, Eeyore was very glad to be able to stop thinking for a while in order to say, How do you do? in a gloomy manner to him And how are you? said Winnie the Pooh. Eeyore shook his head from side to side. Not very how, he said. I don't seem to have felt at all how for a long time. Dear dear, said Pooh, I'm sorry about that. Let's have a look at you. So Eeyore stood there gazingly sad gazing sadly at the ground, and Winnie the Pooh walked all around him once Why, what's happened to your tail? he said in surprise. What has happened to it? said Eeyore. It isn't there. Are you sure? Well, either a tail is there or it isn't there. You can't make a mistake about it, and yours isn't there. Then what is? Nothing. Let's have a look, said Eeyore. And he turned slowly around to the place where his tail had been a little while ago, and then Finding that he couldn't catch it up, he turned round the other way until he came back to where he was at first. And then he put his head down and looked between his front legs. And at last he said with a long, sad sigh, I believe you're right. Of course I'm right, said Pooh. That accounts for a great a good deal said Eeyore gloomily. It explains everything. No wonder. You must have left it somewhere, said Winnie the Pooh. Somebody must have taken it, said Eeyore. How like them, he added, after a long silence. Such was the exchange of Pooh to Eeyore in A. A. Milne's Winnie Plu. I have included this reading Because I've concluded during Lent season, historical liturgical churches like ours are the aeor of the Christian church. Our readings each Sunday during Lent can be described as gloomy. Our prayers could be described with sad eyes and with our heads down. In the call X for each week so far in Lent, we have prayed for God to defend us from our enemies, because we cannot defend ourselves. And we pray that we need help because we cannot help ourselves. And we pray for help to abstain from sin because we cannot abstain from sin ourselves And we pray a lament of our sins with an acknowledgement of our wretchedness. Such prayers seem to require poor posture. Sad eyes and a gloomy voice when prayed. Meanwhile, modern Christian churches with their rock bands and torn jeans and therapeutic sermons Use Lent as another theme to tell the congregation all the positive things God wants to do in their lives. And still others don't even mention Lent at all, but focus also on the positive things God wants to do in the lives of his people. So as I said, we are the Eeyore of the Christian Church. However, the writers of our liturgy did not want the middle of Lent season to be marked with gloom and sadness. But instead wanted it to be seen as a time where we can see Easter on the horizon and be encouraged by prayers for comfort and food for refreshment. And so we turn to the gospel according to St. John chapter 6. I have preached on this gospel reading text before. Not too many years removed, when we walked through the Gospel of John. We noted then why the great crowd followed Jesus. He was performing miracles of healing, mostly, particularly healing the sick, of course. And we note again that Jesus did his healing in the open for any witnesses to see him, as opposed to in a stadium on a stage where the sick are controlled by handlers. That the Passover was near, no doubt played a factor in the large crowd getting larger. And no doubt the Passover reminded all of God, all of God delivering Israel out of Egypt And God leading the people into the desert, and God providing for them manna, bread from heaven. Remembering for six days, and then the seventh they were to take off, gathering more on Friday, so that Saturday could be a day of rest. And likely when thinking upon the manna God provided the people, some remembered that the Messiah to come was to be like Moses. And if Moses played a part in providing bread for the people, so too would the Messiah provide bread. And Jesus takes this challenge, but not because it was a challenge, but because he had a genuine concern for the people. He saw the size of the crowd. He knew there was no store or vendor that could provide for all of the people, and so he plans to feed them. For as verse 6 states, he may have asked Philip to help to buy bread, but he knew what he was going to do. Jesus, like his father, takes what is little and uses it to accomplish great tasks. We have been studying in 1 Samuel chapter 17 in our Bible study on Wednesdays, and we noted that David picked up five rocks when encountering Goliath. Those who have been a part of the Bible study will recall that we speculated that David picked five rocks Knowing that he only needed one, but also knowing that Goliath had four brothers. Thus one rock for each of them was picked. With that miracle and great victory in mind, we note that the lad in the story has five barley loaves and two small fish. Perhaps he too was one of five siblings that was going to share a lunch together. Five rocks to kill five giants, five loaves to feed five thousand. And two fish to represent the old covenant and the new. Peter asks, I'm sorry, Andrew asked, referring to the lunch of this one family, what are they Among so many. He being like King Saul, seeing only the outward of Goliath, and having no faith So too does Andrew see only what is in front of him. And what is in front of him is limited. Only it is not. For Jesus was in front of him. Jesus instructs the disciples to have the people sit down. He wants them to rest. He wants them to be resting as they are nurtured. His desire for them is to be rested and nurtured is a desire for them to be strengthened. When we are hungry, truly hungry, where our bodies lack the nutrients needed, our minds do not think clearly, and we are preoccupied with what our flesh desires For the people to digest the words Jesus has spoken to them, they needed to digest actual food so as to be able to think only about what Jesus has said. And what has Jesus said? If you look in your Bible, you will look at chapter 5, and you will see there a great deal that Jesus has said. He has described his unity with the Heavenly Father. He has insisted that he, as the Son of God, be honored. He has referred to himself as the Son of Man, which is the title for the Messiah in the book of Daniel. He has promised everlasting life to all who listen to him and believe. He next explained that the miracles he does are to be a witness to all regarding who he is. And then he confronts the unbelievers and warns them that Moses will be a witness against them, for Moses knew him and had faith in him. Such teachings were and are a great deal to comprehend at the time they were heard and even for us today. Time is needed to process the teaching. And a meal on a hillside where families can rest and think and discuss, that is what was needed. There is a repeated theme in Scripture that has God teaching, speaking, acting, and then the people sitting and eating. What did Abraham and his men do after Melchizedek revealed to them who he was? They ate bread and drank wine. What did Abraham and Sarah do with the angel who revealed God's will to them regarding having a son? Let's eat and drink together. And what did Isaac do when blessing his sons but recline, eat and drink? And what did Joseph arrange for his brothers after each trip to Egypt? But a place to recline and eat and drink. And what did God do with the elders of Israel after their many years of bondage and ten plagues that set them free? After having Moses read his covenant to the people, and they all agreed after it was read, it says in Exodus 24, then Moses went up. Also Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel. And they saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone. And it was very like the heavens in its clarity. But on the nobles of the children of Israel, God did not lay his hand, so they saw God, and they ate, and they drank. Such a repeated theme I have previously overlooked in regards to Jesus feeding the 5,000, which we know was likely more of 15 to 20,000, counting family members. Preachers can focus on Jesus being like Moses, as was mentioned before, or the imagery that Jesus later reveals, which is that He Himself is the bread of life, from which all who follow Him must eat. We can make note of the stewardship of Jesus when he commissioned all of that was left over, the fragments to be collected. Israel was commanded something similar when they were not allowed to leave any of the manna on the ground. In our tradition we are reminded of our stewardship each time we have extra bread and wine for Holy Communion, we save it and we consume it. And preachers can focus on the last words of the section where Jesus is confirmed by the disciples to be a prophet. But another focus not often mentioned is the fact that Jesus wanted his followers to rest, to be relaxed, and to be fed. Such is not an understanding consistent with what our focus has been during Lent. It is not consistent with the attitude of Eeyore, but it is what Jesus was concerned about. It is what God desires for those who follow Him. And I hope for you to keep that in mind as we look to our epistle reading from Galatians chapter 4. Paul has already rebuked the Galatians for following another gospel. That gospel was one of works, as in believing that by following the Moses or the Mosaic ritual law, that they can be in right relationship with God. They were wrong, and the teaching they were allowing among them was false. Paul makes that clear for over four chapters before he gets to the allegory he wants to use to stamp the point home. As we read this allegory, I I I want you to work to not get caught up in the actual person of Sarah and the actual person of Hagar The historical account of these two women is found in the book of Genesis and is very unfortunate and emotional, as petty jealousy results in a woman and her boy being cast out of their home and defend for themselves. That story is separate from the allegory they provide. Sarah In the allegory is the free woman. Hagar is the Bondwoman. Hagar, as a Bondwoman, was born into bondage. She was required to do what she was told to do, and if she didn't do it, was punished for her disobedience. Sarah, being free, could do as she pleased. And according to law, a son born to a bondwoman was a slave also. A son born to a free woman was free also. The allegory is stretched farther. with the comparison of Hagar being like Jerusalem of this world and Sarah being like the heavenly Jerusalem. So the implied question is, do you, Christian, want to be born of a free woman or born of a bondwoman? Do you want to be of the city of this world or the city of heaven? To attempt to find God by obeying the law, which is referring to the ceremonial law, is choosing to be born of the bondwoman and of the city below. To be right with God by the grace of God through faith in Jesus is to be bored of the free woman and to be of the heavenly city. And while the choice seems obvious, it is not so. For like the blanket of Linus in the Charlie Brown saga, people find comfort in the law. It is what they can control and thus perceive they are controlling, controlling their own destiny, even their own afterlife. But such is a lie. A lie from the devil himself, who also wanted to control his own destiny, which he never will The grand truth is that God wants his people to not just be born of the free woman and not just be of the heavenly city, but to live as being born free, and to live as being of the realm of the heavenly city. And although we cannot do so fully until we are resurrected, God still wants us to be free, to rest, to recline, to eat, and drink. So that we are strengthened. To live as being born of the free woman and live as being of the heavenly realm. Our consciences can be free to rest, to recline, to eat, and to drink Yes, it is true. There are still 17 more days of Lent, not counting Sundays And we are to discipline ourselves in fasting and be reflective on our fallen human condition, and bettering ourselves to listen and follow the Holy Spirit All that remains. But today, we are called to rest, to recline, to eat and drink, to be strengthened For those 17 days ahead, with Easter finally on the horizon Of course, we must come back and find out what happened to Eeyore and his tail. Pooh went to Owl to ask for help. Owl had an idea of writing up a notice for a reward. The rest reads. Owl went on and on, using longer and longer words, until at last he came back to where he started, and he explained that the person to write out this note was Christopher Robin. It was he who wrote the ones on my front porch door for me. Did you see them, Pooh? For some time now Pooh had been saying yes and no in turn, with his eyes shut to all that Owl was saying, and having said Yes, yes. Last time he said, no, not at all, now, without really knowing what Al was talking about. Didn't you see them? said Owl, a little surprised. Come and look at them now. So they went outside, and Pooh looked at the knocker and the notice below it, and he looked at the bell the bell rope And the notice below it. And the more he looked at the bell rope, the more he felt that he had seen something like it somewhere else, sometime before. Handsome bellrope, isn't it? said Al. Pooh nodded. It reminds me of something, he said. But I can't think what? Where did you get it? I came across it in the forest. It was hanging over a bush. And I thought at first somebody lived there. So I rang it, and nothing happened. And then I rang it again, very loudly, and it came off in my hand. And as nobody seemed to want it, I took it home. And Owl, said Fu solemnly, you made a mistake. Somebody did want it. Who? Eeyore, my dear friend Eeyore. He was he was fond of it. Fond of it? Attached to it, said Winnie the Pooh, sadly. So with these words he unhooked it and carried it back to Eeyore. And when Christopher Robin had nailed it on its right place again, Eeyore frisked about the forest, waving his tail so happily that Winnie the Pooh came over all funny and had to hurry home for a little snack of something to sustain him. And wiping his mouth half an hour afterwards, he saying to himself proudly, Who found the tale? Aye, said Winnie, said Pooh, at a quarter to two, only it was a quarter to eleven, really, I found the tail. So, as Pooh needed to rest, recline, eat, and drink after working hard to find Eeyore's tail in order to be strengthened. So too do we need the same as we look for Easter Sunday not far off from now. Amen. Let us pray A gracious and heavenly father, we thank you for this day for it allows us to Have a reprieve to receive from you the nourishment that we need to continue on during this lent season, seeing that Easter is not now so far off. Encourage us, strengthen us this day, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Please be reminded of our giving, of our tithes, and our offerings to the Lord. Let us now prepare our hearts to receive the body and love of Satan.