In name of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Remind you as we begin that we're continuing our series, our summer series on the foundation stones of our faith as listed in Hebrews chapter six, verses one through three I believe the word obsession doesn't seem to be a word that expresses well enough how important our bodies are to us. According to Market Data Enterprises, Americans spend over $60 billion a year on gym memberships and weight loss programs. Billion. Sixty billion with a B. A survey out in April of this year revealed that the average American woman spends three hundred hundred thousand dollars on cosmetic products in her lifetime And we can add to those numbers $60 billion in 206-16 spent on cosmetic plastic surgery. And we can add to those numbers the amount of people who pursue the pleasures of the flesh through pornography, and those who overindulge the flesh in food. And we have the evidence for more than an obsession that people have about their bodies But the body is good, isn't it? That was the conclusion we were to draw from our anti-gnostic point made last week. God said our bodies are good at creation. Jesus became like us, which is to say, he took on the flesh like ours, and he remains in the flesh. The body of each human is good, insofar as they are what God created out of the dust of the earth. Our bodies are good because God chooses the Holy Spirit to dwell in us, which is to dwell in our bodies. But obsessions regarding the bodies are not just unwise, they are sinful. Obsessions with the body are sinful because they become an idol to us. Our weight gain and figure shape can be so important to us that such becomes an idol that we bow down to and serve, and thus it is sin to us. Just being preoccupied with how other people look upon your physique can be sin to us when it becomes too important to us. Our flesh can be so important to us in other ways, such as wanting to feed its appetites So that we bow down to sex or alcohol or drugs or food, and thus such becomes sin to us. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. We confess that today. And that includes obsessions or sins of the flesh. And yet, and yet God plans to redeem the flesh, our flesh. In fact The fifth foundation stone in Hebrews chapter six, the resurrection of the body. Whereas the laying out of hands was not so readily understandable to us as a foundation stone for our Christian faith, the resurrection of the body should be more evident to us as to why it's important. It is important to the Christian faith because it started with Jesus being raised from the dead If Jesus was not raised from the dead, St. Paul tells us that the rest of our faith, well, it's in vain. The Christian faith would have no substance to it if Jesus be not raised from the dead. If Jesus is not raised from the dead, our sins are still in the grave along with his body. And you and I are wasting our time right here and right now. Believing in the resurrection of Jesus and the proclamation of the resurrection of Jesus is what it is to be a Christian. That's why it's a foundation stone. After all, it's part of our creeds We confess that we believe in the resurrection of the body, the first body being that of Jesus, and afterward all bodies Will be resurrected. Some having new bodies that will live for eternity, and others who will receive bodies that will suffer for eternity. So, let us examine some of the basics of what it means to say I believe in the resurrect or the resurrection of the body. Yes, because of the resurrection of the body, we will have physical bodies raised. In whatever condition they are, they will be raised. Our souls will be reunited with our transformed physical bodies, brought back to life from the dead. And Scripture teaches this in many different ways. So first, simply to speak of a resurrection of the dead as Matthew 22, Luke 14, 1 Corinthians 15 as read today. This is implying physicality. That is what the resurrection is. And this again speaks against that sneaky heresy Gnosticism. The Bible does not have a category for a concept of a resurrected body remaining physically in the grave. And there is clear evidence that what God intended for mankind in the Garden of Eden is going to be fulfilled in the new heaven and the new earth. That's where redeemed bodies will live. Paradise. Second, Philippians chapter 3 teaches us that the resurrected body of Jesus Is the pattern for our resurrected bodies. St. Paul wrote this: for our citizenship is in heaven from which also we eagerly wait for a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our humble state into the conformity of the body of His glory. But what type of body did Jesus have? Well we know that Christ was raised in a physical body because the disciples ate with him after the resurrection Also, Jesus outright declared that his resurrected body was physical and it was touchable. Remember, he said, see my hands and my feet, that is myself, touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have, Jesus said to his disciples. And since Christ's resurrection is the pattern for our resurrection, we will therefore be raised with physical bodies. Third, Romans chapter eight speaks of waiting for the redemption of our bodies. Our bodies are not going to be thrown away. They are going to be renewed, revitalized, restored. And you may think that what you have is not worth saving, but God, who made Adam from the dust, can take what is dusty about you and your body and make it last for eternity. That is what we believe when we say, I believe in the resurrection of the body, my body. Fourth, Jesus speaks of the resurrection as involving the coming forth of individuals out of their tombs. Which is clearly indicating a physical resurrection. Jesus said, do not marvel at this For an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and will come forth those who did the good deeds to the resurrection of life, and those who committed evil deeds to the resurrection of judgment. Fifth, even the Old Testament speaks of the resurrection as being physical. In Daniel we hear, and many of those who sleep in the dust of the ground will awake, these to everlasting life, but others to disgrace and everlasting contempt. Likewise we read in the book of Job, I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will take his stand on the earth. Even after my skin is destroyed, yet from my flesh shall I see God, whom I myself shall behold, and whom my eyes shall see, and not another. My heart faiths within me. And so our resurrection is physical But let us discuss the considerations Christians should think upon because of the resurrection of the body. Because of the resurrection of the body, we should think well about our physical bodies. Not as we recently heard, where the physical body is an idol. People today are working for preservation of their bodies, not the resurrection of their bodies. Instead, we need to think well of God as he said what was good, and that is thinking well of our bodies. We have all heard the story of the great marathoner who went out for his daily run only to return, have a heart attack, and die. Now we remind ourselves of such stories to help us realize that an obsession with exercise can't prevent our bodies from getting old and from dying. But such stories should not convince us not to exercise. We should strive to be healthy as long as possible. And it is true that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit. God chooses to abide in our bodies. And it should not matter how saggy and old our bodies get. We should still honor the presence of the Holy Spirit and the humility of God taking upon himself to dwell in us. We should care for our physical bodies all of our days. Another consideration and one that is I know controversial Is how we treat our human bodies after we die. I have been asked on numerous occasions whether it is right or wrong for a Christian to be cremated. And when I am asked such questions, it is usually followed by some sort of statement that gives examples of People who have had their bodies blown up or burned alive or buried at sea. And it seems that there's no chance that that body could come back together at the resurrection Those examples are seemingly used to say that it is then acceptable for Christians to be cremated. Well, what I want us to contemplate first on this issue, when we consider the subject of the morality of cremation. Is that such topics do not have to be put in moral categories, which is to say that we don't have to think about such topics in terms of right or wrong, good or bad. The scriptures have a whole section of wisdom literature that is to help God's people make decisions and understand complex topics in terms of wise. and unwise, not right or wrong. If you want to argue with God that cremation is perfectly acceptable because of the violent death of others, well That's what you will do. Unfortunately, many people decide to be cremated or to cremate a loved one based on convenience and cost and nothing more. For them, the wisdom is that money for a grave in a casket is a waste. But Christians are to be about more than what is cheapest and what is practical. Christians are to consider all aspects of their faith, even the witness that they have to the world after they die. If a person who wishes to be cremated desires to witness to the world that he is originally from dust and to dust he shall return, and in this case rather quickly, then that is what is going to be his last testimony But there is another testimony that says that the body God has given me, he has said he will raise from the dead. And so I will have my body lowered into the ground as a testimony that God will one day raise it up and make it brand new. Having presided over a fair share of funerals and memorials, I have noticed that there is a great witness missing. When the casket is not there to lower into the ground. And even when there is a casket, the actual burial is usually hidden from the family. They all say their goodbyes to their loved one in the casket, and that will be lowered after everyone leaves, lowered by the cemetery workers. And I believe there is something missing, a great power of emotion that could stay with us and be meaningful for us. If we were to witness the casket being lowered into the ground and covered with dirt. Because when we see such an event, we are faced with what could be life-changing emotions. We are faced with life-changing images. We are faced first with our own mortality. And that mortality is no more real than when it is a loved one who is in that gasket being lowered into the ground. And when the dirt is dumped on the same coffin, we are faced with the proclamation that one day that body will be raised from the dead either to eternal life or eternal death. And I ask you rhetorically, what other times in our lives are we faced with such important realities? What other times? That in no way does the Bible state that God's love for us and his forgiveness offered to us through Jesus is determined by whether we are cremated or buried. That's ridiculous. That being said, there is a witness in how the Christian treats his or her body. In response to the foundation stone of the resurrection of the body. And there is also a testimony that needs to be stated of the historic church. To consider when we decide whether or not to cremate a Christian body. The rise of Christianity in the Roman world. saw an end to the practice of cremation of the dead. While earlier, most pagan religions not only practiced cremation, but prescribed it as an important ritual. For Christians, both in the East and the West, Christian burial was a continuation of Jewish practices that believed that the body would be resurrected. And therefore, the integrity of the body was to be respected. The church, both in the east and the west, placed The burning of the body in the same category as abortion, drug use, and any form of body desecration Cremation is still outlawed according to church law of Eastern Orthodoxy. And it was outlawed in Europe because of Christian tradition until the end of the 19th century. And it was not until 1963, under Vatican II, that the Roman Catholic Church lifted a ban on creation. I mean on cremation. In summary, the Christian Church Universal has recognized the importance of honoring the body. Now I close this sermon on the foundation stone of the resurrection of the body by addressing a childlike question that all of us have asked, all of us. What are our resurrected bodies going to be like? We naturally want to know if we will be recognizable and will we be able to recognize others We want to know that what age we will be at the resurrection, or if age will be a concept at all We might want to know what our new bodies will be capable of doing, or what limitations they might have, if any. Well, from Holy Scripture, we can answer parts of these curiosities. We can affirm from the resurrected body of Jesus that again we will have physical bodies. We learn from St. Paul in his letter to the Corinthians, read this morning, that our bodies will be incorruptible, which means they will not age and they will not die. We know from the story of Moses and Elijah appearing in transfigured form, as this is Transfiguration Sunday. Moses and Elijah appearing in transfigured form before Jesus and the apostles, that there will be some type of recognition You ever wonder how they knew it was Elijah and Moses? I don't know. But some sort of recognition will be available to us. Remember that the men on the road to Emmaus, they didn't recognize Jesus was right there with them, with them until they partook of eating with him. But they did eventually recognize him. And we can expect our bodies to have an extra-dimensional quality. That was exemplified by Moses and Elijah being transfigured. And exemplified by Jesus walking into a room with doors and windows shut. And by Jesus being taken up by way of the clouds. And really, the only other thing that we can know about our bodies Is that they will not suffer pain, will not suffer illness, no tears will be shed, and sin will reign no more. Aside from what has been just described, the Holy Scriptures don't provide details. But what the Bible provides is enough for us to rejoice in the hope. That we have of a new resurrected body. And as a side note, just to solve a pet peeve of mine Let us once again put to bed the idea that we are going to be angels. We are not going to be angels. And no saint of God who has gone before us, who has been received by Jesus, is an angel. We shouldn't want to be angels. We should want to be children of God, created in his image, inheritors of his kingdom. As God's adopted children, our promised reward is the resurrection of our bodies, and for our bodies to dwell in paradise. The angels actually want to be like us. And so let us hear the confession again. I believe in the resurrection of the body. Let us pray.