In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We are looking at the latter half of Revelation chapter nineteen, again picking up a verse Eleven. As a young boy I attended Roman Catholic Mass on a semi-regular basis with my father or my grandparents I did not have an appreciation for the service, nor did I fear God as I should, and consequently I was bored. Bored as they say out of my mind. Bobby Lynn is convinced that if I were born In the next generation, I would have been labeled ADHD. Probably so. I spent my time during the service primarily doing two things. I was either straining my neck to look at the clock that was mounted on the back of the wall just below the choir loft, counting the minutes left in the Mass, which always lasted exactly an hour. I don't know how they did that. Exactly an hour. And why would you put a church uh a a clock in a church sanctuary is beyond My wisdom, but there it was. I did that or I studied the statues adorning the walls of the sanctuary. The carvings were detailed images of what are called stations of the cross, the same stations we have depicted in our sanctuary. The images of those carvings remain with me to this day, and I thank upon those times with a feeling, as I felt then, of sadness. My sadness was due, I assume, to the manner that our Savior Jesus is portrayed in those stations. He was, after all, a suffering Savior. The primary focus of the stations of the cross is the suffering of Christ. This is not wrong. I make no judgments regarding such a focus. Because we are sinners before Almighty God There needs to be a continuous reminder that Jesus had to suffer so that we would be able to approach the heavenly throne. Without his suffering, there is no salvation. The blood of Christ enables our access to God. This we must never forget, never underappreciate. It is what goes along with this suffering that we can and should include in our worship. What goes along with his suffering is Jesus riding in on the white horse. Verse 11 of Revelation chapter 19 is a part of a new vision In another scene described to us, John sees heaven standing open. Heaven is open. And why is heaven open It is open because Jesus rides in on the white horse. Heaven standing open means at least two things for God's people. Blessings can come out of heaven, and God's people can go in. Blessings can go out and God's people can go in because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I have briefly mentioned the meaning of riding a white horse earlier in our study of the book of Revelation, and it would be Do as well to rehearse the meaning here in greater detail. Courses themselves symbolize power, speed, and agility. They also symbolize service, for they are a beast that is most useful in the service to men. Horses, although powerful and agile, are beasts that can be tamed. And thus the white horse is a contrast to the beasts. With the seven heads that is in rebellion to God. The one that Jesus rides is in submission to its creator The horse being white symbolizes the purity of its rider Whenever Jesus appears in John's vision, there is something about his appearance that communicates purity. He is the sinless one. And not only does the white horse symbolize purity, it also symbolizes victory. We often refer to Jesus riding in the city of Jerusalem on a donkey as a gesture of peace. It was culturally understood that a leader of men who was coming into a city would ride on a donkey if he was coming in peace. On a dark horse, either black or brown, when he is coming in war, or on a white horse, if he was coming to proclaim victory. Thus, Christians are assured of victory because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I have already identified the rider of the white horse as Jesus the Christ, but you will notice that his name is not mentioned in this passage. Other names provide his identity. The called name of the writer is Faithful and True This was the name given to Christ Jesus as he wrote to the church at Laodicea. The adjectives, faithful and true, are in reference to the writer's position as judge who executes justice. Faithful and true The writer is also said to have eyes of blazing fire. These are the same eyes of the Son of Man as described in chapter 1. They are blazing fire because they purify all that he sees. The crowns on his head are plural and are fitting for his title revealed in verse 16, which is King of Kings. His name that no one knows is another way to identify him. We may conjecture that the name is the same One prompt that was promised to be written on those who are faithful to the end. You remember in Revelation chapter 3, we we have Jesus saying, I will write on him the name of my God. And the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which is coming down out of heaven from my God, and I will also write on him my new name. The faithful will have that name, that new name written on them because Jesus rides in on the white horse Further identification of the rider confirms his sacrifice. His robe, it says, has been dipped in blood. Is it his blood or the blood of his enemies? Perhaps it is both. Because John refers to him as the Word of God, our minds automatically go back to John's gospel. Where it reads, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God The title confirms John's identification of Christ and his authorship of the revelation. The Word of God leads an army of heaven who are purified by the blood of their leader. making them righteous and able to wear white. The armies of heaven ride white horses and wear white linen because Jesus rides in on the white horse. As he rides, Jesus is armed. He is always armed, and his choice weapon is the sword. The sword he carries is his word, and that is why it is described as coming from his mouth. Remember when the God had created heaven and earth, he spoke it into being. God spoke and it was. Whatever he speaks comes to pass. Thus Jesus, being of the divine nature, speaks victory He speaks righteousness. He speaks rebuke of evil. And what he speaks comes to pass. The mission of the writer, thus the mission of Jesus, is to strike down the nations. The nations being targeted, his targeted foe, tell us that he is judging the harlot. The beast and Babylon, which is the same as judging the nations. He will destroy boundary markers He will tear down flags that distinguish one man from another. He will unseat local and national government heads His intent, and have no doubt he will accomplish it, is for there to be one kingdom, the kingdom of God. And he will strike down the nations, not by going from one battle to another, like an army of men would have to do. The reference to a wine press tells us he judges all at one time. That image of a wine press causes us to go back to Isaiah 63, which was our Old Testament reading. The Lord said, I have trodden the winepress alone. From the nations no one was with me. I trampled them in my anger and Trod them down in my wrath. Their blood spattered my garments, and I stained all my clothing. For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redemption has come. The dominant and uninhibited way the writer will strike down the nations is emphatically stated in the title that is written on his robe and on his thigh. And while scholars get caught up with questions such as, was the name written on both the robe and the thigh? Is part of it written on the robe and part on the thigh? We will remember that a royal robe was placed on Jesus in a mocking manner after he was flogged, and that it was stripped from him before he was crucified. Now, now a royal robe is upon him, stating that the mocking words of men were prophetic words. He is a king, and more than a king. He is the king, the king of kings. The meaning, the meaning of the name being written upon The thigh tells us that where the sword normally hangs, this writer has a word that proclaims his identity. His sword, we remember, is in his mouth. He brings his enemies down with his word. The authority of his word proves he is Lord of Lords. It is at this point that the world will know Jesus as King and as Lord and will bow down to him Because he rides in on the white horse. Next, John sees an angel. An angel standing in the sun. The sun is also referred to elsewhere as being in mid-heaven, and the position is fitting for the glory of the angel. The call of the angel is to the birds of the air and is similar to the call uttered by the prophet Ezekiel. The birds are a chosen means. To remove the cursed flesh of man from the earth. A man, according to Scripture, is considered cursed who has his flesh torn and eaten by birds. We see from the list of men consumed that none of the enemies of God will be able to escape. The supper of the foul. Of the air is in contrast to the great supper God prepares and serves his people. Whereas the people of God dine on the choices of food and drink The enemies of God become choice food because their flesh is cursed. The enemies of God will be a feast for the fowl because Jesus rides in on the white horse. The vision moves again to another scene that at first reading we would anticipate it being lengthy and drawn out. When men gather to war against one another, we expect the battle to be lengthy, with casualties on both sides. But what John sees is not a lengthy battle, and certainly there are no casualties from God's army. The armies gather, but the beast is captured. With no beast, the enemies of God have no leader, and thus no strength Along with the capture of the beast is the capture of the false prophet. That's important. The identity, our identity of the harlot as representative of the false prophet is confirmed. The false prophet captured is the harlot that rides the beast. These two are thrown into the fiery lake, which is their final destination. The end of the nation's armies is a foregone conclusion, and the revelator describes their demise as a passing reference. The battle between the armies of nations and the heavenly host is short because Jesus rides in on the white horse. The casting of the beast and false prophet is assured because Jesus rides in on the white horse. The death and consumption of the flesh of men who are enemies of God will be realized because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I have ended each segment of the vision of John in chapter 19 with that phrase because Jesus writes in on the white horse. With the desire and pastoral hope that the victory declared might be seen in your mind Realized in your heart and appropriately applied to your everyday life While the suffering savior is to be prominent in our minds for reasons I have already stated, Some Christians shy away from such images, even concluding that crucifixes should not be worn or displayed. Such a conclusion is an overreaction For images of Jesus on a cross are historically accurate. But so are empty crosses Which is the part of the story we are focusing on today. For Jesus was a suffering servant and is the Savior victorious. Because the Savior rides in on the white horse, everything is different. Everything is different for those who follow him. Everything There is no such thing as a bad day if the Savior rides in on the white horse. Sadness is turned to joy, mourning is turned to laughter, and bleakness is turned to hope because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I also know, by personal experience and the experience of others, that the spirit of the false prophets have their day. Minds become confused. Lies are believed. Disillusionment reigns. False gods are followed, worshipped, bowed down to. False teachings become bestsellers. Scary politicians are elected. False teachers have their day. But in the background, we know that these are short-lived. There will come an end, and the false prophets will be cast into the lake of fire because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I also know by personal experience and the experience of others that the beast will have his day. He will persecute the godly. He will murder the faithful. He will kill the unborn. He will ravage bodies and minds with disease. He will brainwash children and their parents. He will raise nation to fight against nation He will be followed and he will be worshipped because the people of this world will be and have been and are deceived. But in the background, we have to know that this that his day will also be short-lived It seems a long time from our perspective that these evils prosper. But in God's terms and within his plan of salvation, it is actually short-lived. There will come an end to the power of the beast, as he too will be cast into the lake of fire, because Jesus rides in on the white horse. Our Christian heritage provides us magnificent artistic impressions of Jesus, his ministry on earth Paintings of an infant Christ with his mother tell us of his humanity. Paintings of his times of teaching and healing or breaking bread tell us of his brotherhood Carvings of his suffering body upon the cross tell us of his passion for the souls of men. Depictions of the empty tomb tell us of his glorious resurrection All of these are important images of important aspects of our salvation and how it was won. But where, I ask, is the depiction of Jesus riding in on the white horse? We need one. We certainly need one in our minds, for the image means victory, a victory that is not determined by life circumstances. Failing bodies or faulty thinking skills do not change the victory of Jesus. News reports across the sea or in our local community do not have an effect on who rains. Elected leaders have no more power than what is allotted to them by God. We are victorious because Jesus rides in on the white horse. I do not know all that you are going through this morning, what you went through yesterday, or what you faced tomorrow. Whatever it is that tempts you to be downtrodden, depressed, or fearful of the future, I am privileged to proclaim that Jesus rides in on the white horse. That knowledge will be enough for now. It will be enough for now. Let us pray. A gracious God, for the image provided in this chapter, for the for the coming resolution of this revelation, we thank you. May that image of Jesus, our Savior, your Son, riding in on the white horse remain with us, regardless of what we are tempted to. Believe or tempted to become discouraged. Whatever it might be, Heavenly Father, may that image always be before us, that we might know a victory has been won. And a victory will be known, as we pray in Jesus' name, Amen