In the women right to our team. In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Maybe seated. Turn, if you would, in your Bibles to the end of John Saint the Gospel according to St. John, chapter ten, from whence our reading in the New Testament came. One demonic spirit that has found diabolical success in this age Is a demonic spirit that has deceived the Western world into agreeing that humanity should not care about creeds Or emphatic belief systems, but only care that we get along. John Lennon told us to imagine Imagine there is no heaven. It's easy if you try. No hell below us, above us, only sky. Imagine all the people living for today. Imagine there's no countries. It isn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die for, no religion to. Imagine all the people living life in peace. Unfortunately, Mr. Lennon couldn't carry his peace movement into his own home as he was a known spouse abuser. No person or people, no matter how well intentioned, can manufacture peace, and not especially because they simply stop believing in heaven. As God warned through the mouth of Ezekiel the prophet to all false teachers, he said, They lead my people astray, saying, Peace when there is no peace. And because when a flimsy wall is built, they cover it with whitewash. Well, I evaluate that many Christian churches today Are resting their faith on flimsy walls while covering them with white wash to hide the cracks. The flimsy walls are called on this are based on the same can't we all get along demonic message that much of the world has followed. And it has made the Christian faith appear soft in the eyes of unbelievers, and soft in the eyes of those who are antagonistic to the Christian church. Slogans such as, No creed but Christ, and you won't even know you're in church And gathering, guided, and growing together. These say nothing of value for Christians or for a lost world. This is soft Christianity. And I would not even want to call it Christianity For it does not acknowledge the blood, sweat, and grind that is required to live out the Christian faith every day in all circumstances. But I have no right to excommunicate churches with such slogans, and so I simply state that I would not participate in such a soft brand of Christianity. And I perceive that a soft brand of Christianity comes from soft thinking regarding biblical truths. Many Christians today are soft thinkers. The demonic spirit that wants us all to get along does not want Christians to think hard and clear about Christian doctrine. Doctrine divides, so says the evil spirit that wants us to imagine no heaven and no hell. Doctrine from the soft view only confuses and causes people to choose sides. So the soft avoid long and hard study and taking a position. The truth is, as you would anticipate me to say, is that right doctrine divides rightly, and right doctrine unites us around eternal truth. In fact, right doctrine is what actually can unite. For slothful doctrine and no doctrine give nothing to unite about But what about that slogan? No creed but Christ. That sounds pretty good. It's all about Jesus, right? A once well-known and now deposed Christian minister named Mark Driscoll is trying to create a new ministry with a slogan, It's all about Jesus. Well, yes, it is all about Jesus, but for it to be about Jesus, truly about Jesus, you have to say who Jesus is Is he fully God? Is he fully man? Was he born of a virgin? Did he actually physically die? Did he actually physically rise again? Is he physically coming again? Such questions and more must be answered for your slogans, no creed but Christ, and it's all about Jesus, if they are going to say anything at all. And when such questions are answered in the affirmative, well by golly, suddenly you have the Apostles' Creed. And if any one of them is answered in the negative, you have something other than Christianity. And so our study of John's gospel brings us to the end of the chapter, and Jesus decides to get doctrinal. That's right. I am proclaiming that Jesus taught doctrine. Jesus taught that there were right things to believe and wrong things to believe. Jesus divided. But how can that be? He is the Prince of Peace. The Prince of Peace should bring peace between people, not division. Oh, how wrong such thinking is Jesus is indeed the Prince of Peace in that he brings peace between mankind and God. He satisfies God's wrath by his sacrifice on the cross. The souls of men have the greatest of peace all because of Jesus. But between one person and another, Jesus can very much divide. And that is what we have been hearing him do as he taught that the Pharisees, that they were hireling shepherds, and that he and only he is the good shepherd. Such statements divide. In the text read from John 10 It began with the Jews who were hearing Jesus. They cornered him so that they could get an emphatic statement from him. Verse 23 says that Jesus was walking on Solomon's porch, and this porch was original to Herod's temple, not Solomon's temple. It was on the east side of the temple, along the east wall, and that no longer stands. It was a popular place for religious teaching. But the Jews didn't want teaching. They wanted a direct answer to this question. If you are the Christ, tell us plainly, which is really a command. They're insisting upon Jesus. And since we have been studying the Gospel of John, we have learned that the miracles that Jesus has done and the teachings He has provided and the life example that He has set And the statements he has made have all shown that he is indeed, without question, the Messiah, the Christ, the anointed one from heaven. Because of this, we are free to speculate that these Jews who are insisting on an emphatic statement, well, they have other dangerous motives to hear what they want to hear. Well you notice that Jesus does not capitulate to their ploy, and as he does not capitulate, he reveals something about their inquiry, or those who are inquiring of him. He reveals that they are not his sheep. Now he has said this before just previously in the same chapter. When he said that his sheep do not heed the voices of dangerous shepherds, and that his sheep know his voice But here he excludes these people more plainly. And this is a plain type of speech, but not the plain type of speech that they requested. They did not believe his works that were obviously done by the power of the Holy Father. They don't believe because they are not the sheep of Jesus. And I will state it in a more doctrinal way. They are not chosen of God. Last week in Reverend Bowles' Sunday School class, we discussed the doctrine of predestination as it is brought up by St. Augustine in his works, The City of God. And I believe we learned something about one another in that class during that discussion. What we learned was that many of us are uneasy about the doctrine of predestination. For some, it portrays God as being loveless towards certain people and loving towards others. And thus God appears to favor some people and not others And that does not sit well with some of us. When we hear verses like John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. We believe that God does indeed love all of mankind, which means men and women of every race, of every continent, of every tongue, of every age. That is the God that we want to be loved by, and it is the God that we've devoted our lives to. It is the God who motivates us to love all of mankind. But let us take the doctrine of predestination as it is described here in John 10, and allow it to say what it wants to say, and nothing more or less. The Jews, inquiring of Jesus, were made up of Pharisees and regular folk. They were all curious about Jesus. Well, at least the regular folk were. According to verse 19, there were divisions among them because they had all heard the words of Jesus for some, for many years. They've seen with their own eyes. They've heard the rumors of how Jesus' authority was over all men, and those rumors of what he had done and had swirled for three years. Some believed, some were skeptical, some wanted to believe, and others were set on not believing. And those who were set on not believing were the ones that cornered Jesus, demanding a plain answer from him, because they wanted to challenge him, to accuse him. They were the people that Jesus spoke to when he said, I told you, and you did not believe. Now there is without question moral culpability in the words of Jesus towards these duplicitous unbelievers. They were responsible for their unbelief. Without question in his word. They chose not to believe. But next, Jesus says to the same people, but you do not believe because you are not my sheep. Because these Jews were not of the sheepfold that the Father gave Jesus, look at verse 29. Because they were not of the sheepfold that the Father gave to Jesus, they could not hear the voice of the Messiah. And such language goes along with Jesus saying, many are called, but few are chosen. It goes along with St. Paul's words to the Ephesians. Quote, in him, in Jesus also we have obtained an inheritance. being predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. And so good-minded theologians like St. Augustine have recognized the importance of embracing the doctrine of predestination. When it comes to understanding how each and every one of us is saved from the wrath of God and from the punishment of hellfire, each person cannot be saved by his or her own will. For we are each of us dead in our trespasses and sins. Each of us is incapable of having the right heart and the right mind that would choose Jesus. John said the same in the opening of a chapter of his gospel, when he said that those who were born of God were not born of the will of the flesh, nor born of the will of man. But born of God. Therefore, we must be chosen. God must do the saving if any of us at all are going to be saved. That is the glory of the doctrine of predestination. It is the fact that the salvation of any person and all persons is the work of God in Christ alone. Thanks be to God. But we said we must let the text say what it wants to say and nothing more or less. And from the doctrine of predestination, we also get a wonderful confidence that our salvation cannot be lost. Hear the words of Jesus again from verse 29, referring to the sheep that the Father has given him, he says, and no one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand. I believe the words no one covers a great deal, don't you? Certainly these words of Jesus prompted St. Paul to say, For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor demons Neither the present nor the future, nor any power, neither height or depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ our Lord. And are we not so very very grateful that the will of man, our own wills, cannot separate us from the love of God? But such would be so. We would be removed and separated from God if our own wills, if our own wills were responsible. If we were the responsible party for our salvation, we would assuredly be lost. Consider how foolish we can be to fall in and out of love with other human beings. Consider how fickle we can be when we love something or someone one minute and cast them aside the next. That, beloved, is the human will. Let us praise God, our salvation is not determined by our individual wills. Let us be confident that the Holy Spirit overcomes our fickleness and keeps us in the sheepfold of Christ Jesus. Now, along with the doctrine of predestination in this in this section of Scripture And the doctrine of eternal security. Jesus connects another doctrine to them, and that doctrine is that Jesus is divine. Jesus is God. We remember Jesus confirming the doctrine of his divinity in chapter 8. You recall verse 58, he proclaims there that he is the great I am. And here is declared the unity that he shares with the Heavenly Father when he says, I and the Father are one. And in case the reader would doubt that Jesus actually meant that he and God are actually the same, we hear the Jews understanding him to be saying so much that they take up stones to kill Jesus on the spot. And they say clearly that they do so because Jesus just blasphemed the name of God, claiming that he and God were the same. And here we have again Jesus espousing a doctrine that divides, that divides people. But can't we all get along? Not if you deny that Jesus is gone. But can't we have Christ as our only creed? Not if your Christ creed does not include that He is God. But isn't it all about Jesus? Well, yes, if that Jesus is fully God. To explain his divinity, Jesus points these inquiring Jews to the scriptures, the scriptures they say they love. And he points to Psalm 82 and shows them that the great men of the faith That God commissioned to speak for him and carry forth his covenant, these were as gods, for when they spoke they represented the Heavenly Father. And thus it is reasonable that as they were precursors to the Messiah, that the Messiah himself would be understood to be the Son of God, and thus one with God. But these Jews would not believe. At the end of this discourse, Jesus gives them another chance. Notice this, please. It is a chant that speaks to their responsibility to believe. If they won't choose to believe because of what Jesus has said to them, they could choose to believe because of the miracles that Jesus did. But how can they choose if they are not the sheep of Jesus? If they are not the sheep the Heavenly Father gave to Jesus? And that is a fair question, and yet the doctrines proclaimed and explained don't answer. How the will of man interacts with the will of God is a mystery to us, for the holy scriptures do not say. And I submit that we need not say more than the scriptures say. You see, one of the major problems with doctrine within the Christian church Is when theologians, and that includes pastors, try to systematize their doctrines so that they all line up and thus only make sense to some. And so a theologian might be so adamant about the doctrine of predestination that he refuses to recognize any scripture, passage, to be giving any person responsibility for making a decision to believe. And another theologian, just as adamant, could insist that the choice to believe belongs to each person, and so God's predetermined will means nothing of consequence. Thankfully, God is not concerned about our systems. What he is concerned about is our doctrines. The doctrines he himself through Jesus has taught us. He has taught us that he has given ears to hear. His voice, his calling to repent, to come to him and be saved. He has chosen us And he has given us the doctrine that he is divine. One with the Father. One substance, three in person. These things are what a Christian ought to know and believe. Those who are adamant predestinarians are usually labeled Calvinists. So they say, because Calvinists or Calvin himself supposedly emphasized predestination And those who are adamant about free will are called Arminians because James Arminius objected to Calvinism. Neither labels are accurate, but the titles enable for some pretty corny jokes, like this one. Why does a Calvinist prefer taking a bus rather than a cab? Well Because the cab driver makes him choose where he wants to go, whereas the bus has a predetermined has a predetermined destination. And this corny joke, how many Arminians does it take to change a light bulb? Well, none because the light bulb has to want to be changed. The bad jokes come from bad theology. But good life, eternal life, comes from right doctrine. Jesus teaches us to believe that we are his sheep and thus secure in his fold, for we hear his voice. And he wants us to believe that he and the Heavenly Father are one, and that means Jesus is sovereign over all of our lives and over all of creation. If such doctrines divide, then let them divide. For the right doctrine is what will separate those who live for the great shepherd and those who are goats. And those who live for the great shepherd will be placed on his right, and those placed on his right will inherit eternal life. Beloved, Jesus has given us doctrine. So believe it. Let us pray.