In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter 13. Want to be looking at our epistle reading. Revelation 13, verses 1 through 10. I ask, why is it that we become excited? To tell people news that we have just heard or seen. We are like reporters who want to be the first to get the scoop and then report the scoop. And it doesn't matter what it is. It could be a story about a past kidney stone that weighed ten pounds, a chocolate bar melting in the form of the Virgin Mary. Or breaking out of war in the Middle East. If we are the first to hear it, we work hard to be the first to tell somebody and be able to brag that we were the first to tell. The only problem is when you tell people earth-shaking news and they pass it on, and to whom they pass it on says, Who told you? They say, I don't remember. In the end, you have gone to all the trouble of being the first to break the story, and no one remembers that you broke it. Such is a scenario is related to what we are going to be exposed to this morning I'm going to be your hero today if you have always wondered who the beast is that is described in the book of Revelation. I am going to identify the beast and therefore solve the great mystery for some. You in turn, when you have the opportunity, will tell others Who the beast is, and when they ask you who told you that, you will say, I don't remember. Thus my legacy for solving the mystery will be short-lived, but I will enjoy it today Of course, I am not the first to solve the mystery, but many you will hear, many of you will hear it from me for the first time. So try to remember the source. From verse 1 of chapter 13, we learn that the beast is to be identified as different from Satan. We learned from the previous chapter that the dragon is Satan. The dragon has seven heads and ten horns with a crown on each of the seven heads. The beast also has ten horns and seven heads, but the crowns are on the beast on his horns, his ten horns, and not the seven heads. The beast also has a particular origin. The beast comes from the sea Hopefully you remember our discussion about the sea symbolizing pagan nations all the way from chapter 4. As the people of God are symbolized by land, the pagan nations are symbolized by the sea. Because the dragon comes from the sea, we understand that he comes from pagan nations, meaning also that he does not come from God's people. The description of the beast is a combination of feared and destructive carnivores, said to be a leopard, a bear, and a lion. In Daniel chapter 7, the prophet describes four beasts that have ten horns. Three of those beasts are the same that make up the beast in John's vision. Daniel the prophet emphasizes the dreadful look of those ferocious beasts, and that is to be the effect it's to have on the listener, to have some fear. The beast is to be understood as strong and terrifying. The beast is said to be given power by the devil or by the dragon. The power of the dragon includes his throne and great authority. His throne is this earth, and his authority is limited to this earth. Because of what happens to the beast, there is an increase of those who follow and worship it. The beast is given the ability to utter words that are boastful and blasphemous. It speaks these words and exercises the authority given to it for 42 months. That number is familiar to us. Forty-two months is the same as 1,260 days, or three and a half years, or times time and half a time. This is the same amount of time designated for the temple court to be trampled on by the Gentiles. It is also the same time that is given for the woman who is being protected from the dragon who is trying to kill her. Although the dragon could not kill the woman, or the church, as we identify her, the beast is able to conquer the saints of God. The difference would be that the church cannot be destroyed, but the saints can be physically armed. The conquering beast Is able to gain influence over all the known or inhabited world, bringing men to worship it John makes it clear that those who worship the beast are those who are John makes it clear that those who worship the beast are not those who follow the Lamb. They are not those who confess Jesus as their Savior. In general, we can say that the beast is a creature that is in a position of influence. He had something apparently miraculous happen that caused men to marvel at it. And he has focused his aggression on Christians. You may have noticed that I said has, implying that I believe the beast is past tense. I do not believe the beast is yet to come. Because I am confident that the revelation was written for the sake of the first century Christians as well as those that come after, the identity of the beast must be relevant to the first century Christians. The beast is called a beast because it is unclean. Unclean animals that are similar to the serpent are all called beasts in the Bible The label beast is also appropriate because of the beast-like cruelty in his actions. The historic figure. That best fits the description of John's beast is a man by the name of Lucius Domitius Henobarbas. Most people know Lucius as his adoptive name, Nero Kaiser, or Nero Caesar. Nero ruled over Rome from A. D. 54 to A. D. 68. Now before we get to examine why Nero fits the description of the beast, we must Examine a different identity of the beast as it is described in chapter 17. We learn in chapter 17 of Revelation that the seven heads of the beast are actually seven hills. The seven heads then are a geographical feature. The geographical feature of seven hills is particular to the city of Rome. There was even an ancient festival in Rome, a feast of seven hills city. Each of the hills had a name, and these were referred to in the writings of poets and historians. In general, then, we can say that the beast is Rome. It is the city and empire that tried to wipe out Christianity. But cities and empires do not have a mind of their own. They are ruled by men. The men who rule give a face, a personality to the identity of the beast. And so we look to Nero. We look back at Nero as the personality of a beast. The most fallacious evidence of Nero as the beast was his beastly behavior. It is said of Nero that he was neither discriminate nor moderate in putting to death whosoever he pleased. He is said to have compelled 400 senators to fight in the arena. He was a sodomist who reportedly castrated a boy named Sporas and then married him. He ruthlessly killed his mother, brother, wife, aunt, and many others close to him. One contemporary writer of Nero referred to him as the destroyer of the human race And the poison of the world. After his death, he was called a beast by the pagan writer Apollonius. The primary evidence of Nero fitting the identity of the beast was his treatment of Christians. In verse 5 and 7, we are told that the beast blasphemes God and makes war with the saints of God. The persecution of Christians by the Roman Empire began with Nero. Before that time, Christians were thought to be a sect of the Jews. The original persecutors of Christians were the Jews. Apparently, because of rumor and slander, Christians became thought of as superstitious and then dangerous In A. D. 64, Christianity no longer fell under the umbrella of Judaism and was given a non-legal religion status, meaning that to practice Christianity was against Roman law. The first focused persecution upon Christians by Nero followed the great fire within Rome. Rumors swirled that Nero had set those fires himself. He was trying to justify a building project to honor his reign. To rid himself of the rumors, he publicly placed blame on the Christians for the fire. Nero had numerous Christians rounded up and punished. He did not merely execute them, but tortured them, mutilated them until their death. Some were wrapped in hides of wild beasts, and Herod would have them torn to pieces by his dogs. Others were fastened to crosses set on fire to illuminate Nero's garden at night. The exact amount of Christians killed under Nero is unknown, but writers of the day use descriptive phrases such as an immense number and a vast multitude of the elect. In fact, the foremost leaders of the early church, Peter and Paul, were put to death under Nero. Every Christian alive in the first century would have recognized the beast described in Revelation to be Nero Caesar. It is not by coincidence either that Nero's persecution of Christians lasted three and a half years. It began in A. D. 64 and ended in the middle of A. D. 68 at the death of Nero. Other evidence pointing to Nero as the beast is the way he died. Nero lived by the sword. His sword decapitated the Apostle Paul. Church Father Tetolian credits Nero's sword as having provided the martyr's blood that was the seed of the church. Biblically and poetically, Nero's own death was by sword and his own hand. It is recorded that he drove a dagger into his own throat, being aided by his private secretary. Nero's death fulfills our Lord's promise that a man who lives by the sword will die by the sword. Nero is also a figurehead who was worshipped. Emperor worship began with Julius Caesar, who was given God status by the Senate, and was even referred to as a savior. Augustus, Tiberius, Gaius, and Claudius, all who preceded Nero, each embraced in his own way the idea of a godlike status. Citizens of Rome were to be more than loyal to the emperor. They were to worship him as their God. This is one reason why Christianity became such a threat to the Roman Empire. Christians not only worshiped God alone, but they gave him a name. His name was that of a man. It was Jesus of Nazareth. The worship of Jesus as Savior in God made Christianity a serious threat to the God status of the Roman emperors. The final evidence for identifying Nero as the beast personified is the description of his being given a fatal wound, and yet he was healed. The healing brought about greater worship of the beast and a belief that no one could stand against him The healing gives the beast a messianic quality, for of course it was Jesus who was dead and rose again The beast seemingly attempts to imitate the true Messiah, causing the world to follow him and to worship him. As we learned earlier, the beast is not just a man. It is also an empire. It is Rome. The Empire and the City of the Seven Hills, when Nero committed suicide, he ended that Julio-Claudian bloodline. After his death, Rome experienced a series of civil wars to determine who would rule. To the known world, there was a time when the Roman Empire appeared to be toppling to its death. It was under the leadership of Vespian that Rome was resurrected to re-establish itself as a dominating power in the world. This is very likely the near fatal wound and the rebirth John is describing in this revelation. Afterwards, it was the rebirth of Christian persecution. By Domitian a decade later. The beast then has two identities. It is in general Rome, the seat of the emperor. It is also Nero, the Emperor of Rome, at the writing of Revelation. No doubt it is much more difficult for us to make identification of the beast today than it was for the Christians of the first century who lived through what John is describing. Identifying the beast and understanding the symbolism John uses is not the primary importance of the passage. The purpose of the passage is stated in verses 9 and 10. Why should you know about the beast? Why should they know about the beast? It's in verses 9 and 10. These verses affirm that the need to acquire an understanding of what goes beyond the obvious He who has ears is the man who can understand the truth beyond what is being heard. He is a man who hears with ears of faith. He is given an understanding that is not obvious to most. And from the description of what the beast does, which is wage war on Christians, The faithful ear must understand that this is going to happen. It was and is unavoidable. As we learned last week, the church is at war with the devil. The devil gives his power and authority to governments like Rome and emperors like Nero. So that they can do his work in killing the children of the woman. The Christians, the church. Verse 10 tells Christians what it means to follow Christ. If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity, he will go. If anyone is to be killed by the sword, by the sword, he will be killed. In plain speech, if Christians are destined to suffer under the hand of the beast, they will suffer. This is the will of God, and those who follow Christ must understand the sacrificial life they are called to live. To receive eternal reward, sacrificial living, the Christian must have being patient, endurance, and faithfulness during that sacrificial living. The warning contained in this vision is the same that Jesus gave when he said that those who follow him must pick up their cross. Which means they need to be willing to sacrifice themselves for a greater cause, the kingdom of God. These words do not mean near as much to us as they did to the first century Christians, for they knew what it meant to be hunted down by the beast. Today, the Christian church in the Western world has a soft underbelly. Many flock to preachers and ministries that tell us what we want to hear. They focus on wealth and affluence in this life. The only sacrifice taught is that of giving to a particular ministry. And believing that you are going to get ten times much in return. Very few want to hear messages about sacrifice. But sacrifice is what Revelation promises will happen. Sacrifice is what it takes to follow Christ. As followers of Christ, we are able to say, it is no longer I that live. I must take up my own cross. To die is gain. Others are more important than myself. He who gives up his life for Christ will find true life thereafter. No one knows what is going to be required of us to remain faithful in this life in the future. Two generations before the World War II generation, Was raised with the idea that sacrificing oneself for the greater good was a virtue. The Christian church needs to be training each generation with the same mindset. Sacrifice is a virtue. It is the call of every Christian And we parents need to be willing to say that if my son is going to be taken into captivity for the sake of the gospel, then captivity he must go. If my daughter has to be killed by the sword because of the gospel, then by the sword she must be killed. Acknowledging reality and hearing the warning, we must note that beastly behavior of empires and leaders do not end with Rome, and they did not end with Nero. There has been and will be more nations and leaders that the devil uses to kill the children of the church. I believe God wants us to prepare ourselves and our children for times of sacrifice. The description of captivity and death by the sword is not limited to any one generation. I do not know all the details of what is to come. I could speculate, but no one saw Gender confusion on the horizon, so who knows? Oh, God knows. Certainly There will be other empires and leaders to come that the devil will influence and give his power for the purpose of persecuting the church. I do know that the call to sacrifice must be heard, and the willingness must be a part of our identity. If we have chosen to follow Christ, we have already pledged our allegiance to him with heart, soul, mind, and strength. We have already said we will follow him to our death. It is for us to be prepared to live out that pledge. If it be us, if it be our children, our children's children, so be it. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious God, we do hear the great call of sacrifice in this passage, and we certainly know that the first century church knew it all too well. And there have been Christians after and still Christians today that are under the thumb of authority, under the thumb of the devil We pray, dear Lord, no matter what comes, no matter what lies ahead, that we too are willing to sacrifice because what we say is true, may your kingdom come and your will be done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.