In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The sermon is based on the gospel text that was read this morning, John 12, verse 20 through 36. You will do well to have that available to you I trust that you can identify with my emotions last Sunday, Easter Sunday. It was a glorious day in church as the choir sang beautifully. The preaching, well, was adequate. And uh the privilege to partake of the Lord's Supper, proclaiming that Jesus is alive, that is quite heavenly. We had a wonderful Easter supper with friends and family, and then I settled down in my home and watched some college basketball. After even song, I checked the news On the internet, and I read a story of a suicide bomber killing 60 people at an Easter picnic in Pakistan The number when I last checked was 74 and hundreds injured. There is a guilt that comes over you when you hear such news. Because you are so very comfortable in your first world comforts, and thus you are so very much safer than those in second and third world countries. Those injured and dead in Pakistan were celebrating the same Savior you were celebrating, and they lost their lives on a most holy of days by a Muslim fanatic. And you were sitting in your living room watching basketball with no dangers at all. And then you read. Of a Muslim man, a store owner, in Scotland, a first world country. who on social media wished Christians a happy Easter and then was stabbed to death in his store by a fellow Muslim because of his Easter greeting. And then your guilt emotions turn to anger. You start to think about how these terrorist attacks by Muslims are continuing and seemingly increasing, and it makes you mad. You want someone in leadership to do something about these fanatics. And you wish you could do something yourself. And you get tired of liberal news media outlets telling you not to react against Muslims because They say it's not their fault, and that you should understand their anger and not make them the enemy, and you get sick of that rhetoric. Knowing that rhetoric is from the devil, you want justice. You want someone to pay, especially since the targets are Christian. You want to fight back. These are raw emotions and Politicians can play on those emotions so that you start to reason with these emotions, seeing that yes, they are just and they are right But the gospel of Jesus Christ within you gives you a conscience that does not allow you to give yourself over fully to those emotions. The Holy Spirit compels you not to give over to such emotions entirely because you understand that to do so To do so makes you too similar to the fanatics that you condemn. Are you with me on all this? Have you felt the same way I have described? Well the reading of John's Gospel this morning speaks to these emotions, even though not directly. Our emotions are right, and I would even say they are righteous, but they cannot, should not control us. What needs to control us instead is the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit speaks words of Jesus as he tells. He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Such words have a great deal of application, and one of those applications is that as Christians, we cannot follow the inclination of our emotions. Jesus spoke those words in the context of a teaching moment that could take the listener in any number of directions. Once again, I'm going to take you into the preparation room of a pastor when he looks at a text and tries to write a sermon. The section of scripture read from John's Gospel has such a variety of points being made that one main point seems rather elusive. Look at verses 23 and 24. There Jesus knew well that his time to die was approaching, and that his death, at his death, he would be glorified because of his resurrection. He refers to himself in this section as the Son of Man. It's a third-person reference, embracing the title given to the Messiah in the book of Daniel. The title Son of Man embraces both the humanity of Jesus and those messianic references by Daniel. Therefore, we could explore this morning both what it means for Jesus to embrace his humanity and to embrace that identity of the Messiah that Daniel gives. Next, we could study the proverb regarding a grain of wheat needing to frog in order to produce even more grain. Many a person who lives and dies well produces people who will follow after him or her, and Jesus is the greatest example. And this necessity of dying to produce more is followed by Jesus saying, He who loves his life will lose it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. This type of language is what Jesus himself embraced in his own living, and so he expects those who follow him, you and I, to embrace that as well. He made his life about the need to sacrifice for the lives of others. And he expects his followers to do likewise. And Jesus uses hyperbole when he does it. He uses it here as he does often. And that is a Semitic practice to use hyperbole to ensure the point is driven home. We are not to truly hate our life in this earth as in hate being despised or reject. And this is very similar when Jesus in Luke's gospel tells his followers that they are to hate, hate their families, and then to love him. He is over-speaking in order that we don't miss the point. It is essential for our salvation that our priority is not to preserve our own lives. Or to ever put any family member ahead or in front of him. He is asking us to do no less than what he did for us And that, if we just focused on that, could make a solid sermon, or a couple. And that he expects no less than what he did is articulated in verse 26. As he says that his servants will do just as he does, and thus his servants should expect a reward, as he will be rewarded. He who overcame death tells us that he went to prepare a place for us. And thus we could proclaim at great length. What it means for Christians to be honored by the Heavenly Father just as Jesus was Now look at Jesus' train of thought here. Upon thinking about what it will take to be rewarded, he all of a sudden becomes troubled. He becomes troubled. And he becomes troubled by the punishment that is going to be inflicted upon him. Verse 27. He confesses a troubled soul. Now this is interesting. John tells us about Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, but he does not describe it the same way the other gospel writers describe it. John doesn't tell us that Jesus sweated blood and that he wrestled with his destiny of suffering. And it's likely that he doesn't, because he tells us about that wrestling right here. And in that wrestling, we could explore this morning what Jesus means by the phrase, for this purpose, I came to this hour. For this purpose I came to this hour, the hour of his suffering. You've seen those Christmas bumper stickers. He was born to die. Well such a phrase for some is too simplistic. For some, it is too simplistic because Jesus was not only born to die. Because if that was the case, then why not just die with the rest of the infants that died because of him? There would be no need for teachings, for a life of obedience, for suffering. Just be done with the dying thing after birth. But that was not the Father's plan. There was more necessary for Jesus to do, and we could examine all of that Next we have Jesus giving glory to the name of God the Father, who then returns the glory back to the Son by saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. And in those words, he's referring to Jesus. Jesus is the Father's glory, as he will be at his death, his resurrection, and ascension. That God, the Father, spoke to Jesus in response to the call for glory is for the sake, we are told, for those who were there. God the Father is a verifying witness that Jesus is the perfect sacrifice. Jesus then describes how he will die, that he will be lifted up. Lifting up was Jesus being nailed to the cross and raised as a spectacle for men to mock. That act, that very act, would draw men to him. And this is the great irony of history, is it not? That men who mocked the cross That would result in an uncounted number believing in him to be the savior of the world. That could be explored over and over again. And we still could not touch the bottom of such profound reality. The fact that Jesus was not understood by the people when describing these things is a bit surprising because Jesus does not make an effort to help them understand. He just keeps talking It is likely that a person can only understand all of this after Jesus' death, resurrection, and ascension But instead of explaining further, Jesus gives a warning that the people understand the need to redeem the moment, the moment that he is with them. And then he goes on to speak metaphorically. And by speaking metaphorically, he again is causing some confusion. We would think he would cause clarity. No, he causes confusion. He, Jesus, is the light, of course, and to walk in the light is to walk in his teaching, and that means to obey his teaching. And that is necessary not only for one's salvation, but But also for those listening, because the devil's about to break loose. The devil's about to have his way. And if you're not walking in the light, you are going to be deceived by the devil. It would be well worth our time this morning to explore how and why Jesus speaks metaphorically and speaks in parables that some people don't understand. Instead of using direct teaching, the phrase at the end of verse 36 Seems to be a play on a phrase by John who knows that the meaning of Jesus' teachings were being hidden from the people, and then all of a sudden, Jesus is hidden himself, physically, from the people. And with all of these options for preaching from this short section of scripture, we see how any of these teaching points could be a sermon or even more than one sermon in and by themselves. But there is something else in these verses that I have yet to mention. And it may be what brings all of the teachings that Jesus has here in these verses together. It is what started Jesus to speak at all. Remember that his this occurs after Mary Pours oil on his feet, expresses love for him. It is after Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey. It is a quiet moment. When Jesus is with his disciples, that certain Greeks, look at verse 20, certain Greeks come to Jesus by way of talking, first to the apostle Philip. Greeks here mean Gentiles who are probably Greek-speaking or from the Greek-speaking world. And these may have been God-fearers who were interested in Judaism, but had not gone so far as to become circumcised and thus become Jews. The words that they speak, the words that they speak, sir, we wish to see Jesus. Those words should be written on every Christian pulpit for the preacher himself to see each Sunday, and thus be reminded that the people you come to see Jesus. You don't come to hear simply another man's opinion. You don't wish to see a man bluster on about himself or about his views on politics or his favorite sports team. You come to see Jesus, and every preacher needs to be convicted by that In verse 22, we read that Philip went to tell Andrew that the Greeks wanted to see Jesus, and then Philip and Andrew go together to tell Jesus. And then Jesus begins to speak. He begins to teach. One commentator I read believes that Jesus doesn't respond to what Philip and Andrew tell him. According to this commentator, Jesus practically ignores the news that some Greeks wanted to see him. But the phrase that begins verse 23 says that Jesus answered them Answered them, Philip and Andrew. He answered them. He responded to them. He responded to what they told him. The New King James Version, which is in your pews, chooses to translate the Greek conjunction day as the word but. And that's certainly reasonable. However, but that word indicates that Jesus wants to talk about something different than what they told him about. The word day, however, can also be translated simply and, the conjunction and. The reading would then be, after hearing the news that the Greeks were present to see Jesus, and Jesus answered them, and then followed by his teaching. We read with the word and in place of but we can understand that Jesus began to teach this way because he heard that there were Greeks that wanted to see him. So I conclude, what he taught on hearing that the Greeks had come wishing to see him was that what it meant to truly see him, he was about to teach To see Jesus. To see Jesus is to see an innocent man suffer at the hands of jealous men. It was to see a man needing to die so that many, many others could live. To see Jesus was to understand what it meant to follow Jesus. To see Jesus was to hate one's own life. To see Jesus is to live as Jesus lived, which was a life of sacrifice for the sake of others. To see Jesus is to gaze upon the Son of God lifted up and to know it must be done. And to be humbled by it because your sins are what caused him to be lifted up. To see Jesus is to walk in the light and live in the light of Jesus, being always wary of darkness. To see Jesus is to understand and live out what fundamentally makes a person a Christian. For me, this passage is much like when Jesus was courted by the Pharisees asking if he was in favor of paying the Roman tax. And you remember being cornered, they wanted to know, do you support Rome or do you support the independence of Israel? And Jesus asked for a coinage and he asked whose image is on that coinage. When he was told Caesar, he said, give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's. And of course it was a brilliant answer in that it showed he was not cornered after all. But it was also an answer that showed that Jesus didn't want to talk about taxes It was not important to him because it was not the point of his life. It was not the point of his death. It was not the point of his resurrection. It was not the point of his ascension. Taxes were not about the good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ. You remember when he was asked about paying the temple tax. First of all, he thinks it's kind of ironic, it's my father's house, therefore it's my house. Why should I be paying a tax on my house? But he says to Peter, in order not to offend In order not to offend, go catch a fish, you'll find money in it, and pay the tax. Peter does that. Goes and catches a fish, pays the temple tax. The spirit behind that story is that paying the temple tax or not paying the temple tax was not the point. It was not important. It is focusing on that which is not the gospel. And it is the gospel and the gospel alone that matters. When I described how I felt upon hearing of Christians being martyred in Pakistan, because they were celebrating the resurrection of Jesus. No doubt you identify with some of my anger, guilt. When I said I was disgusted by how the media tells us how we should respond to Muslim terrorists, you could also identify with my disgust. Such emotions are justifiable. There is nothing wrong with such emotions. And there is nothing wrong with wanting to do something about these injustices. And dare we say Support candidates in offices that might help protect the innocent from fanatical murderers Our next men's meeting will be about candidates and who Christians should support. Such things are good for Christians to talk about and be wise about and thus be involved. But but and you have to know this on the other hand point needs to be said But we are to be essentially about, as Christians, the gospel It is good and right to support candidates that you believe in that will be just. It is good and right and necessary to speak out against the sins of abortion, sodomy, and sex trafficking. All of these sins are inhumane and they plague our country. It is good to insist that something be done to defeat terrorists, both foreign and domestic. But as Christians, our primary energy, our priority is to be about the gospel. Who knows what those Greek men wanted to see Jesus about? Nobody does, for they are not in the picture after they are mentioned. We know not what they wanted to see Jesus from Jesus for Jesus never spoke about them afterwards. We don't even know if Jesus ever spoke directly to them But what we need to know is what Jesus thought they needed to see. They needed to see what was important. And that was the truth, which was that he must be sacrificed in order for the sins of men to be forgiven, and those who follow him must give up their life in order to receive eternal life back. That is the gospel, and to know the gospel is to see Jesus. Beloved, this Easter season challenges us to live a resurrected life. And the resurrected life is about the gospel. It is amazing. Amazing how strife ends in relationships, how easy it is to think the best of others How quickly we can forgive a wrong done to us, how sweet it is to be kind to others when you make your life about the gospel. I want to briefly describe very practically how this works. Someone talks to you and disagrees with you, and they're not nice about it. In fact, you perceive that they might be baiting you into an argument, and if they successfully do that, they will have another reason not to like you. And what you ask yourself before you speak, what you ask yourself Is this about the gospel? Does getting into this discussion honor life? The life suffering, death, resurrected, ascended life of the Savior? If the answer is no, then you don't get into this discussion, then you don't get into an argument, and you don't give people reason to be mad at you. And this works when it comes to things that bother you. It works when people are making decisions that you would not make. You ask yourself, does having the women's tea in a different location matter to the gospel? And if the answer is no, then you don't sweat it. To ask such questions is to make your life about the gospel. And it works for the bigger things as well, such as wanting revenge on terrorists. Make your life about the gospel. Do it because Jesus did. Let us pray.