Okay. I don't know what I'm saying. Yeah, okay. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. If you are a Ravens fan this morning, it's good news for you. Today is the fourth day of Christmas, and that is a good sign for Ravens fans. Four calling birds. Fourth day of Christmas. Evidently, I ran across this information. Evidently, the four calling birds from the Twelve Days of Christmas song is actually an Americanization of the original wording, which was for caulibirds. C-O-L-L-Y. For collie birds. And that originally means blackbirds. And could very well be referring to ravens. So four raven birds in the twelve days of Christmas This morning I want to point your attention to two days ago. Two days ago was the feast of St. Stephen's. You are aware, of course, that certain days have been set aside in the Western Christian tradition to honor specific saints on specific days. The Feast of St. Stephen's is appropriate for us to acknowledge for the simple reason that that is our parish name. We are named after St. Stephen. Understand, please, that such names are not chosen arbitrarily like a mascot would be chosen. Proverbs says that a good name is to be preferred rather than great riches. Names in Scripture have meaning, eternal meaning. People were named according to what their parents wanted that child to be, or What that child reminded the parent of when the when the child was born. Remember Esau being born, and he came out all hairy and and red, and so he was named Esau And then Jacob came out, grasping his brother's heel. Well, Jacob means surplanter. And that's what Jacob was trying to do, and that's what he eventually did to his brother. These names represent characteristics. Historically, the naming of churches has followed the same principle, at least in terms of wanting a parish to emulate the characteristics of the saint. That they were named after. Now I have asked around and I've talked to Reverend Godman and I've talked to Bishop Cox trying to find out why this parish was named St. Stephen's. And there's not a an agreement as to how they came about that name. But I got suspicious because, well, Bishop Cox was instrumental in helping start this church and and His son is named Stephen, and so I thought maybe maybe it was to honor Stephen and And then I heard about what type of child Stephen was. And I said this to his face, so I'm not saying anything And realize that there's no way this was named after Stephen Cox. If such were true about this parent, that is that it was named after the saint that we are to emulate, well, what does that mean for us? St. Stephen, we find his story in Acts chapter 7, is called the first martyr of the church. And that is true in one sense. He is the first person to die, a martyr's death, in history, for proclaiming Christ as his Savior. In another sense, it can be said that Stephen was not the first martyr of the Christian faith. In fact, he is not the first martyr of the New Testament. You will remember the story of Jesus' birth as recorded in St. Matthew. The Magi were told in a dream not to return to Herod Not to tell him where the Christ child could be found. And Herod became enraged. Herod was a crazy man. And so he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem and its vicinity who were two years old and under. The cries of weeping caused by these murders were so great that it is said to have been heard in the next town next to Bethlehem. Today is that holy innocence day we remember innocent children dying. These children, these young boys, were the first martyrs of the New Testament The word martyr means witness. Its original meaning did not relate to dying for one's faith, but to testify to one's faith. Those who followed Christ in the first few centuries did so. They testified wonderfully, powerfully, inspirationally They faced death also. And thus the word martyr became associated with witnessing to the faith in Jesus and also dying for that faith. Because the word martyr literally means witness, it is fitting to call the children who died by Herod's order martyrs, for they testified that the Messiah had come. In Jeremiah 31, we read it, I'll read it again. The voice is heard in Rama weeping and great mourning. Rachel. Jacob's beloved wife, weeping for her children and refusing to be comforted because they are no more Such was a prophecy 500 years previous to the day in which Herod would take his vengeance out on children. The prophecy, as painful and heart-wrenching as it became, was a witness that the Messiah had come and dwelt among men. Being a martyr, such as Stephen, or the children who died by Herod's sword, can also be said of someone like Abel. Abel was the first man murdered, we know. He was murdered by his brother Cain over jealousy because God favored Abel over him. And this jealousy parallels the emotion of Herod that he had towards the Christ child, and that the Pharisees had towards the Christ. God favored him over them, and they hated him for it. Abel offered unto God the firstborn of his flock. And this was a precursor to the offering of Jesus himself. Who was the fulfillment of the perfect sacrifice that you and I need for the forgiveness of our sins? Abel was then a martyr, a witness to the coming Christ because of that offering. After he was murdered, the Lord confronted Cain. Again, you will remember asking Abel Asking Cain, excuse me, where Abel was. And then Cain uttered that famous lie, am I my brother's keeper? The Lord then revealed that Abel's blood had been crying out to him from the ground. And we find that same crying out in the book of Revelation. Where the martyrs are under the altar and they are crying out to the Lord, how long? How long? And that question is about vengeance. To be taken upon those who are guilty of their murder. How long? So St. Stephen is one of the many who cries out, How long? One of the many early Christians who was martyred, unless it is fitting for us on December 26th to wear red. To remember those who are martyred and to wear it today for those children who were murdered and martyred. The Holy Scripture, of course, reveals more about Stephen than him being a martyr. He was the first of the seven to be set aside to serve as deacons in the church. The book of Acts, you will recall, describes how deacons were chosen from among the members of the Church of Israel to serve the needs of the poor, the weak, and the elderly. Stephen was one of those men chosen. His duties were humble and they were necessary. Along with Stephen's character qualifying him to be one of the first deacons, he is described to be a man full of God's grace and full of God's power. The evidence of that grace and power were great wonders and miraculous signs done through him. And they were a witness, a powerful witness to the people of Jesus Christ. Stephen was also a man of courage, speaking aggressively to the Jewish people that the law had been fulfilled and the temple was no longer necessary because Jesus the Messiah had come. When Stephen was put on trial for his life before the Sanhedrin, he did not blink, he did not falter. He clearly pronounced to those who were listening that Jesus is the fulfillment of the prophet's words. He is the only hope for Israel. Although he knew his aggressive speech would lead to his death, he spoke bravely, calling his accusers stiff-necked people and uncircumcised in heart. and ears. In the same manner that Stephen stood before the Sanhedrin, without blinking and faltering, he stood before the stone throwers. He took his blows while crying out that the Heavenly Father would receive his Spirit and then in the Spirit of our Savior ask God to forgive those who were murdering him. St. Stephen was a remarkable man. And we are his namesake. His type of character we are to exhibit. We have a very tall order force. This parish is now 32 years old. If it were a person, if St. Stephen's Paris was an average American adult, he would likely be established in a career and raising children. To be established in a career and raising children meant that there had to be a lot of important decisions made in the past to get where it is now. Some of those decisions were good and some were not. But they are all used to give us an identity, to give St. Stephen's an identity that we have now. There have been people in St. Stephen's past who were insisting that St. Stephen's be like the popular churches that embrace a contemporary style of music only contemporary style, and that the order of service should be more like a concert than that which is traditional To such suggestions, we settled on the wisdom that, first, there is no reason for us to emulate churches that are contemporary in their music style and worship style Because our place in the body of Christ in this region would become unnecessary. We would have nothing to offer others that they couldn't find elsewhere. Those churches that are more contemporary are usually larger, and we and they have, excuse me, more at their disposal to entertain. We recognize that we should not attempt to do something that someone else is already doing because they they'll do it better than us anyways And second, we simply need to point to the sign that is outside our church near the road. It marks our identity. It says St. Stephen's Reformed Episcopal Church. We, according to the Sign Outside, are Reformed Episcopalians. Being a Reformed Episcopalian means we have history dating back to eighteen seventy-three, and even farther, because we are inheritors of the English Reformation. And our history gives us identity. It is very important to realize that as we define ourselves, we put limits on ourselves And that's not a negative thing. That word limit I am using in a positive sense, where it allows us to know who we are, and not to be confused or drawn away by fad or pragmatism. Besides those who were telling us who we should be, there were others in our past who have told us what we should not be. That advice comes in the form of what is called Romophobia. Romophobia is the fear of the Roman Catholic Church. And those who tried to tell us we should not be like the Roman Catholic Church, we're not so much concerned about what we were, just what we shouldn't be. They didn't want us to be like the Roman Catholic Church. Well, the reason for Romophobia affecting so many within the Reformed Episcopal Church is that our history is a reactionary history. In the beginning, Bishop Cummins was concerned about the Roman Catholic influence on the American Episcopal Church. When he believed that the evangelicals were being squeezed out of the church by the tractarians or those who wanted us to move closer to Rome, well, he decided to start a new denomination. The name, Reformed Episcopal, was chosen because those who started the denomination wanted us to go back to the practices of the original American Episcopal Church, reforming it Back to its original ways. Thus, the Reformed Episcopal Church. It is my take on history that we have spent too much time as a denomination identifying ourselves with what we are not. That is, we are not Roman Catholic. And that is opposed to identifying ourselves for what we are, or better said, what we should be. The Reformed Episcopal Church will never be Roman Catholic. Again, the logic would have it that if that is what we want it to be, well, let's just close our doors, take a left on Liberty Road, go down to St. Joseph's and join them. No reason for us to exist. Instead of becoming Roman Catholic, we have become like the Church of England is supposed to be We have become Catholic in our understanding of the Word, the universality of the gospel. And we have embraced the Protestant ideal of holy scripture being our first and final authority. In its beginnings in the 16th century, the Church of England made a bold statement, like St. Stephen made to the Sanhedrin. The church said the Pope is not infallible. Church tradition was not equal to Scripture, and that men are saved by grace through faith alone. What the English reformers would not do is abandon the liturgical order of worship that does not really identify with the Roman Catholic Church, but has been with the church, the Christian Church from its beginning. By us embracing the practices of the reformers, we are also not going to abandon our liturgical order. For again, it has been handed down to us, a gift to us from our fathers, from our fathers in the faith. Our identity then is strongly grounded in two primary areas. First, We strive to be reverent in our worship as our order follows biblical ideals that God has put before his people on how he wants to be approached and worshipped and called upon. Second, we are Bible believers. We believe all that the Bible teaches. We believe its teachings are first and primary to any traditions of the church. We preach it, we teach it, and attempt to live it out in our daily lives. And I, for one, have a godly pride in that identity. I do not apologize for using the prayer book to direct our prayers for corporate worship. To be more bold, I would challenge any church. to compare the wording of their extemporaneous prayers to the wording of the prayers that we pray from the prayer book. Not only would our prayers contain so much more, but they would be more beautiful. And I also with you do not apologize for the manner we uphold Scripture in our services and in our time of training. I would match our teaching and application of biblical principles against any church, any church who would consider us to be like Rome. I could go on, but I'm certainly aware that I'm preaching to the proverbial choir. The purpose of this sermon has been to bolster our courage, to be who we are It is also my goal to more precisely define who we are, allowing those who wonder to know, to know better. And to those who have questions, well, some answers. I also want us to consider how much work it takes to maintain what we have. I am repeatedly moved by Jesus' words to the seven churches in Revelation to hold on. And if he keeps repeating it, it means it must be pretty hard to do, to hold on. We are told to hold on to the truths that make us pleasing in the sight of our Savior. There have been people in the past who would like us to see us let go. And there are people in our future who will want us to embrace other things. To embrace the next spirit of the age, the siegegeist that comes along. And I am becoming more and more aware that to hold on, we are going to have to be courageous. We're going to have to stand strong when false accusations are made about us When we are accused of abusing women because we do not ordain them to the ministry, we are going to have to stay strong. When we are accused of waging war against women because we strive to protect the unborn, we are going to have to stay strong. When we are accused of being abusive toward our children because we brainwash them by telling them that there is one truth, and that we don't spare the rod, we are going to have to be strong. When we are accused of being prejudiced because we believe homosexuality to be a sinful behavior and not a state of being, we are going to have to be strong When we continue to say that marriage is between a man and a woman only, we're going to have to hold on and stay strong. When St. Stephen stood before the Sanhedrin, he had to decide who he was, and he had to decide whether his identity was worth the sacrifice he was about to make. He had to choose whether he would go back to Judaism or be counted a follower of Christ and die at the hands of his accusers. We of course do not face such an obvious choice now. And yet it takes similar courage. To go the opposite way of what is popular or what is perceived about you that is negative by others. We have decided, we have to decide, excuse me, we have to decide whether our identity is worth the sacrifices we will have to make. When the stones start to fly, each of us as individuals, and then as families, and then as a church family. We'll have to decide what we want to live for, and thus what we want to die for May we be able to say, as Saint Stephen did on that day, his last, look I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. Amen and Amen.