I think for less morning, more morning, you mercy thy hands. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turning your Bibles to Genesis chapter seventeen, there are many lessons in this chapter. I'm going to try to summarize them with three in kind of four. They can be broken up into what we could call three edible sections. The chapter is essentially a three-course meal. The first course is the promise of what God will do. The second course is the changing of names The third course is the circumcision. And I use the word course to describe the third, for it would be hard to explain circumcision as a dessert. Speaking of circumcision, you wouldn't think that such a topic would lend itself for joking, but some of the best jokes that I have heard are containing the subject of circumcision Here's one you may not have heard. It seems that there were two little boys who were in the hospital at the same time, and they struck up a conversation. The first one asked what the second was in for. And he responded that he was there to get his tonsils taken out. The first responded that he had that procedure done and that it hurt only for a few days and he was able to eat all the ice cream that he wanted. The second boy then asked the first what he was in for. He responded that he was to be circumcised The second boy lamented, saying, Oh, tough break. I had that done just after I was born, and I couldn't walk for a year Now that's a good joke. And if you didn't laugh, I bet you're gonna tell it to someone else when you leave here. Well after the damage, if we can call it that, after the damage has been done of Abram and Sarai attempting to force the hand of God with their own work Which resulted in a wild son being born that they named Ishmael, God graciously reveals his will to Abram in a more specific manner. We learn that the promised seed or the promised son is to be born from Abram. Abram's and his wife will give birth in God's timing and in God's way. He has chosen Abram as the father, even though Abram at this time is 99 years old. He has chosen Sarai, a baron. And yet, free woman who is beyond natural childbearing years, she is chosen to be the mother. This is God's way. And we know him better when we understand his manner of doing things. He makes the crooked paths straight. He causes rivers to run and overflow through deserts. He chooses the second born rather than the first. He chooses a man who is a of weak speech to speak to Pharaoh. He chooses an army of 300 to defeat an army of thousands. He chooses a boy to become king, a virgin to bear the Son of God, and a man from Nazareth to save the world from sin and death. Thus, it is consistent for God to choose Abram and Sarai at such a time in their lives. God does this. He works in this manner. So that there would be no doubt that he is the cause, that it is his will that is being done. The circumstances of the stories I have just referred to require us to conclude that they were determined by God by divine will. He had to be involved for these events to take place in the manner they did. When Abram takes a kneeling posture before God, There's an emphasis of him, God, that is, being the one responsible for the coming birth. God is revealing himself as God Almighty. And it is repeated seven times in this section, the phrase, I will. God speaking, I will. The number seven, you remember, symbolizes fullness or completion, and by its use here, confirms that God will complete what he is promising. He said, I will make my covenant with you, I will multiply you, I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make the nations of thee, and I will establish my covenant with your offspring and I will give to your offspring the land where you are a stranger, and I will be their God. By this repetition and the exact number, God repeats the phrase, I will, seven. He is saying, thou child of grace. Do you not realize that my I will is what makes you fruitful? It's what God does. He explains as is needed that Hagar, the self-will, the will of man, is not the means by which the promised son would be born. And this is just as the Gospel of John states. Those who are born of the Spirit are not born by human decision or the will of man, but, you remember, by the will of God. We can easily see through our Christian lenses that Isaac is a type. He is a shadow. He is a precursor to the Messiah. Jesus, like Isaac, is born to a previously barren womb in an unexpected and miraculous manner. Jesus, like Isaac, is a son of promise, only Jesus is not a son, but the son of the promise. Jesus, like Isaac, is the second son. The first in Isaac's family was Ishmael And the gospel explains that the first in Jesus' family was Adam, and that Jesus is to be understood as the second Adam. Thus, what Isaac pointed to is what Jesus fulfilled. And we now look at the second course, which is the changing of names. Proverbs says that a good name is to be preferred over great riches. Under a covenant, a person's name is to describe his or her personality or their physical characteristics or their calling in life. Under the covenant of Abram, a child's name was to give them their identity under God. It told others what their parents hoped for their children in relation to God So the name Abram originally meant of elevation, of elevation, and it describes where Abram came from, where he was derived. The name Sarai originally meant diminutive, that is she has dominion. And it is an adjective emphasizing and exercising control, which is a bit ironic because she is used in scripture to model what it is to be a submissive woman. As Abram takes the posture of facing down, he is next blessed by God. And the blessing is to make Abram and Sarai sufficient for the task that God will accomplish through them. Thus far, the pairing of faith, who is Abram, and the Spirit of Grace, who is Sarai, has not yet borne fruit. For God to bring forth fruit from this marriage of faith and grace, he must endue them with the power from on high, which we know as the Holy Spirit. God does so by changing Abram and Sarai's name. He changes their names by adding to each a letter which is most significant. Abram was changed to Abraham or Abraham, and Sarai to Sarah. What the Lord is doing here is adding an H in the English alphabet or a He in the Hebrew. And that is part of God's divine name, Yahweh. You will remember that God's name, the name he gave to Moses on Mount Sinai, was Yahweh spelled Y-H-W-H, which by the very sound emphasizes the ha sound. Thus, their new names are giving them new character, namely the character of God. It is also interesting to note that the hay sound is only formed by outbreathing, and an outbreathing that is emphasized. Upon hearing this, we should flash back in our memories to how God brought mankind life. After he created Adam from the dust, he breathed into him life. And this acting of breathing life into an individual is then replicated in the Gospel according to St. John chapter 20. You remember where it is recorded that Jesus is in the room after his resurrection, and he's greeting the disciples, and then he commissions them to go out in the name of the Father. And next he breathes on them and says, Receive the Holy Spirit Both then at creation and the Gospel of John, they reveal that the breath of God carries a giving power both physically and spiritually. Thus by giving Abraham and Sarah a letter or a sound in which God breathes, he is empowering them with his Holy Spirit. They are both thus baptized by the Holy Spirit, and their names reflect that baptism. Until we are so breathed upon, though beloved and elect, until the Holy Spirit is given to us, we too will be barren. Remember these words of Jesus. Most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of the water and spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. The Holy Spirit needs to be breathed upon every person who would be saved, and it must be breathed upon every person who would bring forth fruit in his or her life. And such fruit is righteous for living. Such fruit is a faithful marriage, faithful children, loving others as yourself. It is living as God has commanded. Typologically, we could say that in order to bear fruit, we must obtain a new name. A new characteristic must be born within us as a result of the Spirit of God breathing upon us. Let us consider how this applies to the context of the church. A number of years ago, a parishioner was invited to a christening. And she wanted to know from me what the difference was between a baptism and a christening The question relates to our topic because a christening occurs within the baptismal service. It occurs when the minister says to the sponsors, name this child. The minister then baptizes the child by the name given. Thus a christening is when a child is given his or her Christian name. Then it is by that name that we claim Jesus as our Savior, and that we live our lives as followers of Jesus, bearing that name given to us when we were marked by Christ. There was a time, believe it or not, when Christian parents did not name their child until the child was baptized. At the same time, a child's name was not officially acknowledged within a community until after its baptism. Today, we put all our legal trust and confidence in a state-issued birth certificate of a child A birth certificate in the United States grants the privilege of a Social Security card, a driver's license, little league eligibility, and such Showing how times have changed, it was not all that long ago, maybe maybe 70 years, that a person's baptismal certificate was just as legal. If not regarded as better than a birth certificate, there was an age within our country where being identified as part of the Christian covenant after being baptized And receiving one's Christian name was held in the highest esteem that when the state declared to you to be a living soul, so the Christians had already done so. Unfortunately, these days are long gone. But they should not be for us. We should continue to make a big deal about a child being given his or her Christian name. For in being given such, we recognize the Holy Spirit empowering a life and godliness, just as it was for Abraham and Sarah. The third and final course of our analogous meal, the course that most certainly is not a dessert, is circumcision. God commands Abraham to perform circumcision upon himself and the male children of his household. In chapter 17, verse 10, the Lord says to Abraham, This is my covenant, which you shall keep. The meaning of that phrase is that God will do all of the rest. Of what is required to fulfill this covenant that he is making with Abraham, but Abraham must do this one thing. He must circumcise his male offspring. And the one question that all of us wonder is why? Why that? Well, there are actually several parts to the answer of that question. First, there is the relation of the procedure upon that which bears the seed within the male. If the promise is the seed that will crush the serpent's head, it makes sense that a sign would be in relation to the male anatomy. Second, as a pledge of Abraham's entire dependence to the promises of God, he must submit to a certain level of suffering. Which circumcision most certainly entails. Because the Lord has covenanted with him, he has breathed on him, and so he has changed him. Abraham must suffer for his part, suffer in his flesh. In doing this, he is Another precursor to Christ, who most certainly we most certainly know suffered in the flesh for the sake of the covenant. Third answer, the sign of circumcision is but a shadow of the circumcision that all Christians are to experience. Which is, as St. Peter said, putting away the filth of the flesh, which are the sins of the flesh. The Apostle Paul described it in Colossians 2, where he said that Christians are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in the putting off of the body of the sins of the flesh. So under the new covenant, then our circumcision is one of cutting away of the sins of the flesh from our lives and having the Spirit reign over us. I have a a fourth point here. It's not necessarily well, we'll just call it a second dessert. And it's the mentioning that the child should be circumcised on the eighth day. The instruction was for children born under Abraham to be circumcised on the eighth day. And the eighth day is related to the fourth commandment regarding the Sabbath. The Jewish week was made up of seven days, as you know, as our week. God introduces the concept of counting to the eight-day here And later he expounds upon it when he instructs Israel how to celebrate the Feast of the Tabernacles. He told them that seven days they were to worship God by resting and offering sacrifice. On the eighth day, they were to gather together, all of the people in one place to worship. They called it a holy convocation. It was the final day of celebration. Thus, the eighth-day celebration was a precursor to Resurrection Day. For if we count a week of days plus one, we come to Sunday And Sunday we know as the Christian Day that celebrates resurrection. Therefore, even though circumcision is a sign of the old covenant, we can see by the fact that that it pointed to the sinful flesh of Christians being circumcised and making the eighth day a part of our worship, that it is an old sign that pointed to the new covenant which we are under Now the final point I wish to make regarding this chapter and the one that wraps up all of the other points together, I believe Is Abraham's response to laugh when he hears that he and his wife Sarah will have a son. And that laughing Is to be an example to us. We will note later that when Sarah hears this news and laughs, God is not pleased with her. When Abraham laughs, God is not offended in the least. And this allows us to conclude that Abraham is laughing in a different way, most different way, than Sarah will. As John Calvin remarked, Abraham laughs not from doubt or disbelief, but in gladness and wonder. The Lord, in response, in order to perpetuate that wonder, names the son to be born Isaac, which you know means laughter. It is remarkable to me, after considering all that we have in this chapter, that there is room for laughter. A natural reaction when we learn that God is responsible for all that is to be fulfilled in the covenant after he says, I will seven times, a natural reaction is having great assurance that this will come to pass. A natural reaction when we receive the power of the Holy Spirit as he changes our names is great humility. Because we note that we are not worthy of such a gift. A natural reaction when we understand our part in the covenant is to be circumcision, for Abraham, a circumcision of the flesh. For us, a cutting off of the sins of the flesh, well, the natural reaction is resolution. It must be done We become resolute that to be circumcised in such a manner is the least we can do for our part in order to receive our heavenly reward. included with these quote-unquote natural responses is a is a theme of seriousness and and even awe in the moment That God would allow laughter, levity, or express joy reveals a part of his character that needs to be a part of ours. An appropriate response to the covenant we have with God is laughter. We laugh At our foolishness for thinking that we could be saved, ever saved by our own works. We laugh at the devil for his foolishness in thinking that he could keep the Son of God in the grave. We laugh because our hearts are free to enjoy life's ironies and whimsical moments. We laugh in gladness and wonder at what God has done for us. So here at the outset of Israel as a nation, beginning with this family, we have three new names. The first two are indicative of the power of God, and the third of the levity and joy that the power of God brings with it. This was the covenant of Abraham, which is later to be revealed as the covenant of Christ. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we want to see everything that is in this chapter. For in it is again, once again, the redemptive story that you have for your people, setting its foundation and pointing to Christ. May our faith be increased by it, and may we enjoy the laughter. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.