In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It's good to be home. It's good to be in God's house. If I had to choose what was one of the more embarrassing moments of my life, the following account would compete for first place. I was just out of college working at a local church ministering to college students. I was invited to a college social that was hosted by an older couple in the church As I got out of my vehicle, I needed to tuck in my shirt, so I unbuckled and did all that. And uh after entering the home, I made my way to each of the college students and shaking their hands and introducing myself. And each of them carried a strange look that I attributed to the fact that I was just new to them. After about 10 minutes of introduction and hogging the conversation, a note was handed to me by the host telling me that I was unzipped and actually unbuckled With my shirt tail hanging out of my fly. To this day I cringe with embarrassment thinking of that moment Embarrassing moments stay with us a long time. Moments of shame stay with us even longer. Shame is different than embarrassment. Shame is the result of sin. We are shamed when our sin was found out, and what is worse We should be ashamed at our sin, but we're ashamed because we've been caught. And this relates to our study in Genesis 35. That Jacob and his family were shamed. Jacob's resting led to the grievous defilement of his daughter, Dinah, you remember. The defilement of Dinah led to the sons of Jacob taking cruel revenge. The cruel revenge of Jacob's sons led to an unholy reputation among the people of the land. Shame came upon shame at this time in Jacob's life. What is remarkable is how God ministered to Jacob in the midst of this shame. Jacob's rest brought on shame, but that shame eventually God used to advance him and even free him. And that is what God does. He does it not because of our shame, as if our shame is something that has earned God's mercy, but by overcoming our shame with his mercy. The devil's logic would tempt us to go ahead and commit that act of sinful shame because after all, God will forgive you after you do it. To believe such logic is to not understand mercy. For if mercy is taken for granted, it is not mercy. Mercy is when we deserve suffering, we deserve punishment, even hellfire punishment, and we do not receive it. Amidst the shame of resting and the result of Jacob's daughter being defiled and the conflict of Jacob's sons taking revenge, Jacob could no longer rest where he was. His inability to rest was again a means of grace to him, for it forced him to press on, and we learned three Sundays ago that God's people must always be pressing on Jacob is helped, literally helped, up by God, as God comes to him directly, commanding him to go to Bethel. Such a word from God comes when his servants are faint and when they are frail. It comes when we think that we have shamed ourselves into exile. It comes when we cannot even look upon ourselves and we wonder why another someone else would bother with us. It is at such a low moment that God comes Miraculously to us, and lets us know who we are to him As long as we migrate in this world, we are tempted to determine the value of others and even ourselves by what we see around us. Which is to say that we compare our value as a person to the value we think we see in others. We walk by sight. We look at our outward appearance and make an evaluation of what is good and bad in comparison to what is upheld in our culture as good or bad. And we don't measure up. We don't measure up. Not even those who pose for ads that tell us how skinny and good-looking we should be, not even those same people measure up Their pictures are doctored and their physique is a result of unhealthy obsessions. The most wonderful time, the most freeing times we get to experience in this life. are not when we have lost some weight and think that we are closer to measuring up or when we have achieved a certain status in our social circles That fool us into thinking that we are more important than we are? No, the most freeing time is when we have found our identity in God and what He has said about us. In Jacob's case, although his family had been shamed, God had called him. And that's all that mattered. To comfort Jacob more, God calls him to a place identified with mercy. Jacob is called back to Bethel, and we should remember that place. That is where God met with him and that ladder appeared and angels were ascending and descending to minister to him, ministering from heaven and taking what is on earth to heaven. For anyone who is suffering from emotional scars that sin leaves, he or she is called back to a place where God has made his mercy evident. That place is different for each person, but for all of us, a common place to go back is our baptism. It was at our baptism that God marked us as his own. And where we were assured that no one could snatch us out of his hand, we are always forever his. Although God has initiated his relationship with Jacob at every step, Jacob must necessarily respond. Jacob must lead his family back to God by ridding his household of false gods. The New King James uses the term foreign gods. These foreign gods are not described. And that is helpful to us. We can assume that these gods were idols used to worship by the Hivites. And other tribes that occupied the land. When we were in Greece, we saw artifacts of similar worship as household carvings of Greek gods have been found in archaeological digs of average Greek homes The literal translation in this passage mentioning foreign gods from Genesis is actually gods of strangers. Gods of strangers. Well the reason why we lack specifics to the description, the reason why it is helpful is that it allows us to understand in principle That the gods used for prayer and worship by Jacob's family were anything but the true God. Too often, specifics of false gods and specifics of sin bog us down. We hear a scripture passage that lists a number of sins that are damnable, and because the sin that we are involved with is not specifically described, we can think, well, we're exempt The thinking is that if Genesis doesn't identify false idols that I worship, then the condemnation of such worship doesn't apply to me. This also happens when we hear a preacher spend time attacking this or that sin And because the scenario he describes does not match with our own in precise detail, we think that God is talking to someone else. Because these gods are generally described as gods of strangers, forces us to acknowledge that anything that is not of the true God That is, in common with his holy word, anything that is not is to be put away. If we allow the Holy Spirit to speak to us rather than wait for men to precisely name the sin that we are involved with, We will hear, we will hear the Holy Spirit say, put anything away that is not of the true God. And dads, fathers, listen to this more intently. Jacob led his household to put away foreign gods, and you need to do the same. You are the leader of your house, you are the priest of your home. You must help your family see that what needs to put what needs to be put away in your home is anything that takes us away from our attention to God. And please don't let this admonition fall on deaf ears. Don't wait for your specifically identified idol to be named. Rid your house of idols that do not align with God's word, and that will be enough. Jacob acts as priest in his home and he takes the foreign gods away from his family while explaining that the only true God is worthy of their worship because that God has always been with them. In verse 5, we are told that Jacob and his family journeyed to Bethel, that as they did, the terror of God was upon the cities they passed by. The terror of God and likely generated a reputation given by his family because they slaughtered the Hivite men. We remember that Jacob rebuked his sons because of their actions, and he was concerned about this reputation that it would be a stench to the tribes around them. God, by his merciful care over them, takes what was meant for evil and turns it to their advantage. He works all things together for the good. No man in his wisdom can do this. Man simply piles evil on evil Only God can turn around what was once a stent and make it a sweet aroma. God uses the sin of Jacob's sons to cause fear in the hearts of would-be enemies. And this does not make the actions of Jacob's sons good in any way. Instead, it highlights that God is always good to his people. When Jacob arrives at Bethel, he builds an altar which is a monument upon which he worships and uses to honor what God has done for him. Now notice, church, that the response of Jacob is the only appropriate response of God's people when grace has been received. Jacob worships. Moments of worship occur quite often in Genesis because the patriarchs respond to every act of God's mercy by worshiping. But I remind you that as we are in Genesis, the Ten Commandments had not been given yet. We have not heard the fourth commandment. There's been no setting aside of a day to worship the Lord. All worship prior to this has been done by individuals or families, but not by a people as a whole. It is not until God brings forth that law that a day is designated. The Sabbath law is established. And those Sabbath laws were established to remember that God had delivered Israel out of slavery. to something new and free that they had not known before. In like manner, Christians are expected to continue worshiping on a day designated by God because we as a people have been given freedom, only better freedom. Freedom from the guilt of sin. What is difficult for Christians is what was difficult for the nation of Israel, which is the ability to stay motivated to worship regularly. Jacob was motivated to worship then and there after having an emotional experience with God's mercy For those of us who were converted to Christianity decades ago, the emotional experience is far removed. For those who were baptized as infants and raised in the church, an emotional experience is less understood, making it farther removed. And with the lack of emotion, the temptation to stay home from worship or find something else to do, that temptation is all the more stronger. As more generations of Israel were removed from the Exodus experience, the greater likelihood that they would forget the one true God and turn to false gods. The only thing that would turn many unfaithful back to God was a crisis in life that would force them to call out for God's mercy. Once received, they would go back to true worship, but the cycle was seemingly destined to start over as generations would follow. We Christians, we Christians know this cycle well. We know of families to have God-fearing grandparents and and parents who are seemingly somewhat believers and then Grandchildren who have just gone wayward. So often it is only two generations removed that wander from the faith. And we ask again, how do we prov prevent this? As you have heard from this pulpit and elsewhere, I have often questioned what I can do as a pastor to protect my own family first and then the families of this church The generations that follow will not go away from the faith. And my attempt the past year was to offer a series of sermons to address this terrible cycle, and still I know of people who have rejected those sermons. And unfortunately a crisis in the future may be necessary. There are some other principles I have identified in Scripture to prevent this, and I've decided to go ahead and give them here with the disclaimer that nothing is foolproof Nothing is foolproof but the mercy of God. There is no formula that produces faithful worshippers. I am simply identifying what the scripture clearly teaches. And so I say that first, Christians are to count the mercies of God. Literally, not figuratively, we are to count the mercies of God. We are to note them when they are evident. If a person has been sick and we prayed for healing and they recovered, that is mercy of God to be counted. If I have health, if I have safety, if I have food, if I have shelter, warmth, if I have loved ones, all of these are to be counted. Even if I have just some of these, they are to be counted. Lamentation says that God's compassions, his mercies, are new every morning. Indeed they are, and we should count them every morning. Second, we are to tell of the mercies of God. We are to tell them to our children and friends, just as we tell jovial stories and exciting adventures. Telling of God's mercies reminds us of what motivated us to worship God in the past and keeps us motivated in the present. If you have a story of physical healing, tell it. If you have a story of reconciliation, tell it. If you have a story of God's provision in difficult circumstances, tell it Each ritual followed, and the Passover meal was commanded by God so that the children might know what he had done many years ago to deliver Israel from slavery. God's acts of mercy are kept fresh when they are told. Third, rehearse the law of God regularly. The Israelites were to instruct their children regarding God's law systematically. And there are two primary purposes for such a rehearsal. First, we are to know what pleases God and we are to attempt to live accordingly. Second, we are to recognize how far-reaching God's standards are and how far short we fall of those standards and how much we need. A Savior. And this is a vital point. Ingrained in our liturgy is a rehearsal of the Ten Commandments as we did today. Followed by the Word of God being preached to us as it is now, followed by prayers of confession of sin, so that we can see how God saves us and what he saves us from. God gave us this order of worship. He did it for each of us. Fourth, and this one takes us back to our text in Genesis. Worship is to be part of who we are. It is to be our identity. It is to be who we are as individuals and as a people. Notice that God changed Jacob's name to Israel, as told in verse 10, and along with that change, he gives him a new identity. Jacob was no longer the supplanter, that's what his name originally meant. But God now says he is one whom God contends and preserves, for that is what Israel means. As Christians, our identity changes. Having been marked by Christ, we are forever linked with the universal church, its past, its present, its future. Is now a part of our identity. And what have Christians done and continue to do? Well, they worship God. In spirit and truth, they worship God. Worship for us and for our children needs to be a natural part of our life routine. If it is missed, it needs to nag us as like unbrushed teeth at bedtime. It needs to cause pangs within us as our stomach does when we miss a meal. It is to be such a part of who we are that if it is not done, something is missing. Something is not right. The last principle we need, I do not list as the fifth, because it is not one of many, but must be included in all that has been discussed so far. That principle is faith. We are saved, after all, by faith Our motivation to worship begins and ends with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Faith is having trust in God's promises. We have faith in what he said to be true. We have faith that Jesus was who he said he was, that he accomplished what he said he accomplished, and that if we give ourselves to him, we will receive eternal life. Jacob's worship was offered because God had taken his shame and the reasons for his shame and used it to Jacob's favor. The emotions of the moment were expressed in Jacob's offering of worship. Those who are in Christ are to understand that what happened to Jacob in that moment happens to each of us. Each day of our lives. Jesus takes our shame upon himself and uses it to our favor. So as we do better at counting God's mercies, as we do better at telling of his mercies, as we do better at rehearsing his law, and identify ourselves as worshipers. the more faithful we will be at worshiping. After all, God has taken our shame and He works it together for the good. As he continues to do so, may we continue to worship him. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we do mark this time of you taking on the shame of Jacob and his family and working it to the good. And in it we see the cross, we see your son, we see our confession, and we believe. Father, keep us as worshipers all of our days We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.