May the words of my mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our redeemer. In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. They've just finished St. John's first epistle, so we're in a bit of a transition period. Which brought me up to this Sunday during confirmation class, I try to cover as much material as I Possibly can regarding the fundamentals of the Christian faith. And this year I I find that I'm running out of Sunday. So I will not be able to get to the lesson I give in confirmation about sharing your faith. About Teaching one another what Jesus has done for mankind, the gospel, sharing the gospel, sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. But my inability to get to that lesson is a benefit for us because it puts me in this position this morning, trusting in God's providence, to preach about sharing our faith today. I also believe it is a great benefit to the health of God's people When preachers cover the basics of the Christian faith every so often, so that we keep those basics ever before us, always practicing them The basics would be our individual prayer lives, personal Bible reading Family devotions, the giving of our tithes and our offerings, serving according to our gifts, and sharing our faith. With people that God has placed in our lives. Forgive me for a brief testimony about my experiences. When the Lord got a hold of me in the middle of my senior year in high school, my friends would say something to this effect. There is definitely something different about you, but I am not going to ask what it is because I don't want to be preached at. I don't know how many people become Christian because someone preaches at them. Probably not that many. I tried a few times to get my friends to come to Christ using the second-hand method There was a Billy Graham crusade that took place in the Tacoma Dome in the spring of 1983. I invited a number of people, but only two would go with me They did not respond to the call to come down to the floor and receive Jesus. Later I took my best friend Jay to a Silver Wings concert. Anybody remember the group Silver Wings? Nobody remembers Silver. They were a very evangelical group and after a series of numbers, songs, they asked If there was anybody in the audience that wanted to know Jesus to stand up, well I had already uh Come to the Lord, or if the Lord came to me, so uh I wanted though my friend Jay to stand up so badly that I thought, well, I'll go ahead and stand up and that will make him feel more comfortable Well he never stood up and so I sat back down. I invited friends to church worship services with the hope that they would hear the gospel there and become Christian I even missionary dated. For those of you who are not in the know, missionary dating is when a Christian dates a non-Christian with the hope of that relationship leading the person To a relationship with Christ, becoming a Christian. I don't recommend missionary dating. The girl I dated went to worship services with me, but She never gave her life to Jesus. She then broke up with me in the middle of my freshman year in college. And I was a sad sack, if there ever has been one. My first semester in college resulted in my girlfriend breaking up with me, contracting mono, and getting poor grades. I had not walked with Jesus but a whole year, and I found myself a very poor Christian witness. And regarding my sharing of the gospel, you will notice that I did not do much one-on-one sharing. I didn't really do any. I stayed with the second-hand approach, bringing people in my life to these events with the hope that someone else would share the gospel and I could come along and support them. Please understand that I don't think that there is anything inherently wrong with secondhand sharing. There's nothing wrong with inviting people in our lives to church to hear the gospel. Just like we want to invite people to our homes to meet our families because we love our families, so too we can feel that way about our church, and we invite people to church because we want them to experience what we love. perfectly understandable and reasonable and helpful. But all of us should be able to, if the opportunity provides itself, to be able to share one-on-one the gospel. My first parish-sponsored ministry was to college students. And I remember a young coed asking me a fairly direct question that went something like this. Why do I need to believe in Jesus anyway? Why do I need to believe? Now that might sound like a softball question, but what she was getting at was that she didn't understand the concept of original sin. Nor did she understand personal sin, that she had personal sin that needed to be dealt with. Because her thinking didn't include sin and the need for Jesus, then didn't make sense to her. And so Such a topic as sharing your Christian faith, sharing the gospel with another human being, begs the question, where do you begin? The best tool I have ever been given to share my faith, and thus I pass it along to all who are who are part of our confirmation class and new members class Is the tool called the Roman robe. Following the basics in the Book of Romans to share how to come to Christ. The Roman road is a series of verses to memorize, or just you just have to memorize the numbers, to memorize so that anyone who can communicate will be able to communicate the gospel to inquiring souls. It is a referencing of choice verses from St. Paul's letter to the Church at Rome that quickly and simply communicates the fundamentals, the fundamentals of the gospel. So look with me, if you would, at these verses. The first one, the first stop on the Roman road is Romans 1, verse 20. Romans chapter one, verse twenty. First stop on the Roman road. I'm reading this from the NIV. For since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen. being understood from what has been made, so that people are without excuse. So that people are without excuse. The verse confirms first that the world was created I don't know if there are those of you who keep up scientifically with what's going on and what's being proposed recently, but modern scientific theory has decided in a new belief regarding the origins of the universe and thus the the earth, and that it is, this is their conclusion, it has always been there. Always eternally been there. No Big Bang, just always been there. Even though the universe is expanding, which clearly indicates that it had a beginning point. Scientists have not liked where the belief in the earth having a beginning point leads to. They don't like that it leads to some saying that the cause was God. So they are willing now to say that it has always been there. And they say their conclusions are based on science. The verse next confirms that evidence of God creating the world is seen, is seen in nature. Such evidence has been called natural law. You can look at the world as creation, you can look at what it communicates, and you can come to some conclusions. The evidence could be the awe that nature gives us when we stare at its grandeur. The evidence could be the position of the earth within the solar system. It is perfectly placed. perfectly tilted, perfectly rotating with perfect gravitational pull, providing the ability for there to be life and life abundant. The evidence could also be the wisdom and causality, as we recognize that that which exists Must exist by some other cause or by the necessity of its own nature. And the earth cannot exist by its own nature. So it must have had an outside agent that brought it into being. Any of these evidences leads us to conclude that God created all that we See all that we hear, all that we taste, all that we touch, all that we smell, everything that we experience. Finally, the verse confirms That the created order evidence around each human being leaves them no excuse to disbelieve or ignore God. We are forced by nature to acknowledge him and then realize we will stand before him, whether we acknowledged him or not. Alright, that's our first stop. Let's go to our second stop. Walking down the road, we come to Romans 3. 23. 3. 23, read this morning, the second stop, second verse on the Roman road, Romans 3. 23. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. All sin and all fall short. Now, this passage presents the main problem with humanity. What is our problem? All members of mankind are sinners. The word sin in the Koine Greek means to fall short or to miss the mark. The next question, what have we fallen short of? What have we missed as a mark? Well, that's perfection. We are short of perfection. We fall short of perfectly obeying God's law. Now, this one is not too difficult to explain because people with any type of self-awareness at all must admit that they fall short. They must admit that they sin even if they don't believe in God and thus don't believe in God's law. They have to admit that they fall short because they have not lived up to even their own expect expectations of themselves. Even what we expect of ourselves we don't live up to. Thus we fall short. It is very rare, rare indeed. That you will find a human being who is not carrying around a sense of guilt. Whether it be for breaking God's law, man's law, or what we expect of ourselves, we walk around with guilt. Sigmund Freud recognized that guilt was a major flaw in the human psyche, and this caused him to come up with several theories that would rid humanity of guilt. But it is more, we know, than a mental problem. It is a plague on the entirety of the human condition that cannot be taken away by man. Now before I go on from this, I want to briefly mention original sin and personal sin and their differences. Original sin is what we inherit from Adam. Adam sinned, and because he was the original man, sin started with him. And so he passed it down to every one of his descendants. But he does not pass it down via genetics. There is no sin gene that can be surgically removed or scientifically corrected We are under the covenant God made with man at creation. Adam is our covenant head, and therefore we inherit the covenant of death that comes from Adam. For those who are tempted to say that such an arrangement seems a bit unfair Please remember that as sinful humanity, we are in no position to state what is fair or what is just Next to original sin is personal sin, and I've mentioned it briefly. Personal sins are actions and thoughts that go against God's moral law. God has a standard he requires of all human beings to live by, and anything less than those standards is falling short, and thus we call it sin. And we need not take much time to examine ourselves to come to the conclusion that each of us is guilty of personal sin. With original sin, we have a problem, and with personal sins, we have many other problems. And so we've got to keep going on the road. So our next verse, our next stop on the Roman road is Romans chapter 6, verse 23. Romans 6, 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. I ask rhetorically if there really can be so much packed into a short verse such as this. We have just examined the fact of our guilt, but we had yet to mention the punishment of our guilt for both original sin and personal sin. We recall from Genesis, do we not, the story of what God promised Adam, what would happen if he ate of the forbidden fruit. Well, death. Adam and the punishment was death for every man, woman, and child. And that death is twofold, at least, twofold. We are first dead in spirit. Because of the original sin of Adam and our place under his covenant, we are dead spiritually. We are dead to God. Our ears don't know his voice. Our eyes do not see his evidence. Our wanderings are in a crypt. Even though we think we are alive, we are among the dead. Recall that Jesus spoke to the Pharisees in this same manner. They thought that because they were children of Abraham, because they were keepers of the traditions, that they of all people could conclude that they were alive. But because they could not trust nor believe in Jesus, even after they saw his miracles, well they showed very clearly that they were dead. The second way we are under the curse is in the body. The curse of death included the necessity of us physically dying. To dust we shall return. And not only are each of us cursed to physically die, we are also limited to the years that we can live. With no access to the tree of life, our years are cut short, our bodies grow weak, tired, and frail. Some of us know that better than others. Well, thankfully, the verse does not leave us dead in spirit or in body, for it gives us the good news. Here it is, the gospel. It tells us that God has given mankind a gift. And that gift is eternal life as opposed to death. And eternal life is found in Christ Jesus. And this part of the verse is related to that other verse in the Bible that is packed with so much truth. John 3. 16. There we are told that God loved and therefore he gave, he gave us Jesus Jesus is the sufficient gift for eternal life because he paid the penalty for our sin, both original sin and every one of our personal sins. Every one Because Adam was our covenant head under death, Jesus becomes our covenant head to life. Jesus is then called the new Adam or the second Adam. All that believe in him now come under his covenant, the covenant of Jesus. No longer under the covenant of Adam, but under the covenant of eternal life. That is good news. I remember well The day my now wife, Bobby Lynn, said she would marry me, that was good news. I remember when I was told that I was going to have a child, and then another, and then another. And then another. And then another. It was all good news. And then to be told it's a boy? Five times? It's good news. And then, the precious little girl, good news. And then asked to be a pastor in Maryland, good news. But none of it compares, none of it compares to the good news that God gave Jesus as a gift for my sins. That I could be forgiven and heaven could be my hope. Nothing comes close to that. And I could not say that with greater sincerity than I'm saying it now. Nothing comes close. Everything else that was good news in my life only makes sense because Jesus is my Lord and my Savior. Well we cannot stop here on the Roman road. We've got to keep going. We've heard the good news of Jesus, but we haven't done anything yet to apply that good news to our lives. And so we must continue. Our next stop is Romans 10, verse 9. Romans chapter 10, verse 9. Verse nine. Here it says, What you can do if you declare with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead You will be saved. Upon hearing this verse, I think the most appropriate response should be, What? That's all I need to do? You mean to tell me that all is that is needed of me is to confess that Jesus is Lord and believe in my heart, the very core of who I am, that God raised him from the dead, and I will be saved from death and hell? Such questions and wonder are appropriate responses because it is. It truly is remarkable. That is all that is required of any person that wants to have their sins forgiven and who wants heaven to be their home. Now once you have brought a person to the end of this road, Romans 10, 9, you will likely get questions. And this is where most people get nervous. This is where most people, they're looking for that exit sign to get off the Roman road. This is where you wish you were at church or in the office of your pastor so that he can answer the questions that you are afraid of On the one hand, such a concern is reasonable, it's understandable. However, you need not feel fear, for the Holy Spirit is within you And he does not give you a spirit of timidity. You can be brave, for even if you are asked a question that is difficult, There is great effect in admitting that you don't know the answer, but you will help the person find the answer. Such a response shows that you are honest, that you are humble, two qualities the world so desperately needs to see. But the questions most people get after sharing the Roman road have to deal with whether or not God can truly forgive all sins. Some people see themselves as bad, bad sinners who are way past the ability to be redeemed. Some people are so down on themselves because their sins have hurt so many people that they truly don't forgive themselves and have found a bit of catharsis in beating up themselves emotionally When such a person might not be ready for forgiveness, that that can happen But it is within us to answer those questions those who question us in this manner, can God truly forgive all sins We can answer that with confidence. Yes, God can forgive all sins and any number of sins. God not only can, he has, and he does, and he wants to forgive the greatest of sinners among mankind. Believe that. Now you might be thinking to yourself, right now, thinking to yourself, this sounds pretty easy. The Roman road sounds maybe too easy to use to share the gospel. I respond by saying it is easy. Just as easy as it is to come to Jesus and have your sins forgiven, so too it is easy to share the gospel using the Roman road. Now, of course, you don't have to use the Roman road. You can use whatever method you want to. As long as it confirms that there is a God. And that mankind has broken his law and suffered spiritual death. And because we are spiritually dead, we need a Savior to make us alive. And it is Jesus, and only Jesus who is that Savior. And to receive forgiveness from the hope of heaven, they simply must confess and believe. As long as you have all of that down, you're good to go. And before I close this morning I also recognize that some of you might wonder, what about repentance and baptism? After all, that is what St. Peter said when he was asked, what shall we do to be saved? Repent and be baptized. Well, confessing and believing, as Paul says in Romans 10, 9, that is repenting. For it is saying that I was wrong, and now I know. And baptism, well, a person who confesses that Jesus is Lord and believes that God has raised him from the dead, that person is ready for baptism. So next, bring such a person to the church, and we will baptize him or her or them. Tell them, and tell them, now you know what to say. Now you know or are reminded on how to share your faith. So what's the next thing to do? Go share it. Let us pray.