In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. He be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Revelation chapter eight. We'll be walking through verses one through five. I freely confess today that interpreting this book, the Book of Revelation, gets difficult from here on out. If you think it has been difficult thus far, chapters one through seven will soon seem like grammar school. And as the difficulty increases, we must pull out those cliches that motivate us. If it was easy, everyone would do it If it wasn't hard, it wouldn't be worth doing. When the going gets tough, the tough get going. I warn you of the tough road ahead because I want you to work at staying with me. I don't want you to be discouraged if it does not all come together in your mind. Remember that there is a great reward promised to us, to anyone who would hear and understand the prophecies written in this book. Many scholars have spent the majority of their lives trying to understand the truths in this book. Our understanding will only increase the more we keep at it. We are dependent on both reason and revelation when we study this book. Reason is needed to pull together passages of Scripture from other books of the Bible. Helping us make sense of the vision John is describing. Reason also helps us make decisions as to whether a passage should be understood symbolically Or literally, or both. We often use reason without realizing what we are doing because it comes naturally to us when we put thoughts together. My favorite question asked of me while teaching logic, and it was asked seemingly every year. When I would explain how to identify the rules of logic in an argument, a student would inevitably raise his hand with all sincerity and ask the ubiquitous question, when are we going to use all of this stuff? To which I would regularly reply, obviously you're not using it right now. We do use this stuff. We necessarily use logic and reason Hopefully often, and it is needed when we study Holy Scripture. Revelation, not the book, but the guiding of the Holy Spirit, is necessary because the Holy Spirit reveals truths that we cannot see. Reason helps us put together what has been revealed. Without revelation, we would have nothing to put together. Revelation takes us beyond our reason to see things that cannot be seen by the human eye, but only by the Holy Spirit. So let us now depend on reason and revelation to understand the book of Revelation. Remember That we treated Chapter 7 as an interlude between the breaking of the sixth seal and the seventh seal Chapter 6 described the climactic end of the world as we know it after the breaking of the sixth seal. Chapter 7 describes the multitude that no one could count surrounding the throne, giving praise to God for their salvation. Chapter 8 connects us back to chapter 6 as it describes the breaking of the seventh seal and its results. Revelation is needed to understand this passage in the book of Revelation because my reason leads me to anticipate that the breaking of the seventh seal would bring everything together. The scroll had seven seals, and the opening of the seventh seal would naturally bring about the end. After all, the world came to a cataclysmic end at the breaking of the sixth seal. I expected the breaking of the seventh seal would reveal the content of the scroll And the end of time and the beginning of eternity. That does not happen. What happens is a new series of events that are marked by the blowing of seven trumpets. With the description of the trumpets, we now enter the tricky zone. With the trumpets being blown, we have a new catastrophe coming upon the earth, with each one blown. This causes us to conclude that the breaking of the seals and the blowing of the trumpets are not chronologically in succession. They cannot be. If the catastrophic end of the earth was described after the breaking of the sixth seal, there could not be more catastrophes to come. There are, according to my reason, two alternative interpretations. Either the description of the destruction of the earth in chapter 6 was not as grand as I thought Or the events described in accordance with the seven trumpets overlap the events described at the breaking of the seven seals. Because the wrath of God is described in chapter 6 as universally cataclysmic, I must conclude the latter. The events that follow the blast of each of the seven trumpets overlap the events of the breaking of the seven seals. As we begin examining the first five verses of chapter 8, we would be helped to keep this in mind. So after the seventh seal is open, we are told that there was silence in heaven for about a time of about a half an hour. The pause is a dramatic one and relates to several instances in the Bible The instruction of God through the prophet to be still and to know that he is God comes to mind, to be quiet. The question Jesus posed to his disciples in the garden regarding prayer also comes to mind. Can you not wait and pray an hour? Here is half of that hour, and is fitting as the silence relates to the prayers of God's people symbolized by the incense. Some commentators propose that the silence relates to the time when the high priest entered the Holy of Holies during their service within the temple proper. Others say it describes the peace of God brought upon by all of the creation. The silence certainly could refer to these, but the connection the silence has to the prayers of God's people and the trumpets that will be blown are the most important detail to help us interpret this meaning. When we think of trumpet blasts, we think of royalty. Trumpets were and are used to announce royalty. When exalted praise is given to God in the Psalms, trumpets are usually naturally used. Trumpets were not used only for royalty, but for battle as well. Recall the scene at Jericho when God's people were commanded to go around the city and blow the trumpets while shouting. The Lord then knocked the walls of Jericho down, and the people of God charged in and overwhelmed that once impenetrable city. The story of Israel overcoming Jericho is connected to this scene in heaven, not only because of the trumpets, but the number seven and the silence. For six days the Israelites compassed and walked around the city of Jericho once each day. They were led by seven priests who carried seven trumpets. The same number as the angels and trumpets in John's vision. As seven priests led the way, they blew the trumpets On the seventh day, the people of Israel went around the city seven times. At the end of the seventh time, on the seventh day, the seven priests blew the seven trumpets while the people shouted in unison as Joshua commanded. The end result, as you know, was the wall falling down. Where silence connects is the instruction Joshua gave to all the people before they began to walk around the city on that seventh day. He said to them, You shall not shout, nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth until I bid you to shout. There was an obvious reason of this silence, considering the likely words that would have been spoken by the people As they walked each day around the city and then seven times on the seventh day. The parents of these people were complainers They doubted Moses at every turn. They did not think they would make it through the water or the desert, and they did not believe they could overcome the cities like Jericho within the promised land. That is why they were not allowed to enter the Promised Land. Griping and complaining come from the flesh. When our flesh controls us, we begin to complain about the conditions we are living in, or the food we are eating, or the leadership that is over us. We can easily imagine that the words of the people would have been if they were allowed to speak. They would have looked at the walls of Jericho and expressed their doubts to one another about their ability to be victorious. They would have said to one another, what a dumb plan it was, and how foolish Joshua was for trying it. They would have complained about the rocky walk the rocky walk they took each day and the waste of time being made going in a circle. Instead of complaining, however, the people were forced to be introspective, which is what you have to be when there is silence. They had to keep their thoughts to themselves and personally wrestle with their own flesh. The silence allowed the Spirit of God to speak to them. It caused them to face their lack of faith and personal struggles without interfering or confirming comments of others. This is what silence provides. There are no doubters to feed off of. There are no gossipers or slanderers to listen to and agree with. Silence brings us before God and allows us to see ourselves for who we are. It has been a warning by many preachers and prophets that our culture is suffering because of its inability to be introspective. We have difficulty being silent. We have televisions in our computers, in our cars, in our cell phones. We have music available as we walk, drive, work, read, sleep. We are a culture of gadgets going from one toy to the next. The temptation to have something always before us to keep our attention is too much for some. Many young minds view having to sit and be silent as punishment. The silence described in verse one is not punishment, but a prelude Like the silence of the people surrounding Jericho, it is a prelude before the trumpet sound and destruction follows. God uses silence to bring about his victorious kingdom Understanding the description of silence in this way helps link it together with the prayers described with the golden censors and incense. Now a censor is a bowl-shaped utensil used to burn incense. The ancient ones came as goblets held at the bottom or at the handle holding the bowl out in front. Burning incense was a regular part of the rituals by the Lord for the priests to practice while worshiping in the temple. The meaning of the incense was clouded during the Old Testament until John's revelation The censors contain incense, and the incense burning results in smoke. The rising smoke is the prayers of all the saints. The vision of John takes us into the temple worship. Only it is the temple of heaven. And there we find an angel of the Lord assigned to carry a golden censor and burn the incense given to him. The incense is burned before the golden altar, before the throne of God, and the smoke, the prayers of the saints, rise up to God. The saints referred to are not those that are sanctioned by the Roman Catholic Church. The term saints refers to all who have had their garments washed in the blood of the Lamb and thus are made white. They are the multitude. They cannot be counted. They are us. Have you ever wondered what happens to your prayers? Especially prayers that appear to go unanswered. Because we are children of God and because we speak And what we speak has power to bind or to set free. Our prayers have everlasting effect. In fact, there are only two outcomes of a Christian's prayer possible. Our prayers are fulfilled or they are denied. We are told that they are denied when we ask of the Lord out of selfish motivation. I can ask the Lord for a new motorcycle. Please, Jesus, provide for me a new motorcycle. But I don't need a new motorcycle. I don't need an old motorcycle. And if I asked for one, it would be for my own pleasure. I should not expect such a motivation to be rewarded. In fact, James tells us that too many times we do not have because we do not ask, and then we when we do ask, we ask out of our own lust. Let such a man not expect to receive anything from the Lord, said James. When we ask with proper motivation, we are promised to be heard and to receive a yes. What we often don't understand is that the yes may not be in this life. We ask, for example, to be relieved of a disease in this life And the Lord answers such a prayer with, yes, only the relief is in the life to come. What is being taught to us who try to understand this passage is that our prayers, the prayers of Christians, do not disappear into the stratosphere. Christians of the first century who asked God for protection, justice, and for his kingdom to come And overcome their enemy, certainly wondered whether God had heard them as they saw their brethren be persecuted and even martyred. Let there be no doubt that not only does God hear the prayers of his people, they are a sweet aroma to him. In the prayers of the saints, he finds pleasure. Revealed in this vision is how the prayers of the saints play a role in God's kingdom coming to earth. Verse 5 describes the angel with the golden censor that is filled with incense, taking fire from the altar. In Leviticus, we learn that the fire from the altar originated in heaven, and it was the priest's responsibility to keep the fire going. When other holy fires were to be started in Israel, they were to be started by the embers from the altar. The altar on earth was a type of the heavenly altar that we see in this verse. The angel takes the fire of God from the heavenly altar and ignites the incense, meaning that the fire of heaven ignites the prayers of God's people. The angel then throws the censer with the burning incense upon the earth. The result is thunder and lightning and earthquake. And these phenomena, again, should be familiar to us because they accompanied the glory cloud of God's presence in the book of Exodus. When the Lord appeared in the glory cloud, he was accompanied by thunder, lightning, and earthquake And so here we we reason here. We reason here. We put the pieces together of this vision with the Old Testament And we conclude that the prayers of God's people bring about God's presence on the earth His personal, powerful, all-inspiring presence is upon the earth when his people pray. When two or more are gathered in my name, Jesus said, there I will be in the midst of them. From all the drama and symbolism of John's vision at the beginning of chapter 5, the core message to God's people is that our prayers are a powerful force In the coming of God's kingdom. Our silent prayers, when our thoughts are being spoken to the Holy Spirit, are a powerful force also. Our verbalized private prayers are heard by God's ever-present ear. Our corporate prayers, when things are agreed upon, are given priority before God's throne. These and other mutterings, too deeply felt for words, are mixed with the fire of heaven and bring about the kingdom of God from heaven to earth. Think of it in the following manner. St. Peter quotes Leviticus saying that all who follow Christ are a priesthood. It's called the priesthood of all believers. You likely don't feel like a priest and just a couple of us have been ordained to be a priest. But when you pray, you are a priest in that you are doing a priestly thing. Your prayers are a priestly thing to do. Your prayers are incense to God and are part of his ushering in the new heaven and the new earth. And believing this, beloved, beloved, please listen. Believing this is more important today, having just witnessed a fatal tragedy in Nashville. Where three Christian children and three Christian adults were gunned down because their Christian faith was perceived a threat to a troubled and possessed individual. The mockers have come out And they have laughed at Christians and questioned how could our Christian prayers have been answered by God when such a tragedy has been allowed by God? But what such mockers only consider and this is key what such mockers only consider is what happens in this life What such shooters only consider is what happens in this life. What such persons who try to be like God and change the gender of themselves or others And choose who will live or who will die, what they consider is only what happens in this life. But there is a life and a death to come Where our prayers are like incense to God, and his vengeance is assured. And in that life and in that death, justice will be served. Christians in the first century needed to know that, and Christians of three nine year old children And Christians who love three adults from Covenant Presbyterian School and Church near Nashville, Tennessee, need to know it today. God stores up our prayers, and they rise before him as incense, and they will be part of his coming again. Believe it, beloved, believe it. Amen and Amen.