Name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The scriptures clearly warn that there will be a time in history When good will be called evil, and evil will be called good. Apologist G. K. Chesterton said something similar when he said We shall soon be in a world in which a man may be howled down for saying that two and two make four. in which people will persecute the heresy of calling a triangle a three-sided figure and hang a man for maddening a mob with the news that grass is green He said soon, but for us the day is here. The Book of Proverbs speaks to this cockeyed manner of looking at the world when it states that a parent who does not discipline his or her child, that he or she is, in God's sight, an abuser Our culture presently boasts that it is enlightened to not spank a child because spanking is an abusive act. Whereas God's word states that if a child is not spanked for ill behavior, that the parent is neglecting the child by not providing the discipline the child needs in order to become self-controlled. Therefore, the scriptures say that such neglect is actually hating the child. The subject of spanking a disobedient child. is just one example of how the Bible comes in direct conflict with the culture that you and I now live Such direct conflict can also be seen in how the Bible and our culture treat homosexuality. What I'm about to say in this sermon is considered, in our predominant culture, to be hate speech. Their reasoning progresses as follows. I am fearful of homosexuals because I have homosexual temptations. I then speak harshly against homosexuality because I'm fighting those temptations. I next speak harshly. Or hatefully against homosexual behavior because I hate myself for having such desires and temptations And what is sad about such accusations is that there are examples of exactly what I just described There are examples of politicians and preachers who have spoken against the homosexual lifestyle and have then been caught in a homosexual affair. What is frustrating about such examples is that a person's hypocrisy doesn't change the morality of homosexuality. This gets to Chesterton's point. If I treat a mathematic problem by concluding that 2 plus 2 equals five, my final answer doesn't change the fact that two plus two equals four, and it always will A politician's behavior or a preacher's sin doesn't change the morality of such behavior or such sin. And here is another point to be understood regarding standing against certain sinful behaviors Where our predominant culture hears hate when speaking of homosexuality as sin, the Bible sees it as grace. For the Christian, speaking against homosexual behavior is like warning a person of a cliff that they are about to encounter. By natural law, we say that we are responsible for one another, and that if I can save you from falling off a cliff that you're not aware of, Then I should do what I can to warn you and thus protect you from harm. It is the same for sexual sins. If you are about to fall into one, then it is my responsibility to warn you of the harm that you are facing. To warn someone of intimate and ultimate danger is a loving thing to do. It is the opposite of hate. But our present culture says differently. It is then the greatest of ironies that warning against homosexual behavior is called hate speech. If there is a legitimate criticism of modern Christianity, it is how politicians and preachers focus on the behavior of homosexuality and ignore and even deny the sin of fornication. Fornication or heterosexual acts outside of the marriage covenant are treated as less offensive to God. and are even winked at as inconsequential. Such winking weakens the moral authority of a preacher For he can justifiably be criticized for not preaching the whole truth of God, but instead only preaching what he believes is safe in terms of what his congregation wants to hear. In truth, the sin of fornication is practiced at a much greater rate than the acts of homosexuality. When it goes unaddressed, we give license for other sins to go unaddressed, and soon there is nothing that is serious enough to be turned away from. If you think I am exaggerating, consider how easily our present culture divorces, terminates pregnancies, coronates homosexual unions, and practically encourages adultery. Such behaviors have increased while the voices of preachers have become softer and softer. Another irony to note is that when a preacher such as myself condemns fornication and calls fornicators to repentance, it is not deemed by anyone, anyone, as hate speech. If such preaching got any traction, if the audience grew larger, the devil would work to get it to be labeled to be hate speech in order to shut it down. The devil doesn't want fornicators to hear the truth and thus repent. The same for homosexuals. He wants them to be seen as victims Victims of preachers like me who call them to change their life by giving their life to Jesus I've spent this time focusing on sexual sins of our day because of our culture's obsession with sexuality and thus making our expressing of sexual desires the most prominent sin of our day. Today, we are examining the sin offering required in the book of Leviticus. When acts of sin take place, something needed to die. Blood needed to be shed. We read from Leviticus 4 that throughout Leviticus are different directives in regards to the sin offering. But our goal, our most important goal for this look at the sin offering is to see Jesus. To see Jesus in the sin offering. With the sin offering, there was a variety of animals that could be offered. Like the burnt offering, the Lord allowed for bullocks, lambs, goats, and turtle doves that could be offered. Added to these for the sin offering were male and female youth goats, which we call kids. And a possible female lamb or pigeon, and sometimes even flower. We remember from our study of burnt offerings that a variety was in relationship to what the offerer could afford, as the offering had greater value or monetary value. Regardless of its value, God accepted what was offered as a legitimate sin offering. With each graded offering, there was a distinction as to how each was to be offered, and we read a distinction in chapter 4. The distinctions reveal the many ways in which Jesus suffered, and those many ways are to move us. They are to emotionally change us so that we might have a deeper understanding to what Jesus did for us. Consider that each year during Passion Week we recount the sufferings of Jesus, and each year we can focus on something different, a different aspect of that suffering. To see it anew, again. We are to be assured that each different aspect of said suffering is a different reason For our sins to be forgiven, as each aspect meets the law requirements and fulfills God's wrath, justifying us who offer. From the sin offering, we notice that there are many persons involved. There is the priest, there is the congregation, there is the ruler, and then there is the common Israelite. First, we have the sin offering for the priest, then the sin offering for the whole congregation, then the sin offering for the ruler, and then finally for the individual. Each person or persons involved in the sin offerings brings a different perspective regarding the offering. From the standpoint of the priest, he is the anointed one. He is in the position where he is chosen to be. He is the head of the priestly family and appointed as mediator between God and man. He is clearly then a type of Jesus, as we know Jesus is our mediator between God and The next perspective is that the whole congregation, the whole people, stand before God and receive the benefit of the sin offering as a group, as a people. Jesus then stands before the sin offering as representative of the whole people, as covenant head He receives the benefit of his own sacrifice, and therefore we receive the benefit of his sacrifice because we are under him. The whole congregation is the church, and the church, the ecclesia, the called-out ones have a headship who is Christ. Once again, we have another proof of how important it is for God's people to gather as a group each Sunday. It is at our gatherings that we receive the benefit of the sacrifice as a group, as a people. It is better than staying at home. Going fishing or going to a ballgame or whatever else we might choose to do instead of gathering together. The third perspective is of a ruler. As a ruler, he is a king. That is his rightful office. As ruler, he is responsible to lead. In the case of Israel, it was to lead them to holy service before God. In the case of the church, it is the same. The throne of David, that line is never to leave the throne. And Jesus is the fulfillment of that line, of that throne, of that eternal kingdom. And the fourth perspective is that of the common people. And here is where we get involved as individuals. The individual is a benefactor of the sin offering. We know that Jesus was an individual. He was like us, and therefore he enables us to stand before God as individuals. And again, I remind you why we say in our in our confession of faith In the Nicene and in the Apostles' Creed we say, I believe, rather than we believe. No one can confess our faith. We have to confess it for ourselves. And from each of these four perspectives, we see Jesus fulfilling each role, and we see ourselves benefiting. And each of these perspectives is necessary. One does not overshadow the other. Each is important and each gives way to the others. The church, then, is a good image before us regarding how all of this works. In the church, there are individuals who are saved from sin and considered children of God and will stand alone before God on judgment day, but those individuals will also be saved together as a whole. When God comes back for the whole church, for his bride as one. Thus you can't have the whole without the individual parts, and the individual parts don't make sense without being part of the whole. The third variety in the sin offering refers to the blood The higher grade, the more valuable offering, required the blood to be sprinkled on the incense altar, whereas the blood from a lower grade or cheaper grade was to be sprinkled on the brazen altar which was in the courtyard. Remember that in the tabernacle there were two altars. The brazen altar stood in the outer court, while the golden altar stood inside the tent in the holy place. The outer court with its brazen altar and labor represent the earth and man's service to God on earth. Any Israelite that was ceremonially clean could make an offering there at the brazen altar, while in the holy place only the priests could go to offer the incense at the altar. Now besides the obvious need for blood to be spilled in order for God's wrath to be restrained, the fact that blood was sprinkled outside and then inside the holy place Shows that Jesus' blood meets us where we are and then moves us closer to the throne It is his blood that men are dependent upon. It is his blood that cleanses us as we are in the outer court and then it enables us to go into the holy place as priests. The fourth and final variety we note of the sin offering is that the higher, more valuable grade of offering is to be cast out of the camp. We read that from Leviticus 4. And yet the lower grade offers nothing, nothing is mentioned regarding their removal from the camp. And in fact, in Leviticus 6, it gives instructions for the lower grade offerings to be eaten by the priest. Now the significance of this is great, for it is a tension that you and I know very well. Within the sin offering, there is a rejecting outside, taking it outside the camp, and there is an accepting, keeping it within the camp, and even consuming it. And thus, it's a rejection and an accepting of a sinner. Jesus was both rejected and accepted by the Father He was cast out and he satisfied the Father at the same time. In like manner, you and I, as we linger in this world, are both rejected and accepted. Even though we are saved and call God our Father, we are still sinners who need to confess our sins and be forgiven. We sin and are saved at the same time. That tension will remain with us until we are taken into God's heavenly kingdom. So, having now examined these varieties and understood them for what they represent. I want us to take a step back and look at the bigger picture of the Lord's instructions regarding the sin offering. The variety of offerings acknowledges variety of human beings. The variety acknowledges and accepts the fact that we come from diverse backgrounds. We what some can afford, others cannot. And the Lord comes to all, for Jesus has paid what you and I cannot pay to be forgiven. Variety of offerings is variety in species, and this recognizes that we come from different cultural backgrounds Variety in offerings also recognizes the diverse sins that we struggle with and the diverse sins we commit. Each requires a blood sacrifice, even though some sins are more destructive than others. Diversity from the vantage point of our God is not that he accepts people as they are and accepts them when they behave in a manner they want to But instead, his diversity is displayed in his loving act of coming down to them, to us, where we are, and providing for us what we need to become a child of God. When St. Paul says that there is no partiality with God, he is referring to how God views mankind. He views all persons as sinners, sinners who carry his image. He doesn't see race. He does not see works of righteousness He does not see personality types. He does not see us as fat or skinny, handsome or homely, gifted or handicapped, wise or foolish, wealthy or poor. He simply sees sinners, sinners made in his image. And because he sees sinners, and because he is love, he gives what is needed for men to get out of their sin. He gives his only begotten Son so that people don't remain sinners. Diversity, according to our media hype culture, is giving rights to people. That will allow them to feel accepted in their sin. God's diversity is to reach out to any man or woman through the sin offering of Jesus So that they might be forgiven of their sin. Beloved, I submit to you again that the most beautiful picture that you and I have That we are able to witness occurs each Sunday. It clearly displays true diversity. For it is the time in which we come up together and take our place at the Lord's table to receive the same bread and to receive the same wine and the same forgiveness. We come up because our Lord has ascended into the heavens and sits at the right hand of the Heavenly Father. We come up because it is in heaven that we will sit at the victorious banquet table to celebrate God's final victory over sin and death. We come up because we respond to his call to eat with him. And so we come up. We come up old and young. Some come up slowly and some with a spring in their step. Some come up needing a little help and others a little more help. We come up with our own unique ethnicity. We come with our individual knowledge and understanding. We come up with our various and private sins that need the blood of Jesus applied. We come up with our various financial, emotional, and relational needs. It is, as we watch one another ascend, a truly beautiful image of God's meaning of diversity. Diversity is not found in the variety of ways we sin, but in the atoning work of Christ applied to each and every individual. That is what we celebrate when we come up. So let us prepare to come up. Amen. Let us pray. God, we thank you for the sin offering, reminding us what is needed each time we sin. And yet we thank you for eyes to see Jesus and to know that He is that sufficient sacrifice for our individual sins and our sins as a people. And so bless us in our consciousness as we prepare our hearts to receive the body and blood of you, Jesus, prepare us to receive it in faith, always in faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.