In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. And as usual, I encourage you to turn In your Bibles to our text this morning, Revelation chapter fifteen Of the many games that young boys play, it should be required that every boy play games that test courage. Games of courage or games of chicken, the negative title, are games like Quick Draw or Floody Knuckles. The Bloody Knuckles game my buddies and I played in elementary school was with a comb C-O-M-B. Those were the days when everyone carried a comb in his back pocket to keep his feathered hair back. In bloody knuckles, the comb was placed on the back of the first boy's hand, making a fist with his palm facing down. The opponent then tried to grab the comb off of the first boy's hand quickly and then bring the teeth side down on his knuckles as quickly as possible. And most of the time the first boy would be able to move his hand away quickly. The key of the game, however Is that if the boy having the comb on his hand flinched at all and the comb fell off, it was a free shot. Now, you can imagine the damage that is done on a free shot to knuckles with a comb. That is why it is called Bloody Knuckles. The most difficult part of the game is trying not to flinch. When you were guilty of flinching, the anticipation of giving an opponent a free shot was almost unbearable. It was hard to stand still, and it made it easier not to look, closing your eyes. Knowing that something bad is going to happen can make the anxiety caused by the anticipation as difficult as the coming pain. Revelation 15 is a preparation chapter. It is a chapter that pre-warns about the final judgment that will come upon the earth. And the judgment is for the rebellious, and it is bad. The warning to us Should not bring about anxiety, however, for the anticipation of God's judgment for Christians, that is to bring us comfort. It is our comfort because the final judgment consists of what is left to be done to redeem our souls. Instead of anxiety, our anticipation of God's coming judgment should cause us to sing. And yes, I said, sing. John the Revelator begins this section of his vision with a familiar expression, quote, and I saw another sign in heaven. End quote. The last time we had this expression was in chapter twelve, where the history of the war between Satan and the church was described. This other sign is an introductory summary to what is more specifically described in chapter 16. The sign is said to be great and marvelous, which we should take not as a description of a miracle or as a fireworks display, but something that causes terrible fear and awe Once again, the number seven is used. In the case of plagues, the number seven denotes the universal, the all-extending of the plagues. We are told that they are the last plagues, but as we will see next, they resemble similar plagues that have already come with the blowing of the seven trumpets. John says that these final plagues complete God's wrath. That statement should be qualified. As completed in this world. For God's wrath upon the rebellious is eternal The setting of the vision is the same as in chapter 4, where the throne of God is described. The sea of glass, you remember, symbolizes the calming of the nations. Brought about by the preaching of the gospel and the victory of the Lamb. The temple also plays an important role again, as it did in chapter 11. Where it is opened and the Ark of the Covenant is mentioned as bringing forth lightning, thunder, and earthquakes. The temple symbolizes the innermost place where God's presence resides. It is used here to symbolize that it is from God's closest counsel That the angels come forth. They are nearest to him, and we are to understand that. They know his mind. These angels are specially dressed and specially assigned. Their dress is to reflect the high priestly garments that were worn by chosen men to enter the Holy of Holies, the earthly temple on the Day of Atonement. There is an emphasis here upon the whiteness or purity of their garments. These angels are dressed as the Savior, for they are holy before the Lord. Their holiness, however, is not to be understood as passivity or as gentleness. They are pure And they are vengeful. A concern for modern Christianity is our apparent inability to associate what is pure and holy with what is vengeful and bloody. Perhaps Christians are confused by what Jesus meant when he said that the meek will inherit the earth, or by the command that we are to turn the other cheek. Meekness is called for in times when persons are being mistreated for their faith. It is not called for when family and possessions are threatened by the violence of this earth who are filled with greed. A meek man can carry a sword, just as a holy angel dressed in pure white linen can carry a sword, and both can pour out the wrath of God. We must be careful as Christians not to allow the world or pagan minds to teach us what Christians ought to be or ought to do. There are men of this world that believe they are in the position to tell Christians how we should behave in society and even challenge us that a Christian ought not defend himself We should not bow down to such pressure or choose a defensive posture when someone of this world would tell us we are not acting as a Christian when we are being aggressive. The evil one would have Christians stay quiet and not speak out against injustices in society or immorality amongst social leaders. They would have Christians put away their weapons so that they themselves can pick them up and use them to cut us down. It is part of our Western Christian heritage to understand that there are times to be neat, to be meek, and times to be forceful. In general, meekness is applied when we proclaim and stand for the gospel If a government chooses to persecute me and my family because of the God I worship, then I shall be meek, but still stand for what I believe If men greedily want to take my land or harm my family, not because we are Christian, but because they are evil, then I shall fight until a victor is determined. Castivity is a godly virtue when practiced for the sake of the gospel. It is foolish to practice before the threat of thieves. As we note the pure white that covers the angels as they collect bowls of God's wrath, we also notice that they have golden sashes. Gold is the medal or color of royalty. The angels come against nations of the world, against principalities and powers of this age, in the name of the only true King. He is, of course, the King of Kings. That God is acting in a kingly manner toward the dwellers upon the earth is also communicated in the gold of which the bowls full of his wrath are made. From them, he is going to prove that he is the king of all ages. Kings pull down other kings and establish their dominion. A kingdom is a king's dominion. God's rightful dominion is all of the earth. The importance of these plagues is stated in verse 8, for it is Only after the plagues are fulfilled that men are able to enter the temple. The smoke that fills the temple reminds us of the Shekinah or glory cloud that symbolized God's awe-inspiring presence amidst the Israelites during the day as they walked in the desert. His presence, his abiding self among his people, is the ultimate goal of all that the Savior and the Father's plan of salvation worked for. That is where we want to be in his presence. That is where he wants us to be, with him, in his bosom. Yet we must wait until the final plagues are fulfilled. So what is to be done in the meantime? What do we do as we wait for these final plagues to be fulfilled? What are we supposed to be doing? The answer is so very simple. The answer is, we are to sing. The most overlooked and underappreciated theme in Holy Scripture is the importance of song. Preachers like myself, who focus on the grammatical and historical specifics of Holy Scripture, not only fail to appreciate how much song plays a part in Scripture, But fail to appreciate the vital role that song plays in Scripture. Song is not just for the gifted. It is true that the scripture instructs those who are gifted in song, whether it is playing an instrument or singing, they are to lead God's people when God's people gather. But it is also true that all the people of God are to be singing. You ever been to a service amongst Christians, and hardly anyone is singing? It's rather depressing. By my count, verses 3 and 4 of chapter 15 are part of as many as twelve songs sung in the book of Revelation. Each song, starting with the first in chapter 4, described God's attributes as well as his mighty works of salvation. The singers of this particular song in chapter 15 are those that have been victorious over the beast Meaning that they were faithful to the mark of God that God had placed upon them as they did not worship or comply with the beast. Thus the ones who were persecuted, who offered up themselves, who watched their own blood be spilled, as well as the blood of their friends and family. These are the ones that offer up a song unto the Lord. The song, you will note, is accompanied by a harp. It is unfortunate that the harp has gone out of style, and it is today depicted as a feminine instrument. Rarely do you see a man play the harp, and men also on average tend not to sing out or sing loud in church, at least as loud as they should And part of the reason is likely that music itself and instruments like the harp are perceived as more feminine in nature. However, a closer look at Scripture reveals something quite different. The harp is primarily introduced in Scripture through David. Who plays it to soothe the tormented soul of King Saul? The harp is played here in John's vision by those who stood their ground. Who stood victorious during their time on earth. Both men and women withstood the beast, and all of them hold harps, and all of them sing Music accompaniment transcends gender. Musical accompaniment should have a high priority within the church. The people of God should invest in those who can play and sing well, so that they can lead the rest of us to sing boldly. The more boldly people sing around you, the more boldly you will sing. These musicians should consist of both men and women. And I will go out on a limb and say that there needs to be more men raised in Christian homes to play instruments to aid the people of God in singing. It should be duly noted that Jubal is referred to in Genesis as the father of all who play the harp and flute. It was David, a manly king as Israel ever had, that wrote most of the Psalter, which is the church's eternal hymn book. And it was a male director of music to whom David wrote his Psalms and instructed them to be sung in the temple. I point this out to say that music is to be masculine, not to be masculine alone, whereas as I have said and noted, we are to understand both men and women played the harps and sang in John's vision My application is for us to more fully embrace the masculine side of music that is lacking in the church today. Besides the importance of musical accompaniment, there is the importance of the words we sing. The song sung in Revelation 15 by those victorious is called the Song of Moses and the Song of the Lamb. The title brings the two covenants together, just as we have seen with the 24 elders, and just as we have seen with the 144,000. We remember that by way of Moses was God's deliverance of his people out of the bondage of Egypt, and by the Lamb, our Lord and Savior, was God's deliverance of his people out of the bondage of sin. And notice the contents of the song as it first celebrates God's attributes Thou art holy. Second, it magnifies the goodness of the divine government. Righteous and true are thy ways. Third, God's divine greatness is extolled. He is the king of the ages. Fourth, the only reference to men is in relation to God. Think of how many hymns we might sing or choruses we might sing that focus on man as opposed to God. The question that is put forth is a challenge. It humbles us. Who will not fear you, O Lord, and bring glory to your name? Fifth and finally, the certainty of God's coming triumph is proclaimed. Quote, all nations will come and worship before you. Such are bold words. They are not sentimental. They do not express feelings. Instead, they conjure up conviction, determination, and the desire to fight for righteousness. They are words for masculine voices. And there I go again, focusing on the masculine, and I cannot help it. It is time we men perceive singing as a masculine thing to do. It is not by accident, but by consequence, that choirs are short on men. Culturally, we have generalized that women sing and men grunt. But biblical singing or singing songs of Scripture is part of what it is to be amended Be manly in God's kingdom. To bring down the mighty nation of Assyria, the Lord Himself gave the following instruction to Isaiah Quote, and you will sing as on the night you celebrate a holy festival, your hearts will rejoice as when men go up with flutes to the mountain of the Lord to the rock of Israel Every stroke the Lord lays on them will be his punishing rod. It will be to the music of tambourines and harps, as he fights them in battle with the blows of his arm. It is a manly duty to fight in the name of God Almighty to defend the land and families He has given us. And the primary weapon, according to Isaiah, is song. Isaiah also describes the Lord singing with his people, the Lord himself singing with us. Quote, the Lord will cause men to hear his majestic voice and will make them see his arm coming down with raging anger and consuming fire. Do you understand that? It will be the Lord Himself. He will join the chorus of men. His song accompanies the salvation he brings for his people. The rhetorical question that challenges us from this passage is: if the Lord sings of our salvation What should stop us from singing his praises? Are we more masculine than God that we should let him sing while we are silent? Was it not he who said to his people, And you will see? For the four living creatures around the throne of God, for the thousands upon thousands who stand before the Lamb. For those who overcame the beast, singing is what they do. It does not have to be commanded. It comes out of a soul that has been redeemed. In fact, a redeemed soul must sing. As we have said, chapter 15 is a prelude or an introduction of the coming wrath of God. What the people of God do is what we are to do in anticipation of that wrath. We are to not fear or flinch in anticipation. We are to sing. Sing boldly, church. Sing boldly. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious God, we thank you for the standard set. at the celebration of the coming of your wrath. It is odd to our ears to think that that is a time to celebrate, but that is what your people do. And we want to join in. Give us the courage to do so. Pray this in Jesus' name.