In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are looking back at Ecclesiastes. We're back in the book of Ecclesiastes. And it is best for you to follow along in your Bibles, because you will get lost if you do not stay with me. And I put a sign there on the Bible pile To say, grab a Bible today. This is a good day to have a Bible. And if you need to sneak over there, because you didn't listen to my little note there, you can go ahead and do that and we'll we'll watch you as you go. I feel I must preface this sermon with a confession that the subject of righteousness can be both ambiguous and dry. I preached last week on the power of righteousness because Christians are to believe in such power. And too often we behave like the world and do not believe in such power. And I gave examples of righteousness, which is first What Jesus makes us because of his sacrifice on the cross, our righteousness is a result of his obedience, his suffering, his death, because he is our payment for our sins. Simply put, the righteousness of Jesus is imputed to us, which means it is counted for our righteousness. And then there is the righteousness that we practice, which is simply living lives as God would have us live. I use the last sermon, the examples of being celibate before marriage and forgiving others who have wronged us and keeping our vows in marriage and pursuing the kingdom of God first and foremost in our lives What I did not do was describe how living righteously also applies to everyday situations, everyday things that we make decisions about. For example, Bobby Lynn and I recently spent a few days with her parents in Olatha, Kansas, which is just outside of Kansas City. When we visit them, they give us their basement, which has a bedroom with a large bed and a separate bathroom and living room. It is quite comfortable for us. When I was writing the sermon that I preached last week, I was making trips up and down the stairs and using different rooms in the basement. And I was tempted simply to leave the lights on in each room until I was done with the sermon and no longer needed to be working. But with that temptation came a question in my conscience. What would I like a person to do who was staying with me? And the answer was obvious. I would want them to turn off the lights in the rooms they were not occupied. I realized that such an example sounds simple and maybe even outside of what we would call a moral decision. But here is the truth. When you are faithful, and being faithful is a righteous act, when you are faithful in the small things, you are more likely to be faithful in the larger things. When our oldest started attending McDonough School way back in the 2000s, I went there one evening to hear the chaplain of Princeton speak. I knew then that Princeton had left their Christian roots behind long ago, but I was still curious of what he had to say. And I only remember one point of his speech. Which was that when he was young, a young man, he would bring his report card home from elementary school, and his father would take it and look first at the penmanship grade That's right, young folks. Yes, back in the day, penmanship was taught and graded. Now this chaplain didn't know why the penmanship grade was so important to his father until he was older. And his father shared with him that it was important because he believed that if his son was careful with his penmanship, Which is being careful with small details, then he would be careful in the rest of his subjects. The speaker said that his father was right. And the teachings of Jesus confirm that he was. We are to be righteous in the small things, to be sure to be righteous in the larger things. Now, turning to Ecclesiastes, although I preached from the end of chapter 5 the last time we looked at the book of Ecclesiastes, which is over a month ago now I wish to rehearse the end of that chapter again in order to keep what we read in chapter 6 in its context. The point made in chapter 5, we'll pick up at verse 10. The point made in chapter 5, we have heard in various forms in both teachings of the Old and New Testaments. We learn, starting with verse 10, that loving money instead of God, regardless of the density or shininess of the coin, will neither satisfy. It is vapor. It appears to have substance, and then it is gone. From verse 11, with more wealth comes greater responsibility. And a man may find himself concerned more about those responsibilities than enjoying the wealth that he watches others enjoy. From verse 12, the contrast is made in regards to those who labor but are not wealthy. They may live day to day or paycheck to paycheck, but at least they are at peace with themselves and others. From verses 13 through 15, here is the plain reality of living in a fallen world. A man of riches has no guarantee that they will last. If riches are his idol, it is right for God to crush that idol, and the result is leaving nothing behind. From verses 16 through 17, the preacher calls the emptiness of money evil. And it is evil on several different levels. Mostly it is evil because it results in nothing of eternal value. To labor after wind is to want something that cannot be captured, cannot be controlled. Cannot be contained. And then in verses 18 through 20, here is the truth of it all. And it must not be lost. God's people are not to engage in class envy or class warfare. We are to do what is at the heart of the tenth commandment We are to appreciate and then enjoy what we have been given and say it is enough for the moment because God is good and all things good come from Him. When a man is rich, he is rich because God would have him be. A man's riches could be a curse to him. or blessing depending on how he responds to God's wisdom and God's commandments Now before we get to the heart of chapter 6, I wish for us to examine as objectively as possible Where we find ourselves in regards to that scale, that range from poverty to riches. According to the U. S. Census Bureau, a study done in 2022, there are 37. 9 million people in America that fall below the poverty line. In the US, poverty is officially defined as income insufficient to buy basic necessities of life, including, among others, food, clothing, and shelter. My pause because after inflation this past year, maybe there's more than thirty-seven point nine million Unfortunately, this statistic or these statistics remain ambiguous, for it does not state how much food, how much clothing, what type of shelter. Around the world, in comparison, poverty is understood by a different set of standards. In developing countries, it is estimated that two billion people do not have safe drinking water, and 3. 6 billion lack access to safely managed sanitation. As of today, a quarter of the human population in the world lives without electricity in the home. Considering such living conditions and those that fall below the poverty line in our beloved U. S. of A We can see that the word poverty can be used with a wide range of definitions. When we consider also where we live in this state of Maryland, And where we live in the state of Maryland, Carroll County, and neighboring counties, we must acknowledge that we are the wealthy. We are those that the preacher is describing. And I assure you that I am aware that there are those in the United States and abroad who have wealth that dwarfs my own. I have walked the docks of Annapolis and seen boats that cost four or five times as much as my home. I've seen the estates of the rich and powerful in Baltimore area alone, and I have an idea of my wealth in comparison. But I would have you consider your wealth in comparison to the people who have never owned property, who have no running water, no private sanitation. No regular income, no means of transportation beyond walking, no education, and are without government over them that cares to create an environment So that a responsible citizen could get out of such conditions. Does not our wealth dwarf theirs? And so turning to chapter 6. While considering the wealthy, the preacher has noticed something about them that he says is common. This then is not a casual observation or one that is short of examples. This happens to many And what happens is that a man is given everything that he could need in his life, including public honor, which we must note is hard to come by in any culture. Yet the same man lacks something that makes it all worthwhile. These men who lack are not given by God the ability in this life to enjoy their riches. We notice in response that the preacher laments this reality. He does not chide the rich for being rich or think that their inability to enjoy their riches is what they deserve, as if they should be suffering like the poor. But instead he laments this reality of not being able to enjoy what is good in this life. He calls it vapor. And then he calls it of an affliction. And I didn't Mention his use of the word evil in verse 1 because I wanted to get to this verse which better explains how he is using that term evil The word affliction. The word affliction helps us know that the preacher is referring to the curse mankind is under because of Adam. This is why the preacher calls it evil. It is evil reaped by those who come under Adam's curse. It is evil. Because it is not God's perfect will, but is instead God's punishment for mankind's disobedience The dramatic description in verse 3 expounds on the point made in verses 1 and 2. Believe it or not, there was a day when a large family was considered a blessing. Even though there were more mouths to feed, it was believed that more children would pay off and contribute to the wealth of a family as they grew older and worked at the fields or in the family business. And so the preacher exaggerates imagining a man with a hundred children and a long life, and yet his soul cannot be satisfied by his blessings. But why is this man not satisfied? The preacher does not say, but Jesus expounded upon it. When he told his disciples that they must hate their family members in comparison to their love for God in order to truly follow him. This was, of course, a dramatic thing to say, as family is the bedrock of the promises to Abraham. The promises were to each man and his descendants. For Jesus to demand this letting go of the first place of importance of family and insist upon God being first in every single life of his followers Tells us that the first commandment is an absolute necessity to be obeyed It is helpful to note that the goodness the man does not see is not in what he enjoys about his family The word is used in terms of purpose. Goodness refers to purpose. It is the purpose of it all that the wealthy man does not see. The reason then why it should have been better for such a man to have not been born at all is because he does not see the true purpose of such wealth, of such heritage, for to him it is vapor, it is like darkness to him. The ending of verse 6 is the reasoning of a man who does not know purpose. Do not all go to one place, he asks. Yes, in a manner of speaking, they do. But the grave is not all there is. We know this, but the rich man does not. Here is a plain truth within the broader teaching. What we consume in the moment does not and cannot satisfy the soul, if it is only the substance itself that is our focus. A good steak is a good steak. A fine wine is a fine wine. The best of pasta or the best of vegetables, if there is such a thing. Or the best of fruit, or whatever you crave to eat and consume, is good in the moment, but it should never be looked to for satisfying the soul. The remaining verses, verses 8 through 12 of the chapter, cover a wide spectrum of observations regarding the futility of man in terms of what he believes will satisfy him Or what he believes he can control. Which one knows how to live life better? The rich or the poor? The wise or the fool? In the end, both don't have an advantage. To say whatever one is, he has been named already, for it is known that he is man. That is simply another way of saying that there is nothing new under the sun in the context of how each man struggles to overcome his given lot in life. Let us be honest. That the debate of nature versus nurture and how they both contribute to who we are and what we become, both sides have to accept that there are limitations placed upon each of us. We can only be so tall, so strong, so smart, etc. And we cannot overcome a certain amount of our social and economic limitations without outside help. And most importantly, we will not climb high in society or find great success or live long life if the Lord God does not will us to do so. The summation of verse 12 appears to be quite a downer in terms of our inability to know exactly what is good for us. And how fleeting our lives can be as each of our lives seems to disappear like a shadow. We have to answer the last question by admitting that no indeed We cannot tell what will come after us. We are under the sun and therefore have a poor vantage point to see the future of our own life, let alone the world as a whole. Now, I don't want us to end this sermon on such a down note. We know the preacher is right about all that he has said, but he is not finished. Remember, we are in the middle of his sermon. The whole book is a sermon, one sermon. And even though I don't want to be a spoiler for where he is going, I need to say it to you. That's where he is going in general is to point our attention to the beauty of faith. The beauty of faith and how it plays a major role in us. Making sense of the world in a short time we are given to live. What I want each of us to take away today Is the importance and responsibility of pursuing the thirst and hunger we have for righteousness The preacher alludes to such pursuit in verse 9, when he laments about the wandering desires of men. Men who live by the flesh wander. It has been described as a hole in the soul that each man tries to fill with everything but what is needed, which is the Lord Jesus. It is described here in a similar manner as an appetite. We want something, but we do not know what it is. And every time we think that something might satisfy the appetite, we come away still hungry. This idea of appetite reminds me of one of C. S. Lewis's arguments for the existence of God. From his book titled The Weight of Glory, we read this, quote, A man's physical hunger does not prove that man will get any bread. He may die of starvation on a raft in the Atlantic. But surely a man's hunger does prove that he comes of a race which repairs its body by eating and inhabits a world where eatable substances exist. In the same way, though I do not believe, I wish I did, that my desire for paradise proves that I shall enjoy it I think it a pretty good indication that such a thing exists and that some men will. A man may love a woman and not win her. But it would be very odd if the phenomenon called falling in love occurred in a sexless world And a more simple summary, if I may, he is saying that a desire for something is an indication that that something exists The existence of righteousness is also evident to those who settle for self-righteousness. When Jesus said, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be filled. He was not speaking about a righteousness that exists in and of itself. He was speaking about a righteousness that exists in the context of following him as his disciple. And he was not speaking of a righteousness that we can achieve on our own merits or by our own will. But instead, it is a righteousness he provides for us. And this points us back against the point made last Sunday regarding our need to have faith in the power of righteousness. That power exists because of Jesus, and we can know it is real because Jesus exemplified such power. So the righteousness we pursue and the power that comes with it is not a theory. And God doesn't call us to it without His help, His presence, His provision. In the book of Jude, we can call it a letter, but in the book of Jude, he compares the judgment of God That God will have upon fallen angels. And then he compares it to what God does for those who are faithful to him. He says that God sanctifies his people, which is to make them holy. He then says God preserves his people, which means they cannot wander. He ends his letter praising God, who keeps his people from stumbling, and a God who yearns to present them faultless to a heavenly reward. That God wants his people to be righteous. And this is expressed in a clever poem that I came across Angels fallen, give us pause. It is wise for us to consider their cause Heaven and God's very presence was theirs, but they wanted more and greater shares. They chose to revolt to rebel, and the result was a casting down to hell. God's dealing with men is not the same. He desires men to stand and not fall in shame God is able, desirous, and willing to keep men from tumbling, from falling. And so we learn from angels cast down that the Lord prefers we wear a crown. Beloved, he cares about our righteousness in the small and in the large. He cares because he wants us. He wants us to wear a crown. Let us pray. A gracious God, it is so very helpful to know that you are not a God who simply gives his laws and his standards and stands by and watches us fail. But a God who wants our righteousness, who gives our righteousness, who enables our righteousness. Who wants us to wear a crown? May we see you in that light always and forever. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.