In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. As our second reading indicated Today we start a series of sermons from 1 Peter. If you wonder why we are hearing from 1 Peter. The honest answer is that we finished our study of Exodus, and I wanted to study a book of the New Testament. I've never preached to you from 1 Peter, so here we go. First I remind you of the personality of Peter. He was boisterous, opinionated, quick with an answer, unwise in his decision making A coward in one moment, and a very brave man of faith at another moment. He was first, chosen by God, to preach the gospel after the anointing of the Holy Spirit. He was a Jewish man, yet chosen to be the first to share the gospel officially with the Gentile. And yet, while sharing the gospel with Gentiles, he was wrongly influenced by the Judaizers. As he would not fellowship with Gentiles for a time, because they were uncircumcised When St. Paul confronted Peter about his inconsistent understanding of being saved by grace through faith Peter was gracious enough, mature enough, and thus a man of faith enough to take the rebuke. And finally, Peter was a leader of the Christian church in Rome. And from these epistles We learn he had a great concern for Christians who felt as though they were out of place in this world. because of the displacement Christians had experienced, both physically being forced out of their homes and out of their hometowns, and socially displaced. Christians, first persecuted by the Jews and then by Rome. Here I want to take what may seem like a drastic 45-degree turn in the sermon. I want to talk to you briefly about suicide. And hopefully why I do so will make sense to you as we consider how St. Peter greets these Christians who have been dispersed both physically and socially. Having taught ethics, general ethics, as a college-level course for four semesters, I became familiar with the secular arguments against suicide. And perhaps surprising to you, or perhaps not, the college textbooks that I was exposed to take the side that suicide is an immoral act. And that conclusion does not include acts of suicide that are actually of sacrifice. such as a soldier jumping on a grenade in order to save his fellow soldiers. It does not include jumping from a burning building that if stayed in would bring certain death And if jumped from would also bring certain death. And the stance that suicide is immoral does not include issues of assisted suicide where person is diagnosed to be suffering certain a an illness that will lead about to certain death Instead, what most secular ethicists address is suicide based on how a person feels feels about his or her given situation in a given moment. It is an argument that says that a person who is desiring And then considering, and then committing or trying to commit suicide is making an immoral decision Because he or she cannot see his or her life as objective as he or she ought. It is the conclusion that when a person is caught up in a moment or moments of despair He or she cannot think clearly enough and thus know well enough the value of his or her life. And it is that argument that most closely resembles the Christian ethical argument of the sinfulness of suicide. Christian ethics first says that a life that was given to us is not a life we have the authority to choose regarding when it should end The Christian ethic also says that a person who concludes that his or her life is not worth living has tried to take the position of God. Who is the only one who can have an objective perspective on the value of life Along with the inability of a suicidal person to be objective regarding the value of his or her life. There are other perspectives to consider regarding how the death of a person committing suicide will affect the lives of those who love him or love her. There are moral obligations of love and care and kindness being abandoned by the person who commits suicide. There are unforeseen effects morally, emotionally, and socially, when a person commits suicide. All are good arguments against suicide, but the most important one seems to be embedded in God's creation. It appears to be that the person who wants to commit suicide does not have the necessary perspective, the objective perspective. to determine the value of his or her life. And it is that inability to have the right perspective about ourselves that I want us to grab on to. So we go back, taking another 45-degree turn to get us back on that road less traveled, that narrow road that few travel. And underline and highlight what Saint Peter describes Christians to be, and to make the point. But what we think of ourselves, what our perspective is about our individual lives, or even maybe your perspective about everybody else's life Maybe that cannot be trusted. And maybe we have to be trusting in what God's holy word has to say about us as individuals. And about everyone else that is around us. So, looking back at the epistle, looking at St. Peter's first letter. As we look at verses one and two, which were read to us, some scholars are surprised At the depth of St. Peter's theology, as he expresses so well in the opening two verses. There I say, nowhere in the writings of either Saint Paul or St. John do we find a more full or more instructive teaching concerning the Holy Trinity. Look at verse 2. In verse 2, Saint Peter has been guided by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to choose The holy order, revealed obviously in the ministry of Jesus on this earth, regarding the triune God. And perhaps we need to confess that when we read of the Trinity so clearly stated, we take it for granted. We read first our election is of the foreknowledge of God the Father. We read and then we yawn a bit Our election is continued by the sanctification work of the Holy Spirit. Yawn and yawn again. The work of the Father and the Holy Spirit is procured for us by the obedience to the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Well, yawn, yawn, and yawn. We have heard it before. We confess it each Sunday. Okay, yes, God is three and he is one. God. Let's move on. If this is at all our attitude, then we don't understand or appreciate as we should. The need for the creeds, the need for Saint Nicholas to punch Arius during the Council of Nicaea. The need for councils to spend months debating and then needing to gather years later to debate again to get it right. And what they needed to get right is what Saint Peter so easily describes Which is the work of the Father, and then the work of the Holy Spirit, and then the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. In this introduction by St. Peter, each person of the Trinity gets a position in the redemption of mankind, gets a title for that redemption. And gives it's given authority for that redemption. They are all separate, but yet they are one God. And this is the God we are to know, for this is the God who has revealed himself to be such. As the Athanasian Creed rightly and boldly states, this is the Catholic The universal faith, which except a man believe faithfully, he cannot be saved. And we say Amen I skipped over verse one purposefully. Forgive me. So as to set the scene for what I believe our focus is to be, as this epistle relates to us today. In verse 1, Peter begins by identifying himself as an apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's important. The title makes it clear that Peter is one of the chosen ones, the twelve, that Jesus chose, to be around him, to hear him, to know him best. Now, other epistles would be later written and claimed to be written by the apostles, so it was necessary in this first century that the apostles set it straight, who they are. What he writes is of authority. He is one of the twelve. He is half of the 24 elders that surround the throne of Christ in the book of Revelation. And so, Peter is as a symbol for God's people. He is the authority to reveal God's will. And once the author has been established, and thus the authority as to what he has to say established, we are next to take what he says to the church, to us, as God's word. And what Peter communicates to Christians is what they needed to hear in the first century and what we need to hear and believe today. He writes to them as, quote, Sojourners of the dispersion. Sojourners of the dispersion In the minds of the Jews, this description as sojourners would connect them, no doubt, to sad realities of life under the covenant of Moses. Israel's experience as sojourners of the dispersion was the time of the Babylonian rule and Israel's disobedience. And even when some of the Israelites were allowed to return to their land to restore the walls of Jerusalem, they suffered painful periods. As they served as a vassal state for Persia, and then the Greeks, and then Egypt, and then Syria, and then Rome. The Jews as a people were made the sport of the world powers as those powers rose and fell. Times in which Israel would see few evidence of the divine favor God had said about them, not even hearing the voice of a prophet to encourage them or guide them. But then, at the time of Peter's writing, to those who had accepted the gospel of Christ, those dark years. would have been seemed to be empty or silent at once, at one time, or so they thought What happened was, truly, that the scattered Jews had carried much of their faith abroad, among the nations. Creating schools and teaching had arisen, the Jewish faith had arisen among Gentiles. This dispersion allowed Jews to adopt other languages and to understand other cultures. And thus the outcome of those sorrowful times had been a preparation for the gospel. A wider field was opened for the Christian harvest to come. And as the expositor commentary puts it, The dispersion of Israel had been made, as it were, a bridge over which the grace of God passed For publishing the glad tidings of the gospel and to gather Jew and Gentile alike into the fold of Christ. Of course, God's providence But St. Peter's letter is written to Christians, not Jews, even though many of them would have had a Jewish heritage. And so it would be a mistake to restrict the word dispersion here to be of Jewish converts alone. The apostle speaks more than once in his letter of those who had never been Jews, men who had been fashioned according to their lusts of ignorance. Who had at times not shared the gospel of Christ, who did not know Christ, but yet from a distance, even the hope of Abraham. These former Christians were people walking in lasciviousness, in lusts, in abominable idolatries. Such labels would only refer to converted Gentiles. The point being that we are to take this descriptive dispersion. Sojourners and place it upon Gentile Christians, Christians converted from paganism. They were now, as the Jews were before, Christians here in this world, although they were among heathendom. And their acceptance of the faith of Jesus must have given them their lives a different perspective. A different identity to set them apart as they were dwelling among people that were not their own And such must have been especially true for these Christians in Asia. They could only be strangers and sojourners. Their true home could never be made among the heathens around them. As Jews in the old days sighed for Jerusalem, so Christians of the first century centered their hope on the Jerusalem above. Now, connecting the identity of being sojourners during the dispersion and knowing how God used Israel during the dispersion. We can see how God has set a mission for the Christian church in this world. That mission is a special portion of St. Peter's message. As scattered Jews of old had opened the door for spreading the covenant of Abraham, so the Christians of the dispersion were to be witnesses. To the fulfillment of that covenant and that fulfillment with Jesus. And their election I emboldened that word. Their election had made them a peculiar people, but they were peculiar in that they might show forth the praises of him who had called them out of darkness. Called them into his marvelous light, and by their good works the lost might be won to glorify God When in his time he would reveal himself as that day star, even a day star to the Gentiles. Let us next look at that important identity mentioned by Saint Peter about all Christians, about you and I. It is that large charity of hope, which is stamped upon the whole of the New Testament. As he calls the scattered Christian converts the elect of God, the elect. And just as St. Paul calls many in the church to be saints, even though they were still lacking a great deal, much reproof needed to be made, they were still saints. So too does Peter call the church the elect, even though there was much sanctification to be done. The knowledge of the election of the saints by God is to give a sense of a mighty power. It is to bind the saints, wherever they may be scattered, into one communion in Christ. Throughout the world they are dispersed, but in Christ they constitute one people, united, the elect. Such a sense of this reality is to lift their hearts above any sorrowing, any sorrowing due to isolation in the world. For through Christ, an inheritance, a home, a claim of sonship, and a claim of their salvation is ready to be revealed. For they are the elect Now we will not spend time debating the difficulties some have about that word election. Instead, we are to focus upon the purpose of Peter using that word in an attempt to put the same purpose of our lives before us. The identity of a Christian of every age is that we are sojourners dispersed throughout the world. And yet elect of God, and therefore bound by him and to him, and bound to all who are of him for eternity. When we bring verses 1 and 2 together, we see that the election of believers is connected to the various stages of the three persons of the Trinity. The elect are chosen according to the foreknowledge of God, sanctified by the Holy Spirit, having been procured by the obedience of the blood of Jesus. Take now that given identity, given to every Christian, and apply it to how you perceive yourself. Or how you perceive others. Like a person in dispersion or despair or both or more, who does not know how to value his or her life, we can say that such a person's perspective of self and the value of his or her life is incorrect It is a lie, for it is defaced and covered by the feelings of despair, of self-hate. So too, Christians are lied to when they use their success in life or position in life. or physical beauty they have been gifted with, or a spouse they have won, or children they have raised, or any other such thing to identify who they are. And it can be reversed. Christians are lied to when they use their failures their low position in life, their lack of physical beauty, or lack of a spouse, or their disobedient children. And say that that is their identity, or those things are their identity. That too is a lie. St. Peter said it so simply, so plainly, so succinctly, so truthfully, that all the counseling in the world cannot compare. To the sojourners of the dispersion, the elect, according to the foreknowledge of God and the sanctification of the Spirit, for the obedience of the sprinkling of the blood of Christ. The hat is who you are. That is the identity of a Christian, every Christian. And the rest doesn't matter. All the rest that the world will tell you is important about self-identity is a lie. It is a lie from the devil. To know yourself as a sojourner of the dispersion, having been elected by God in the covenant of Jesus Christ, is enough. Consider this child we've just baptized, Lindsay Shay. Is her identity going to be her earthly beauty? Is that what you will tell her? Is her identity going to be her earthly success? Her social popularity? Her natural gifts? Beloved, I cringe this week. I have a cousin. If sh she's listening, I love my cousin. But she I have a cousin. Who works at a Christian school and she proudly put forth on social media these pictures of a seven set second grade class, each of the children standing behind next to a chalkboard And each of them having an individual statement. And it said this, something like this. Child standing there proudly next to a chalkboard that says, God loves me because I am good at soccer. God loves me because I write poetry. Etc. , etc. How horrible is that? God loves you because you do something, have something, are able to do something? Bad theology. Bad theology being put in the minds of our children. Why does God love us? God loves us because he loves us. What does God do for loving us? Sends us his son. We don't do anything to earn it. We don't have to be anything to receive it. God loves us. And our identity is as a sojourner, as in the dispersion, as the elect Not as a soccer player, not as a successful businessman, not because I have a nice car, a wonderful wife, none of it. God gives us an identity as a sojourner in the dispersion as the elect and beloved know it to be true. That is enough. Let us pray.