Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Leave me seated. We are looking at 1 Timothy 1, verses 8 through 11. So turn there in your Bibles if you would. 1 Timothy 1, verses 8 through 11. There is a story I heard several years ago from an eyewitness So I hope it is true. A deacon of a Baptist church was told that he was to do the reading from the Bible for the Sunday morning service Which was the preacher's chosen text for Mother's Day. The text was to be from 2 Timothy 1, where Paul encourages Timothy To be built up in the faith, which was a faith passed down to him through his grandmother Lois and his mother Eunice. The obvious point the preacher planned to make is how important mothers are to their children following the Christian faith. But the deacon got confused when he turned to 1 Timothy instead of 2 Timothy He then found the place where mothers are mentioned and read, as we heard earlier, that the law is made for the ungodly And for sinners, for the unholy and profane, and for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers Now one would think that the preacher would simply announce the mistake and then read from 2 Timothy about Lois and Eunice. But this particular preacher told the congregation that all scripture is inspired, and so he simply and dutifully made up a sermon on the spot on Mother's Day about the law being for people who murder their mothers. Again, I heard it from an eyewitness, so it has to be true. The passages that we read from First Timothy are straightforward enough for us to understand what immoral behavior Paul is condemning, but it has confused Christians over the years Regarding just how much a Rukta, how much of a role the law of God plays in the Christian life We will go through verses 8 through 11 and then we will circle back. So verse 8 Here the apostle continues his thoughts from the preceding verses regarding how false teachers had entered the church and were partificating on the law of God, and apparently We're teaching lax morality. It is understandable that upon hearing the Christian gospel and emphasizing grace and faith that a person would conclude they no longer needed to heed the law of God. Words like being free in Christ And that the yoke of Christ is easy and light. Sound, sound like obedience to the law of God is no longer required. And so Paul here turns the point back to the Christian to point out first that the law is good. Interestingly, there are two primary Greek words for the word good, and Paul uses both of the Greek words for good 34 times in these two letters to Timothy. Clearly, Paul is focused on Christians being good morally and doctrinally in order to stay in the faith. But what does Paul mean by saying the law is good if it is used lawfully? We will come back to that point. Verse nine. The beginning of this verse reminds us once again that Timothy was a real person with a close relationship to Paul and his teachings, and that is this in this letter, with that relationship in mind. And so we wonder if Timothy knew exactly what Paul was saying When he states that the law is not made for a righteous person. It sounds like he is referring to a previous conversation they both had about the law. What it means to us has several possibilities. It could mean that those who are in Christ Jesus, meaning those who are Christians, have been made righteous and are living righteously and therefore don't need the law. And some have taken that meaning and decided that they no longer even need to read the Old Testament because the law does not apply to them. For those of you who have heard me preach and teach for any length of time, you know that I've despised that understanding. Another possibility of its meaning is that he is speaking in a facetious manner, meaning that he knows that there is no one who is righteous on his own or her own merit, and therefore the law is needed for everyone. The third possibility is that he is referring to the righteous who are made righteous by Christ, and then showing how the law can continue to be used. For turning the sinner to their need for a savior in order to be righteous, and that understanding turns them to Christ Jesus. That is an argument Paul makes clear in his letters to Romans and to the Galatians We now turn to the sins Paul chooses to list in regards to how the law of God can address those who choose to be or remain subordinate to sin. The lawless and insubordinate to the law are those who refuse to abide by any restrictions upon their lives. They want to do what they want to do with no authority, political or religious. None of it is going to rule over them. Such people live selfish lives while also living with no self-discipline. They are the type of people that most other people don't want to be around. The identification of ungodly and sinners is the most general listing. It includes everyone who does not know Jesus Christ as their personal Lord and Savior. It is people who either don't believe there is a God or refuse to acknowledge Jesus as God. Next are the unholy and profane. To be unholy is also to be ungodly. Being unholy is a result of not having Jesus as your Savior and thus having no propitiation for your sins. To be profane is of a different type of sin. It is to be willfully wicked. This moves the list to a second type of lawlessness Whereas the sins before could be passive, the sin of being profane is doing something to purposefully dishonor the God you say you don't believe in. And so the profane moves us to be murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers. I wish to take a bit more time on this listing of such sins, for they truly are wicked. To kill father or mother, or just one and not the other, for the reason of simply being wicked, is a breaking down of what it means to be human A person's father and mother are the closest thing to themselves. Not only are they humanly responsible for the existence of their children, but they are also responsible for the sustaining of their children. If this is done with any type of love and caring, the Bible tells us that such parents are to be honored and nothing less. God takes the honoring of parents so seriously that in his law is a command that if a child curses his parents, he is to be stoned to death. Interestingly, such a stoning is never recorded to have happened, but the law itself shows how serious God is about parents being honored. And there is a fundamental reason for that concern. The first God-like figure a child has is his father and his mother. As described, parents are the caretakers of their children, providing food, shelter, clothing, and protection. Parents also provide an education for their children, and by that I don't mean sending their children to school. I am referring to teaching a child manners, teaching them how to clean up after themselves. Teaching them to keep themselves healthy and to understand things of the world and of course of God. Like God Himself, parents provide all that is needed for a child to be self-sustaining. And as a child honors the god-like figures in his early life, so he or she will honor God when they are on their own and even starting their own family. It is called transference, and it is real when it comes to children honoring their parents and then also honoring God. When children do not honor their parents, such is an inevitable breakdown of society. It will not be avoided. Next is listed is manslayer, which is simply someone who takes the life of another. One of the greatest breakdowns our society continues to witness is our insensibility to the value of another person's life. We don't value human life as we should, and the result is abortions, school shootings, street shootings, public knifings, and random violence. That seems more rampant because of the many street cameras we now have. Such violence and murdering has an evil. Spirit behind it. It is a spiritual problem as much as it is a physical problem. Next is listed fornicators and sodomites. It is important today for us to have these two listed together. Fornication is simply sexual intimacy outside of a marriage covenant. It includes sexual intimacy of all types. Whether it is with two persons who are married, but not to each other, or when one person is married and the other is not, both are called, as we know it, adultery And fornication includes two people who are not married being sexually intimate. Too often we hear preachers condemn acts of homosexuality, but say nothing about heterosexual immorality. Both are sins in the eyes of the Lord. And I appreciate here the term sodomite It describes what is going on in a homosexual relationship, and it takes us back to the biblical language, instead of bowing to the language the devil prefers, which is like gay or same-sex. Next listed is kidnappers. Some translate it to be enslavers. The idea is what the law of God condemns in the Old Testament, which is called man stealing. Such is similar to murder in that the lives of another human being is not honored, but instead is used to profit the thief when selling a person into slavery or buying an enslaved person. Next, listed are two words that apply to the legal system of a society. Liars are those who bear false witness. The manner in which these words are used is not addressing conversations where you tell someone you you didn't have breakfast when you did, or you did play with your brother's computer when you said you didn't No. These words apply to being in a justice setting where criminals are being charged and being examined and witnesses are not telling the truth, which is perjury. And the guilty are withholding the truth or bearing false witness. And the reason such sins are serious enough to be mentioned here is because a society cannot function Cannot function when it cannot enact justice on the guilty or cannot free the innocent. When the courts can't be trusted, a culture ceases to be functioning and healthy. Thus the law of God is needed to restore order and dignity to people What is fascinating, and perhaps a bit surprising to some is how Paul connects sound doctrine to moral living. Put another way, how we think about God and what we believe about Him is going to affect how we live our lives. I asked last week when describing a woman who thinks she is a preacher and she teaches blasphemous things about Jesus. and then justifies her three abortions as right moral acts and thus a righteous thing to do. I ask the question, how did we get here? Well, Paul answers the question here. We get to immoral life behavior because we abandon sound doctrine. We get to immoral life behavior because we abandon self-doctrine, sound doctrine. And let us be honest with ourselves, as there are some of you who don't like to talk about or be taught about or think about sound doctrine. You might say it is too detail-oriented for you. You might say that the language confuses you You might say you don't have the time to think about such complex things. And yet, and yet The proof of the need for having sound doctrine is stated right here. And if you don't have sound doctrine, your life will be affected negatively by it and if the church doesn't have sound doctrine, their last stand will be justly blown out But where does sound doctrine start? Well, Paul says it in verse eleven It starts with the glorious gospel. And the glorious gospel is the revealed truth that God so loved the world that he gave his only Son. He gave him to humanity to teach us, to exemplify God to us, and to be a sacrifice on the cross for us. We can place our trust in that sacrifice for our sins, for our sins to be forgiven, and then for our lives to be lived out according to his teachings and according to his example. Such a summary leads us to the plain message of this passage of Scripture, and that is, Christians are to live good moral lives. The living of good moral lives is expected of us, and the one who expects it is Jesus. For Jesus himself lived a perfect moral life and taught us how we can follow his lead. And I must say at this point the obvious: living a good moral life is not easy. There are temptations to compromise our morals all around us. The spirit within us is willing to live a good moral life, but the Bible also says That the flesh wars against the spirit, and the flesh is weak. And so the temptations are plenty and strong The flesh is weak, and the unbelievable world doesn't want us to live a good moral life. They are rooting against you. They are like the mean girls who all of a sudden hate the prom queen when they very much liked her before. But now that she was elected prom queen, they hate her. And say they don't hate her because she was elected prom queen and they weren't. So that's precisely why they hate her. When Christians lead good moral lives, the world hates you Because you remind them that they are not living good moral lives. Misery does indeed love company. And they want Christians to be miserable in their own sin just as they are miserable in their own sin. And they also don't want you to live a good moral life because they like their sin Even though it makes their conscience feel guilty, they enjoy the pleasure enough to keep sinning and be spiritually miserable. I have heard just this past week that this year's elections are primarily about the economy and abortion rights. Supposedly, such are the two subjects voters care most about. But I question that summation in regards to abortion. I recently heard a woman confessing that abortion isn't the issue for her. The issue is her having the ability to live a sexually immoral lifestyle. and not have any consequences for that lifestyle. An abortion gives her another option to not have consequences. At least she's being honest. People truly do cling to their sin. So temptations are all around us, and they are strong. Our flesh is weak. And our unbelieving friends, our unbelieving neighbors, acquaintances, and even some of our family members hope we fail. Doesn't sound like a recipe for successfully living out a good moral life. It isn't. It is hard And because it is hard, because it is hard, we need men to lead their families, both in words and in actions. We need men to speak the truth, stand up against falsehood, and lead by example And we need strong women. We need wives and mothers who will also speak the truth while letting their husbands lead as they are called to by God. We also need women who will help their husbands live good moral lives. And finally, we need children, children who are willing to be different from their peers if their peers do not know the Lord. Being different from one's peers can be the hardest thing a young person can do, but it will be the most rewarding thing to do for your soul. Remember that Jesus described his followers as being in the world, but not of the world. To be of the world is to be a product or result of what the world believes. To be of Jesus, to be of Jesus. Is to be a product or result of what He has done for us and within us. He has made us holy, and so let us live out. Holy lives. Amen