In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. You're still in Proverbs, and our topic from Proverbs this morning is about speaking and listening. Count to yourself how many times when you are fellowshipping with brothers and sisters in Christ. For any significant amount of time, count when the conversation turned where it should not have. And things were said that should not have been said, and all that were present were culpable of sin. Go ahead. Count the times that has happened. I'll wait. No, I know none of us could possibly come up with an accurate count and we would not have the time. When my family gets together with extended family, there is a great deal of talking going on. And I'm speculating that 95% of it is good natured, but there is always that 5% that needs to be repented of After we depart from family, I usually ask Bobby Lynn, did I overstate my point in that conversation Or was I talking about such and such a person in too negative of a manner? Or was I unkind when I spoke up during that topic of conversation? And the answers are usually yes, yes, and oh yes, Because we are to understand our Christian life, to include every aspect of our life, then it includes our tongue. It includes our listening. In order for us to lead a good life, a useful life, a godly life, then our speech must be submitted to the Holy Spirit. And that means it is to be governed by the law and will of God. And our listening is to be governed by the same. As Christians, our speaking and listening is to be distinctly Christian. But that is asking a lot. Let us make no mistake about it. It is asking a lot. We know St. James's words to be so very accurate when he says No human can tame the tongue. It is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of our life, and set on fire by hell. We know these words to be true by way of experience. All of us do And we can add to this the modern means of communication, known as digital communication. As great as our modern electronic advances are, they are also More means by which we humans can practice sin. James could easily have said that no human can tame the send button. Our texts, our posts, our emails can easily start a blaze of unrighteousness And for many, it is easier to set a fire with an email, because you don't have to look the person in the eye when you push sin. Let us back up and consider the nature of speaking and listening. The nature of speaking and listening. Speaking and listening by themselves Are quite neutral and really have a great deal of promise for the good. Consider that speaking and listening are the foundation in every human relationship that we have. Our most lasting memories are from words spoken and written in relationships. Speaking itself should be understood as one of the greatest powers that you and I have as human beings. After all, we are made in the image of God. And God spoke the universe into being. Jesus spoke people to be healed He raised people from the dead with words. He depossessed people with his words Our words, being in his image, have intrinsic power for the good if we want. From Proverbs eighteen, verse twenty-one, death and life are in the power of the tongue. And those who love it will eat its fruits. The first part of the verse reminds us that the tongue could go either way. Death and life are polar opposites, and yet the tongue can affect either way. As one commentator noted, the sense of that last part of the verse seems to be that one will Eat the consequences of his words, according to whether his words are good or bad. Those who who love life will speak one way, and his or her words will bring life. And those who love death will speak accordingly and reap accordingly Well, let us now scare ourselves a bit, scare ourselves purposefully, by looking at verses that warn against the dangers of our poor speech choices. Dangers. From Proverbs 18, verse 6. A fool, a fool's lips, walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating. I have not been in a fish bite as an adult, but I can imagine how one would start. A fight is likely started by what someone says, and the one who is spoken to ends the discussion with a punch. Now this is from Proverbs 18, 7. A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul. Well, this proverb warns against something much great of danger than a punch to the mouth. For a soul. To be snared by a person's own lips is likely caused by a person going down the path of falsehood. It is living lies. From Proverbs 29 verse 12. If a ruler listens to falsehoods, all his officials will be wicked. Recall that lying lips are on that list of the six things that God hates. And lying lips spread like a disease. As lies corrupt others who believe them and then repeat them. Lying is not a sin that has a negative effect only on the person that tells the lies. Instead, it is a sin that is contagious. And then there are these contrasting verses, like this one from Proverbs 12, verse 22. Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord, but those who deal truthfully are his delight. Now the word abomination says enough. To delight God is to merely speak the truth. And such is not difficult, not difficult if we believe that the only audience that matters is that of God. From Proverbs 13, verse 3. Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life. He who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. Now, this contrast has a positive stated first, and that is because we must first be quick to listen. To listen, you must keep your mouth closed. To guard our mouths is that we must filter what comes out. And that is done by internal discipline that says no to self many, many times. There's a story of a father who caught his daughter both lying and gossiping. He told her that her punishment was first to take a handful of feathers and place one feather on the doorstep of the home or of a home of a person that she gossiped about. She did so and hurried back to her father. And when she came back, he told her then to go and collect all of those feathers that she had placed on the doorsteps of those she had gossiped. About. Much later, the daughter returned to her father, very forlorn. She confessed her inability to retrieve any of the feathers she had placed on the doorsteps. That is the lesson, said the father. When you lie and gossip, you cannot take back what you have said. It is forever gone, and no one is spared the hurt. This from Proverbs 12, verse 18. There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. Here is a great contrast with the negative stated first. It is first because it is a great danger. Sword thrust, when they hit the mark, kill. We already heard that words can lead to death, and here they kill in a bloody manner. And the killing words are rash words. But what compels a person to speak rashly? We should be able to connect the topic this morning to the one last week and see that selfish pride is a frequent cause for rash words. We might become so upset that our pride is bruised that we feel we must say something. And what we say is rash. And what is rash is what is ill-tempered, illogical, and likely cruel. The wise tongue, in contrast, is one that speaks words of temperance. And words of temperance have a much better chance of bringing healing. Imagine that you are in a heated debate. That you deem personal. And by personal I mean that you see your position in society or the perception that others have about you, you see that as at stake. The other person is throwing accusation after accusation toward you, and you hear half-truths and cheap shots, and in your head you have accusations and cheap shots you want to throw back your attacker. But then you stop. You reason that what you have to say back to your accuser will solve nothing. There will be no chance of reconciliation. And so you temper your words to say only that you're sorry to have hurt your attacker. And such a response gives opportunity for a healed relationship. The relationship may or may not heal, but tempered words were the only way to find out So let us now turn to Proverbs that speak positively about speech. And we have to ask this, what are the characteristics of wise speech? godly speaking. What does that look like? What is contained within that speech? Well the Bible, as you know, has much to say to answer that question, but we are confining ourselves to the truth as in Proverbs. So the first thing we can note about wise and godly speech is that it is honest. Wise and godly speech is honest. This is from Proverbs 12, 17. Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment. Truthful lips endure forever because truth endures forever. Mankind in his foolish wisdom can deny truth and the existence of absolutes, but they will never go away. Truth is from God, and God is forever, so truth is forever. From Proverbs 24, verse 26. Whoever gives an honest answer kisses the lips. Now the honesty mentioned here is not, hear this now, honesty is not personal opinion. Some people take pride in being bold with their opinions as if there is a virtue of stating what you think when actually what you think and then what you say is rude. No, the honesty here is being a true witness. It is stating facts as you know them, regardless of the outcome. The same understanding is found in Proverbs 14, 5. A faithful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies. There is reason why the ninth commandment, thou shalt not bear false witness, why it is worded in a judicial manner. God is concerned that justice be met. God is just and therefore expects his people to stand for justice. A false witness prefers what is unjust and thus becomes an enemy of God. From Proverbs 26, verse 28. A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin. We have already Noted that lying creates victims. Therefore, purposeful liars reveal that they have hate within their heart. And the verse also reminds us that a liar can be a flatterer who speaks words of praise only for selfish gain. And such persons lack sincerity, and he who lacks sincerity lacks truth. The intention of proverbs like these is to trick the consciences of those who love God, to get them to commit to being honest in their speech so as not to hurt the God that they love. And next, wise and godly speech is both reticent and self-controlled. Reticent and self-controlled. It is necessary to be reminded that speech is hard to control. Christians learn that lesson all too early in their walk with Christ. It can be simply understood that the fewer words a Christian speaks, the happier and holier he or she will be. From Proverbs 29, verse 11. A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back. And notice this proverb recognizes that it is a person's personal spirit that vents. It is not the spirit of God that vents, it is a person's own spirit. Thus, the motivation is about self. It is the temptation of the devil to get a Christian to believe that you can Can't take a situation any longer. And you must, you must speak your mind. Please. To believe that is to be hooked by the devil and hooked by one's own flesh. No situation, no situation needs any of us at any time to speak our minds. Venting is a selfish act, and a wise person knows that to be true. And hear these proverbs from chapter 13, verse 3. Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life. He who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. And from chapter 21, verse 3. Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble. While there are many things that happen in our lives that are beyond our control, what we say, and the results by what we say are most certainly under our control. If you want to reduce trouble in your life, then keep what you want to say to yourself. Bite your tongue until it bleeds, if necessary. From Proverbs 15, verse 28. The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. The Christian life is a life of prayer. Amen. And as a life of prayer It is to be a part of our prayers to ask the Holy Spirit if what we are about to say is necessary, kind, and truthful. If we miss any of those standards, then what we have to say should not be said. In our minds and our hearts, we should be asking in a conversation, dear Lord, You know what I'm about to say. If what I'm about to say is not necessary, kind, or truthful, tell me, so that I don't say it. And God will speak back to us. It doesn't, it won't be audible, doesn't need to be. It'll be yes or no. He'll check with our spirit. And likely he'll say No, it doesn't need to be said, and we're quiet. That's a prayerful life. That's the Christian life Here are these next Proverbs from chapter 29, verse 20. Do you see a man who is hasty with his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him. And from chapter 10, verse 19, when words are many, transgression is not lacking. But whoever restrains his lips is prudent. That should be obvious to us why Proverbs teaches us these things, saying them in so many different ways. It is because sinning with our speech is so easily done and thus so prevalent. It is because the sins of talking too quickly and talking too much that we say what is not for us to say. We say what is unkind. We say what is unnecessary. What we say becomes careless, groundless, selfish, and thus altogether foolish. The teachings from Proverbs regarding listening as opposed to speaking go so far as to prefer Prefer to be a fool and be silent than to speak. This is from Proverbs 17, verse 27 and 28. Whoever restrains his words has knowledge. And he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise. When he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent. And let us think practically for a moment what it looks like to speak less. You will remember the faithful Christian minister Diedrich Bonhoeffer, who was killed by the Nazis because his Christian faith called him to resist the Nazi regime. Bonhopper secretly trained men for Christian ministry, and he did so with this rule. He did not allow Christian brothers to speak about one another in any way if the other man being spoken about was not present. In a parish such as this, I submit the rule should be That if speech is critical in nature about anyone in the parish, it should not be spoken unless who is being spoken about is present. Can we live by that? That's the standard of Scripture. Such a rule will save us from a great deal of discord and thus a great deal of sin Now the third and final point that Proverbs teaches us about godly and wise speech is that it is kind. Godly speech is kind speech. Kind speech about and toward others is part of our great calling in life. For that great calling is to love God. And our neighbor as ourself. Hear these following proverbs in succession. Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down, but a good word makes him glad. A gentle tongue is a tree of life. The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. The lips of the righteous feed many. Gracious words are like honeycomb, sweetness to the soul, and health to the body. Whoever covers an offense seeks love, but he who repeats a matter separates close friends. And these lessons take us back to our very first point this morning, which was to acknowledge the intrinsic power of our words. These lessons also teach us that we need not live under a vow of silence. It may have sounded like that this morning. We can speak and our speech can have power But it must be guarded. Our speech must be edited by the Holy Spirit. We are to do inventory in our hearts and notice when pride and carelessness are leading us. We must repent and choose humility. Christian, regarding our speech, we must live by principles and not by circumstances. When Jesus spoke, he spoke words of eternal life. His church is to speak words of eternal life. His church is made up of individuals, you and me. We are to be the tongues for the world that speak words of eternal life. So let's do that. Amen. Let us pray.