We now come to the end of our study of Saint John's first epistle. After reading the last verses of St. John's first letter, a letter we have been studying for three and a half months I found myself thinking, going back, back again to the last verse, little children, keep yourselves from idols. It is likely that the verse seemed to be written in bold to me and acted as if it was glaring at me, because while reading through the prophets of the Old Testament for the reading the Bible through a 90 days project, it was repeated over and over again as the primary sin of Israel and the primary sin of Judah. Idol worship. We moderns are tempted to gloss over the sin of idol worship because idols don't exist in the Western world. We don't see anyone, non-Christians included, physically bowing down to images of false gods. Thus it would seem that John's words don't apply to us. That is a lie, and we can know it is a lie because these Christians that John was writing to also were not bowing down to physical images. As we consider the context of this letter and the historical situation that surrounded the audience of St. John We can know that the idols that would tempt them could have been im could not have been images made of wood, stone, or precious metals. Instead, they would have been the same type of idols that tempt the modern world today. And with those, we must include false conceptions of God and false conceptions of Jesus. A few Wednesdays ago, I asked those attending Bible study to brainstorm a list of modern idols that we Christians must guard ourselves against. Money was a general answer, and most certainly is tempting to us. We can too easily put our trust in money and not in God. who is our only true provider. We can falsely think that having money would solve most of our worries. In truth, as so many people who win or earn a great deal of money will testify, new money brings a whole new set of worries and a new set, and that new set includes the selling of your soul. Another idol can be worldly success, very much connected to money Worldly success includes greater positions of power, greater positions of influence, and places of prestige. A person can pursue an advanced degree, for example, to be better able to use the gifts God has given to the greatest extent. Or he or she can pursue the same advanced degree for the praise of men. And the motives can also be mixed. The way to test as to whether worldly success is your idol is to see if your definition for success matches that of God's. Jesus said, we are to seek first the kingdom of God. Jesus said that the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Jesus said, we are not to parade ourselves before men. Jesus said, Blessed are the poor and the meek. Put those goals in front of you, and worldly success will be an idol smashed. Another idol that is a great temptation for us is the idol of family. There is a reason. Consider that there is a reason, Jesus says, that we are to hate. He used that word, it's the way we translate it in the English. We have to hate our mother, brother, sister, and father if we are going to follow him. To hate, in the context of the words of Jesus regarding the family, is to love less. And the standard we are to love less than, well, that's Jesus. Jesus is to be the height of our love, and all other things in our lives must be loved. less. This might be an awkward topic to bring up on Mother's Day of all Sundays, for we are accepting it as very a very good thing that we honor our mothers. But the mothers worthy of the greatest honor are those who love Jesus. For they show their children and their children's children what is most important. A mother who makes her children the center of her life has made an idol. And John says, keep yourselves from idols. The last idol I will mention, with no attempt to pretend to be exhaustive in listing modern idols, the last idol I identify this morning is a false conception of God and of Jesus. I believe this to be a type of idol, John would have us consider, because He was addressing people who believed God the Father would never send his Son Jesus to exist in the world as in the flesh. Recall when we were just beginning our study of this letter of John's that he needed to address the false teaching that Jesus was never a real man, but only appeared as a real man. To these false teachers, Jesus could not have been made a real human flesh of real human flesh, because they already believed that real human flesh was corrupted. And therefore Jesus, the Son of God, would not join himself to what was corrupted. This type of thinking is what logicians identify as circular reasoning. We accept a premise and then reject a counter-premise based off of the first premise we already believe is true without further examination. Here's the argument. Premise. Human flesh is corrupt. Conclusion. Jesus did not take on a human flesh form. Reason? Human flesh is corrupt. Such reasoning cannot, cannot stand on its own. And while you and I do not have trouble with believing Jesus and putting on human flesh. We too might be guilty of making an idol of a god that does not exist. As an example, consider what happens to the psyche of a Christian who accepts the premise that bad things do not happen to God's people. Now, if bad things do not happen to God's people, and my son gets cancer, or my daughter gets molested. Or my wife is falsely accused of a crime, or I myself get beat up on the street, then I am at a crossroad. I am at a crossroad because cancer, molestation, false accusations, and getting beat up. Those are bad things. I am forced to conclude that either God didn't keep his promises to me, or I am not a child of God. Either conclusion leaves my soul empty, hopeless, angry, and eventually bitter, very bitter. Of course, the whole problem is that my first premise, that nothing bad happens to God's people, well, that was false. God never promised such a thing. And such a promise does not come close to how Jesus warned his followers when he said that he himself would suffer, and that afterward his disciples would suffer. The premise that bad things do not happen to God's people does not match with what happened to the disciples and what happened to the to the many martyrs of the Christian faith after them, and continues to happen to martyrs today in the Middle East There is a reason, beloved. A reason that God will wipe away our tears. There is a reason for our crying. There's a reason why God will wipe away our tears when heaven is realized. Tears will be wiped away because, because there will be no more children lost and mothers lost during childbirth. There will be no more cancer. There will be no more birth defects. There will be no more rape. There will be no more murder. There will be no more abuse of any kind. There will be no more rioting. There will be no more injustices by judges or juries. There will be no more fear of sin, and certainly in the end, no fear of death. It has been a number of years that I have shared the following story from this pulpit, so I think it is time to share it again Sharing it in the context of making for ourselves a false image of God. When I was in my early twenties and serving as a youth minister in Kennewick, Washington, at a mid-sized Nazarene parish. I also found myself ministering to newly married couples and young families, even though I was their peer. And no, please, understand, please, that at that time I had no formal theological training, for I I had yet to attend seminary. In fact, it was the following encounter that was that played a part in motivating me to get formal training. Bobby Lynn and I were at the home of a young couple for a meal and fellowship. The young couple was married as long as we had been, about two years. They had a young child, as we did. After swapping fun stories, the conversation got serious as they've opened up to us that they were not doing well intimately. Now again, I was green about such matters myself, so my head was spinning a bit when the conversation started to go the direction it was going. The gist of their concern was that the young wife did not want to be intimate with her husband because she was and always had associated intimacy with violence. And she knew why she associated intimacy with violence. It was because she was raped when she was 15 years old. She told a heartbreaking story about how she had given her life to Jesus when she was around 12 years old, and she took her faith very seriously. She would have never found herself in a situation where she could have been raped, but her older sister was to take care of her while her parents were out of town one weekend. This older sister took her to a party where there was drinking and drugs. This put the young girl in a terrible situation that was taken advantage of by A boy three years, her elder, a rapist. She shed tears while telling us this story, and then asked me a direct question. Where was Jesus when I was being raped? I trust You would understand why I emphasized that I had had no formal training in theology or counseling to reference to reference how I should answer such a question But the Holy Spirit was enough. I said, or the Holy Spirit said to the young woman, Jesus was being raped with you. I remember my answer so vividly because, number one, I knew it was not for me. And number two, it was so very profoundly true. You see, the false image of Jesus is that nothing bad happens to those who believe in him and follow him. The true image of Jesus is that he suffers with us when we suffer. He does not leave us alone, but suffers with us, cries with us, and prays for us. And that truth, as I just stated, good people, that truth, that truth heals. It heals. It breaks down false idols and heals. If you have suffered and all the while wondered where Jesus was, The footprints in the sand poem, it's very good. But it is healing to know that Jesus was with you and therefore suffered with you, and thus he knows you. He truly knows you. At the heart of the young woman's mistrust and confusion was the lack of confidence that Jesus that Jesus actually loved her. Cared for her, and wanted the best for her. Her confidence in her relationship with God was greatly damaged by her expectations upon God that were not met. But the God that she worried about and had lost confidence in was not the true God who made heaven and earth It was not Jesus the Christ, Son of the Living God. It was instead an idol. It was a God she had imagined, and not the God who reveals himself. As I have repeated in these sermons from 1 John, the main goal is for Christians to be confident. confident in their God, confident in Jesus, confident in their salvation. That confidence is to be gained by going through a series of tests we've been examining. To be sure we have the Holy Spirit that it's dwelling within us, which means it's empowering us to overcome sin and to know the voice of God. to know the voice of God. In fact, the word know is a very important word for John. He wants us to know, as he says in chapter 5, verse 13. To know we have eternal life. The two primary verbs meaning to know in the Greek occur almost 40 times in this letter. Also occurring many times in the Gospel of John. John wants Christians to know, to know they have eternal life, to have confidence in our relationship with God. To know that heaven is our eternal home. Even that word confidence is used in this chapter, verse 14. John wants us to be certain of things, the most important of things. And the tests, if you will, are summarized here at the end of John's letter. The first one, we are to love one another. And that was last described in the manner of praying for a brother and sister andor sister in Christ who is in sin. We described this last week The second test to know we are born again is when we keep ourselves from sinning. Verse 18 here in chapter 5. As we discussed earlier, John does not mean that Christians do not continue to sin, but that a Christian is no longer defined by sin. Because Christians are born of God, there has been in them a decisive and clear, evident break with the nature of sin. The new birth changes all parts of the life of a Christian, and that includes morally. The sin that leads to death does not trouble a believer. You don't need to pray for that, we learned from John. And this is also why the wicked one, the devil, cannot touch us. For our new nature is born of Jesus, and Jesus has placed the devil under his feet, and therefore under our feet. In contrast, of the new nature of Christians is the sway and influence the devil has upon the world. And here is the great ironies that only Christians can see and thus know. While the ungodly would see us as delusional, even psychologically broken. The truth is quite different. Sigmund Freud made the argument that Christians show symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder, because many practice rituals. But it is the unbeliever who is delusional. People honestly believe that they are captains of their own fate. They honestly believe that. When in fact They are servants of the devil. They are in his grip and under his control. The Bible reminds us that for a time this is his world, the devil's world. At least it is his world from the standpoint of those who continue to belong to him and are thus subject to him. Notice, please, that St. John says the world lies. It's its posture. It lies in the power of the evil one. The ungodly world has a posture of surrender and even relaxation. It is lying down. It is not struggling to break free. It is content to serve the devil. I cannot help but remember when I read this passage how arrogant atheist can be in their condemnation of the religious. How confident they are that it is the Christian who is the fool because we deny what is empirically evident to them They speak as though they see clearly when in truth there is a spiritual world of deception that continues to call them to not look behind the curtain, to not see the that the wizard is a fraud. The third and final test was doctrinal. We who are Christian, we who are Christian are to believe that Jesus came in the flesh, that he was born of water, born of blood, both necessitating flesh. That is the truth that John speaks about in verse 20. We are to know him who is true. And what is true about Jesus was that he was fully God and fully man. He was and is fully divine and fully flesh. And so here we we come back around to the last verse. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Through these tests, through the messages of these tests, we are to conclude that anything else, anything else is idol worship. And when we know that, can we not better see how those who insist that they can marry their own gender and still follow Jesus are under the spell of the devil and are presently worshiping the idol of immorality. And can we now better understand that those who can espouse hate of their fellow man, while claiming themselves followers of Jesus, are blinded by the devil as they worship an idol of disingenuous love. And we now better recognize that those who want to redefine who Jesus is so that he fits who they want him to be are fooled by the devil over and over again and are worshiping an idol that they wish. was God. Indeed. We can see better, understand better, recognize better. Because God in Jesus for us makes all things new John ends with a warning against idols because anything can be an idol to us. And because anything can be an idol to us, we can only stay away from idols By following Jesus. And so I end with a commission to you Tell someone who does not know Jesus that's truth this week. Everything else is an idol. And the only way to stay away from idols is to follow Jesus. Tell them They need to follow Jesus. Amen