In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are continuing our series in the book of First Corinthians. We are covering 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 25 through 40, which was our epistle reading. Encourage you to turn there in your Bible. The Apostle Paul was wrong. The Apostle Paul was wrong. Does that unnerve you to hear me say that? It should, because you don't know why I'm saying it. If you ever wondered why churches and denominations go from believing the Bible and all that it teaches To not believing it, especially its most important part, it is usually caused by the seminaries of the particular denomination That should not force you to conclude that seminaries alone as institutions are the cause of Christian liberalism, because they are not. It is the heart of humanity that is the cause. But what happens at many seminaries is reoccurring. Professors are hired who have little to no experience being a pastor, and yet they are to train future pastors. And these professors are given classes to teach and are also expected to do research and to be published in books or scholarly journals in order to raise the prestige of the seminary and thus garner grants and financial gifts from alumni and supporters. In order to be published, professors must find new information in their particular field of study. Because so much has been written about the Bible, to find new information forces professors to speculate about what the Bible does not say and then to defend their speculations. When this happens, the Holy Scriptures are reinterpreted, and the authority of the Scripture in the eyes of the professors and the students, well, it's lessened. And this happens again and again until the scripture has no authority in the eyes of future pastors. Add to these realities the spirit of the age that vagues Christians to fall in line with progressive thinking, and you have a complete abandonment of the Christian faith. But back to my point that the Apostle Paul was wrong. When saying this, I am not doubting the authority of Holy Scripture. The apostle was wrong when he thought that Jesus would return in his lifetime. Now please don't hear me say that he was wrong to think that Jesus would return in his lifetime. All Christians are to live their lives Believing that Jesus is going to return in their lifetime. You and I are to believe that. To think in such a manner is to motivate Christians to be ready for Jesus. Paul was simply wrong in that Jesus did not return in his lifetime. And it is Paul's conclusion. That Jesus is going to return that causes him to address the issue of not being married. I am being open with you when I say that I really don't like to preach this section of Scripture. I am a man who believes that the institution of marriage is so very sacred and so very necessary to practice and embrace. Because it saves generations from so many sins that corrupt our individual lives and corrupt our culture. But these are St. Paul's words, and these words are inspired by God, and so they must be heard and they must be understood. And I am identifying the providence of God in that we are addressing a teaching of St. Paul that is most certainly controversial, a teaching to a Gentile people. As we are on the eve of Epiphany, where we celebrate God revealing salvation to the Gentiles, you and me. The overriding message being, and I I want you to hold on to this, of this passage of scripture, the overriding meaning Is for Christians to redeem the time for the days are evil. Redeem the time for the days in which we live are evil. The apostle gives three reasons why a person should not marry. You remember after struggling, or suggesting, excuse me, the same earlier in the chapter. He went on to explain the proper behavior that is to be had between a husband and wife in a marriage. Each spouse should be available to the other for physical passion to be expressed. Each spouse should also allow himself or herself to be used for the sanctification of the other. And after giving those two instructions, he turns his attention again to those who are in the church yet unmarried. And as a side note, I wish for you to notice that I'm using the term unmarried. This is as opposed to the term single. And it is not as though the word single is a bad word, but it does separate the unmarried into a category of appearing to be ostracized from community, single, by themselves I heard a story several years ago of a minister and his family sitting at a church function. All of the singles were being recognized as available, and prayers were being offered up on their behalf to find someone and the person that was doing the speaking identified the pastor's daughter as being single The pastor's quick retort was, She is not single, she is a daughter. And the point of that retort was to claim her as not being separate from the community of faith. Being single or unmarried is not a disease, such as leprosy, which separates a person from the rest of society. The unmarried can and do play a vital role in the health of the community of faith. Of course they do, and Paul will explain how. The unmarried should not be seen as mere singles, but be seen as daughters and sons and friends and mothers and fathers. And finally, and most importantly, they are members of the body of Christ, like all of us are. So turning back to our text, we again see that Paul submits three reasons why persons within the church of his day should remain unmarried. The first was the increased suffering marriage would bring. The second is the transitory nature of all earthly things. And the third is the comparative freedom From care in being unmarried. The address begins by referring to virgins. It is assumed that those who are not married and are in the church are virgins. This does not mean that the unmarried are disqualified if they are not virgins. God can make all of us virgins by his grace. The apostle precedes his comments again with a qualifying remark that he has no command from the Lord about this topic. Christ Jesus did not speak about the issue. He did not counsel his apostles either about it. Paul then is making it clear that he is giving his opinion. And again, his opinion is based on the belief that Jesus and his return is imminent. And so this is what we should do. So, in the apostle's opinion, the first reason a person who is unmarried should stay the same is due to the possible suffering marriage could bring. And it's not the suffering you might be thinking about. This suffering is not due to the torment one suffers from a burdensome spouse. In the apostle's words, he calls the suffering the present crisis. As I said, the apostle believed the words of Jesus. He believed The Lord's words when Jesus told his disciples that the about the signs of the end of the age, which we read from the gospel according to St. Luke, there was a promise there that The generation that was following Jesus would not pass away until all of these things took place. The Apostle Paul lived and taught and preached as if any day could be his last day and the last day of his peers. He of course was correct in this belief, but it happened differently than what he expected in terms of Jesus returning When Jesus prophesied as to what would happen at the end of the age, as we read in Luke, He was describing what was fulfilled in A. D. 70 when the city of Jerusalem was destroyed at the hands of the Romans. False cries appeared at that time. Wars and rumors of wars alarmed the masses. There were earthquakes and famine. Christians were persecuted to their death. It was a dreadful time for those in the city of Jerusalem as they fled to the mountains, as pregnant women were especially susceptible to mistreatment. All of this was what the Savior warned about to the generation that he was speaking to. So although this was fulfilled in AD 70, these warnings apply to us as much as they did to the first century church. But we have lost a sense of urgency. Every age has its moments of crisis. Every age has signs of the end. They all eventually lead to the real end of time and the return of Christ. Yet today we are easily lulled into casualness. The return of Christ has been spoken about for almost 2,000 years, and still he is not here. The message no longer has the intensity it once had, especially for the first generation. Our behavior in everyday life usually does not reflect a belief that Christ is coming and he's coming soon. But look around you, my friends. Pay attention to the world in which we live. As already stated, each age has signs of the end. We right now hear of wars and rumors of wars, Iraq and Iran. We have numerous false Christs, false teachers. The information age has brought us these false teachers to our front door daily. Morally right is called morally wrong, and morally wrong is called morally right. The younger generation thinks they are awake when they call females males and males females, or simply ignore gender differences altogether. They are not woke, but sleepwalking at best. Such are signs of the end, signs of Christ coming again. And as many people may perceive, Christ not coming soon, we often forget that he comes to people daily. As men and women have their lives snuffed out unexpectedly. A man who is swept away by a storm crushed in an accident or taken out by a heart attack is a man who has had Christ come again specifically to him Do not forget what the apostle tells us. With the Lord, a day is of a thousand years. A thousand years is like a day. The Lord is not slow in keeping his promises, as some understand, slowness. He is patient with you, not wanting any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. This is why the apostle thinks it is good for us to remain as we are. To be married places us in a susceptible position. Fleeing to the mountains, enduring persecution, and suffering hardship is better done as an unmarried person, without a doubt. The heartache of watching a loved one endure suffering is much more difficult than bearing such suffering yourself. The second reason to remain unmarried is the transitory nature of earthly things. This is expressed in the apostles' words, those who marry will face many troubles in this life. Such troubles include fleeting moments of joy in marriage, but also mourning in death, trials for each day. Those who use the things of this world will find them passing away all too quickly. We must be honest and confess that the merry life can be one of monotony. That is to say, that there is an aspect of married life that is tedious and time-consuming. The tedious things we do do not always appear to have lasting value Keeping the kitchen clean, washing clothes, paying bills, caring for the lawn, or like the jobs we become engrossed in by sweat and worry. And the end of time as we do them doesn't seem to matter. In the moment there appears to be no connection between mowing the lawn and eternity. Except for sometimes mowing the lawn seems to take an eternity. Much of what we do within the context of our homes seems to have no immediate value. The great irony is that this world is in its present form passing away. And we spend a large portion of our lives trying to maintain it. But that perception is false, as I will soon address. As an unmarried man, the apostle had little investment in the present form of the world. He was a tent maker, you remember, who only worked enough so he could earn money to travel and to eat He was free from the responsibilities of a wife and children. He was free to invest his life in that which would not pass away, the kingdom of God. And this moves us to the third reason for remaining unmarried. The unmarried have freedom from the cares of this world. Monasteries and nunneries were developed with this thought in mind, with this principle in mind. A nun within the Roman Catholic Church is understood to be married by vow to Jesus Christ. As a full-time servant, she is able to be concerned solely with the Lord's affairs. A monk is concerned to have the same is is considered to have the same freedom as he devotes himself solely to studying, preserving, and teaching the Word of God. Of course one does not have to join a monastery or a nunnery to be wholly devoted to God. The description the apostle uses in verse 39 regarding a wife's responsibility to her spouse. Leaves little room for doubt that married life restricts one's freedom, at least as Paul is describing it. The wife is described as bound to her husband. She is bound by her vow. Her vow to her husband requires her to perform certain duties. And restricts her ability to move freely about as the Spirit of God might otherwise call her to do. That's a reality. In saying all of this, it may appear to some that the apostle fails to see the glories of marriage. And we confirmed two weeks ago that he certainly does understand the glories of that marriage covenant. He also understands that when a wife is bound in her duties to her husband, she is glorifying God. He understands that when a man is working within a With the concern about the things of this world, he is doing so for the benefit of his family, and God is well pleased. What undergirds the opinion of the apostle is again what is articulated to the Ephesian church. He is telling them to redeem the time, make use of the time. For the days in which you live are evil. The apostle is like a prophet In earnest. He feels the end of the age approaching. He senses the calling of the Lord in his own life and the lives of those around him. With his personal end approaching, he wants nothing to interfere with his devotion to Christ. If time is going to be redeemed, the church must act now. But what does this mean for us in this now new year twenty twenty? An obstacle before the church today that St. Paul did not have is that reality again. that it is almost 2,000 years having passed and Jesus has not returned. And because of that reality, it gets easier with each passing decade to be less urgent about his return. But Jesus didn't tell us to be urgent about his return. He simply told us to be ready. And as I stated, his return will at least be personal to each of us as we all face our own mortality. Because of our individual mortality, Jesus will return to us, and we are to be ready. And so we are to redeem our time, we are to redeem our days, our hours, we are to make them count. But how do we redeem our time? Well, this may sound a bit different than what the Apostle Paul is pointing to when he reveals that a married person gets tied up in worldly responsibilities, but I think he's pointing to a greater Responsibility, a greater principle. To redeem the times we live in, we must start by fulfilling our personal obligations. That's what he means by staying where you are. If you are in a present position, stay there and do your responsibilities. For those who are married or wish to be married, take care of your spouse. Do your job well. Learn in school if that's where you are. Train your children in the Lord if that's where you are. Pay your tithe and your bills, and yes, even your taxes. Do the basic things of responsible living in this world in order to train yourself for the world to come. The things of this world are passing away, and so we don't cling to them, but instead we use them to better our preparation. I heard an exchange from psychiatrist Dr. Jordan Peterson and a young college student that makes this point so glary. The college student challenged Peterson about his teaching that people should concern themselves first and foremost about their personal responsibilities rather than taking up social and political issues of today. The essence of the challenge was that young people should concern themselves with pressing global matters rather than trivial responsibilities such as cleaning their rooms. Peterson's response was simplistically brilliant when he said the following. People who don't have their own houses in order should be very careful before they go about reorganizing the world. He went on to say that, quote, generally, people have things in their personal lives that are more difficult to deal with and that they are avoiding. That generally they avoid them by adopting pseudo-moralistic stances on large-scale social issues so that they look good to their friends and neighbors. Such a diagnosis is dead on when describing the self-righteousness being expressed in our present day by mass media and again the woke generation. And I am arguing, it is what St. Paul is arguing to the Corinthians. Instead of getting caught up with the issues of the world, we are going to go about redeeming the time in which we live. By doing the things that matter eternally, and to prepare ourselves for the things that will ultimately last for eternity. If we get good at our personal responsibilities, we are indeed preparing ourselves for the coming again of Jesus. And this goes to the principle Jesus taught in the parable of the talents, where we learn to be faithful in the small things, and he will make us responsible for greater things. And those greater things are eternal things. And so, clean your room. Care for your spouse. Be accountable for your personal responsibilities. And when Jesus comes again to you personally or splits the eastern sky You are ready. Let us pray. Our Father, we are challenged by The simpleness of Paul's message of how to stay where we are and to be our best where we are. That in the end we might be prepared for your coming, whether it be personal or whether it be for your whole church. May that convict us enough, Father, to move, to change if need be, or to continue in faith as you call us to be. Above all, Heavenly Father, we want to be ready. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen