In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost Amen. Please be seated. We are in Exodus chapter seventeen. As a kid, I only got into fist fights with my brother. There were times when I had stare-downs with my peers, and I was threatened by other kids from a distance, said they were going to beat me up, never came over and did it So I have never known whether I would have been a good fighter. The only thing I knew about myself was that I would not back down to anyone because of my ego. It wouldn't allow me to do it. I was once cornered by two guys near my eighth grade locker who said I should either get down on my knees and Kiss the ground or they were going to beat me up. It didn't take long for a crowd to gather around to see what I was going to do. And again, I assume it was the size of my ego that made me determined to refuse to bend down and kiss the ground, though I knew those guys could smash my face in Thankfully a teacher broke up the gathering and later after my older brother found out what had happened I happened to receive a nice apology from one of the guys telling me it was all a joke. When I knew it wasn't. Another point of fear faced in my life was that as a freshman in high school football camp. The football team would go away to a local community college for the week to concentrate on football only. And one of the first drills we did after receiving full pads was a tackling drill that was designed to see who was tough and who was not. Now, I already knew that I wasn't tough, but I had to show them that I could overcome fear. The drill was simple, and that they had us get into two lines that faced each other, well not facing each other shoulder to shoulder, but in a straight line. And the team was about 60 players total, so the line was about 30 deep on each side. The head coach stood in the middle at the front of the lines And the other coaches stood off to the side, yelling for the players to get pumped up. And the head coach would have the two players at the front of the line get in the ready position and then tossed the ball to one of the players. You didn't know which one was going to get it. And when the player received the ball, he was to run at the defender, and the defender was to run at the ball carrier. with the basic goal of plowing into each other, again, to see who was tough. Well for a freshman This was frightening, and not just because of the collision that you would have to endure, but because you didn't want to face an upperclassman So all of us freshmen are peering around the players in front of us and counting how many people on that side are would match up to where you're at in the line to see who you would face Well, thankfully I faced a fellow freshman who was my height and my build. And when it was our turn, I could see that my opponent was as wide-eyed as I was And when the ball was tossed to him, we ran straight at each other. Both lowering our heads, our helmets hit crown to crown, and we both went backwards on our elms. And from the whooping and hollering of the coaches, it was a success. And because it was over and I was still alive, I thought I succeeded as well. Of course, such silly stories are nothing like what real men face who have to go to combat When their own lives are on the line, and the lives of their buddies are on the line, and the fate of their country is on the line. When we read of Israel at war with other nations, we must rehearse in our minds what we know about the region. It was a desert land with hills and valleys. We need to rehearse what we know about the weaponry. It was stones, spears, and swords. And we need to remind ourselves of their humanity. They were flesh and blood. They feared for their lives and the lives of their loved ones just as any rational person would. But it was necessary for the fighting men to overcome fear back then, just as it is required of military men to overcome fear today. And what the Bible shows us is that fear is best overcome when you know you are in the right fight. And the right fight is the fight that God has called you to engage. For Israel, the first right fight, the first time they fought as a nation, was against the Amalekites. The Amalekites were the right fight because they attacked Israel. The Amalekites are thought to be descendants of Esau. The brother of Jacob, who sold his birthright, and then Jacob stole it also. The Amalekites And Israel would be enemies because of their history if such history were kept alive by the descendants of Esau. We could say that the Amalekites attacked Israel with no provocation, but consider that Israel was using the land of the Amalekites. And the tribal attitude was, any threat to a tribe's way of life was a reason to go to war. Mose instructions introduce us for the first time to Joshua, who was given the responsibility to lead a fit army against the Amalekites. Well, Moses promises to be a prominent leader by symbolizing to the fighting men how the battle would be won. Moses would stand on a hill with the rod of God's authority in his hand being lifted up so that Israel would be not afraid. But would instead know the presence of God, know it was on their side. And so the leaders of Israel, chosen by God, go up the hill to be seen. Moses and Aaron were over 80 years of age, and we are introduced to a man named Her, who is thought to be the husband of Miriam, sister to Moses. As the battle raged, it had ebbs and flows, and it was noticed by the leaders that these ebbs and flows were related to Moses lifting up his hands. When his hands were lifted up, Israel was succeeding. When his hands, the hands of Moses were lowered, that meant the rod of authority was lowered, and Israel's success lessened. And commentators are in agreement that the main lesson, the main lesson of lifting up hands like Moses, is finding success in battle by Intercessory prayer. The hands lifted up are to represent the act of praying, the act of seeking God's favor. When the hands are lowered, we are being dependent upon ourselves, and thus we find ourselves losing the battle. And there is, of course, much to be commended regarding intercessory prayer. We need to pray for one another We need to pray for our nation. We need to pray for our leaders as Ruth did today. The Bible instructs us to do so. And we need to pray for people who are in battles of their own, battles for their own souls, battles for their children, battles for their loved ones. But I am wondering if there is more to the act of Moses lifting up his hands on a hill. Is not Moses to be a type of Christ to us? Was not Jesus a type of prophet as Moses? And so when Moses goes up on a hill, and when Moses lifts up his hands, is he not a type or a shadow? Of the Son of God who will ascend on a hill and have his hands lifted up on a cross. And did not Jesus say that when he is lifted up, that everyone that believes in him will receive eternal life? So just as Israel looked up to Moses, who raised his hands, and they found victory. So too do all people find victory over sin and over death when they look up to Jesus, who spread out his hands for all of mankind. I believe that meaning has to be in this story. And then there's this need of Aaron and her. To hold up the hands of Moses as Moses tired. And this is a lesson for all leaders. For all leaders need the help of others. No man can or should lead alone. And that is so very true, and any good leader knows it is true. And so we need each other and we need to look for ways to help each other. But again, I wonder if there is something more to notice as these two men helped Moses hold up his hands. There were three of them on that hill, after all. And when we think of our salvation, how the Godhead saves us, we are to notice all three. There is the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost that play a part in our salvation. And Jesus is the Savior, yes. Of course. And the Bible says that the Father, God the Father, was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. And Jesus said that the Holy Spirit would be among us and within us, and that that would be his presence within us. And so we should not fail to see a shadow on that hill of the Godhead, the Trinity, Aaron and her holding up the hands of Moses. And so the Israelites defeated the Amalekites. Again, this is the first battle, the first victory of Israel as a nation. And then they write it down. Historical record. And this is the first recording that we have of something being written down in a book. And the wording of the text implies that that book already existed. So it is likely that it is the same book, the book of Genesis, that the Holy Spirit was having Moses write. And now he is to add to this book of Abraham, book of Jacob, Book of Israel, being saved from the Amalekites. Well because Israel won the day, and because Moses knew why Israel won the day, Moses then worships as a response. God had given the people, his people, the victory. And Moses knows that after such an event, it is natural for our human condition to need to worship. If they did not worship the true God, they would worship something else, because humanity in our fallen state, we worship anything, just as the golden calf will soon teach us. And so Moses leads the people in worship. Now the point of this story for us is intercessory prayer and its importance. Yes, of course. It is to see Jesus on a hill lifted up? Yes. It is leaders needing help? Yes. It is the Trinity saving God's people. Yes. But another point that is needed for us is how we need to fight. There is a reason why Saint Paul used the metaphor of armor needed to live the Christian life. Usually we hear the metaphor from the epistle to the Ephesians, but Paul repeats that metaphor of armor being worn in his letter to the Thessalonians. Which is a letter that could have very well been the second letter Paul ever wrote to the Christian church. And if it is the second letter Paul ever wrote, such would emphasize how important it is. To those early Christians to understand that their walk with Jesus is not a stroll in the park, but a march on a battlefield. Remember, I have said this. The devil has two goals for you. Two. The first is to achieve your death. And the second is to lead you to deny to deny your faith in Jesus Christ. And since the first goal cannot be achieved unless the Heavenly Father allows it, The second goal is where he places most of his efforts. And the devil's modus operandi has not changed. He first works to get you to doubt what God has said to be true, and then replace what God has said to be true with any lie that you would like to believe. This is what he did with Eve. He worked her so that she first didn't remember precisely what God had said. God said, don't touch, don't eat. And then she was led to no longer believe that what God had told her that she would die if she ate that forbidden fruit. The devil is usually subtle, always subtle. And for adults, for adults, it might be that we read a new scientific study coming out that puts into doubt the origin of the universe or who controls the universe. It may be a study that claims a new morality. And if we are not engaged in warfare, If we do not have the helmet of salvation on, we might start to think that such a study might be true And therefore what the Bible says about God as creator, or God being sovereign, or God's moral law being the authority, or maybe of Jesus historically actually living, dying. Rising, that may be fictitious. This type of battle, most adults face. And by the way, a lecture I heard several weeks ago, I mentioned it last week, took scientific study claims to the task by arguing that most scientific studies that make headlines are not scientific at all, but pure speculation for the sake of headline reading. It was a quite provoc provocative presentation. Now as for the battles we face, there is a different type of battle our children face, especially if they attend public school. But this even happens in private schools It is peer pressure. It is the pool that everyone else is doing it or everyone else is not doing it, and therefore our children are tempted very strongly to join the crowd. And this too was part of the devil's temptation technique with Adam and Eve. He convinced them that they could be like God and be like him. knowing personally what is good and what is evil. He tempted them by calling them to join the crowd. It didn't matter that God knew good and evil being greater than evil, and that the devil knew good and evil by practicing evil. That was a technicality the devil didn't share. God would have shown Adam and Eve what good and evil was if they would have overcome the temptation to do evil, just as Jesus did. But Adam and Eve wanted to experience evil, and so they sinned. For our children, the temptations to be like the crowd are numerous. and seemingly more than my generation experienced or the generation before me experienced Children are tempted, we know, to join the crowd by taking drugs, drinking alcohol, having sex, but not just having sex with the opposite sex only Children are tempted to join the crowd by rebelling against parents, stealing from parents, shaming classmates, participating with or in pornography. destroying property, escaping into virtual realities, taking pride in laziness, cheating in school, betraying trust through social media And whatever else the crowd can think of doing that would look cool and be embarrassing to the parents. And kids are tempted to follow their peers in what they do not do, especially go to church If our children are asking their classmates or their neighbors how many of them attend church on Sunday, the number would be terribly low. And our children would feel even more isolated, even more alone. And feeling isolated and feeling alone is fertile ground. Fertile ground for a child to give into the temptation to join their peers. There is a battle raging right now for the souls of our children. And we, every one of us, in some way need to engage in that fight. So there are personal battles we are engaged in, and there are battles for our children we must fight, and there are others still. There is a battle for our marriages. Every person here that is married is under attack, as the devil would love to destroy Christian families by separating husbands and wives. Husbands and wives need to engage that battle and fight for their marriage because God hates divorce And because the fallout of divorce in the Christian marriage could lead to children no longer trusting what their parents taught them about God and no longer being able to know what unconditional love looks like or feels like. And then there are the battles that go on in the church There is the battle for churches to remain faithful to the gospel, to not give in to false spirits that speak of relativism. And be a follower of the culture instead of salt and life in a city on a hill. And there are personal battles that the devil stirs up within the local churches. Tempt us to fight with one another over trivial issues. And for some, they're not trivial at all. They mean everything. A result of my teaching a class on New Testament survey has caused me to notice How Paul ends his epistles to the churches, these local churches, with some sort of encouragement for them to get along and for them to forgive one another. The warnings are so that the local church does not let the devil get a foothold. And you know He has a foothold when you are walking around holding a grudge against a fellow Christian in your church. If you hold that grudge, you are obeying the devil. You are fighting on his side. When it comes to finding success in our battles As the saying goes, eighty percent of success is just showing up For the Christian success in the battle is found in us fighting the good fight and having the faith that because Jesus was lifted up, because Jesus' arms were raised, our battles are won. But you have to stay in the battle to see the fruition of the victories that God has for His people. You have to stay in the battle. You have to continue to stay and fight against your besetting sins. You have to stay and fight for the souls of your children. You have to stay and fight for your marriage. You have to stay and fight for your universal and local church. You have to stay and fight. And I know it gets worrisome, believe me, I know. I know it seems easier to put down the sword. I know. I know you want to see the end is near. It's got to be near. I know. But stay in the fight. We need to stay in it together. And those who stay in the fight are promised those words. Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter into your rest. But we will only hear those words. If we stay in the fight, let us pray.