Always tell me the same thing. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are covering Ezra chapter 8 today, and we started reading at verse 15. But I will be mentioning the verses prior to that, so uh that would be good for your reference. I begin, however, with a song. The lyrics go as follows. Life was filled with guns and war, and all of us got trampled on the floor. I wish we'd all been ready. Children died, the days grew cold, a piece of bread could buy a bag of gold. I wish we all had been ready. There's no time to change your mind. The sun has come and you've been left behind. A man and wife asleep in bed. She hears a noise and turns her head. He's gone. I wish we'd all been ready. Two men walking up a hill. One disappears and one's left standing still. I wish we'd all been ready. There's no time to change your mind. The sun has come and you've been left behind. Children died. The days grew cold. A piece of bread could buy a bag of gold. I wish we'd all been ready. There's no time to change your mind. The sun has come, and you've been left behind. The fathers spoke, the demons died. How could you have been so blind? There's no time to change your mind. The sun has come, and you have been left behind. These lyrics just read are from a song written by a Christian rock musician named Larry Norman. Back in nineteen sixty-nine. Can you believe that? Nineteen sixty-nine It is based on the teaching that Jesus is going to return, and to do so at a time when many say that they are Christian, being unaware that they are not ready for his return. The way of teaching about the end time says that Jesus will rapture, take us out, the church, out of the world, the true faithful. And take them into a heavenly hope, while others who were unprepared will have to stay behind and suffer Many tribulations and even go through the great battle known as Armageddon. I have faded in sermons and Bible studies over my 18 years with you That this interpretation of the end times, beginning with a rapture, and then a tribulation, and then Armageddon, is flawed. It is a flawed understanding of the Bible. And the simple fact that it is a new teaching about the end of days should be reason enough For us to highly scrutinize this teaching. But the one thing this view of the end days does Is literally scare the hell out of anyone who wants to be with Jesus But fears that he or she will not be found worthy. And according to that song means not be ready. The lyrics to the song just read are scary. Guns and wars seem to dominate, and gold can't buy bread, and children are dead. And those who weren't ready for the return of Jesus will witness it all and suffer through it all. That is scary stuff indeed. And being scared can be motivating as a factor to either fight or fight. And since the principalities and powers that which we are to fight are spiritual, Well, those who are left behind only have one option, that is to flight. But where is there to go to be safe from all of this devastation? There is no place. And it is scary indeed. Now I got to thinking about being left behind when reading of Ezra taking inventory of the people who had come with him on his journey to Jerusalem. Chapter 8 is a look back at chapter 7. Chapter 8 provides the details as to who came along with Ezra having received all that he needed to return to Jerusalem. And I admit I am concerned for those of you who have not been with us every Sunday as we walked through Ezra You may not have caught up on the internet listening to the sermons. And so I get concerned that if you hear only bits and pieces of the narrative, it starts to become irrelevant. For your understanding. I therefore wish to rehearse very quickly where we are. The remaining two tribes of Israel were taken into captivity by the Babylonians at the beginning of the 6th century BC, a long time ago. The Babylonians were eventually overthrown by the Persians, and under Persian rule, some Jews who were in captivity were allowed to return to their capital city of Jerusalem near seventy years later Only to find that the temple and the walls around the city were in great disrepair. The first wave of the Jews came back to the city of Jerusalem under the leadership of Zerubbabel, who was a political leader. They first set about the task of rebuilding the temple. Ezra, a high priest, was then allowed to return to Jerusalem to beautify the temple. and return the valuables to its treasury that had been taken by Nebuchadnezzar, and returned those valuables to the place of the holy, or the holy place, and then to the holy of holies. To go back to the holy city of Jerusalem, you remember that Ezra needed to procure proof of his high priesthood. Proof of his skill as a teacher of the law, and then proof of the permission given to him by the king of Persia. He had satisfied all that was necessary for his return, but there were still problems. According to chapter 8, where we are in the narrative, Ezra learned that the Levites, the tribe of men commissioned by God to serve in the temple, had not returned with him. Such an omission was a big deal. Consider that a call had gone out to any and all Jews who wanted to return to the Holy City And upon hearing the call, none, none of those who were Levites, the priests of God, none of them heeded the call. None. Consider even further that the very existence of the tribe of Levi was so that their descendants could worship within the temple of God. It then can only be concluded that upon hearing the call to return to Jerusalem, the holy city of God, the Levites rejected the call with the attitude Of preferring being in captivity under Persian rule. It is difficult. To imagine how they could not see such a choice as being greatly offensive to God. It is to be accepted that there are men who are called of God to the task of leading God's people who do so by finding the easiest route. We can well assume that in the captivity in the lands of Persia, synagogues had been set up. where these priests had prayed and preached God's law while keeping the Sabbath and having God's people gather each week on that Saturday. But when the temple was open to them and the true service they were ordained to practice was available to them. They chose to remain in the synagogues where it was safe for them. There is no right apology for this choosing safety over God's call. There is no explanation for this that puts these Levites in a good light. They were cowards. They were not leaders as they were ordained to be. They are certainly not the role models that God expected them to be To be light, to be safe, to receive a regular paycheck is as much as some men desire. They gain what it is for them, the whole world. And as Jesus said, lose their soul. They lose their soul because they know that God has called them to something greater, something more profound, and it is a call that will cost them their identity, their earthly security. Jerusalem at the time was a very unsafe place in terms of having enemies around the city. They were hostile to the Jews and hostile to their reconstruction of the temple. And they were hostile to any favoritism given to them by the king of Persia. And thus, if any Levite were to go to Jerusalem, he would face enemies and he would be a prime target because he's a leader of the people. And when they heard of this possibility, this unsafe area, they said, no thanks. No thanks said them all. It has been said that this return of the Israelites to the holy city of Jerusalem is to be considered like a second Exodus. Being similar to Israel exiting out of Egypt. And the reluctance of many to return to Jerusalem. You remember it's similar to those who during the Exodus, when they were faced with adversity, they desired to return back to Egypt. We turn back to slavery rather than be free and face their possible demise. Live free or die. That is not in the heart of some. Not during the exodus, not during the return from Persia, and not today. In chapter 8, verse 18, we read that Ezra did indeed procure the necessary Levites to go along with him. Even though they were reluctant, he was able to convince them. And it is at that moment that Ezra needs to publicly acknowledge the hand of God in this return. God had overcome the wills of men. God had to intervene into the hearts of men in order to get them to do as he willed. And as Ezra desires. Thus Ezra says, the good hand of God was upon us. Verse 15. He then says and confesses, when it is evident that there was nothing that they could have done to change the situation, God had to intervene, and God did. The remainder of the narrative in chapter 8 tells how Ezra struggled as to whether or not receive help from the soldiers of the king of Persia. He wanted his faith in God and the faith of the people in God to take care of the people and take care of their possessions. They wanted to be protected by God, not by the horses and soldiers of Persia. And so Ezra prays over their possessions. He prays over the people. And as they travel, they are kept safe from robbers and enemies. And Ezra pronounces, as you see in verse 31, where there he says plainly, God delivered us. The end of the narrative of chapter eight describes how the valuables for the temple were weighed and accounted for. And this was followed by a ceremony of worshiping, where those offered praise to God, offerings to God, who were once children in captivity, under the Babylonians. And then they were ruled by the Persians. And now as adults they had come home to the city of God and were worshiping him freely, freely as their souls desired. Such is the story of Ezra returning to Jerusalem to fulfill his call to beautify the temple and to beautify the people. And this beautifying of the people that will come soon enough, as we shall see in chapter 9. But where I want our focus to be, our attention to be this morning Is the reality of those who were left behind, those who did not come on the journey. Under Zerubbabel, the first wave of the Jews returning to Jerusalem numbered 42,360. Under Ezra, the number of Jews that return was around 5,000. Scholars project that the number of people that return to Jerusalem under Zerubbabel and under Ezra is no more than one-fourth of the total Jewish population that lived in exile in the land of Persia. And that means But the vast majority of God's people chose to stay behind and to live in captivity rather than return to the holy city and to worship God as the law commanded. Only one fourth. Adding these people to the number of Levites who were reluctant to return, and the Levites who never did return. We have different groupings of people that resemble the Christian church today. Different groupings that resemble you and I. The first grouping, the first grouping is made up of those who are in the world and of the world. They think they are Christian, but their way of thinking and living is a product of the world around them. These people have grown accustomed to how the world around them works. And they have modified their lives to adapt and to be a part of the world. These are the people to whom St. Paul says, be not conform to this world These are the ones for whom the law reads from Exodus 23, you shall not follow a multitude to do evil, neither shall you side with many who pervert justice. And hear this warning from St. James to these people of the world. Know you not that friendship with the world means enmity with God. These are the people for whom Saint John describes as having once been with us But have since left us, and because they have left us, we can conclude that they never were truly a part of us. Such is sad. The existence of such people is painful, and it is real. When I first read The Last Battle, which is the last installment of the Narnia book series written by C. S. Lewis. I remember resenting how Susan, the once queen of Narnia, and known as the gentle queen, how she is described. The three other children, Peter, Edmund, and Lucy, all die in a train accident. And that takes them on to their final journey. Their journey to the real Narnia, which is heaven. Susan, on the other hand, is left behind. She is described by other characters in the book as being only interested in nylons, lipstick, and invitations. She is described by Polly Plummer as follows, quote, She wasted all her school time wanting to be the age she is now. And she'll waste all the rest of her life trying to stay that age. Her whole idea is to race on to the silliest time of one's life as quick as she can. And then stop there as long as she can. Thus the reader fears that Susan Who had tasted and experienced the goodness of Narnia and the goodness of Aslan, she would be lost forever. And such is easy to resent because we don't want such to be possible, and we don't want such to be possible for anyone, especially not for ourselves. The second grouping is made up of those who want to believe, who want to be brave, who want to be a part of this return from exile. Only fear has gripped them, and thus they require a testimony of those who have gone before them. These people are weak in their faith, and therefore they need support and love and they need examples in front of them. To these people, Saint Paul said that Christians have not been given a spirit of timidity, but one of authority. For these people, mature Christians, are instructed to first consider the weak in faith among them and to adjust their lives accordingly, so that the weak would not be offended. For these people, Saint Paul said, follow me, for I follow Christ Such people do not want to be left behind, but are waiting for their faith to be built up so that they can walk confidently when they return from exile. Such people are looking for examples in the lives of people who say they are Christian as they want to live the life of faith. But they want those lives to show evidence that faith is real and the promises of God are realized. I imagine the apostles being in this category. For even though they left everything to follow Jesus, still in the end they looked to find safe places. They hid until they heard the news from the women that Jesus was not in the tomb. They hid until Peter and John ran ahead and found the tomb empty. They hid until Jesus appeared to them in a room with no open doors. And even some like Thomas still wouldn't believe until he could know for sure himself and not depend on the testimony of others. Each of them had a level of weakness that needed verification, and each had a requirement of verification that needed to be met. before they would come out of their perceived safe places. Even like the Levites in Ezra's day, some had to be coerced into coming out of hiding. But when they did, when they did come out, they were free. I anticipate That these groupings hit home with each of us. Each of us knows someone who likes to claim a form of Christian faith, and we want them to be Christian But their daily living proves that they are of the world. And that means they have chosen to stay in exile, like the majority of people in Ezra's day. And it is important that we do not turn a blind eye to such people, regardless of how close we are to them. If such people describe our children, a close friend, a mother, a father The devil would want us to believe everything's okay. Not to worry about his or her soul. But that is a lie. Our worry is to turn into prayer and faith that the salvation of the soul of our dear loved one It can be achieved. Our worry is to turn into words of truth and hope for that loved one to repent and to be forgiven. That is the only way, and we must not deny that. The second grouping consists of many people we know, and it may include us. We believe, or we know people who believe in Jesus, but they need our help. We need help. We need help to believe with all of our heart. We need help to step out of our safe place and to get going to the place that is our eternal home. And courageous Christians are needed to help Christians who fear, who are staying in that safe place. The good news is that our God has been patient, not wanting any to perish. And so people in every grouping have the opportunity today to step out and to start toward Jerusalem. The good news is that if you are breathing, if a loved one is breathing, it is not too late. So together at this time let us pray for them. Our gracious and merciful Father, we thank of those left behind. those who have become of the world and claim still the faith in you. And we ask, gracious Lord, that you would intervene, that you would change the wills and hearts of men and women. To see that being of the world is being enmity an enemy of God, of you And so bring them to repentance, give them faith for salvation, and help them on the road to eternal life And from those who fear, for those who believe yet need help in their unbelief. Father, help them to see those who have gone before, those in front of them, those who say, Follow me, for I follow Christ. Help them to step out of their supposed safe place and to start the way towards the heavenly city. These we pray for, and we pray for ourselves in Jesus' name. Amen.