The name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. This sermon will be covering both the epistle reading and the gospel reading, the first reading and the second reading. We'll start off with 1 Corinthians chapter 4. To the Christians in Corinth, St. Paul says that it is a very small thing that he should be judged by them or by any human court. It is therefore understandable that we would inquire why the Corinthians would judge him. Context, context, context. It is all about context. Previously, in the same letter, Saint Paul addressed the factions that had developed in the church Some held their faith allegiance to Paul, others to Peter, and still others to Apollos. Such divisions, Paul said, were of the flesh. The Christians were behaving like fallen men, instead of men of God, who are to see each other as the same in faith and in virtue. He sums up his unifying point by using this phrase: You are Christ's, and Christ is God's. So the judging that Paul refers to, that is, those who judged him, likely included those who claimed to be either followers of Apollos or followers of Peter, or also known as Cephas. Those people may have judged Paul as not being worthy of being followed, or at least not as worthy as Apollos or Peter. The judgment may also have included that Paul was not a good steward of his calling to preach the gospel, for that is what he refers to in verses 1 and 2. And we're going to come back to that point. I want to take a moment that I usually try to steer away from in sermons, which is to make a personal point of reference. I have become aware of some criticism of me during and related to this pandemic I have been told that the practices we initially installed with the wearing of masks and distancing and then relaxing those practices, that I was a danger to the community I have also been told that our interpretation of the mask mandate being the same as that which was allowed in restaurants, which is where you wear it into the establishment and then take it off That that was in defiance of our governor. I have been told that the sources I pass on to you via email to help perspective with help with perspective on the virus that they are not proven trustworthy. In general I accept that such differences of opinion are part of what it means to see through the glass dimly and to be under the sun. Both biblical metaphors accept the reality that we are limited. All of us are limited as to what we can know for sure. And with the fourth wing of our government, the mainstream media, laying down on the job, it is much, much harder to know what truth is to be accepted. I realize that there are people who are positive that if they had to make the decisions the Vestry and I have made, that they would lead differently. So be it. But I want you to know that there are a few things that I believe the Holy Spirit has convicted me about that I cannot disavow. The first is that the doors of the church should never ever be closed again. I understand. And I'm glad that we did what we did initially when the pandemic started But meeting in person for worship and to continue to receive the sacrament should be a choice that people make, as opposed to shutting them out. And I believe that this should be done regardless of what lockdowns are passed down from government institutions The second is related to the first, which is that the sacrament of holy communion should be made available every week, regardless of what is going on outside the church. A few moments in cinema have captured my conviction, and one of those was in the movie Pearl Harbor. Now I hesitate to use this example because it's not a good movie. So I'm not recommending it. But there is a scene near the beginning that shows bombs exploding on the ships. in the Hawaiian harbor and men's bodies being broken and split into pieces as they fell into the water And at one scene there is a minister, priest, wearing his vestments, and performing last rites on the men fallen and dying. And he is doing it in the calmest of manners. That is what I am convinced the church should be. We should be offering God's mercy and the hope of heaven in the name of Christ Jesus. in any and every crisis, and doing so while there is danger all around us. The third conviction I have had Is how ministers are to teach God's Word and apply it to any crisis. At the beginning of the pandemic, for those who join me online, We were so enriched by studying the prophet Joel. And to understand that no matter what was happening around us, that God is sovereign over it all. And that the outcome was his outcome and no other. I do have other opinions that I know will bother some of you. And I said it's opinions, it's just opinions. I will state them only as examples. I am not against vaccines, not whatsoever But I am against mandated vaccines. I believe that such mandates set precedents that is difficult to come back from. I'm not against wearing masks, but I am against mandating them for the same reason. But none such issues will I die on. I will not divide on them either If you choose to divide with Christians over such issues, I can only warn you that God from His holy word speaks against such division, and you will be judged by Him on such a choice. I shared with some of the vestry that people need to realize that I am not as bad as they think. I am actually worse. And I mean that sincerely. I rush to judgment too often about a situation or about a person, and not in a loving way. I judge people who judge me, and that's just sin for sin. I do the very thing I said I would not do, and I don't do the thing that I should do. I am undone. And yet I continue to confess my sin and get up and keep going. And you know, that is another spiritual lesson that I've gotten from Hollywood In the fabulous series Band of Brothers, a story about the use of the 101st Airborne in World War II, there is a scene where snipers are firing At the troops who are invasing invading a small town. And the leaders of the troop invasion are yelling, keep going, keep moving. And the frightened are hunkered down and frozen by fear. But the logic is that if you keep going, you keep moving, you're more difficult of a target. And so I keep going. And we should keep moving. But let us get back to Paul. When he says it is a small thing to be judged by the Corinthians, and that he does not judge himself, he is not saying that he does not judge himself in other ways. For what he does not judge himself on is his stewardship of the mysteries of God. He is not saying that he is perfect inwardly and outwardly. But the one thing he does know and is certain about is that he has been a good steward of what God has called him to do, which is to preach the gospel to the Gentiles, and the Corinthians are fruit of that labor. Consider St. Paul's resume as an apostle, written in his second letter to the Corinthians. For his Christian faith, Paul received from the Jews five lashings. Three times he was beaten with rods. Once he was stoned. Three times he was shipwrecked. He suffered perils on water and perils via robbers. And in perils via the Jews and the Gentiles, while suffering in cold, in weariness, in nakedness, in hunger, in thirst, and deep concern for the churches. Paul understood what it meant to pick up his cross daily. And what did he do it for? What was the purpose? He did it to preach the gospel to the Gentiles and to stand up to his fellow Jews who would deny Jesus as the Messiah and try to shut the mouth of Paul. And while we might think that Paul was a gifted man, which he obviously was theologically We must not think of him as someone too far removed so that we think that we cannot do as he did. In Sunday school last week, we heard a good overview of Paul's life, learning that before he took on his missionary journeys, he was a like likely an average man, small of stature, perhaps And the skill of being able to mend tents. The nine to ten years he spent from the time of his road to Damascus conversion to his first missionary journey are not even worthy to record. He did as you and I do, which is to live out our Christian faith within our everyday lives with a call to share Jesus. As we move to examine the gospel reading from Matthew, I ask that you keep in mind Paul referring to the gospel as mysteries of God. So we look at John and John sending his disciples to see who Jesus was, and and I like some other interpreters understand John the Baptist to be Sending his followers to inquire about Jesus so that his followers would no longer follow John himself. There may have been Summed out in John, only because he did not see Jesus perform the miracles he was supposed to perform, what was expected of the Messiah. And that's why Jesus wants his disciples to tell John about the miracles to convince John. So there could be mixed motives. There usually are in the things we humans do. The statement in verse 6 is a clever way to warn that people will be offended by Jesus. And we know Jesus said some offensive things. He was provocative on purpose. He was sarcastic on purpose. He was confusing on purpose. He wanted disciples who would pursue him in humility and who would not stop because of petty issues. Next, Jesus asks his disciples, what attracted them to John in the first place And this assumes that those who were then closest to Jesus were at one time either followers of John or at least interested in John's ministry. Jesus has them examine what their expectations were. John was a prophet, yes. But he was more than a prophet. He was the prophet, meaning he was the chosen prophet to usher in the days of the Messiah, just as the prophet Malachi described. The focus of this passage in Matthew from Matthew is the purpose of John the Baptist His purpose was to prepare the way for Jesus. Now imagine if your life, the primary reason for your existence is for another person. And that person is separate from you, meaning that he is not even someone that you was a mainstay in your life. Now, of course, we don't know what type of relationship John the Baptist had with Jesus growing up. They were extended family, yes, they were. But just how close they were is unknown. Most certainly John did not know Jesus was the Messiah before his baptism. Remember these words from the gospel according to St. John, starting at John chapter 1 verse 30. John the Baptist testified, quote, This is he on behalf of whom I said, After me comes a man who has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. I did not recognize him, but so that he might be manifested to Israel, I came baptizing in water. And John continued, I have seen the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven, and he remained upon him. I did not recognize him. But he who sent me to baptize in water said to me, He upon whom you see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, this is the one who baptizes in the Holy Spirit I myself have seen and have testified that this is the Son of God. End quote. So again, imagine the main purpose of your existence is to introduce the world Of who the Messiah is, and then fade into the background, not even able to be an eyewitness to all the miracles that confirm Jesus as the Messiah. Would you want such a life as that? Well, in a certain way, you do have a life like that because you are a Christian. A Christian is a follower of Jesus Christ, and that means that you no longer live, but instead you live for Him. Your life is for another. Your purpose is to honor Jesus in a way I want you to consider today. Your purpose is to lead the way for Jesus in the lives of the people that you know. Notice that I did not say that you were to be John the Baptist. There was only one John the Baptist. And I did not say that you were to be the Apostle Paul, being called to sail the seas doing mission work. But you are a person who knows the mysteries of God. And you do have a call upon your life to be prepared to share that hope that lies within you. The word mysteries in 1 Corinthians 4 1 means truths, truths once hidden but now revealed. As in Luke chapter 8, Jesus said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of God. But what exactly, what precisely are those mysteries? They are, in no particular order, God becoming man, Jesus as the Son of God, Jesus as divine, the Holy Spirit as divine, and yet separate from the Father and the Son. Jesus dying, thus God dying, the Son being separate but co-equal with the Father, God remaining one but three Jesus rising, death losing its sting, Jesus ascending, and the Holy Spirit descending, and the church given the duty to continue the presence of God on earth until Jesus returns. None of that was known until God revealed it through Christ. Yes, it may be said that it was revealed in pieces in the Old Testament. We have covered that in different ways in our study of the Levitical sacrifices, in our typological study of Genesis, where we found types of Jesus in every patriarch. But all of that pointed to what was revealed in and through Jesus and was understood by Paul and the first century church. It is a mystery revealed that you and I know But your neighbor likely does not know. Your co-worker likely does not know Beloved, we are, we may be, we may be, living in the most Bible-ignorant culture since the colonizing days of North America. I looked up studies done on the average American's knowledge about the Bible, and I couldn't find any done within the last decade. So instead of pointing to the Bible ignorance of the unbelieving world, I thought I would challenge each of you. And I want you to conjecture that if you don't know the answers to these questions Then your non-church neighbor, co-worker, is for sure not going to know the answers to these questions. Please answer these five questions internally, of course There are a number of places where the Bible says that Jesus is God, but where does Jesus explicitly say he himself is God? I'm pausing for a fact. Where in the Bible does it say Jesus is God while describing God dying? These next questions can have more than one place in the Bible. Where does the Bible confirm that human beings are sinners? What and where in the Bible are sinners told what to do to have their sins forgiven? Where in the Bible does the Holy Spirit referred to as God? Beloved, answers to these questions are main parts of what it means to be stewards of the mysteries of God. I close referring to our prayer for this third Sunday of Advent. We pray That the church might reveal the mysteries of God in order to turn the hearts of the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, and that by doing so we might please God. Beloved, we have a lot of work to do. And so we better get to it. Let's pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, for what is placed before us as being stewards of your mysteries. We take it to heart and we take it seriously. Understanding that before us is a is a is a test, a trial of our faith to say, do I actually believe this word and do I want to share it with others And so we take this as a commission that each person that we know in our lives that doesn't know Christ, that we may introduce them, that they might too know those mysteries. May this be true for all of us, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.