In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Do well to turn in your Bibles to Ezra, one of the historic books of the Old Testament. They're in Ezra chapter 1. To best appreciate what we are studying from Ezra, we must put on our history hats. So put on your history hats. Somewhere in the attic of your mind, you recall hearing and learning about the Greco-Persian wars. At first hearing the relevance of these wars to your life was likely not apparent For young men, the reason why these wars are interesting is because of the story of the 300. The 300 is the supposed number of Spartan men who are part of the Greco army. Who fought to the death at the hot gates during the Battle of Therm Thermopylae. The story has been glamorized by Hollywood But that should not take away from the fact that there were some 300 Spartan warriors who almost for three days held off a Persian army to most certainly outnumbered them vastly. The end of the battle saw a Persian victory, but not before Greek heroes were immortalized. The Greco-Persian War began after Darius, one of many Dariuses, put down an Ionian revolt. And decided he was going to assure Persian Greek loyalty to the Persian Empire. By insisting that each Greek state gave a contribution that he called earth and water. These were tokens of their submission Most Greek cities obliged, except for Athens and Sparta. In Sparta They threw the Persian official down a well. Darius put together a naval presence that would impress today as he forced the Greek island cities to submit to his rule. When the Persians attacked Athens, we hear of another great heroic tale of the Battle of Marathon. Where we get the legend of Pelepides, who was said to run from Marathon to Athens to deliver the news of the Greek victory against the Persians. The Athenian victory turned the tide of the war. It bolstered the confidence of the Greeks that the Persian army could be defeated. And it bolstered the Athenians that they could win a battle without Spartan men. For beforehand, Sparta was instrumental in all of Greek victories. The dates of the Greco-Persian War were approximately 499 to 449 BC. The date of the Holy Spirit moving on Cyrus, king of Persia, moving upon his heart to allow Israel to return to the promised land And Jerusalem specifically was just one generation previous to that Greco-Persian war, or wars. Darius' rule over Persia was so expensive because of the rule of Cyrus the Great, whom we read about from Ezra. And Cyrus was called the great, not only because of the expanse of the Persian Empire under his rule, but because of his manner of ruling. He was the first of rulers who embraced the cultures of the civilized states that he conquered. He thus became a model for establishing a centralized administration that was comfortable to allow foreign states to continue their customs and their religions. And this attitude toward other cultures led to this edict of restoration Which is what allowed the people of Israel to return to Jerusalem and restore the temple for worship. How does that happen? How does a ruler who ruled amongst other barbaric rulers How does he have a different mind and heart that would allow strange customs and unknown religious practices to continue? After all, those were difficult days. Rulers didn't just have to defeat their enemies, they needed to murder them. And all of their family members. They cut off the head of anyone who could claim any part of their throne. And they had to be on constant alert for those who would usurp them, even those in their own court. How does a man living in such a time have a different attitude of being open and amiable toward those he conquered? Especially, especially as compared to those who ruled around him and ruled against him The answer is obvious trust. The difference is caused by God Verse 1 of chapter 1 says, The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, King of Persia. The Lord stirred up. Recall the story of King Abimelech. King of Gerar, who took Sarah in to make her his wife, until God interrupted his dreams and warned him not to touch her. That is God stirring up. We call the story of Balaam The four higher prophets who was sent to King by King Abimel by King Balak of Moab to curse the Israelites. Only to be met by God and to do exactly the opposite, which was to bless Israel instead of cursing them And when King Balach interrupted Balaam, he confessed that the Lord compels him, compels him to bless Israel. He could do no other. That is God stirring up. Recall the dreams of King Nebuchadnezzar, those that haunted him in his ruler, rulership over Babylon. Remember that dream God gave him an image, a great image, that was made of fine gold, silver, and bronze and iron, and then clay. Each represented kingdoms that would rise and fall, including the king of Babylon. It was a dream only God's prophet Daniel could interpret That is God stirring up. Consider this proverb from Proverbs chapter 21, verse 1. A king's heart is like streams of water in the Lord's hand. He directs it wherever he chooses. But to best understand this verse, we have to think of little channels of water used by a farmer for irrigation. And such channels bring water under the gardener's control where he wants it to go. So then, too, are the hearts of kings, who seem quite superior compared to their fellow man, but are in no way superior to the God who directs them. by hidden influences, by providential arrangements, by turning a heart to go a different direction without being conscientious of that change God directs the monarchs as he designs. The king may or may or may not fear God or even acknowledge God, but he will do God's bidding. And if he is stubborn enough, and his heart is prideful enough, he will take credit for the decisions he thinks he's making on his own. Decisions that fall perfectly in line with God's will. God still stirs up. Do you believe that? Do you believe that God still stirs up the hearts of kings? So to bring them under his sovereign will. Consider the men and women today who are in powerful positions, similar to that of those kings in Ezra's day. A conversation that occurred with friends recently caught me by surprise We were eating dinner at a restaurant with friends and one of the friends at our table was asking another if he knew anything about Kim Kim Kim Jong-un And the tensions between the United States and North Korea. I was surprised that the person was asking the questions as She evidently knew very little about the tensions and what the leader of North Korea is capable of doing, considering his mental state and his nuclear capabilities. And I began to wonder how many people don't pay attention to current events like this particular person. And in conversing with my family, I realized likely a great many of people don't pay close attention to current events. I didn't mention any names, so don't look over there. And I began to wonder what it would be like for people who don't pay close attention to current events if they woke up one morning To turn on the news and find that one of our allies had been bombed by a nuclear warhead, forcing the United States into a nuclear war that very morning. And I imagine their minds scrambling to wrap their head around the devastation and the danger that millions of people were facing in the days ahead when they knew nothing of it before that day. But I also know amongst my family members that there is a deep faith that understands that God does indeed have the hearts of kings under his control. And they can do nothing except what God wills for them to do. Nothing outside of his sovereign will can be done. By me keeping up with current events, I am not able to control the hearts of kings any more than those who are ignorant. But there is something else that Christians should consider. Christians should consider knowing current events. Such as intended acts by political leaders for the purpose of praying for them. Leaders like Kim Jong-un should be prayed for. Have you thought of that? We should pray for his repentance and for him to come to a faith in Jesus Christ, which would save him and his family. And that new faith would have a great impact for the good for the people of North Korea. After all, we have an example of God transforming the heart of a king in the story of Nebuchadnezzar. Remember him going mad, becoming like a wild beast? Only to come to his senses and acknowledge that the God of Israel was the only true God Such can be done for Kim Jong-un and any ruler like him if God so wills it to be. And we should speak the same about our own leaders. Whether you voted for Donald Trump or not, it is a Christian's duty to pray for him. And to pray for all of our political leaders. And part of our prayer and our faith is to trust that God will stir up their hearts, as He wills to do, for the sake of His kingdom. As we are to be confident that God will stir up the hearts of earthly rulers and move them toward his sovereign will, So too are we to have even more faith on what God can move, considering moving the kings of the earth on his behalf and moving upon the hearts of the masses as well. Look again at what God was able to do, able to get King Cyrus to do. First, he was able to include all of the Persian kingdom in his proclamation. And that kingdom was quite large, covering over three million square miles, spanning over three continents, Asia, Africa, and Europe. Second, he was able to get King Cyrus to confess that the extent of his kingdom was due to the one true God of heaven and earth. Third, he was able to get the king to follow his command to allow Israel to return to Jerusalem in order to rebuild the temple so that the Israelites could properly worship the one living God. Fourth, God is able to influence King Cyrus to influence all of the population of the exiles. Even the once slaves in Persian land to return to Jerusalem, their home, and rebuild Fifth, God is able to influence King Cyrus to allow all who return to Jerusalem to plunder the places in Persia where they find themselves By telling the Jewish people to take silver and gold and goods and livestock with them. And the Persian people were going to help them do it. Let us consider how remarkable such an order is, and remember it is similar to how God brought Israel out of Egypt. They plundered that place as well before they came into the Promised Land. God is once again taking control, sovereign control over a foreign enemy. of his people and giving Israel a victory that was not earned and required no bloodshed. That is amazing. It is unheard of. It is a miracle. As we read on, we see that the people did just as King Cyrus instructed them to do. And the text, the end of verse 6, says that the plunder was willingly offered to God's people. Willingly offered. Take it. Yours. We'll help you load. Willingly offer it. How does that happen? It happens only when God moves the hearts of people. It happens when God enchants the will of man, even having them think it's their idea. And to top all that God had influenced so far, King Cyrus brings out the articles from his treasury that King Nebuchadnezzar had stolen from the temple. And gave them back to Sheshbazar, who was given the responsibility to take them back to the temple for worship. He did not have to do this. King Cyrus didn't have to do this. According to his law, those items were his. They were proper booty from overthrowing the Babylonians. His justice was to keep the gold for his own wealth, his own prosperity, to use it as he saw fit. Instead, he gives it back. He freely gives it to honor the God of Israel. And why? No one else would do such a thing. It is hard to imagine anyone doing such a thing today. Why? Why did he give it all back? Because the hearts of kings is like streams of water in God's hands Consider the words of Jesus in our gospel reading. He explains to his hearers that he is the good shepherd. He is not like the hirelings who run away when danger is present, but instead he is a shepherd who loves his sheep and who lays down his life for his sheep. And he does not lay his life down by compulsion of someone else No, he lays it down by his own will. No one takes his life from him. He tells us that. He alone has the power to lay it down and the power to take it up. But we would have seen it that way if we didn't know him. It looked like his life was being controlled by politics and leaders like Kyophas. Who tried and condemned Jesus. And then it looked like it was controlled by Pilate, who had the authority to set him free or to call for his execution. And then it looked like it was controlled by the people who could cry for his release or cry to crucify him It looked as if everyone but Jesus had power to take his life. And yet the truth was that Jesus had the power all the time. Jesus had the hearts of Ciophus and Pilate and the people sifting through his hands like streams of water being directed by a gardener. Considering what God controls, considering what God controls, perhaps we lament too much about the condition of the world that we live in. Without confessing that our God has the hearts of rulers sifting through his hand. Not perhaps. We do lament too much. Without confessing who controls all of them. When you worry about what type of world your children and your grandchildren will inherit, we are to have faith that God sifts the hearts of kings through his hands. When you decry the state of the country and the state of the church with no evidence of good coming soon, snap out of it. Believing that no one has control of life or death but Jesus who is Savior of the world But it all seems out of control as mankind destroys itself and brother fights against brother. Increase your faith that God is directing the will of men where he wills for the sake of his kingdom to come. You know, on Thursday mornings, we still meet for breakfast at the Harvest Inn. When I arrived 18 years ago, the men were meeting after mowing the church lawn. I involved myself with these old men. Now I am one of them. Although I have resisted about talking about visits to the doctor. But we still meet and talk about the ravens, the Orioles, stories we have seen on the news, and some still talk about doctors' visits. And about restaurants where we had eaten recently. We talk about politics and leaders that make us upset, and the media that makes us upset And a culture that thumbs its nose at God and how bad it all is today. And there's nothing wrong with such conversations, unless Unless we fail to mention who controls the hearts of men, and who is working for his kingdom to come and his will to be done. God's will is going to be done, and Christians need to say and believe it more and more. The darker it gets, the greater the light of Christ can shine. And it is for the Christian church to shine it. God has shown us here in Ezra how he does it. He changes the course of history. He changes the course of history through the hearts of men. He stirred up Cyrus the Great. He stirred up Pharaoh and Nebuchadnezzar and Pilate. And he will stir up Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump and bishops and pastors. And whoever else it will take for his kingdom to come, for his will to be done. Believe it. Be faithful to the truth of God being sovereign over the hearts of men, no matter what happens. No matter what happens. Let us pray. Our Father and God, we confess today That we have not always trusted that you have the hearts of kings sifting through your hands like water, but today we do And we pray, dear Lord, that our faith might increase to believe it all the more as the days get darker. And Father, as the days get darker, we want to be light. And so help us in our righteousness and our faith be light to this world and to trust and believe your kingdom is coming and your will is being done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen