In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. You have heard from this pulpit the saying that goes something like this A man's conviction can become his son's tradition, which can become his grandson's elimination This usually occurs because the first man who had the conviction did not pass it down well enough to his son and then to his grandson. A common example is a man's patriotism. Imagine a father, sorry, a grandfather, who loved his country and expressed it By hanging his U. S. flag on Flag Day, Veterans Day, Memorial Day, and Independence Day. He hosted a family picnic every year on the 4th of July. He prayed to God to bless the United States and its citizens. He was proud to vote every year, and he rooted heartily for the good old US of A for every Olympic Games. And his son then does the same. His son loved the traditions of his father, and so when he had a family of his own, he displayed his U. S. flag on the day his father did. He hosted his own 4th of July picnics, and he prayed for his country, and he called himself blessed to be living in the greatest country in the world. But his son, which is the first man's grandson, isn't so sure about the greatness of his country. He hears from his teachers that the history of the United States is not honest, and that generations before him overlooked the sins of their forefathers. Our forefathers' treatment of Africans and Native Americans was abusive at best and murderous at the worst. When his son asks his father about why he thinks the US United States is the greatest country in the world, when it has such a terrible founding in its sins, his father cannot answer Because he loves the country because his father did. And his father never explained what was the foundation of that love that he so richly displayed. Conviction to elimination happens quickly A year ago, I preached about our culture's failure to address the sins of our forefathers because we have lost a sense of the gospel of Jesus in our country. And my intent is not to repeat that series of sermons, so I will only mention that we can only address the sins of our forefathers with an understanding of the Christian gospel. But back to my point. Passing on conviction requires explanation, cogent explanation. For those traditions, for without understanding traditions, they become dead on arrival to the third generation. That reality is very easily seen in Christian traditions, especially traditions in terms of Christian worship. Take this quiz. Why do older older churches use pews for sitting? And why are they placed in rows of two or four, one behind the other? You don't know? Well then change it. Why not? Why is the pulpit on one side and the lectron on the other? You don't know? Well then change it. No, don't don't just change it. Just get rid of them both. Why not? Make it all practical. Why is communion, the communion table in the middle? Why is it behind the lectoran and the pulpit? Why do ministers wear dresses? Why is everyone so somber and serious when they receive the bread and the wine? And what really is the Lord's Supper? You don't get your hunger or your thirst satisfied, so what good really is it? Then if you don't have these things that are practical, get rid of them, change them, after all, God doesn't care how he is worshipped He only cares if we are sincere and honest when we worship. Stop. Stop right there. There it is. That statement is where it is. There is an understanding in that statement that God only cares about our sincerity and our honesty in worship. That is where we question everything in regards to our traditions. It is the belief That God doesn't care how he is worshipped, but only that he is worshiped in sincerity of heart and of mind. The problem with that belief is that it has no biblical merit. It doesn't come from Scripture. God never says that it does not matter how he is worshipped, and he never said that he's only concerned about our hearts and our minds. Such an interpretation is reading into Scripture what we want it to say rather than what it does actually say. People who have argued that God does not care how we worship, but only that we do so in sincerity of heart and mind, they go to passages such as Psalm 51. You know this Psalm well, we actually recite it a number of times. David is there saying, quote, You speaking to God Do not delight in sacrifice, or I would bring it. You do not take pleasure in burnt offerings. My sacrifice, O God, is a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. Now some people these words teach that, again, God doesn't delight in any sacrifice at all. But that conclusion doesn't wrestle with the reality that God is the one who commanded those sacrifices to be offered to begin with. For some people, the latter part of the verse reveals what God actually wants, which is a broken spirit and a contrite heart. But that conclusion doesn't take into account what David says next in the very same psalm. He says the following. Then you will delight in the sacrifices of the righteous, in the burnt offerings offered whole. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. Well this last verse makes it clear that it is not sacrifices that God is displeased with, but sacrifices made without broken and contrite hearts. God wants both from his people. He wants sacrifice as he commanded it, and the hearts of the people as they obey. The problem with Israel is that they either repeatedly trusted in the rituals without their hearts being given to God, or they did not obey as commanded. Another passage often quoted by those who think God does not care about the form in which his people worship is Hosea 6, verse 6. That says, For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. To conclude that God does not like the very thing that He commanded to be done, well that's simply illogical It fails to take into account what God is truly after when he asks for those sacrifices and where he commands them to be performed. His end goal has always been for the people of Israel to be his people and for him to be their God. And what that looks like is a people who love him and accept his love, and that would be expressed by obeying his law. Not out of trust in the law itself, but out of love for the giver of the law. That is called faith. Worship in faith. In case you are being tempted to think that such is my own interpretation, listen to these words of the prophet Jeremiah. Jeremiah says Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices. But this command I gave them, obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people, and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well for you. Of course, the offerings are essential to worshiping God because they all point to that great fulfillment, which is the sacrifice of Jesus upon the cross. That is essential to our worship. Their faith, the faith of the Jews, pointed towards Jesus. Ours points backward. All to the same thing. The Christian life is to be what God wanted for the Israelites, which is forgiveness of sin, and that includes sacrifice. And obedience to his will. And all of this means that the Christian life is a life of worship Another biblical argument against the worship of God in any manner we choose is the number of times God rejects worship that is not commanded We learn very quickly in the Holy Scriptures that God does not indiscriminately accept all forms of worship. Remember from our study of faith in the book of Hebrews, how God accepted the offering of Abel, but not of Cain. Cain did not bring forth the first fruits, and he did not bring them because he lacked faith. Abel brought the firstborn of his flock to worship God, and yet it wasn't the fact that he brought forth the firstborn, but that he did so in faith that God would receive it and forgive sin. This example teaches us that God does discriminate when it comes to the worship that he will accept. Interestingly, the offerings of Cain and Abel can be considered both private worship and corporate worship It is private because they each brought separate offerings, and it is corporate because they were the only people beside their parents that were alive. Now the next example comes from the book of Leviticus, where the Israelites received commandments primarily. Leviticus is about primarily corporate worship. This is from Leviticus 10, verses 1 and 2. It reads, Now Aaron's sons, Nabab and Abihu, took their censors. Put fire in them, placed incense on them, and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, contrary to his command. So fire came out from the presence of the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord There are several points of information we can identify in these verses that were violations of God's law. A law that he just gave them as leaders for corporate worship. First They each took his own sensor, his own sensor, rather than the sacred utensil that was to be used in the sanctuary. Individualism. Second, they both offered their censors together, whereas incense was to only to be given by one person Third, they performed an action that was only to be performed by the high priest, and in that case it was their father. Fourth, they offered incense at an unauthorized time. Fifth and finally, they offered these incense offerings as worship directly in front of the Holy of Holies, which was a breaking of a specific commandment. So in summary, Nadab and Abihu worshipped in a manner that they were not instructed to do, and in a manner they were instructed specifically not to do. But they were worshiping. They were worshiping. That should be in their favor, right? At least they were at church. They were calling upon God, the right God, not some idol, but the right God. That should count for something, right? Apparently not. You see, by worshiping in a manner that God did not command, they were presuming upon God that any way God is approached is sufficient and acceptable. It wasn't and it isn't. If you are still convinced that sincerity of heart and mind is what God is most concerned about when it comes to The worship of him, let us reflect on the story of King Saul and the Israelites' victory over the Amalekites. At the beginning of 1 Samuel chapter 15, God speaks to King Saul through the prophet Samuel. Telling him to go and fight the Amalekites, to avenge the manner they attacked Israel when Israel had been freed from bondage while escaping Egypt. God instructs Saul to kill every Amalekite as well as their oxen, their sheep, their camels, and their donkeys. Nothing of the people was to be left. The directives were clearly stated and agreed to. And yet, after God gave Israel a resounding victory, We read that the people took the plunder they were to destroy, particularly the sheep, the oxen, and used them as sacrifices to worship God. Let that be underlined. The people used the best of the livestock from their plunder of the Amalekites to worship God. That sounds like a good thing they were doing. That sounds like they were praising God for the victory. They acknowledged that God was responsible for their victory. That all seemed so very right because they were worshiping God in sincerity. But here is what Samuel the prophet says to them after discovering what the people had done. Samuel says, Has the Lord a great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in or comparing to obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. And to heed, that is, heed God's word, is better than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Note that the sincerity of the people is not in question. And it is quite a statement to compare witchcraft and idolatry to the people offering sacrifices to God. We would be shouting for Israel's condemnation if they were turning blatantly to witchcraft and idolatry. It seems like a sincere mistake. But not to God. No, not to God. Such disobedience, regardless of sincerity, was an abomination. From that example in 1 Samuel, let us not next make the mistake of thinking that God must only be concerned about obedience when it comes to corporate worship. We get another example from the prophet Malachi. Malachi brought forth God's word to the Israelites while the temple was being rebuilt under Ezra and Nehemiah. He begins his prophecy by condemning the priests for their defiled offerings. That's what he calls them. Defiled offerings. But the offerings were defiled not because the priests were worshiping an idol or a false god. They were worshiping Yahweh. And they were worshiping in the right location. They were offering the sacrifices according to the law. All was good. But all was not good, because the poor were being oppressed, the starving were not being fed, the widows were not being cared for, the lame and the sick were being ignored. Thus the rituals of corporate worship were being followed by the laws of not being followed by the laws of loving God and loving one's neighbor as oneself. Corporate worship had become ritual for the sake of ritual, which can happen in any form of worship that does not include loving God and loving our neighbor. I anticipate that by now some of you might be frustrated at the points I have made because It can appear that there is no way to please God when it comes to corporate worship. If God is concerned about our hearts and minds as we worship, but not to the point that it's the most important thing. And then he cares about obedience, but not that that is his only concern. And then that obedience is not just what we do in worship, but what we do outside of the temple Well, then it appears that God is easily offended if we lean too far one way as opposed to another. And if you perceive God is too easily offended when it comes to worship of his people, I emphatically say that he is not. But getting you to the point of questioning whether God is easily offended, well that was a goal of mine this morning The very least I want us to conclude is that God does not accept any and all worship that uses his name. That should be clear enough by the examples given in Scripture. I can say that God is not easily offended by the worship of his people because our worship, our corporate worship, is not for God. It's for us. God is concerned about our manner of corporate worship because he cares for us. Hear this now. How we worship God is how we think about God, and how we think about God is in what we put our faith If we view God as only concerned about our hearts and not our obedience, then we worship God by way of our emotions. And when our emotions change, so does our God. If we view God as being most concerned about obedience, then we put our faith in ritual, and ritual becomes death. If we view God as only concerned about what we do within the walls of his sanctuary, then we fail to love our fellow man, and that means we don't love God either. We have spent a lot of time in the Old Testament today, but remember the point made from the book of Hebrews. That Jesus is in all of the Old Testament, and therefore he is the model of worshiping God. He is the epitome of us of a sincere heart and mind, while being fully obedient and while loving his fellow man. So we look to him today in our worship, and we will look to him in this series of sermons regarding how to properly worship. I started by talking about a grandfather's convictions becoming a son's traditions becoming his grandson's eliminations. Because I am concerned that such will occur in my own family and in the families of St. Stephen's. I've started By trying to convince you that sincerity and effort to worship God is not enough. My end goal is to convince you that the traditions we have been given within the Anglican way, which is part of the great tradition, are actually convictions. Convictions worthy to be passed on. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, we begin by thanking you for the traditions passed on to us and how they are a part of the great tradition given to the Church. Father, may we be good stewards of it, both in our lives and to that which we pass on to our children, taking ever the examples of your word, which shows us that you do care about how you are worshipped. For the sake of your people. Again, Father, help us to be good stewards. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.