The name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn to Revelation chapter nineteen. Revelation chapter nineteen. Many of you know that when I was installed as rector here at St. Stephen's, now over 24 years ago A burden of mine was the absence of men within the Christian church, especially their absence for weekly worship services. I am a confident believer and a strong proponent of covenantal headship of men. While all of us will stand before God to be held accountable for our actions on earth. Men and specifically husbands will be held accountable for both themselves and for their family. Wives will not be held accountable for their husbands, but husbands will be held accountable for their wives and for their children. Men are called by God to physically protect their home with the recognition that the woman is the weaker vessel. Men are also called by God to provide for their families. If a man does not provide for his own family, the scripture says he is worse than an unbeliever. Men are also responsible for their children's sexual purity and for their faith, especially if a man holds an ecclesiastical office. If a minister of the gospel does not have believing children, he essentially forfeits his position within the church. These are the responsibilities of men and only men. With such eternal responsibilities, men need to be held up in prayer. encouraged and fed in the faith and emboldened to fulfill what God has called them to do Unfortunately, in my estimation and the estimation of others, the body of Christ today has not fulfilled its obligation toward men. Example after example could be cited that show a greater feminization of the church, causing men to pursue NASCAR. Football, hunting, video games, and other alternatives where their masculinity can be expressed Because of the feminization of the church, alternatives have been offered by groups who recognize the problem. This past Friday night we had a meeting that is called a meeting for men that we call Holy Smokes It was given such a name because men are to feel free to bring cigars and pipes and to enjoy a smoke with good conversation. The conversations are based on how we apply our Christian faith to contemporary issues. And as enjoyable as such a time can be, that does not get men back to church. The modern church seems to think the answer is to split everyone up into groups Churches have groups for women, and then groups for couples over fifty Singles over 50, singles under 50, teens, young married, mothers with young children, and groups for men who want to be able to act like men What the church actually needs is not another group, but an environment conducive for men to be leaders. I thank God that He has given us such an environment as St. Stephen's. Our men do lead, and they lead well. As a side note, it has been asked of me in the past, and I have heard it asked of others, why do we not have women on the vestry? It is a legitimate question, considering that our canons do not restrict women from being on the best street. I admit that the reason we do not have women on the vestry is my doing. The vestry is a body of leadership that I choose to use to encourage men to lead in the church. While it is true that a woman holding the position on the vestry does not violate a biblical mandate Meaning that those on the vestry are not ordained clergy and thus could include women It is nonetheless a governing body that gives opportunity for men to step forward and to lead. It is the opportunity for men to lead, and that is what I take advantage of. It might not seem like it now, but all of my thoughts thus far about men and leadership and the church are a preface to Revelation chapter 19. I believe it is a necessary preface, for we are going to see that although leadership is masculine In the body of Christ, there is also a feminine aspect to such leadership that is necessary And yet it in no way compromises masculinity. Simply and plainly stated, although leadership in the body of Christ is male, the body of Christ is also the bride of Christ. To understand the content of chapter 19, we must quickly rehearse what was learned from chapters 17 and 18. The whore that rides the beast represents false prophets. False prophets who corrupt the gospel and persecute true believers. The beast that she rides represents every leader or city or nation that uses the whore and attempts to destroy the body of Christ. Babylon is a representation of both the whore and the beast, and as such, its demise is described and guaranteed in chapter 18. Chapter 19 comes on the heels of Babylon's judgment. Because of the judgment of all that is in an enemy of God and his people. The population of heaven shouts in worship. One of the weaknesses Of this congregation of St. Stephen's is that we do not sing out as we should And don't be offended. But consider that John says that he heard a loud voice saying, Hallelujah! Bold singing is heavenly singing. Singing a hymn such as a mighty fortress in a whisper. is unfortunate at best and disobedient at worst. To be sure, it can be noted that the loud voice heard by John is because of the great multitude that are singing. And yet we all know by experience that the louder each of us sings, such emboldens those around us to sing louder And when we all sing loudly, we become a loud voice. And thus we join heaven with our loudness. Because the words are shouted, we can conjecture that the verses are not meant to be put to a soft piano Or acoustic guitar strums, or anything that would be considered melodious. The words shouted are bold and require bold accompaniment. We should also notice regarding the words of the shout that they proclaim judgment. God is praised. Hallelujah. Because he has saved his people and has condemned the great harlot at the same time. The words shouted by the multitude are similar in content to the tone to many psalms written by King David. It has struck me, and I'm sure many of you, that much of David's Psalms, although they are songs of praise to God, contain verses that request God's judgment upon David's enemies. For example, David wrote, Contend, O Lord, with those who contend with me. Fight against those who fight against me. He then said, The righteous will be glad when they are avenged, when they bathe their feet in the blood of the wicked And then he said, May the praise of God be in their mouths and a double-edged sword in their hands to inflict vengeance on the nations and punishment on the peoples. To bind their kings with fetters, their nobles with shackles of iron, to carry out, to carry out the sentence written against them. This is the glory of all his faints, praise the Lord David, like the shouting in Revelation 19, rejoices in God because his enemies are destroyed. And recall, and recall that rejoicing because of the defeat of God's enemies did not begin with David. For we remember the song of Miriam when the Israelites rejoiced over Pharaoh's army being drowned in the Red Sea. I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and rider has fallen into the sea. While those songs are understandable to our sense of justice, they can also appear to clash, at least at first glance, with other biblical statements. Such as God takes no pleasure in the punishment of the wicked. God so loved the world that he gave his only son. God wills that all men be saved. Such passages reveal the heart of God toward his most intimate creation, man. Scripture teaches us that there is great sympathy between heaven and earth, and that there are emotions of tender pity felt in heaven towards man below. How is this class to be accounted for? We answer by first observing that the rejoicing is not caused by wailing or suffering itself. There is a separation between actual suffering and judgment. Secondly, we note that the rejoicing is not from vindictive feelings. There is no childish bragging with tongue out and face contorted to mock the enemies of God. All such feelings will be, we must, we trust, completely sanctified. What brings on the rejoicing is the knowledge that there are matters of immensely greater importance than the happiness or misery of individuals. It is a grievous thing to see a human being with a tear in his eye. That is true. But it is much more grievous thing to see him in rebellion against God. This we need to be taught. It is better to see men weeping over the bitter fruits of rebellion than to see them at ease in their revolt. One of the more insufferable things politicians do today is use the suffering of individuals. To shut down their opponents or a legislation they are against. If one person is suffering as a result of a particular piece of legislation, And such legislation may be a good thing for the majority of citizens and for the future. Because there is a story of one person suffering today, that is the story that makes the difference It moves the politician or the voters emotionally, and that emotional reaction sways the press, and such eventually sways the voter. I recall years ago a celebrity who does not need to be named but suffers from a debilitating disease while the symptoms are clearly evident and painful to watch when he speaks, you feel sorry for the man. And if you could do something to change his condition, you you would. This celebrity was speaking out favorably for stem cell research to be done from aborted babies. He is in favor of such for his own sake. But he is asking too much He is asking us to ignore the fact that God is the creator and that every child in its mother's womb carries the image of God. He is asking us to treat discarded children as lab experiments rather than embodiments of eternal souls. This we cannot do for the sake of those children, for the sake of children to come, and for the honor of God Himself. There are matters of immensely greater importance than the happiness or misery of individuals I know. I know what those who oppose this view would say in response. What if it was your loved one? What if someone you loved was suffering from a debilitating disease and you had to watch their suffering every day, not just on when they were on television? Wouldn't you want every possibility for a cure to be explored? Such questions are fair questions. They're fair because I do not know how I would react or certainly how I would feel. I do not know what I would want. I do know, however, what I should want. I do know what I should do. There is right and there is wrong in such situations. And that does not change simply because myself or a loved one is now the victim. I should want and do what is of greater importance than my own happiness or the happiness of someone that I love. To put it another way and to tie it together with the reference to the Bride of Christ, we rejoice because we submit To what is of greater importance, which is the divine sovereign will of God Continuing in chapter 19, after rejoicing over the judgment of the enemies of God, there is another shout, another great roar that sounds like thunder across the sky. That rejoicing is based on the wedding of the Lamb of God to his bride, the people of God. We are not going to get to the actual wedding until chapter 21. But here it is mentioned that the people of God are like a bride to the Savior, Jesus Christ. It is this reference that brings us back around to my initial comment regarding masculinity and the church. Isaiah, Ezekiel, Hosea, Matthew, John, and the Apostle Paul all refer to the people of God being as a bride to the Savior. Each of these references does not strip men from their masculinity, but explains a very important aspect of our relationship to Christ. We are to submit to him. The metaphor of a bride and groom relationship is used to explain our relationship to Christ Because it best communicates how we are to submit to him and how he will care for us. Submission is a godly characteristic that is best understood in terms of a wife's relationship to her husband. Submission in general is very masculine, very masculine, for it was the Son, Jesus Christ, who submitted to the Heavenly Father so that men might be saved from sin and death. Men, as in males, are to replicate that submission as they submit to Christ. And women, as they submit to their husbands, each is to accept the leadership above them, again, in doing so for the greater importance, the greater good of the kingdom of God. As the bride in this vision, we must notice that we prepare ourselves for Christ. The bride makes herself ready. In the context of this passage, the bride makes herself ready by rejoicing in the victory of God over his enemies. In rejoicing that the time of the Lord having full reign and authority over our lives is at hand, and that we are given fine linen, bright and clean to wear. Which represents righteous acts. Submission as a bride means that we accept the judgment of the groom We submit to his choice as to who is part of the bride and who is not. We submit to his judgment upon those who would come against his bride. We submit to the time of the wedding. We wait for him. He does not wait for us. We wait for him. And finally, we submit by receiving the fine linen that is bright and clean, for it is righteousness, his righteousness, that we are given. As most of you know, my parents died in a plane accident when I was very young. I have often imagined a scenario where they are on the other side of God's judgment on the day Christ returns. Would I be able to still rejoice? Would I be able to shout, Hallelujah? I will not, if I submit to my own heart or my own judgment, my individualism. I will be able to shout, Alleluia, if I submit to the groom. Submission to him is not just accepting his judgments when we agree with them. But must be when we don't. And submission is love We are to love the Bride of Christ. And in loving her, we are to treat her as a man treats a woman he loves. God said such love is laying down one's life. To lay down one's life is to do the opposite of sleeping around on her. Is the opposite of leaving her for another bride. Modern Christians, in their bouncing around from church to church, treat the bride. of Christ like she is a fluzy. But she is the opposite of a fluzy. And is to be treated as adorned and loved by her groom. We are to worship God as that ride, and when doing so, doing it loudly and boisterously So that the gates of hell shake and the world knows we have won. Shout for the bride, beloved. Shout as the bride. Jesus is coming. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious Father, it is It is not easy to communicate how we are the bride and yet we are to treat her well. The metaphor does break down a bit. But it is clear what you want us to do as the bride, to submit to your will, but also to worship you, to honor you for saving us, your bride. May we treat her as she should be treated. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.