In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. It did not Get reported this morning in terms of announcements, but in case you did not know, our parish has a softball team And they played on Thursday and the slaughter rule was applied for each game, not to our favor. And basically, by the report of my sons, um our junior warden couldn't pitch a strike. So hopefully next week we will improve. Because yours truly will be on the mound. We're looking at both uh first Peter chapter two. From our epistle reading and then from our gospel reading, John chapter 10. The modern obsession with identity. Who am I? What am I about? Is actually not modern at all, for it has its roots in the nineteen sixties. Where the youth culture was telling everyone to do your own thing, or do you In the 1970s, the same spirit told everyone, define yourself or be your true self. The problem was, and is, how does a person know who he or she is in order for you to do you? Such slogans led many to what is called an existential crisis, with people not knowing what they really wanted or what was truly important in life. As you have heard me say from this pulpit these past two years, I agree with Dr. Carl Truman, who argues that we are currently living in a therapeutic age. Which is a time in which human identity is understood through psychological analysis where each and every hang-up Habit or hurt emotion must be therapeutically treated. But the therapeutic age is actually no different than doing you or finding your true self I recently read one author who believes such self-obsession goes back to the 4th century BC in the teachings of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Each in his own way explained the apparent power of each individual to manipulate the contents of his or her own mind. It was no longer the gods' voices that they heard inside their heads, but it was now their own voice. And a similar shift of identity took place when early Christians began to emphasize each person's soul and its private salvation or damnation. A shift took place in no longer focusing on tribal identity, but the identity of the individual. Who made choices to know and follow Jesus Christ or to continue to follow the devil The truth of individual identity before God was then corrupted, as most Christian truths are corrupted. In the Western world, in the era known as the Enlightenment, where men became so enamored by the power of the human mind that thinkers declared themselves independent from the external world. having the power to make their own identity, which took away the power from the church and even God. Although this modern Western self went through its adolescence in Europe, it reached its full maturity in the United States of America. And the fact the first time the word individualism appears in print is in the Alex Destocville's book. Democracy in America, published in 1835. And how much larger does the individual loom today in America? The land of individual license plates, personal podcasts, and personal pages on a website that I will not name in this pulpit. With all this individualism, we still struggle with personal identity. Who am I? In a Gallup poll released this past February, 7. 1% of Americans now identify as non-heterosexual That's a double from a poll in 2012. How does such identifying change so drastically What we have yet to understand and may not be able to understand for some time is the impact of social media that it has on young minds and immature minds. Most of us can still remember our middle school days. And we can remember them because they were so very dramatic to us and traumatic to many. Middle school is when the body changes and resembles something that is not envious. For young men, voices change and sound like nothing they had known before and would know after. For young girls, emotions change and they start to care more about what they cared little about before. How they dress, what people think of them, becomes more important than they could have imagined. For all middle schoolers, interest in the opposite sex, or just sex itself, increases beyond their preparation. Emotions fluctuate, resulting in happy children turning into brooding teenagers. Mind you, I did not have to look up what adolescents go through to come up with these descriptions. The changes are fresh in my mind from my own adolescent days and having raised six children. That there are adults today who want to give adolescents and even children the power to change their sexual identity Allows me to question if I have been locked up in some type of mental health facility that doesn't have walls For anyone who understands what an adolescent, let alone a child, goes through, should understand that without knowing fully what changes they are experiencing in the moment Makes them in no sense capable of deciding what gender they should be for the rest of their life. As if that can actually be changed. But that our culture has arrived at such confusion about sex, gender, and individual identity should not be a surprise to Christians. For the scripture clearly warns that when humans turn away from God, that God may turn them over to their own desire. And the desire today in our culture is to be sexually and morally confused This lengthy introduction on the crisis of identity is to lead us into what St. Peter communicates in our epistle reading. Where he wants Christians to identify with Christ and follow his example, particularly when it comes to enduring suffering. And even more particularly enduring undeserved suffering. Peter wants Christians to be thankful for suffering endured wrongfully. The argument that follows is how obvious it is that all respectable persons should endure suffering patiently when the suffering is deserved. Because of what you have personally done. You get what you deserve. Many examples can be made such as a person driving while intoxicated, and then crashing and totaling his car while being physically injured. Such suffering is a common cause and effect reality. The cause was you, the effect was because of the cause, and you get what you deserve. But to suffer patiently When no personal wrong has been done, is a call above what is commonly expected. St. Peter says that to suffer wrongfully is to follow in the steps of Christ. Peter gives another reason for why Christians should suffer wrongdoing and suffer it patiently. In doing so, it is commendable, he says, before God. What is commendable is the reward promised to all who are faithful to the end. It is the words, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. In summary, Peter teaches us that Jesus is an example for us to follow. In patiently suffering wrong, we are taking on the identity of Christ. Peter finishes his teaching on such patience by showing how Jesus did what he did. For the salvation of others. Thus, our suffering wrong and doing so patiently is to be for the sake of others. But what does that look like practically? It may surprise you that the context of this teaching by Peter is directed at servants. But it is not limited to servants. And ironically, we are actually all servants, servants of God. But I want to show how modern-day suffering can and cannot be for others. Let us imagine a boss at a paper sales company. Who comes up with the idea to entice their clients to buy more paper by challenging them to find a hidden golden ticket? That will give them 50% off their next order. Only the gimmick backfires as one company gets all three tickets offered, getting them almost free paper. When management of the paper company wants to know what has happened, the boss with the idea wants a salesman to take the blame. And then when the idea actually increases sales, the boss wants the credit to be given back to him, but the salesman won't give it back. In such a scenario, no one is suffering patiently, thus no one is showing to have a good character. By the way, I just told you an episode of The Office, in case you didn't know that. But when a person does allow another to get their credit, to get their praise without protest, those who know have such character standard impressed upon them. That's impressive to watch another person die to himself. I realize that such suffering is not the suffering Peter refers to. But we moderns don't know the type of suffering Peter and his first audience knew. So let's talk about the different kinds of suffering that many of us do know. It is the suffering we do for those we love who are either walking foolishly in their life or not living the Christian faith at all. Parents know the suffering I am describing. We don't know exactly how our children have come to make foolish decisions, for we don't know what we have done to contribute to those decisions. Decisions like getting involved in drugs, bad dating choices, premarital sex, eloping. Playing video games for many hours, lacking ambition to achieve anything in life. Watching your children be foolish is a gut punch to the conscience. And a weight truly hangs from the heart as you stoop down to the realities your children are making for themselves. And even greater pain is experienced by parents and other family members when you see someone they love no longer live a life that reflects a Christian faith. Church attendance ends. Personal prayers are no longer offered. Talk of God in any meaningful way is no longer heard. We want to continue to think that our loved one is still a Christian, is still heaven-bound. But their life shows no current proof. Again, the weight of that falls upon us when we face the spiritual life of a loved one. It feels too great to bear. Some people cannot think about it because it brings them so emotionally low, they fear they won't be able to come out of that loneliness. And we are tempted to beat up ourselves, wondering what wrong did I do that my child, my brother, my spouse, my parent no longer believes. With the burden of an unbelieving loved one, we are suffering wrongfully, and yet we are told that we need to do so patiently. Two Wednesdays w Wednesdays ago, during morning prayer, we read from Psalm 119. Where the psalmist says, quote, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word. And quote, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. You and I understand those words. The psalmist knows he has done wrong and accepts the discipline he received and sees it as a good thing because it helped him learn God's law in a manner that he did not know it before. Again, we understand his thinking, but suffering when no wrongdoing has taken place is a suffering on a different scale. It is entering into the arena of the man we know of as Job. If you have studied Job, you know it is a repetitive book. At least after Job loses everything that he loves in life, except his faith in God. What Job's friends, if we can call them friends, what they do is insist he must have done some sin that was deserving of his suffering. What Job insists is that he has done nothing wrong. He knew of no sin in his life that deserved his suffering. His friends insist again, and Job insists again, and no one is moved from their arguments. Now, mind you, Job does not insist that he is not a sinner, but only that he has not suffered That his suffering is not equal to what he has done to offend God. In the end, Job is right, and yet he is not right. He is right in that he had not done anything that offended God so that he deserved what he suffered. But to question God's wisdom, While in the midst of his suffering was a wrong done, a serious wrong. What a Christian must do when suffering without wrongdoing is to be patient. In the suffering, which is to trust in God. This is why the reading from Peter is matched up with our gospel lesson from John A Christian must trust in Jesus as the Good Shepherd. In the gospel reading, Jesus is the Good Shepherd. We can suffer wrongdoing patiently because we trust in our good shepherd. Jesus as our good shepherd means that he is fully devoted to his sheep. Shepherds in the ancient Near East led sheep in lands that were desolate and where sheep were exposed to fierce beasts and robbers. Our shepherd is committed to providing for his sheep in desolate lands and to lay down his life for the protection of his sheep. His devotion to his sheep comes from his ownership of his sheep. As he himself points out, he is not a hireling. He will go after the lost until he finds it. And Jesus as our good shepherd means he is intimate with his sheep. Jesus does not simply know of his sheep. But he knows who they are and where they are. He knows their weaknesses and thus how they are in danger. He knows their weariness, their foolishness, and their temptations, which is their aptness to go astray. And with his intimacy with them, the sheep know his voice. The union Jesus develops with his sheep can be compared to a healthy father and son relationship. The sheep are known by Jesus, and Jesus is known by the Father, and thus the Heavenly Father knows the sheep. Jesus as our good shepherd means that as we go through suffering patiently, even when doing no wrong to deserve that same suffering, We go through it having our hands held by our shepherd, who wills we make it through our suffering, and that our suffering would transform us more and more to the image of Christ Himself. The suffering of a Christian, beloved, is never for the sake of suffering itself. Hear that The suffering of a Christian is never for the sake of the suffering itself. Our physical pain is never for the pain only. Our emotional pain is never for the emotion only. God can use our pain to mold us and refine us, melting us as gold. And I say can. Can because we have choices to make when we suffer. We can choose the negative which includes complaining, resisting, and anger, which always turns into bitterness. When we choose the negative from our suffering, our suffering has no eternal value. No glory is revealed, but only more pain and more suffering, because suffering experienced without patience results in continued suffering. Consider suffering like a broken leg. The pain is immediate, the correction increases the pain, but soon the physical pain subsides and the healing process takes place. But also it takes time. If such suffering is endured with complaint, impatience, and frustration, there is no value in the suffering other than continuing the emotions of the devil. When dealing with emotional, relational suffering, where love between family and friends is broken or marred, and we insist that we can't get over the hurt placed upon us. Insisting that no forgiveness or reparations can be made to ease our pain, we also continue the emotions of the devil, and nothing is redeemed. For our suffering to include redemption, we must rebuke impatience Resist anger, accept our situation as God wills, and choose to be like Christ. The great irony of us moderns who struggle to understand our identity is that our first parents Did the same, wanting to be like God. They wanted to know good and evil just as God did, only they didn't care how they would come to know good and evil. And the devil convinced them it is best to know good and evil from the side of evil. Jesus reversed their behavior. Showing that man can be like God and knowing good and evil only from the side of good. Now we are given the ability to have our identity to be in Christ Jesus. While knowing good and evil from the side of good, just as Jesus did. That means that we may suffer with no wrongdoing. But we are to be suffering patiently. There is no identity holier than that. Let us pray. God, we thank you for the example of Jesus. We thank you for the clear identity that you provide every Christian. That we don't have to struggle with what desires we have or or who we are or be ourselves or whatever that may be. But that we see you, and we see that identity, and it is that that we strive for. For those who are going through suffering at this time with no wrongdoing. Give them the patience they need. Give them that identity of Jesus Himself. It is in His name we pray. Amen.