In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue on in the book of Genesis, even though it is Epiphany, that'll simply be mentioned. But we are actually covering Genesis 23 and 24 today, even though the reading was only from Genesis 24. So Turn there in your Bibles, if you would, and we can uh touch on each chapter. There is a practical way and a theoretical way to approach these two chapters The practical way teaches the reader to be careful where one is buried and who one marries. In chapter 23, Abraham goes to great lengths to secure a place for Sarah and later himself to be buried. The first part of the chapter depicts Abraham following the customs of the land. He's bowing and doing other gestures in order to secure a proper place for his burial. Because Abraham is respected, he is given a field that contains caves, and these caves would provide a proper burial site. And we have to understand that a proper burial is a burial. It is not cremation The Christian tradition takes its lead from Abraham and has promoted burial rather than cremation because we believe in the resurrection of the body. In our Western Christian past, belief in the resurrection of the body has also encouraged parishes to provide and care for their own cemeteries with the hope that on that day of resurrection we would all be raised together in force. I describe all of this, not to condemn cremation. But as a minister of the gospel, I do frown upon it. The Lord can and will raise up those he has chosen in whatever form he finds them. I do say this to promote Christian burial because as we practice it, we make a positive statement, a proclamation. about the righteousness of the body in its original form, and we make a statement about the resurrection. The hope that we have of the resurrection, that our bodies will indeed be raised, and when we bury them, we proclaim that resurrection. Now, the practical lesson regarding who one marries is learned by the way that Abraham goes to great lengths to ensure that Isaac, his covenant son would marry a woman from proper religious stock. Both Isaac and Abraham realized that no suitable wife would be found among the Canaanites where they lived. If Abraham was going to provide a wife for his son, who would be open to the instruction of there being but just one God, one true God, he reasoned that he must go back to his own people. Being a man of faith, Abraham trusted that he could send his servant and that God would use his servant to identify the right woman for Isaac. The romance of the story, as it begins in verse 10 of chapter 24, shows us the faith of Abraham being expressed through the prayer of the servant. The prayer that he trusted God would answer. It is romantic because the circumstances make the uniting of Isaac and Rebekah one of destiny God's hand was clearly involved. God's will was being done. From the writings of poems and songs, it appears that All lovers want to know that the man or woman they have fallen in love with is the one they are destined to be with forever. In truth, Rebekah is chosen for Isaac in the manner described here because they are of the covenant line of Abraham. And Abraham is called the father of the faith. The line, the family, is specific. Your love story and mine are not going to be like this one. Most of our love stories are pretty mundane except to ourselves. The Bible doesn't teach any such thing as a soulmate. It's not in the scriptures. If you are married, the person you are married to, well, he or she is now your soulmate. Be thankful for him or her, and that would be enough in this life. So Rebecca we find is ideal for Isaac because she was first, it says, a virgin. Second, she has a servant's heart, and that was evident by her watering of the camels. Third, she was of Abraham's household. That God's hand was leading Rebekah to marry Isaac is further seen by the manner Abraham's servant was received by the family. The story he told of Abraham and Isaac convinced all of them that this Rebekah was an obvious choice for Isaac. Biblical commentator Henry Morris says that the typological teaching in the story of Rebekah being chosen for Isaac, well, to him, it's very clear He says that Abraham's servant is like the Holy Spirit, who is in the world working, seeking a bride for the Son of God, who is Jesus the Christ. Isaac is like Christ, for he is the son of the promise. Rebecca is like all those who would receive Jesus as Savior, making them a part of the bride, which is the church. We can take the typological even further by noting that the servant adorns Rebekah with jewels, silver and gold. He beautifies her just as the Holy Spirit beautifies the church, making those in the church righteous. When Isaac and Rebekah finally meet, the scripture says that Rebekah became Isaac's wife, and he loved her. Well that is what our Savior does. He loves his church. Now all of this typology is very good and useful to point us to the direction of the Son of God to be revealed, who will seek out his church and love it as he does his own life. Such parallels confirm to us the truth of the gospel. Such parallels confirm that the way of salvation is and always will be through Christ. And there is more. There is more typology in this story than what I've mentioned thus far. We have just seen how the story teaches us how we are to be careful who we marry. Yep. We have also learned in another sermon that women in Scripture are symbolic at times Regarding the passions of mankind, or our emotions. In placing these two thoughts side by side, I conclude that the story of Isaac Seeking for and marrying Rebecca contains a lesson for all Christians to be careful, to be careful as to what doctrines they hold to, what teachings they believe As was said, Abraham and Isaac knew that there was not a suitable woman for Isaac amongst the women of the Canaanites. The Canaanites, you remember, were a polytheistic people, and they did indeed worship idols. Abraham and his family were like new converts, for they were the only ones worshiping the one true God. In order for Abraham's family to continue to worship the truth that had been revealed to them, Abraham knew, he knew, that his son could not, should not be influenced by idol worshippers. Remember, remember that the law restricting God's people from marrying women from Canaanite lands had not yet been given. But Abraham, the man of faith, did not need such a law, for the law of God was written here on his heart. He needed to protect the primary doctrine of his faith, which was and is that there is but only one God. The law that restricted intermarriage between the children of Abraham and the people of other faiths was given when Israel was to re-enter the land of Canaan after the exodus under Moses. Or service, after Moses. By then the people of God had swelled to over a million, necessitating the need for a clear statement about who they should marry and who they should not. This is from Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 1. When the Lord your God brings you into the land which you go to possess, and has cast out many nations before you, the Hittites, and the Gergeshites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jibusites. Seven nations greater and mightier than you, and when the Lord your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them, nor shall you make marriages with them You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son, for they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods So the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly. I underline that it is not just the primary reason, but the only reason that this commandment is given Is to protect God's people from false doctrine, from false belief, from false worship. The only reason The law is not racially motivated, it is not economically motivated, it is not culturally motivated, it is doctrinal. God is protecting his people as to what they believe. Now the ultimate example we know of is, of course, King Solomon. Who is recorded in 1 Kings to have taken over 700 wives, including wives from the Moabites, the Ammonites, the Edomites, the Sidonians, and the Hittites. From the nations, the scripture says, of whom the Lord had said to the children of Israel, you shall not intermarry with them. It has been explained to us that when Solomon was older, these very same wives turned his heart to other gods. All Christians are to heed the warning from this example, for it is weighted by the fact that Solomon was considered the wisest of kings, and yet. He did not have the wisdom to protect his heart from falsehood. Now, the New Testament provides a similar warning. When St. Paul tells the Corinthians, do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship he reasons has righteousness with lawlessness And what communion has light with darkness? Or what part has a believer with an unbeliever? In case you are unaware, the yoke metaphor refers to two oxen joined together in a yoke, in a restraining, so that they can plow together. And if one oxen is much stronger than the other, well, they start to go in circles, making them ineffective. And so it is with Christians who are yoked with non-Christians, they go in circles. Again, on a very practical level, we can be certain that a Christian should not marry a non-Christian. Beyond that, we should recognize the warning against marrying ourselves to false doctrine. For that is what one is doing if he or she marries a non-Christian. Now, to avoid confusion, I want to be clear what I am saying. We can learn from the choosing of Rebekah for Isaac that it is important for us to be careful who we marry. Because the warning about marriage refers to being led to worship false gods, we can take the example a step further and heed the warning to be careful about the doctrines we believe. Consider that the number the number of warnings that Jesus gave regarding false teachers He said the following: be aware of men. Take heed of the leaven. Beware of false prophets. And these and other examples are how Jesus starts off several teachable moments. He warns them first of false teachings. And of course, several epistles also deal primarily with the warning against false teachers and false doctrines. Upon hearing that the Galatians had been persuaded by Jews to keep the law for their salvation rather than trust in Christ Jesus, the Apostle Paul warns. He says, I marvel that you Have already turned away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel, which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. Later in the same letter he challenges them. He says, Are you so foolish? Having begun in the spirit, are you now being made perfect by the flesh? For that's what they were being taught. With the Church of Thessalonica, the apostle is concerned that the people are not ignorant about what happens when a Christian dies. He says to them, but I do not want you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who have fallen asleep, lest you sorrow as others who have no hope. He then explains that those who have died in Christ will be raised first when Jesus comes his second time. In St. John's second letter, his main purpose is to give a general warning against false doctrine. He says, many deceivers have gone out into the world who do not confess Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. Whoever transgresses and does not abide in the doctrine of Christ does not have God. Doctrine. What we believe. St. Jude, in his one and only epistle, encourages Christians to contend for the faith because, he says, men have crept in among the church who had turned the grace of God into lewdness. Then, after a warning of how God will judge such people, he admonishes Christians. He says, Remember the words which were spoken before the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ, how they told you That there would be mockers in the last time who would walk according to their own ungodly lusts. But you, beloved, building yourselves up On your own most holy faith, pray in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. Urgency, safety, protection of what we believe The comparison between how one is to be careful about marriage and being careful about doctrine is appropriate considering how loose we view the commitment of marriage in our Western culture. We practice our affiliation with the church bodies and church teachers with the same loose commitment. When we become dissatisfied, we believe it is within our right to go to another church or align ourselves with a teacher without making what is believed, what is practiced, what is taught, the most important issue. What many underestimate is how important doctrine is in forming us, in determining our relationship with God. It is difficult to give examples about how doctor informs us and determines our relationship with God without referring to churches around us. I don't believe it is appropriate for me to downgrade other churches, for it serves no purpose. So the best way to handle this is to speak in generalities. In general, we should know that the manner a church worships forms and determines how God is understood by us. The teachers or churches' position on the authority of Scripture also forms and determines The way in which Scripture is read, taught, preached, forms, and determines. The frequency of observing the sacraments forms and determines. The creeds and confessions of the church form and determine. And if you agree with all these statements, then you agree how important it is to be careful, extra careful regarding who you marry yourself to. In regards to the many churches who claim to be Christian. Now, this may shock you. Nonetheless, it should be said All churches or teachers who claim to be Christian may not be Christian. And even those that passed certain tests, such as confessing the Apostles' Creed or observing the sacraments, may not teach sound doctrine. And I must add that much of what you read on the internet that claims to be Christian is not sound doctrine. What social media reveals is how gullible people can be in what they will believe. The devil knows this. And therefore fills your inboxes and your social feeds with hat-truths, poor reasoning, to keep Christians ignorant and keep them chasing doctrinal rabbit trails. To be sure, as I have already said probably too many times in the sermon, the lesson to be learned by the marriage of Isaac and Rebekah is how careful we are to be regarding who we marry, but What also we should have learned is to be careful in what we are believing. And we must be warned against false teachings. We also must be pointed to truth. What you hear from this pulpit and in our Sunday school and in our Bible studies in this parish is carefully planned to match up with what the scriptures teach, and this is important. And what the church has taught that the scriptures teach. For one can say, I believe in the scriptures, but their interpretation is much different than Christians have believed for thousands of years. What I am preaching is being careful in our doctrines to know the Holy Scriptures While also knowing of our church fathers and how they have interpreted the scriptures that we say we uphold as our authority. Abraham was careful for his son and was even careful regarding the burial of his wife. Such carefulness should challenge us to examine all that we do in light of Scripture. Parents should be challenged to know what your child's teachers believe. Do you know what your child's teachers believe and what they practice? Radio listeners should be challenged to know what the preachers on the radio believe and practice. Church shoppers should know all that they can know about the people and its leaders before jumping in. When St. Paul tells Christians in Rome to bring every thought into captivity, he was not just talking to the church leaders. He was talking to every one of us who believe. He was expecting all Christians to work at properly understanding God, which is properly understanding God's word. Because it is epiphany, we Gentiles are especially thankful today that God has included us in his story of redemption. And we can show our thankfulness by how we know the holy scriptures that He has given so freely to us. To know the Bible, to know the Bible is to avoid false doctrine. It is to be careful on who you marry your faith to. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God, for this typology, for this lesson, and seeing how careful carefully we must be and who we marry our faith to. Father, bring us all into conviction to examine all that we allow to come into our minds and to believe in our hearts, that we might not turn to any other God. We pray this in Jesus' name