In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. We are in Exodus chapter seven. Always do well to turn there in your Bibles to that which we're covering. Good to read the Bible before you? Know that the guy up there is actually saying what it says there? A rabbi and a priest. Get into a car accident. It's bad. Both cars are totally demolished. But amazingly, neither of the clerics is hurt. They crawl out of their cars And the rabbi sees the priest's collar. And he says, So you're a priest? I'm a rabbi. Just look at our cars. There's nothing left. But we are unhurt. This must be a sign from God. God must have meant that we should meet and be friends together in peace for the rest of our days. The priest replies, I agree with you completely. This must be a sign from God. The rabbi continues, and look at this. Here's another miracle. My car is completely demolished, but this bottle of Mogan David wine didn't break. Surely God wants us to drink the wine and celebrate our good fortune. Then he hands the bottle to the priest. The priest agrees and takes a few big swigs and hands the bottle back to the rabbi. The rabbi takes the bottle, immediately puts the cap on it, and hands it back to the priest. The priest asks, Aren't you having any? The rabbi replies, no I think I'll wait for the police. I use that joke. Because what the rabbi and the priest assume are miracles An unbroken bottle of wine in a car that has been in a car crash does not constitute as a miracle. Miracle as a descriptive in the Bible is referring to events that are not explainable Solely by the natural process, but which require a direct causal agency that is supernatural, we would call him God. If we use the more common vernacular, laws of nature, we could say that a miracle defies the laws of nature, and the only understandable cause being God. Biblical scholar Wayne Grudham wants to add that a miracle is also an event where God bears witness to himself. I appreciate Dr. Grudman's adding to that definition, giving us the purpose, God showing witness to himself. God wants to reveal his glory to his people. And he does so in many, many different ways, including miracles. Now a grave mistake is made When a mind concludes that because God performs miracles, it automatically results in people believing. And the textbook case for such an argument being invalid is the story of Pharaoh. Pharaoh being a first-hand witness to many miracles, ten total, that Moses and Aaron would perform, and still, still he would not believe in the one true God. Bible commentator Matthew Henry calls such men who do not believe as they witness miracles, they are quote, bent to disobey and willing to object. Such persons have their minds and their hearts made up even before they witnessed the miracle. Consider the story that Jesus told Lazarus and the rich of Lazarus and the rich ruler. This is the Lazarus, not the one raised from the dead, the one who was poor and sick. He begged outside the estate of the rich ruler, but was ignored by people who could have helped him Both men died, the rich ruler and Lazarus. Lazarus went on to Abraham's bosom, you remember, and the rich ruler went on to a fiery punishment. The former rich man said to Father Abraham, I beg you therefore, father, that you would send Lazarus to my father's house, for I have five brothers That he may testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment. Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to him, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded through one who rises from the dead. Such is a sobering story that Jesus tells. He, of course, is the one who would rise from the dead, the greatest miracle there ever was or will be. And still people choose not to believe, even now today, going so far as to question whether Jesus was actually a historical figure. This for the purpose of not having to address the truth of his resurrection. No, a miracle does not automatically result in belief. As we turn to examine the miracles performed by Moses and Aaron in Exodus 7, we are to keep in mind that although Pharaoh and his court would not believe in the one true God, these miraculous events can have a great effect upon those who want to know and love God, us. The first miracle was that of a rod being thrown down and turning into a serpent. The serpent, interestingly, was one of the first living creatures that God created upon earth. As recorded in Genesis. It was one of those creeping things the New King James describes. Here it is a serpent using a different Hebrew word, the same word used to describe the type of creature that Satan inhabited in Genesis 3. Since Jesus as the Son of God has been revealed to us, we can have a fuller picture of why God would choose this as a first miracle before Pharaoh. The rod of Moses was to be thrown down and turned into a snake, you remember, and then picked back up again by its tail and turning back into a rod This was to symbolize to the people of Israel and to Pharaoh if he was paying attention and to Pharaoh's court if they were paying attention that God had given authority to Moses over the devil himself. And when the ministry of Jesus started, the same proof was made. In Mark 3, Jesus is recorded to have healed many and cast out many demons. And when they accused, he was accused by his enemies of having a demon himself to enable him to do all of these things that he did, you remember they challenged him in such an evil way, Jesus said the following. How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, the house cannot stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is at an end. No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first bind the strong man and then he will plunder his house. Clearly in those words in Jesus' teaching, the strong man in this parable is Jesus. I'm sorry, sorry, the strong man is Satan And thus clearly the person plundering the strong man's house is Jesus. And he's doing so by healing the sick, by casting out demons. And how did Jesus get this authority to plunder, to bind the strong man? Where did that come from? We might not answer that question by thinking, well, simply because he's the son of God, right? But Jesus actually earned his authority over the devil when he withstood temptation in the wilderness those forty days, being tempted in every way, and yet he did not sin. The devil was thus bound by Jesus after those 40 days, and he could do nothing to stop the kingdom of God. And it was the kingdom of God that was arriving every time Jesus arrived at a place or said a word. Such an understanding of the ministry of Jesus is so very, very important to a greater understanding of the importance of Jesus' ministry on earth. Bishop N. T. Wright, speaking in Baltimore last winter, made the point That if the ministry of Jesus was all about the atonement, only about him dying for our sins, that he simply merely needed to die for our sins. Then he might as well have died with the rest of those children that were killed by Herod on that horrible day. And that would have been enough. But it was not enough. The salvation procured for us by Jesus needed to include having authority over the devil. Just as Moses was able to grab the serpent by its tail and use that rod as he desired, so too is Jesus able to grab the certain the serpent by the tail and bind him to do God's will. And of course, this means everything to those who follow Jesus. It means everything to us. It means everything to us because our victories over sin and temptation, our victories over the demonic and demonic temptation, those can be practiced now. In our times of desperation, in our moments of weakness, and in our most vulnerable hours, we have authority over sin and temptation. Every Sunday, if you look up to the chancel area at all, you might see me pray before I preach. And I not only ask God to bless my mind so that I can think clearly and bless my lips that I might articulate clearly in my heart, that I too would be convicted by the word I preach. That I might increase my own faith. I also rebuke the devil in the name of Jesus so that he would have no place in this house of worship And I believe the devil must make his way out of this place so that the word of God can be preached effectually. And I believe it because Moses grabbed that rod, that serpent by the tail. And it became a rod again. For that means to us that Jesus bound the strong man and he must submit to the authority of Jesus. I trust you believe that as well. After the rod of Moses was thrown down, we read that the Pharaoh and his sorcerers threw down rods as well, and those rods became snakes. Verse eleven says, they also did so in like manner with their enchantments. So Pharaoh completely missed the symbolism of the miracle Moses and Aaron performed, overcoming evil. He saw it as a magician's trick that could be duplicated. Matthew Henry again sums this up better than I can. Quote, the magicians were cheats, trying to copy the real miracles of Moses by secret slights or jugglings. which to a small extent they succeeded in doing, so as to deceive the bystanders. But they were at length obliged to confess they could not any longer imitate the effects of divine power. In provoking Pharaoh and his sorcerers to imitate a true miracle. The devil gives away his most prominent technique at deceiving people away from the truth. The devil imitates. In fact, the devil is not original in anything that he does. Ponder that for a later time. The devil is not original in anything that he does. He can only distort what God has done. He cannot do anything that is of his own. But we must give him credit Just as the Pharaoh's magicians were able to deceive the bystanders, so too is the devil successful at deceiving many. Many Consider how many imitations of Christianity there are in today's world. Consider the most prominent one, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A little bit about that faith. The originator of the Mormon Church you might know is Joseph Smith. Who was known in his days as a self-proclaimed prophet, but also a poor salesman and a teller of tall tales. He began as a religious leader, claiming that all who had followed Jesus from the time of the apostles till Joseph Smith's day had it all wrong. And that God had come to him in a special revelation, chosen him as a prophet to receive special revelation and to turn the people of God back to the truth. And so he claimed to have been given golden plates that revealed all sorts of new things, such as Jesus and Satan were actually brothers in heaven. He taught that each male who was faithful in the Mormon faith would receive his own earth to populate. And in order to populate his own earth, he must have many wives to give birth to spiritual children that would inhabit his planet. Ladies, you realize that heaven for you then is perpetual pregnancy. Sound like a heaven to you? And so polygamy was justified and wholeheartedly practiced on this planet in preparation for those faithful Mormon planets in the future. Smith also taught that the golden plates revealed how the African race was cursed because of a particular sin, and therefore blacks would not be allowed to become Mormons. Smith also proclaimed that there were ten lost tribes chosen by God to be his people And that they were on the American continent originally, and that John the Apostle is still alive even today preparing those lost ten tribes to return to prominence It goes on. While serving as mayor of a small town in the state of Illinois and at the same time running for president of the United States, Smith was jailed because he destroyed a building of a local newspaper that revealed he was practicing polygamy. While in jail, a mob was formed. That mob stormed the jail and shot Joseph Smith dead. And there was no clear line of succession to the leadership of the Mormon religion, and thus with some political maneuvering and some strong armed tactics. Brigham Young took the lead as the new self-proclaimed prophet and set them on a journey toward Utah. And we could spend the rest of the day talking about his distorted version of the faith. Bobby Glenn and I were watching a television program that did not portray Mormonism in a positive light, and she asked rhetorically Why anyone would follow Mormonism? She grew up with Mormon friends and has known their way of faith for many years, and she still does not understand what the draw is. I believe such a rhetorical question can be answered here in the story of Pharaoh's magicians turning their rods into snakes. It does not take much for the devil to twist a truth and make it believable, because, and here's the answer, because people who are dead in their trespasses and sins are already deceived. They think they are controllers of their own destiny, and any religion that tells them that they can earn their eternal reward appeals to what is already deceived in their minds and in their hearts And so they will seemingly believe anything. Consider that although Africans were said to be cursed All of a sudden, a new revelation came to the leaders of the Mormon church, and such teaching became an embarrassment, and in 1978 their doctrine was changed to allow blacks to enter into the priesthood. Consider that the doctrine of allowing polygamy, which was from the beginning of the religion and was said to be in those golden plates that no one has ever seen that that didn't go out of style or taken out of the law of Utah until they would not be allowed into the Union unless it was taken off their books. Consider that Brigham Young, a man who said that all of his sermons were as holy scripture, that Brigham Young taught that the God of this earth, the God that we worship, the God who sent Jesus and who called Joseph Smith, was actually Adam. Of Adam and Eve fame. That understanding, that teaching has been plainly discarded by the church as early as 1981. These are the most prominent examples of what the Mormon faith has changed about its doctrine, and I believe they prove that a people deceived will indeed believe anything. Consider the existence of the worldwide Church of God, Jehovah's Witnesses, Christian Science, United Pentecostals, Unitarians. And many independent churches or independent movements that claim the name of Jesus in some shape or form, but always preach a salvation that is earned by good works. Leading people back to the same sin of Adam and Eve, wanting to be like God, wanting to determine their own destiny And just as Pharaoh's magicians wanted to pretend their rods were the same as the rod of Moses and Aaron, so too Do these false religions, these cults, want to believe that Jesus they claim is the same one who died, who rose again, and who was seated at the right hand of the Father, offering salvation? Well we know by grace through faith. And we should embrace the argument that imitation is the greatest form of flattery. The devil knows that the best way to deceive is to imitate and distort the truth. After all, it does no good to distort a lie. Distorting the truth is the devil's modus operandi. Now I want to take you back to Exodus 7 again. For after these magicians of Pharaoh throw down the rods to be like the rod of Moses and Aaron. We are told that Aaron's rod or staff, as the NIV said, swallowed up the rods or staffs of Pharaoh's magicians. Medieval Jewish commentator Rashi notes that the language used here to describe this event are rod and rods as opposed to snake and snakes. Thus the rod of Moses and Aaron swallowed up the rods of Pharaoh's magicians. And Rashi calls this a miracle within a miracle. Because rods don't normally swallow anything. A rod in the days of Moses and the days before and up to today represented authority and were used by shepherds to beat off the enemy. To protect the sheep. And the authority of Moses, then, by that rod, swallowing, Pharaoh's rods, was authority, swallowing authority. And it would be used to beat Pharaoh down. And Moses was doing so with the humble symbol of a shepherd. Which, according to the Egyptians, was an embarrassing work, an embarrassing trade. But God took on that lowly trade, that lowly position. He himself as the chief shepherd. Chief Shepherd. And the point for us today is that what the devil tries to do in turning Pharaoh's rods to be like the rod of Moses and Aaron, he continues that today. And the mode of operation is the same in that he wants to look us to look the other way, away from the authority of God, away from the authority of Christ Jesus. He wants us to look away from how we are saved by grace and faith alone and not by any human good deed. He wants us to look away from the truth that without Jesus our works are filthy rags to be thrown into the fire. The devil wants us to believe we can earn our own salvation by just being good persons He wants us to think we can balance the scales of justice by doing something good after we have done something bad. His tactics are so old they would be laughable if they were not so very effective. For they work on many who travel on that wide road. And we should be assured that every time we throw down a good work before God as a claim to righteousness, it is eaten up by the rod of the good shepherd, Jesus. Beloved, I want us to see and I want us to believe that there is authority in the doctrine of being saved by grace through faith. It is a doctrine that overpowers the devil. It is a doctrine that swallows up anything that tries to be like it. We proclaim that by grace, the grace of Jesus, and faith in the sacrifice of Jesus That our sins are forgiven, and heaven is our true home, and the devil is grabbed by the tail and thus is controlled by the truth. And I want us to see that every time a soul is saved by grace, the grace of God in Christ Jesus That is a true miracle. It goes against our nature, and the only explanation is God. To him be glory. Forever and ever. Amen. Amen. Let us pray