In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. This sermon we will be looking at Ephesians chapter four and Luke chapter fourteen In May of 1991, Michael Jordan, the great basketball player for the Chicago Bulls, had won his first NBA championship. While also winning the MVP of the same championship series and being named the MVP of the entire NBA for the 1990 and 91 season. He was wealthy beyond most of our dreams, along with being the most recognized athlete in the world. Just after winning the NBA Championship, Jordan appeared on the skit comedy show Saturday Night Live. The most memorable of the skits was the one he did with Al Franken, when Al Franken was funny. Where Franken played a self-esteem counselor named Stuart Smalley. Stuart Smalley was the host of a show called Daily Affirmations And on that show, he welcomed as a guest the great Michael Jordan. The highlight of the skit was when the host instructed Michael Jordan to look into a mirror and talk to himself, repeating the words, I am good enough, I am smart enough, and doggone it, people like me. The great irony was first that the character, Stuart Smalley, was so very insecure that he was in no place to give anyone counsel about self-esteem And of course, the greatest irony was that Michael Jordan would need a self-affirmation conversation with himself. And what is ironic today is that such self-affirmation is being touted as mentally healthy within Christian circles. There are self-affirmation slogans you would speak to others, such as, you are good enough. You are enough. Others you speak to yourself, such as, I am an overcomer. I can do all things. And this doozy, I am my own superhero. What is unfortunate is that Christians are satisfied with such slogans instead of being satisfied with what God has said about them. And not seeing the conflict of such statements as, I can do all things, as it comes in conflict with St. Paul saying, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. What I hope for all of us to see is how m such self-affirmation not only comes in conflict with what God's Word says. But also carries a spirit of narcissism that is contrasted with the biblical ideal that all who follow Christ Jesus are to die to themselves. While putting the needs of others before their own. As we look at Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 through 6. We remember that Paul spent three chapters spelling out in glorious detail all that God did for us and noting that he did it freely by his grace. Now he brings a call for Christians to live rightly, but only after explaining what God has done for us. He says we are to walk worthy of the calling with which you are called The apostle gives Christians such instruction again directly after describing God's work that He did for us to motivate us, to motivate us by that work. If we are not serving and obeying, then we are not grasping what God has done. The idea is that we don't walk worthy so that God will love us. But we walk worthy because He already has loved us. Our walk is how we live. How we live our lives each day. And we are to walk each day with all, he says, lowliness and gentleness. A worthy walk before God will be marked by lowliness and gentleness Which is not a selfish desire to defend our own rights and advance our own agenda Consider that before Christianity, the word lowliness always had a bad association to it. In the minds of many, it still does But for the Christian, it is a glorious virtue exemplified by Christ Jesus Himself It means that we can be happy and content when we are not in control, when we are not steering things our own way. When practiced as Jesus did it, it is a major part of our witness to the world lowliness. In our lowliness we are to be long-suffering, bearing with one another We need this so that the inevitable wrongs that occur between people in God's family will not work against God's purpose of bringing all things together in Jesus. Long suffering goes against a dominant spirit of our age that calls Christians to quit on one another. John Chrysostom defined long-suffering as the spirit that has power to take revenge but never does. It is a characteristic of a forgiving, generous heart. And long-suffering is to naturally spill out of us because God is so very long-suffering toward us. A result of long suffering is endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. This humble, forgiving attitude towards each other naturally fulfills this gift of unity of spirit. This unity is a natural byproduct of being ruled and led by the Holy Spirit. But what must a Christian do to have unity in spirit? We must realize that we do not create such unity. God never commands us to create unity among believers. He has created unity. His spirit of unity. Our duty is to recognize it and keep it. And this is a spiritual spiritual unity, not necessarily a structural or denominational unity. But that of the Spirit. It is more easily seen in the quick fellowship among Christians of different races, nationalities, languages, and economic classes. We can also understand this unity of spirit by understanding what it is not. In a sermon on this text, Charles Spurgeon pointed out of the things that the text does not say. It does not say to endeavor to maintain the unity of evil, the unity of superstition, or the unity of spiritual tyranny. It does not say endeavoring to keep up your ecclesiastical arrangements for centralization. And we should also say what this unity is. It is centered on the person of Jesus Christ in the complete revelation of who he was and what he did, as stated in the creeds. To center it on anything else is not to be Christian, but something else that is irredeemable and lost. Next is described the unity where it factually exists. He says, there is one body and one spirit. We have unity because of what we share in common. In Jesus we share one body, which is to say both the body of the church and the body of Jesus in the sacrament. We also share one spirit, one hope of our calling, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one Father. The danger is that each of these can be used to divide. When we are one body And yet we won't submit to certain ecclesiastical authorities because we simply don't want to. We are one spirit, and yet we disagree as to what extent the spirit is going to govern our lives. We are of one hope, with many not understanding heaven proper. We are of one calling with some not accepting the doctrine of election. We are of one Lord with some who call themselves Christians, not allowing Jesus to rule them morally. We are of one faith with some rejecting the doctrine of Solafidae, faith alone. We are of one baptism and yet some Do not recognize baptisms of others because of mode or age. We are of one father, and yet some prefer having a woman lead them. We have a great distance to go to truly know or experience the unity that is described by St. Paul. But the lack of unity, I lament, does not displace the truth that there is unity of God's people, prepared for them and existing for them, but requiring each person to submit to it. Beloved, there is great power in seeing one another as having God within. I may not like what you just said to me, but if I believe God is within you, I will always love you and forgive you. I may not agree with where you stand on vaccines, on masks, on public schools, but if I know God is within you, I will love you and overlook what we see differently. I may not understand your marital dynamics, your child rearing practices, your choice of profession, or the friends you choose. But if I agree that God's within you, I will love you as part of God's family, a family that will be forever. Again, there is great power in seeing people as having God within. We now turn to Luke chapter fourteen, and we see the social dynamics that are described. They are not of unity. They are not of love. And most certainly not seeing God within one another. Luke sets the scene as being in the house of a Pharisee. We know that the majority of Pharisees, or the Pharisees as a group, were greatly suspicious and jealous of Jesus. Jesus had garnered a great deal of popularity, which came along with influence amongst the people, and it was the same type of popularity and influence the Pharisees wanted for themselves. Luke tells us that lawyers were also present. The Bible uses the term lawyer in a religious sense. These men were scholars of the law of Moses. We also know them as scribes. Thus the men who influenced the Jews religiously were present, Pharisees and scribes, present for a meal after a worship meeting in a local synagogue, for we are told that this took place on the Sabbath. They likely would have been at a synagogue and then come together for a meal. The setting also includes a guest or a crash visitor, we don't know which, who had drops C. The term Luke used was a technically was a technical word in the Greek, hydro picos, which we would expect because Luke was a physician. In general, it is a swelling of the body, usually caused by heart failure. Jesus quickly sizes up the situation and recognizes it as a setup. And so he takes the case to them rather than waiting for them to take it to him. He asks: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? No one speaks. No one answers. Of course they don't. They don't see God in him, and he knows God is not within them. If God was within them, they would not put Jesus to a test. The issue for the Pharisees and scribes was their understanding of healing being an act of work. And as we know, the Sabbath was a day of rest, not a day on which to work. To be sure, not to break the Sabbath law, the Pharisees had come up with a list of actions That could not be practiced on the Sabbath, for such acts would be defined as work. Such laws developed into a great list called the 39 Creative Activities And they included planting and reaping, spinning and sowing, trapping and killing, riding and erasing, only to mention a few. A reason for such a list is the perception the Pharisees and Scribes had about the law of Moses, which was that it was written to be served as opposed to being written to serve God's people. Jesus does not respond to their silence, but instead focuses on the ill man first. Luke simply says Jesus took him and healed him. Next, Jesus provides two common analogies that cause continued silence from those testing him. An accident such as a donkey or an ox falling into a pit could be imagined by all that were present. These were domesticated animals that wandered and did not always recognize the next dangerous step Because such animals were expensive and very useful for a family, it was necessary for them to be rescued, even on a Sabbath. The logic of Jesus is response-proof. If the life value of a donkey or an ox is great enough to do an act of work on the Sabbath, how much more is the life value and healing value of a human being? And none of this testing, mind you, of Jesus includes the accepted reality that Jesus has the power to heal. Evidently, such healing occurred so much it was no longer a marvel to them. But Jesus wants to dig a little further into their consciences, into their souls. The souls of these self-righteous men. What he gets to is what is at the heart of them making these lists, what is at the heart of them testing Jesus. What is at the heart of the problem, the sin that they have not overcome is pride. It is personal selfish pride. They think they are good enough, smart enough, and doggone it people like them. To reveal this pride, Jesus describes an event that they had all experienced. They are to imagine that they are at a wedding feast, and at wedding feasts in the ancient Near East, the closer you sat to the person putting on the feast, the more honorable a place you had been given. The advice of Jesus is not to expect to be honored, but instead to take the place of the least honored. In other words, be humble. Take the lowest place, and if you are asked to sit at a more honorable place, all the more happy you will be. This teaching matches the words of St. James, who said in his epistle, humble thyself in the sight of the Lord, and he, God, will lift you up. Put another way, Christians are not to lift themselves up, but are instead to wait until God does it. Lifting ourselves up, proving our own self-esteem, is speaking only empty words that do not change our inner struggle, which is pride. Self-esteem, as it is defined today, is greatly deceiving, for we are told in this therapeutic age that we don't think of ourselves enough when the truth is we think about ourselves too much. The downtrodden remain downtrodden because they are obsessed with how downtrodden they are The insecure remain insecure because they are comparing themselves to others and concluding that they are not measuring up while failing to see how obsessed they are with thinking about how they don't measure up To all of this, Jesus provides us this maxim to live by: whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. But you say that you don't struggle with pride as others do. Well, such a conclusion is prideful. Let us do some self-examination. What is it within you that refuses to learn something new? Whatever it is, the root of it is pride. What would you call that feeling of resistance to new practices while concluding that your old way of doing things is good enough? I would call it pride. What is it within all of us that doesn't want to admit that we are wrong, or that doesn't want to admit a mistake, or doesn't want others to know of our ignorance? Or becomes embarrassed because of weight gain, or a torn dress, or from taking a tumble. You guessed it. It's pride. It is sinful, selfish, personal pride. And the only answer is to repent of the sin as pride and to take the lesser seat. It is to walk in this world with an attitude and perspective that sees self as lowly and meek. It is to be long-suffering and forbearing to fellow Christians. It is to endeavor toward unity centered on the goodness of Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. There is no other answer. There is no savior named Tony Robbins. For those of you under 30, Tony Robbins is a famous positive attitude speaker. For Christians to be in the world and not of the world, which means to be a product of the world, Christians need to take the lesser seat. We need to embrace humility. Thirteen years ago, Google released a searchable database of five point two million books published Since 1500. It's a long time. Researchers discovered that between 1960 and 2008 Nineteen sixty and two thousand eight, individualistic words increasingly overshadowed communal ones. I instead of we. The usage of kindness and helpfulness had dropped 56% in books. 56%. Similarly, modesty and humbleness dropped 52%. Our language reflects our culture. And no doubt in 2021 it's gotten a lot worse. Consider the person of Jesus. He was born lowly, lowly of a state. He owned no property. He had no offspring. He had no earthly wealth. He did not have a place to rest his head. At his most difficult hour, his closest friends abandoned him, even some denying they knew him. But the effect of his life that he has had on the world, on the many lives that have accepted him and rejected him, is measureless. He changed the world and continues to do so. And it all started with him taking on the form of a servant, taking the lesser seat. Of course, I do not know what troubles your life finds. I don't know all the relationships that are strained. I don't know the sins that you are trying to overcome or the feelings you are trying to heal, but I know, and you know, the power of humility. Be humble and let the Lord lift you up. Amen. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, as we see the sins of the Pharisees and Scribes and the pride that they displayed. And how it was a barrier that would not allow them to see Jesus as who he was. And we see the call of St. Paul for us to think upon ourselves as lowly and to be long-suffering. We embrace it. We embrace the call to be humble. And we acknowledge that it is the only way to your kingdom. And so build us up. Help us to be humble that we in the end might be lifted up. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.