It's In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Those of you who receive email announcements from the church Are aware that today we are veering away from our series on the book of Proverbs to address the devastating news. That the Supreme Court of these United States handed down a decision that makes it legal for our nation To sanctify marriage between a man and another man, between a woman and another woman. Perhaps my reaction was like yours. I received the news of the Supreme Court's decision through my Twitter feed. I clicked on the story to read more of the headline, and I was struck dumb. I knew it was possible, but I was struck dumb. I've always been an idealist about this country I always remember believing that the United States was the greatest nation. Not only in the world today, but the greatest nation the world had ever known. I know that conclusion is debatable, but it is what I believed as a young boy. And such idealism has always been with me. But my idealism was shattered on June 26th. This nation is no longer the nation I once loved. And don't be angry with me for saying that. It's just a gut reaction, a knee jerk reaction, and I hope to recover After reading about the Supreme Court decision, I prayed that the Lord would give me some living words. I was by myself, front porch. Of the house we were staying at. I needed living words to feed and calm my troubled soul. And I found two readings from the daily lectionary that spoke to me. The first one was from Psalm 107, verse 33-43. And it reads this: God turned rivers into a desert, flowing springs into thirsty ground. And fruitful land into a salt waste because of the wickedness of those who lived there. He turned the desert into pools of water, and the parched ground into flowing springs. There he brought the hungry to live, and they founded a city where they could settle. They sowed fields and planted a vineyard that yielded a fruitful harvest. He blessed them, and their numbers greatly increased, and he did not let their herds diminish. Then their numbers decreased, and they were humbled by oppression, calamity, and sorrow. He who pours contempt on nobles made them wander in a trackless waste But he lifted the needy out of their affliction and increased their family like flocks. The upright see and rejoice, but all the wicked shut their mouths. Let the one who is wise heed these things and ponder the loving deeds of the Lord. These words remind us that God is sovereign, and that means he will judge the nations as he sees necessary. And when a nation sins, he will in turn make their ground dry. And when he chooses to be merciful, he will turn their dry land into pools of water. Nations can do nothing outside of God's plan, and his plan is for his kingdom to come and his will to be done. The epistle lesson for that same day was from Acts chapter 7 The starting point was verse 37, which is right in the middle of St. Stephen's sermon before the Jews, before he was about to be stoned. He was recounting to them a story of God choosing them as a nation, but they rebelled again and again. In the section cited, Stephen reminds the Jews of the time when Moses was on Mount Sinai, waiting upon the Lord, receiving God's commands, and the people became so impatient that their leader had not returned. That they turned to Aaron and asked him, told him to make a golden idol so that they could worship a false god The lesson reminds us, a very simple lesson. People do that. People choose false gods, and when they do They choose evil and they call it good. These readings calmed my soul because I once again knew that God was indeed still in control, but it also started within me a determination that has only grown. God has called me to be a voice of dissent. Dissent in these days And I know this because I live in these days and I'm anointed to preach the gospel. And the gospel is a descent from the ways of the world. I am thus required as a preacher to be a voice of descent to any spirit of the age, and now that spirit of the age is up in our face. I also know that I am prepared to be a voice of dissent. I recognize that in being a voice of dissent, I may become an enemy of the state. If they have come after cake bakers and photographers for not supporting homosexual wedding ceremonies, the clergy are likely next. I raised five boys who fear God and thus honor their father and their mother. I have no doubt that they will take care of their mother and sister if I am persecuted, incarcerated. I am ready to fight. I truly am. And I realize that as I raise my voice in descent, I may cause some of you, parishioners of St. Stephen's, to be uncomfortable. You may have some sympathy for the issue of homosexual marriage. You may not like that your pastor takes a stand against the spirit of this age in regards to this issue. You may become tired of me speaking against people that you like, that you care about, even respect. I understand that that may happen, but you need to know that I fear standing before God and having to give an account for my silence. During an age that celebrates sin, I fear that more than I fear looking out at empty pews. If you are uncomfortable with the proclamations I make against the morality of our time, I only ask That you give me your ear and hear my arguments and judge them against the opposing views and judge for yourself who is speaking the truth. Well first, I want to be grateful for our denomination, both for the REC and the ACNA. The REC has clear definitive statements about what constitutes marriage and what does not Archbishop Foley and the ACNA bishops gave a statement immediately after the Supreme Court ruling that was a message of dissent. Warning and faith in God's sovereignty. It is a great comfort to know that we are not alone in our descent And to know that we have ordained leaders of the church who are courageous. Grateful to God for that. But their leadership will only be effective if we lead in South Carroll County. We need to stand firm on our own. We are responsible for our little corner of the world. Second, I need to speak prophetically in regards to what this ruling means for the future. The downgrade of our culture toward becoming godliness tipped in the 1960s with the embracing of the sexual revolution. The degree of that downgrade increased dramatically in 1973 when the Supreme Court here they are again Ruled that the mother's womb was no longer a safe place. The domino effect of that decision Continues today. We are a culture that gives birth to monsters who kill people at prayer meetings. who sell their children for drugs, who abuse the handicapped and the elderly because human life is not cherished, and the commandment thou shalt not kill has no authority. The degree of the downgrade of our culture as a result of the Supreme Court ruling regarding homosexual marriage has once again increased to a near 90 degrees. And note the lie that my prophetic words confront. It is the lie that this ruling will not affect the average person. You might say or heard it said, doesn't affect me. The reality is it will affect all of us. Our society is already greatly troubled because of the breakdown of the home, primarily because fathers are absent and thus too many children are raised in single-parent homes. Statistics clearly show that children are more healthy and happy when raised with a father and a mother. The Supreme Court ruling accepting homosexual marriage is another blow to the home because it further erodes the traditional family, a father and a mother. A most obvious argument, obvious, against homosexual unions that should be readily accepted. Is that such a practice does not need Christian revelation for a person to see how destructive such unions are Natural law reveals that for societies to thrive, for the human species to continue. The bedrock of such societies and for the human species is heterosexual unions. Human society since the creation of man have understood the necessity of upholding the sanctity of heterosexual unions. Even cultures that homosexual apologists uphold as accepting of homosexuality, such as the ancient Greek culture Such a culture never condoned homosexual marriage or unions. And they may have looked the other way, away from homosexual acts, but they always defended and upheld heterosexual homes. Important and necessary for the health and prosperity of a society. It's so obvious. Evidently not. Because of the Supreme Court ruling, no longer are we as society going to be able to identify what is a family. No longer are we going to be able to provide what is best for our children, the children born in this nation. The fundamental understanding of what makes up a home has been dismantled. Confused. And so what has been a bed-off for every every civilization of mankind is no more in these United States. Prophetically, we can know what the future holds, not by special words from God, but by common sense. Common sense he provides for us. Now this ruling by the Supreme Court is going to challenge our religious freedom. I have already mentioned how it has challenged small businesses, how I anticipate it's going to challenge pastors to perform homosexual marriages. As it is now in Canada. And we can also anticipate how it will challenge any religious institution who hires employees Gives housing to students, provides benefits for employees, gives financial assistance to the needy, chooses couples for adoption, and other provisions and outreach ministries. For one example, let us imagine a small Christian college that provides married student housing for its married students. The housing is low cost as an encouragement for young couples to avoid sexual temptation and instead be married. It is low cost to encourage young married couples to continue their college education. It is a ministry to young married couples. But that college accepts government loans for its students to attend. And because they accept government loans, the government believes it can have a say on how the college is run And the government becomes aware that a homosexual couple who is married in the eyes of the state and federal government has been turned down by said college to receive a place in married student housing. Because of this Obergfell v. Hodges case, that Christian college doesn't have a law to stand on. Third, Christians need to be willing to accept derogatory titles given to us as we take a stand against homosexual marriage. Jesus warned, we heard it this morning, Jesus warned his disciples that the world that hated him would hate those who follow him. It shouldn't be a news flash that the world hates Christians. It always has. Oh, it may personally like you, because you're nice. But when you profess Jesus as your Lord and Savior It reminds the godless that you believe in moral absolutes. It reminds the godless that you believe in a heaven and a hell. It reminds the godless that people who believe in Jesus as their Lord and Savior are to receive a heavenly reward, and those who cling to their sin Their sexual sin, they will receive hell as their eternal punishment. That offends That causes people to call to call Christians prejudiced, mean, and hateful. The accusation of being hateful is the primary derogatory title given to Christians who stand against homosexual marriage. The hateful label appears to be the trump card argument against or for the godless. Once a person is identified as hateful, then everything he or she has to say can then be dismissed. But we are to fear God and not men. We are to fear the one who can throw both our bodies and souls into hell. The labels of men should not, cannot, and must not detour us from the road we are on or dissuade us from the moral stands that we take. Let them call us haters. That the goddess would label Christians hateful reveals where their arguments rest. Their argument rests in their emotions. Even in Justice Kennedy's remarks on behalf of the majority, there is an emotive plea when Kennedy states That it diminishes a homosexual's personhood to deny him or her the right to marry. But he fails to decide how it diminishes personhood. He does not explain himself because to him and the rest of society the emotion is obvious You're hurting them. Last year I listened to a public debate between a Christian minister and a college professor on the subject of homosexual marriage. The debate was good-spirited and the Christian minister was getting in some pretty good points until the college professor shared his own story about loving his homosexual partner. He challenged the Christian minister to state that the love he and his homosexual partner shared wasn't real. Well, as soon as the college professor used an emotional argument, the debate was won I don't mean to say that the college professor won because he was right, of course not. But the audience went his direction because they were emotionally moved that this man had a love for someone else. Time and time again, Christians are emotionally moved to side with the homosexual agenda because someone they love, someone they care about, claims to be a homosexual. And we think that if we're going to love them, we have to side with them Christians too often fall into stories where people talk about they just want to be happy, as if that's the most important thing. Emotions are not where Christians are to take their stand. We know that, but you need to hear it. Christians are to take their stand on the Word, the Word of God. And that Word of God became flesh and dwelt among us. We are to take our stand on Jesus, and Jesus fulfilled the law. And we are to be doers of the moral law of God. And God's law says That it is an abomination for a man to lie with a man and for a woman to lie with a woman Where emotions contribute. Where emotions contribute is that we are to love that a man wants to be loved, and we are to emotionally love by telling a man that wants to be loved That Jesus is the only one that can fulfill that voice that you have. And Jesus' love is sufficient for you. That you don't need the love of another man. True love, God's love, tells the truth, knowing that the truth of Jesus, that's what sets a person free. This third point can be summed up by saying that Christians need to be willing and prepared to be legally and socially persecuted for standing against homosexual acts and homosexual marriage. Fourth. Fourth, it is finally time that we stop fooling ourselves about how the world has influenced the Christian church away from biblical morality. Christian parents need to be diligent at counteracting the sexual propaganda that is being taught in public schools and private secular schools. I highly recommend parents not send their kids to public schools. No place is the homosexual agenda being taught without a filter more than the public schools. Most of my children attend or have attended a secular private school where they heard the same agenda. We have been diligent parents by asking and talking with our children about what they have heard and how they are understanding it all in light of what we have taught them. If you send your children to public schools, you must, must be diligent in counteracting what they are being taught about sexual orientation. When St. Paul instructs Christians to keep every thought in captivity, every thought in captivity, no place do such words apply more than what our children are being taught about sexuality. It is time for us to audit what our schools are teaching, to audit what each family member is listening to in music, watching, and reading for entertainment. Don't be fooled, dear Christian, by a good joke or a sentimental story that upholds a sexual agenda that goes directly against your Christian faith. Bringing every thought into captivity means every thought Finally, we must acknowledge before God that the sins of our nation are our sins. Like Isaiah, we must confess that we as individuals have unclean lips, and we live amidst the people of unclean lips. Our nation was founded on God-fearing principles, and yet from the beginning we were a people of unclean lips. The sin of slavery continues to haunt us, and such a sin cannot be atoned for by getting rid of a flag or renaming a road. And that sin of slavery is doubled by the sin of abortion, which continually places us under God's judgment. And now we have the spin of sanctioned scholarly to add to the pile. These are not the sins of others only, as they are ours as well, for we are members of a nation that sanctioned all of these sins. The only atonement possible is by the blood of Jesus. And we as the church are responsible to tell our neighbors that truth. If you are tempted to critique my words this morning by pointing out that there weren't any words of love, I challenge you. Words of love can be words that are a loud warning. I critique your thoughts by countering that silence is an act of condoning, and condoning sin is practicing unrighteous hate. For it is allowing another person to go to his or her demise without any warning from you. So what are we to do now? What's our next move? Well We need to be better examples of what true marriage is. We need to work harder at being better husbands and better wives and better parents So that the world can know that we are Christian. We need to be better churchmen by loving one another as Jesus taught us. We need to stop being petty and forgive one another. We need to focus on what is essential for being the church Jesus died for instead of infighting about nothing that has to do with the gospel. And we need to take a stand. We need to be willing to be persecuted for the stands that we take. I am willing, and I am calling you to join me in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.