In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Today, we start a series of sermons That I am calling the summer of the saints. I thought that was rather catchy. The summer of the saints This is a different type of series for us, but I am not going to be expounding on a different text from the Bible. But instead, I'm going to reveal to us how early Christians, and by early, I mean Christians who lived up to the third century how early Christians understood the Bible, and how they lived their lives according to that understanding. So the Scripture is our authority in this series as it always needs to be, but we are going to be looking at Scripture through different lenses. And to help you understand what has motivated me to do a series like this, I begin with a story. Shortly after I arrived as the new rector here at St. Stephen's, which by the way was 20 years ago this weekend. I heard about the connection this parish and Bishop Cummins parish had to the Erickson family, and I'm so grateful that Kathy's here and Tyler and could catch us up on what Johnny is doing. I had heard the story of Johnny Erickson, now Tada, several years prior, how she broke her neck in a swimming accident and how she learned to do extraordinary things with her teeth And most importantly, how she had a powerful testimony regarding her faith in Jesus while going through the most difficult testing of her faith in accepting her paralysis. I wanted to learn more about her and her story, so I, when I got here, picked up her autobiography titled Johnny. And in this autobiography, Johnny tells about a young man named Steve Estes. Steve is now a pastor, he's a counselor, he's an author We when he came to know Johnny, he was but a young man with no theological training. But he became a confidant and spiritual counselor for Johnny as again she wrestled with God to accept a life of faith in him while facing a lifetime of paralysis. What I remember well about the effect Steve Estes' counsel had on Johnny was when he confessed to her that all the truths that he was teaching her and reminding her from God's word, that all of these were a mystery to him. Because the counsel he was giving her, even though it was from Holy Scripture, he didn't know if it actually worked. He didn't know if a person could endure suffering like Johnny's and not lose faith. He didn't know if a person could count sufferings all joy as we are told to do in Scripture. Or if a person could worry only about today and trust that God would take care of all the days ahead As an inexperienced young man, he didn't know if applying biblical principles actually changed a life for the better. He didn't know it until he saw it work in John. And I love the honesty of such a confession, for I have had a similar experience. I have counseled people telling them how to apply the scriptures to their particular struggle or trial. when I myself had not been through what they are going or were going through. And I'm sure all of us have had at one time a moment where we have wondered whether the principles for living the Christian life really do give a person peace of heart and mind. If I forgive as I should and love as I should and be patient, patient as I should, will it bring me inner joy and peace of my conscience? Does the Christian life applied provide victory over sin in my life? Can faith in Jesus give me peace over inner struggles and difficult people? I am trusting in this series that the lives of the saints of old will tell us the answers to these questions. We begin with looking not at one particular saint, but all of the apostles The original 12, who you know became 11, and then back to 12, and then 13 when adding the Apostle Paul. We start with the 12 by examining a document that is believed to have come from their teaching. And it's called the Dida K. The Dida K spelled D-I-D-A-C-H-E and pronounce Dida K. The date of the Didique is hotly debated. We are going to settle on the year 100 A. D. as that is the most popular scholarly date as of today. Now I have outlined the document as follows. It begins by underlining necessary moral behaviors by Christians, again, from the scriptures. Next, it gives counsel on how to live the Christian faith in the context of the sinful world around you. It then warns Christians about false teachers and certain sins that lead to death. That is followed by the centrality of the sacraments in the lives of Christians. Discussing the sacraments leads to how Christians are to properly treat one another, and that leads to how Christians are to treat clergy, and it ends, as you might expect, with the call to look for Jesus' second coming. So in the first section, we hear the words of Jesus in the Sermon on the Mountain. That's why we read it, part of it today. As the apostles believed the standards of morality Jesus set for his followers, they believed it was to be seriously followed. Here are some of those instructions. This is from chapter 1 titled The Two Ways and the First Commandment. Quote: There are two ways: one of life and one of death. But a great difference between the two ways. The way of life, then, is this. First, you shall love God who made you. Second, love your neighbor as yourself, and do not do to another what you do not want done to you. And of these things, the teaching is this: Bless those who curse you, and pray for your enemies, and fast for those who persecute you. For what reward is there for loving those who love you? Do not the Gentiles do the same? But love those who hate you, and you shall not have an enemy. Abstain from fleshly and worldly lusts. If someone strikes your right cheek, turn to him the other also. And you shall be perfect. If someone impresses you for one mile, go with him too. If someone takes your cloak, give him also your coat. Sound familiar? Notice the trust in the words of Jesus in these instructions. The first Christians believe that as Jesus said it, so should it be done And that when it was difficult, God would provide. This type of faith believes that when you give someone your coat, God will provide you another. It believes that when you turn the other cheek, God will help you endure the pain. This type of faith believes that the enemies of God are to be faced with kindness. And gentleness, and yes, with the love of God. We Christians are to love our enemies. Who teaches that? Jesus does. We are to love our enemies in every age and as long as we serve our Savior on this earth. Now these next instructions focus on how to love your neighbor and follow the same moral standards as Jesus taught, which you know were the standards of the Ten Commandments, only Jesus interpreted them much more specifically. Hear this, quote. And the second commandment of the teaching, you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not commit pedastery, that's for me, pederasty You shall not commit fornication. You shall not steal. You shall not practice magic. You shall not practice witchcraft. You shall not murder a child by abortion, nor kill that which is born. You shall not covet the things of your neighbor. You shall not swear. You shall not bear false witness. You shall not speak evil. You shall not bear a grudge. You shall not be double-minded nor double-tongued, for to be double-tongued is a snare of death. Your speech shall not be false nor empty, but fulfilled by deed. You shall not be covetous, nor rapacious, nor a hypocrite, nor evil-disposed, nor haughty. You shall not take evil counsel against your neighbor, you shall not hate any man, but some of you shall reprove, and conquering some you shall pray. And some you shall love more than your old life. Please notice how these first Christians applied the law of Christ. to their particular sins, the sins of their day. The sin of pederasty is older men behaving sexually with boys. It is a form of homosexuality that has men finding pleasure in not just males, but pre-pubescent males. Such a sin was practiced by the more well-to-do in the Roman and Greek cultures. Modern homosexual apologists claim that such practices prove homosexuality has been an acceptable form of behavior in such advanced cultures. The truth is that such behavior was never acceptable in terms of being considered normal. It was merely ignored because it was mostly practiced by the wealthy. And I trust you have noticed also that it is the same sin practiced by the Roman Catholic priest, by some Roman Catholic priests who have scandalized Christianity. And I also trust you notice the clear condemnation of abortion. There is no question that early Christians understood life to begin at conception. And there is no question that women have been tempted to forcefully terminate pregnancies because of poverty or scandal. But human life has always been precious to God at every stage of existence. And there is no child that is to be labeled unwanted, regardless of the circumstance in which it was conceived. Can I get an amen? For these early Christians, we can see a wisdom that is lacking in the teachings of some who consider themselves Christian leaders of today. I have heard one such teacher claim that Jesus didn't condemn homosexuality because he never spoke about it. And another claim that Jesus didn't condemn abortion because again he didn't speak about it. But the first Christians understood Jesus. That when he had when he said to love your neighbor as yourself, that it fell under the commandment of God not to kill. And it fell under the further teaching of Jesus that we were to not entertain hate in our hearts, because that's where killing begins. And so the commandment not to murder includes the unborn, and that would include the newly born as well. Jesus didn't need to speak specifically about it. And when God commanded that his people not commit adultery, that was to include any sexual coupling with anyone that was not your spouse. Since the Bible only knows marriage could be between a man and a woman, the condemnation of adulterous acts would include homosexual unions, which include the condemnation of pederasty and the like. The logic is not hard to follow. The next sin warned against are where sins begin. And Jesus touches on that. These are warnings against what goes on within us, as our minds think upon things that we could do or may want to do while our conscience tries to wrestle with our desires. Hear these instructions. My child, flee from every evil thing and from every likeness of it. Be not prone to anger, for anger leads to murder. Be neither jealous nor quarrelsome, nor of hot temper, for out of all these murders are engendered. My child, be not lustful, for lust leads to fornication. Be neither a filthy talker, nor of lofty eye, for out of all these adulteries are engendered. My child, be not a liar, since a lie leads to theft. Be neither money-loving nor vainglorious, for out of all these thefts are engendered. My child, be not a murmurer, since it leads to the way of blasphemy. Be neither self-willed nor evil-minded, for out of all these blasphemies are engendered. Again, warnings about what starts from within. The next sins listed warned Christians never to play with the spiritual. The spiritual world is real and it is not to be trivialized. Quote, My child, be not an observer of omens, since it leads to idolatry. Be neither an enchanter, nor an astrologer, nor a purifier. nor be willing to look at these things, for out of all these idolatry is engendered. The first Christians Would never play with Ouija boards or magic eight balls or look at their daily horoscope for guidance This next quote I provide for us because it is not practiced today as it should be We might say that all things we own are from God, and yet we treat them like they are our own to use only. But if all we have is from God, should it not be available to all Christians who are God's people And so hear this. Quote, do not turn away from him who is in want. Rather share all things with your brother. And do not say that they are your own. For if you are partakers of that which is immortal, how much more in things which are mortal? Again, such instruction should be within our conscience when we know a brother or sister in need, and that we can help that person Or when people ask of us and we can provide, we should. If we are not our own, but we are Christ's Then we, then what we own is not ours to withhold, especially to a brother or sister in Christ. Now concerning the sacraments, the instructions are both pragmatic and ritualistic. Baptism was to be done as an act symbol symbolizing conversion and new life, of course. Interestingly, it was recognized that rivers and lakes were not in abundance, so whatever form of water was available was to be used for the baptism, and they specifically mentioned the act of pouring the water. Now concerning the Lord's Supper or Holy Communion, it was to be done at least weekly and include the Lord's Prayer, which interestingly is to be said at least three times a day. After receiving the bread and wine, a particular prayer of thanksgiving is to be said. And such instructions show that our human natures need ritual. We best function under ritual. We have security in what we do on a regular basis and when we practice ritual in our faith instead of being dead, which some say comes with ritual. Instead, it makes us place our meeting with God as a priority in our lives because we cannot do without it. We feel less until we do it. The first Christians understood this principle, and so should we. Now the next concern is how clergy are to be treated The concern is the presence of false teachers within the church. And you remember that's the concern in Paul's letters, in John's letters, and in Peter's letters. Hear this. But if he, a visiting preacher, if he teaches so as to increase righteousness and the knowledge of the Lord, receive him as the Lord. But concerning the apostles and prophets, act according to the decree of the gospel. Let every apostle who comes to you be received as the Lord. But he shall not remain more than one day or two days, if there's a need. But if he remains three days, he is a false prophet. And when the apostle goes away, let him take nothing but bread until he lodges. If he asks for money, he is a false prophet. Did you hear that? Let us underline the standard that if a clergy teaches people to live righteously, that is the primary evidence that he is from God. But if a man tries to make his visiting a means of financial gain for himself, he is automatically disqualified to the office in which he claims. And folks, this is no joke. No man should preach the truth of Jesus for financial gain. And no Christian should give his or her money to anyone who asks for it, no matter how dramatic the plea. And yes, that applies to radio and television personalities. Or shall we not call them by what they are, false prophets? These next passages show how Christian life is to be lived in community with fellow Christians. Hear this. Quote, so also a true teacher is himself worthy, as the workman of his support. Every first fruit, therefore, of the products of wine press and threshing floor of oxen and of sheep, you shall take and give to the prophets, for they are your high priests. But every Lord's day, gather yourselves together and break bread, and give thanksgiving, after having confessed your transgressions, that your sacrifice may be pure. But let no one who is at odds with his fellow come together with you until they be reconciled, that your sacrifice may not be profaned. For this is that which was spoken by the Lord in every place and time offer to me a pure sacrifice, for I am a great king, says the Lord, and my name is wonderful among the nations. End quote. They are to support their spiritual leaders in prayer and in giving. They are to be sure to be together at least every Lord's day, which is Sunday, and still is Sunday. They are to include in their regular gatherings the Lord's Supper, confessed sin, prayers of thanksgiving, and a standard of peace in which we are forgiving one another So that our spiritual sacrifice that we're offering right now is pure before God. But we should not say they, we should say we We are to support our leadership, and for us, that is highlighted by praying for our future bishop. We are to be sure to gather together on the Lord's day. And when we gather, we are to share in the Lord's Supper, to confess our sins, to pray prayers of thanksgiving, and to be sure we forgive one another. And we are to do it all with the hope that Jesus will return again and we will forever be in his presence. So what do we learn from this document? Is the Christian life, as Jesus put it before his followers, tenable, reachable, livable in all situations? The answer from the first generation Christians as they left instructions to the second generation Christians, the answer to that is yes. Yes, and there is a qualifier. It is a necessary qualifier Because we don't gather with God's people as we should, because we don't forgive as we should. Because we choose to sin instead of obey, there is also the need to face our practice of falling short of the standards that Jesus has set for us. The teachers of the Didic said it this way. Quote, See that no one causes you to err from this way of teaching Since apart from God it teaches you. For if you are able to bear the entire yoke of the Lord, you will be perfect. But if you are not able to do this, do what you are able. Let me read that qualifier again. But if you are not able to do this, do what you are able. Regardless of what we fail to do or what we do that we should not have done, we are then to do what we are able. To do what you are able is to stay on the narrow road, even though you stumble, even though you stall. To do what you are able to do is to stay on the road. To do what you are able to do is to be honest with God and your fellow man, that you are weak internally and externally. But that you still believe in Jesus. And that is enough to press forward. To do what you can is to stay in the battle. It is to fight to the end. You can do it. You can do it. The Savior has declared it. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you for the testimony of the early church, for their ever confidence that the standards that you set in your holy word Are to be pursued without a doubt. And that the holiness that you require of your people is given to us by Christ, and we are to follow in his steps. May we never, ever remove those standards, no matter how difficult the traveling is. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.