In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. This next saint in our Summer of the Saints series is not a saint. At least according to Roman and Eastern Orthodox traditions, he has not been canonized a saint. Biblically, he is a saint, for he is of the priesthood of all believers. His contributions were many. But before we get to those, I want to read a quote that was reported two weeks ago in the news about a popular Christian, at least popular in modern Christian music. This person publicly questioned his personal Christian faith and questioned Christianity as a whole. He said the following. This is a soapbox moment, so here I go. How many preachers fall? Many. No one talks about it. How many miracles happen? Not many. No one talks about it. Why is the Bible full of contradictions? No one talks about it. How can God be love and yet send four billion people to a place all cuz they don't believe? No one talks about it. Christians can be the most judgmental people on the planet. They can also be some of the most beautiful and loving people, but it's not for me. And I shared my thoughts about this announcement of a public falling away from the faith during Bible study two weeks ago. With the concern that there may be some of us in this parish who have read books by men who have recently denied the faith or listened to their music or their teachings And when you hear that they have renounced their faith, it burdens you and causes you, perhaps, to doubt your own. As I stated two end days ago, I hate Christian fads. Hate them. And I am leery of popular Christianity, wherever it is. When it was popular to do so, I never bought anything that had WWJD on it. Even though the intent was positive, plus I had too much sarcasm remaining in me at that time of its popularity, that I would answer the question, what would Jesus do I would answer it this way. He would become human, teach us the way to the Father, die for our sins, and raise it, rise again, because that's what he did. And I always thought the question should be, what would Jesus have me do? That question is always worth asking and trying to answer But WWJD is a lot more pithy than WWJHMD. Other things in Christian popularity in the last two decades are books like The Purpose-Driven Life The Left Behind series, the prayer book of Dibets. And I don't know all the what else because I don't again follow Christian Fads. But if you do or have I want to care for you as I don't want you to be discouraged by popular teachings and leaders and singers who turn away from Christ. Their behavior is not new as men and women stop following Christ likely every day. And that is just how Jesus warned it would be. That's why he gave us one of those lines, many are called, but few are chosen. We started this series trying to uphold Christians of the first three centuries Who did truly and honestly believe in Christ Jesus, and their lives and their writings proved that they believed. This was our focus because there is in the back of our minds, we all have to be honest about this. We all in the back of our minds have questions regarding whether Christianity actually works as it promises it will work. We need some examples to encourage us as well as examples to follow. And we have heard from such examples this summer, thanks be to God. But this man, Tertullian, will be a challenge for us because he contributed a great deal of knowledge for Christianity to go forward. And yet there was an apparent discontent that he had about the faith that pushed him towards a tertiary group of Christians Who were out of the mainstream of the church and who sought a new revelation from God. You will have more about them later. Where Tertullian will challenge us is where the apostles and leaders of the Christian church in the New Testament were challenged. Consider that passage in Mark that we read, Mark chapter 9, beginning at verse 33. In the passage St. Mark, we heard Jesus coming to the city of Capernaum, which is in northern Israel. He hears his disciples disagreeing and he asks them, what were you talking about? They are quiet because they are embarrassed, for they were presenting arguments to one another about themselves, explaining how they were better or greater in the eyes of Jesus than the rest. Jesus next gives a most profound lesson about humility by picking up a child. And claiming the child was an example of how to follow him, of how to be humble A child, you see, can be hungry for knowledge. He can more easily admit that he does not know and he wants to be taught And a child in the first century of the ancient Near East was not considered of value because he must be cared for while providing nothing to contribute to the family's well-being. He is considered as low as a servant until he comes of age. So before them is a child. A great image of an honest servant, and therefore a lesson in humility. But the disciples don't learn quickly, and John speaks up about A man who used the name of Jesus to cast out demons. John is concerned that the man was not one of them. He wasn't one of the apostles. The man in question was a byproduct of being in the crowds and hearing Jesus, or maybe he just heard of Jesus. And John didn't like it. He wanted to control it. Mark seems to have included this part of the story to show just how much these disciples, these apostles, struggled with pride. They were the closest to Jesus. And John was even closer than the rest of the apostles. They wanted to control the privilege that they had, and yet Jesus wants nothing of the kind. They had yet to understand humility even after the lesson of a child. Mark puts these stories back to back to show how the apostles had yet to truly listen to Jesus about humility. Now Jesus tells John that such a person using his name very well very well may become a believer. And then he caps it with this quote that we should always remember. For the one who is not against you or us is for us. For the one who is not against us is for us. Oh, how desperate the church is for such maturity today The Christianity lived within the church today seemingly competes for people to fill the seats more than they are concerned for glorifying God and making disciples. I know the temptation all too well. Now regarding Tetolian, he is known more for what he wrote than what he did. He encouraged other Christians to explore previously uninvestigated thought. He wrote works in defense of the faith, especially against Gnosticism, which we talked about last week. He also wrote the first Christian book on baptism, and then a book on the Christian doctrine of man. He wrote on essays on prayer, on devotion In addition to apologetic and polemic works, he addressed himself to the whole a whole range of moral and practical problems, issues facing the Christians of the first three centuries. He talked about what is appropriate dress for a Christian. What about wearing of cosmetics? Service in the military? Whether one should flee under persecution He wrote on marriage and remarriage, on the arts, theater, and civic festivals. And I suspect all of us would like to hear what he had to say on those issues. His range of topics showed that Christianity is to permeate all aspects of a Christian life. And where Tertullian contributed the most from my studies was his understanding of the Trinity. Tertullian's definition of God was, God is one substance or essence, and God is three persons. The word essence comes right from the Greek. The word is ousia. The word substance comes directly from Latin, substantia. Even the word person is Latin from Latin personae. And these distinct distinctions have remained the most helpful for theological students to come as close as possible to understanding God in three persons, blessed Trinity. Where Tetullian troubled Christians of his day was his choice to leave the Orthodox or established church and become a part of a sect. A tertiary group called the Montanists. The Montanists. Now remember, in his day, the early third century, there was no quote established church. Christianity was outlawed. Christians had to stay together to be safe. To break away from the main Christian body was very troubling to the body as a whole. Especially a person of Tertullian's ability. But break away he did He did so because he was dissatisfied with how his Christian contemporaries, he called them, lackadaisical in their Christian lives. You and I would never call Christians of his day lackadaisical, for to be a Christian then was to put your life in danger every day. But such was Tertullian's perspective. Instead of the main body of believers, he appreciated the Urgency of the mountains, for they gave messages of the imminent end of the world, and they combined their message with a strident and demanding moralism. Montanism stood in judgment on any compromise of anything of the ways of the world And Tertullian gave himself fully to the defense of this new movement, and he was their most articulate spokesman. Eventually, eventually, the Montanus were not rigorous enough for Tetolian. He broke away from them and found his own sect, a group that existed until the fifth century in Africa. According to tradition, he lived to be an old man. His writings date approximately, last writings date approximately about 220 A. D. And yet there is no Date for his death. Tertullian was awed to his contemporaries because he left them And thought he needed something different than those who were a part of the church and who made up the church People make such decisions every day, and we may not like it. I certainly don't like it when people no longer want me to be their pastor, but it happens. There are souls that become discontent with their spiritual condition and think, like Tertullian, that they need something else to increase their spiritual well-being. They seek a new spiritual high, a new emotional experience. But they are not leaving the faith. They are struggling in the faith, they are different in the faith, but they are not denying the faith. And that is important to agree upon. Let us go back to the words of Jesus. If they are not against us, then they are for us. Let us face it. Overall, people are odd. You've noticed that, I trust. People are odd I know a guy who hates elevators and would prefer to walk the stairs in most buildings that offer stairs or an elevator. Now think about that. How does a person want to pass on a free ride to go higher, preferring to perspire while plodding upstairs? That guy is weird And the same guy has trouble falling asleep, so he often moves his feet to the bottom bedboard to rock himself to sleep. This guy has problems. And if you want to know just how odd, really odd this guy is that I'm talking about, and you don't know who I am talking about, but this guy It's so odd that when he eats Doritos out of a bag, he searches for the chips that have the most cheese dust on them. And if the cheese dust is not enough, he puts it back and looks for another. That is an odd duck. And I know a woman. You don't know her, of course. She is anonymous. But she thinks that there are ice machines that make the best ice. And so she chooses places to eat that provide the best ice for her to chew on after her drink is consumed. Sounds like someone headed for the loomy bin. Another woman I know, and this is truly a different woman than the first, this woman loves peanut chocolate and MMs. But when she eats them, she eats the chocolate around the peanut and then spits the peanut in a bowl. Lock her up Now let's stick to eating. Some people have to eat their meal in a certain order, and they make sure that each part of it is separate from the other parts. No touching. And so it's the meat, and then the vegetables, and then the potato. No mixing of the food, even though it's all mixed up in the digestive tract. Leaving what we eat. There are odd words that people pronounce, or pronounce them oddly. Have you ever heard someone say Wednesday instead of Wednesday like the rest of us? Or how about February instead of February like everybody else? It is almost as if some people want to appear odd. And let us only briefly mention how strange people are who talk to their pets as if they are their children. You're such a good little boy. Did you go peep? Mama is so proud How do we survive as a society with such people? But we do, we survive. Tertullian was awed. He wanted to express his faith in Christ, and that faith in Christ expressed was different than most. But he never denied Jesus as Savior and Lord. He never preached or taught heretical doctrine. He was a Christian. As are many people who know, we know, who profess Jesus as Savior, but walk the narrow road in a different or unique manner. The message I hope that you are getting is that when we encounter people who claim Jesus as their Savior, but walk an odd path. That we are to have charity for such people. Again, I'm not talking about seeing people as Christian who have denied the faith as the first example was given. Or if they're walking in disobedience to God's commandments, I'm not talking about those. I'm talking about people who are Christian but are, in our eyes, a little odd. The Bible is filled, filled with instructions on how Christians are to treat one another, even others with oddities. We are not to judge one another, even if our judging is concluding that someone is odd. St. Paul said to the Corinthians Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purpose of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God. Have you ever considered that an oddity of another person may be his or her way a coping mechanism and the Lord helps them use such a mechanism to handle the stresses of life To come to such a conclusion is to express charity to one another. To the Colossians, Paul wrote. Bearing with one another. And if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive I trust you heard in those words that we as followers of Christ are to forgive in place of complaining. Forgive in place of complaining. But what if someone does a clean up after themselves in the church kitchen? Forgiving, replacing, complaining. But what about those kids who leave balls and equipment in the gym? Forgiving replaces complaining. But what about the family who was part of our fellowship, counted as members of our parish, fellowship with us regularly, and then with no biblical warrant, left our fellowship for wanting a new experience? Forgiving replaces complaining. What we are addressing here from the life of Tertullian is a real and prominent problem. And the life of Tertullian shows us it always has been Fellow Christians do odd things for odd reasons, and we don't like it, and we wish they didn't, but that does not make them non-Christian. The call for Christians to have charity for one another, even when the other acts odd, is a call from Christ Jesus Himself. Do I believe Christians make poor decisions in their churchmanship that will have negative ramifications in the future? Yes, I do. And I have examples to verify my conclusion. Tertullian's decision immediately affected his influence amidst the majority of Christians of his day He lost influence and the church lost a great mind. But he was still a Christian and should have been treated as such. Consider the maturity displayed by Saint Paul with these words. Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife. And some also from goodwill. The former preach Christ from selfish ambition, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my chains. but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel. What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached. And in this I rejoice. Yes, I will rejoice. Oh, how the church today longs and needs such maturity displayed among us How the Holy Spirit must be grieved by Christians who are unwilling to rejoice that Christ Jesus is preached, for that is enough. And so while we lament that Christians don't always stay together, we still can and still must rejoice that Jesus is preached. Let us pray. Your son, our Savior, that those who are not against us are for us. And we thank you for the example of St. Paul, concerned most for the preaching of Jesus. So Father, may that be our focus as well. May we be a people who love all Christians, all who are on that narrow road. And Father, may we forgive as we've been forgiven. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen