In the introduction To his book The Screw Tape Letters, C. S. Lewis says the following We must picture hell as a state where everyone is perpetually concerned about his own dignity and advancement. Where everyone has a grievance, and where everyone lives the deadly, serious passions of envy, self-importance, and resentment. Of course, for the Christian and for the Christian life, the opposite of each one of those descriptives is to be true. That is the brilliance of C. S. Lewis's book. The opposite is true. The enemy in the book is actually God And the master, so-called, is the devil. So if the Christian life and the church in general is to be the opposite of what Lewis describes of those in hell, We are to be perpetually concerned about the dignity of others and the advancement of others While holding no grievances against our fellow man, and where we live with lively passions of gratefulness for others along with self-denial and a joy for the success of others That is indeed a tall order, but it is also the life that Jesus lived. What stands out in the description of hell in comparison to what we have come to do tonight, which is to give thanks. are the ugly sins of envy and resentment. Envy and resentment are the opposite of giving thanks, but they are easy to do, easy to practice. To prove how easy it is to fall into the sins of envy and resentment, we merely need to look at how the mainstream media in the West does its job. The questions posed have the goal of conjuring up envy and resentment rather than pursuing any truth that will help the audience Consider this question. How did the election make you feel The questioner knows very well how the election made the person being interviewed feel They simply want the person being interviewed to spew out envy and resentment. It makes for good television It gets a lot of hits on the internet. And it likely puts a voice to how the media itself feels while also trying to pretend to be objective. Envy and resentment do well to describe why the tenth commandment is necessary. Have you ever considered just how unique the last commandment is We say that the first five deal with our relationship with God. We worship God only We revere his name. We set a day aside to corporately worship him. And by honoring those in authority over us, we honor him The last five are to deal with our relationship with our fellow man. And note that they are all commandments against actions we take. And commandments six through nine are physical actions we take. Murder, adultery, stealing. And bearing false witness are things we do with our minds and our bodies. I say minds and bodies because as Jesus taught The likes of murder and adultery begin in the heart. That is why he calls his followers to address issues of the heart before they become actions of the body But the tenth commandment is different. It deals primarily, if not solely, with the heart and the spirit of a person. Consider that you can covet what your neighbor has and take no action. You can break the commandment without doing anything physically. It can be practiced in your mind and heart, and no one can know. Coveting is a sneaky sin, for there may be no empirical evidence it is taking place or that it took place, and yet God has placed it in his top ten. If it makes the top ten, we can be assured how important it is Although I have given the following example many times as it is a staple in our confirmation class, and Scott, who is here, will attest because I think Scott spent in 20 years of my confirmation class. I give it again because I can think of a no better example, although this time I changed the gender and the item to covet. Let's say a girl has an older sister, and it is her older sister's birthday For her birthday, she received a Barbie doll. And she loves on that Barbie doll, playing so many imaginary scenes and lifestyles. Well grooming her blonde hair and living in her toy Malibu Beach House. Our little girl watches her older sister play with her doll and desperately Wants one like it. But it is not her birthday, and Christmas isn't close. So our little girl gets her Our little girl sets her sight on playing with her older sister's doll She asks her mother if she can play with the doll when her sister is away, and her mother forbids her, because it is up to the older sister to decide who plays with her doll. Well, one morning both the older sister and mother were shopping, and the young girl takes advantage and sneaks into her older sister's room and begins playing with the doll. She even takes it outside for Barbie to ride in her toy convertible car. Only the car Starts to go too fast down the driveway and ends up smashing into the garbage can, cracking the side of the car. Our little girl panics, knowing that her older sister and mother will return home soon. She quickly gets back into the house and returns the toys to their proper place. While saying nothing. When the older sister returns home, she immediately checks her toys, having a suspicion that her sister would play with them when she was gone. She notices the cracked toy car and runs to her mother. Next, both mother and older sister are standing in front of our young girl, with mother asking our young girl if she played with her sister's Barbie doll toys. And our little girl responds emphatically with a no. In that brief scenario, how many commandments did our young girl break? Well, she coveted by wanting the toys her sister had. She stole from her sister by damaging part of the toy and therefore taking value away from the toy. She dishonored her parents by ignoring her mother's clear instructions. She then lied about it to her sister and mother. And finally, we can say it all occurred on Sunday, so she is also a Sabbath breaker. That is five commandments broken. And we can add that whenever you break one of the commandments, you have broken the first commandment, because God was not your God at the time you sinned. So six commandments out of ten were broken. And it all started. It all started with breaking commandment number 10, coveting. It began with a sin in the heart and in the mind As you can see, coveting, which we are defining as envy and resentment, is a dangerous sin. Think upon all the things we can cover. The list in the commandment itself shows how extensive the sin can be. And again, it it doesn't have to be a physical thing. We can covet the time of others. We can covet relationships that others have. We can covet another person's ethic or good fortune or personality. Or opportunities, or background, or history, or family tree, or education, or moral fortitude, and we can go on As the example given shows, once that sin is committed, a domino of sins can fall Of course, I do not describe the dangers of coveting to be only discouraging, but as a mere warning. The way to combat coveting is what we came here to do. We are here to give thanks. We're here to give thanks to God and to praise Him for providing all that we need and certainly more. And know, beloved, know that the devil hates it when we give God thanks. When we are satisfied with what has been given to us, what we have been blessed with And I realize that when living in a consumer society like ours and having disposable income like we do We can be tempted much easier to buy what we don't need and to want what others have. But such temptation is easier to resist and contentment is much easier to achieve. When we count our blessings and give God thanks for each one of them, and to know, to truly know. That the only thing he promised to those who follow him, as was read in our gospel reading, the only thing he promised was clothing for each day and our daily bread. I close with this truth. As we come to give thanks tonight and possibly give public testimony For what we are thankful for, it must be said that just as envy and resentment begin in the heart, which is to say, internally, So does being thankful begin internally. And as long as we are thankful internally, God is honored and praised Amen.