In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I received several concerns last week as I was standing on these little podiums that you feared that I was going to fall. Well Ben Weinwright was uh gracious enough to uh loan this to us, so I much safer now. Although our readers and liturgists they're still in very much in peril. We are in Judges chapter 8. I start off by mentioning Ludwig von Beethoven. If you know anything about his biography, he was considered an ornery and bitter man. And perhaps it was because of his deafness that he was socially rude. Whatever the reason, we are told by others that he was difficult to be around. Yet there is a story about him that sheds light upon another side of his personality. When Beethoven heard of the death of a friend's son, he hurried to the house overcome with grief. He had no words of comfort to offer the family, but he saw a piano in the room For the next half hour, he played that piano, pouring out his emotions in the most eloquent way that he could. When he finished playing, he simply left. The friend later remarked that no one else's visit had meant so much. It is remarkable that a person seemingly so bitter Could do such a kind gesture. But Beethoven's inconsistent personality is not unlike our own. Those of us who are considered generally kind have moments of meanness. Those of us who are temperamental can have moments of serenity. I always question statements at funerals that depict the deceased as having never spoken an unkind word. Is that possible? I ask I also have been among family who speak about a deceased relative, wondering if a kind word was ever spoken. Is that possible? I wonder. Like the apostle described to the church at Rome, it is as though there are two persons inside of us, one who wishes to do good, and the other that is easily prone to evil. This is not a personality disorder, nor a Dr. Jekyll, and Mr. Hyde nightmare. It is the reality of being Christian in a fallen world. It is the reality of being saved, but not saved altogether. It is the reality of being justified while still needing to be sanctified. We can be confident in our salvation because of the sacrifice, because of the victory of Christ Jesus And yet we fail to live every moment of every day as a person who has been saved, as a child of God. We read a familiar story at the end of Gideon's life. It is familiar because it mirrors each of us. It is a story of a man of faith who does not behave as a man of faith should. From the sermon last week, we learned that God was controlling the circumstances that would enable Israel to realize that God was responsible. God was responsible for the victory over the Midianites. This was God's concern from the beginning that Israel would take responsibility for this impossible victory. So he made it evident that he was the one responsible by lowering the odds greatly, causing the Midianites to turn on themselves. As the victory became a route, Gideon called for reinforcements to help him chase down the enemy, who of course was fleeing. At that point, Gideon was going beyond what God had instructed. And as we highlighted last week, we no longer read of the Lord speaking to Gideon. The story picks up in chapter 8, after most of the leaders of the Midianite army are captured. Gideon now has to deal with leaders of the tribe of Ephraim who are upset because they were not given credit for the victory they thought they deserved, the credit they thought they deserved. Gideon has to play politics, and as he does, he humbles himself before the complainers. It is a great irony that such a complaint is made immediately after Israel has experienced a great victory and God caused it all to happen. The whole point of the lesson, as we stated last week, is that it was God only that deserved the glory. Regarding Ephraim's complaint, I read an article recently by a pastor who was having trouble in his congregation. He had ordered some books on the subject of church problems, and in reading a few of these books, he realized that they were all the same. That is, the problem in the churches was all the same. This led him to compare the people of God to a stage production in which each person seems to play a role. There are the heroes, the antagonists, the counselors, the do-gooders, the complainers, the villains, and then extras that make up the production. Every church has these characters, no matter the stage. In this play, Ephraim is playing the part of the complainer. Going back to the narrative, we see that Gideon has kept together the original 300 men that God had originally chosen. As he pursues the last remaining leaders of Midian, the officials of Sukoth and Paniel tribes do not treat Gideon with respect. In response, Gideon promises that he will pay for their, they will pay for their disrespecting of him. After successfully defeating a much larger army, once again, Gideon returns to the tribes that had dispersed and disrespected him, and he punishes them. His vengeance was personal, and as the storyteller reveals, it was also heartless. In verse 20, we read of Gideon turning to his eldest son Jether, ordering him to kill the military leaders he had captured. And Jethur's response reminds us of a younger Gideon who was at one time not willing to enter battle and not willing to shed blood. Now, Gideon is a different man and is willing to be judge, jury, and executioner. As a different man, Gideon is a conflicted man. At one moment, he is a reluctant judge, and the next he is in the heat of battle At one moment he is doing as the Lord commanded, and the next he is going beyond what God instructed. At one moment he is making peace, the next he is killing all that are in his way. Because of this inconsistency, one commentator has called Gideon the unbelieving believer. The unbelieving believer We cannot doubt that Gideon was a man of faith. He is described as such in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11. The unbelief within him is expressed in taking credit for that which belongs to God. Gideon essentially takes over for God, making decisions that we can call bloodthirsty. And God had warned him that this would happen. God helped decrease the chance that Gideon would take the glory, and still Gideon thought of himself as the conqueror. There is, of course, a great spiritual lesson in all of this. Consider that we are a success-oriented people in America We glamorize success and we ridicule failure. The more success we have, the easier it is to see ourselves as responsible for it. Gideon was not above the sin of taking credit for what God had done, and neither are we. Success, of course, is not ungodly. The covenant in Deuteronomy promises prosperity for God's faithful people. On the other hand, the negative side of prosperity, as we all know, is very real. Poverty has slain its thousands But prosperity, it's tens of thousands. Jesus said it was harder for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven than a camel to pass through the eye of a needle. He never said that about a poor man. Judges 7 reveals that the Lord anticipated that Israel would lose her faith in the midst of her prosperity. And I remind you of the prayer of Augur from Proverbs chapter 30, who prayed this, Two things I ask of you, O Lord, do not refuse me before I die. Keep falsehood and lies far from me. Give me neither poverty nor riches, but give me only my daily bread. Otherwise, I may have too much and disown you and say, who is the Lord? Or I may become poor and steal and so dishonor the name of my God. This is not a common prayer of today. It is unfortunately not common among Christians, even. It is more likely that we would hear, O Lord, cause me to win the lottery. Or you may remember the popularity of that prayer of Jabez, remember that bad, increase my territory. We want prosperity. We do not imagine that it would be a bad thing, only a good thing. We lay our heads down at night with visions of being able to pay our bills without a pinch. Have time to pursue our pleasures. Enjoy relationships with no tension. Watch our children soar to success, never failure. Surely such prosperity can only be a good thing. But actually the Bible is against such ways of thinking. God knows our fallen nature. He knows how easily we can take for granted whatever blessings come to us. The last thing we would have expected in chapter 6 of Judges, if we had not read ahead, was for Gideon to turn into a confident, overbearing, bloodthirsty tyrant. But that is what success had brought to that once timid Gideon. Strangely enough, there is great encouragement in this story of Gideon's transformation. It is the encouragement from a different angle. Gideon was better off when he struggled than when he was victorious. And that is the encouragement we, you and I, have struggles We would rather not, but we do, and some quite a lot of them. We have increasing disappointments, worries, and frustrations with ourselves, our finances, our relationships. Our health. And we learn by experience in the Word of God that it must be so. Without these struggles, we would forget God. We would begin to live as if we had no debt to Him and no dependency on His mercy and on His grace. I greatly respect those who serve the church by writing books that help people through difficult times. Much time and effort, as well as money, has been spent on answering questions such as, why do bad things happen to good people? But there is really no need for multiple chapters and multiple books. The answer lies in two primary truths. The first is that we live in a fallen world and therefore are subject to consequences of this fallen state. The second answer, and the one that is pertinent to our examination of Gideon, is that we need bad things or struggles so that we continue to acknowledge our utter dependence upon God. Of course, not all of us have the same struggles. God cares for his children individually He knows each of our needs and our individual weaknesses. We might believe someone has it easier than we do. As we struggle to pay our bills, for they don't seem to struggle and drive a nice car. What struggles they might have that we cannot see might be ones that we do not have. The point is that struggles are universal, and they are universal because they are necessary for our spiritual health As you know, states are finding more ways to entice their citizens to hope for big payouts With state and regional lotteries as well as opportunities to gamble, both online and in person. These get rich quick opportunities Should cause deeper conversations amongst Christians. We should know about the morality of gambling. It is popular to excuse playing the lottery or the slots or the racehorses by stating that it's simply entertainment. Whether one plays the lottery or participates in other forms of gambling, out of compulsion or out of entertainment, all of us can't help but have dreams of striking it rich. When we allow ourselves to dream of striking it rich, there is also the reasoning that if we do, the money will solve most, if not all, of our problems. In truth, it merely creates other problems, if not more problems, and the greatest problem is the temptation to think and behave as if we no longer are dependent upon God. God knows our fallen nature. He knows how easily we can take for granted whatever blessings come to us. No doubt you have heard stories like that of Jack Whitaker, who in two thousand two bought a lottery ticket on Christmas Day that won him $314 million. A take-home of $113 million after Uncle Sam His previous vices of drinking too much alcohol and paying spippers only increased. He spoiled his granddaughter with a large monthly income and four cars. The granddaughter's boyfriend soon overdosed on drugs, while the granddaughter herself died of mysterious causes a year later. The granddaughter's mother was found dead seven years after the jackpot was won. Whitaker's wife also divorced him. Whitaker lost the people he loved in his life and the money that he won. Whitaker testified, quote, Since I won the lottery, I think there is no control for greed. I think if you have something, there's always someone else that wants it. I wish I'd torn that ticket up. William Post III pawned some items in his house so that he could buy forty lottery tickets. He ended up winning sixteen point two million dollars from the Pennsylvania lottery. Post spent his money wildly. The majority of the first year installment of his winnings, which totaled $400,000, was spent in the first two weeks. After a year, he was half a million dollars in debt. His girlfriends sued him, claiming that they had agreed that they would share the money that he won. When she won in court, he couldn't pay. So his lottery payout was frozen. He had to declare bankruptcy, and he only managed to hold on to about $2. 6 million, which he immediately spent. He was next arrested for assault for firing a shotgun at a man who was pestering him for money. Even worse, his brother hired a hitman to kill him and his wife so that he would inherit the money He was on wife number six by that time. Thirteen years later, this lottery winner died alone and penniless, living off welfare payments. And each of us is tempted to think that it if it happens to us, we would not make such mistakes. I say it again. God knows our fallen nature. He knows how easily we can take for granted whatever blessings come to us. Take a moment and rehearse the many ways we are dependent upon God rather than earthly wealth. Dependent upon God so that we might receive a heavenly reward. There are several things that are absolutely essential to our spiritual health and perseverance The first is the intercessory prayer of our Savior. He sits at the right hand of the Father and mediates to the Father on our behalf. Would any of us remain faithful to the end of our days without his prayers? And then there are the ministering angels who are responsible to watch over us as God directs. Would any of us complete our heavenly pilgrimage without these ministering spirits hedging the road before us? Included with these essentials is the need for trials and tribulations. When you think that struggles are a part of the devil's plan and that success is always good. Remember Gideon. God warned Gideon of the dangers of a great victory, and still Gideon succumbed to the temptation by taking the battle in a direction that he wanted. rather than having confidence in what God had done for him. Although Gideon achieved great success as a leader, and he did, The nation of Israel enjoyed peace under his leadership for forty years. Yet Gideon's faith Left him in the end as he became an idolater. The success we dream of, and the persons we would become because of the success of Might be difficult to acknowledge. If we could have opportunity to see what type of person we would become if great success would come our way. Many of us would look the other way. We would be horrified to see what success made of us This is one reason why the prosperity preachers are so dangerous, for they present only one side of success. While completely and purposefully ignoring that those closest to Jesus died poor in this life, but wealthy in the next. Therefore, Christians are never to be ashamed of struggles. Remember, Gideon, when the Lord sprinkles your life with struggles Remember that success did him in. And remember the faithful man he was when he struggled. The ability to stray from the Lord and shun his offerings to us is within each of us. The struggles that God brings to our lives work in our favor to prevent that old man, the sinful nature, from winning the day. We struggle in this life to enjoy the success offered in eternal life. Never forget that, so that you remain faithful to the end of your days. Beloved, I end this sermon with a bit of a pitch for next week. I believe it is my essential duty, my calling. To help any who would have me help them to get from this world to the next. That's my job. That is why I preach sermons like this one here. But next week I am interrupting this series on judges, as I will throughout the summer interrupt this series. To answer questions that Christians struggle with. So next week, the first question I will attempt to answer is why does evil exist? I do so because I don't want such questions to shake your faith. I want you to be confident that answers to difficult questions are accessible. So wake your kids, phone your neighbors, and be with us next week as we try to build up our faith. To get from this world to the next. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the standard The standard is set by Christ, and as we recognize those of faith who fail, like Gideon. We take warning. And we do so knowing that we are completely and utterly dependent upon you. And that is as it should be. We confess it in Jesus' name. Amen.