In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Reading prayers is rejected by most American evangelical Christians. For the stated reason that such are not said from the heart. The reasoning is that prayers from the heart are thought to be more relational. And it is thought that God likes to be relational rather than formal. There is no biblical defense of such a position, but Only passages such as, to obey is better than sacrifice. But remember that God is the one who commanded the sacrifices. What he was most concerned about when people worship him is that they do so being obedient to him as opposed to living in sin, and then making a sacrifice to him with the intent of continuing to live in sin. Hence the statement that he prefers obedience over sacrifice. A serious problem with so-called prayers from the heart or extempor prayers is that they have a high probability of being theologically inaccurate because we have no ability to edit the words. It has been noted by some that it is difficult for others who are hearing the extemporar prayer to say Amen. When they don't know the accuracy of the prayer or whether it is the will of God. Red prayers, on the other hand, have had a chance to be edited. And those that are handed down to us, like what we have in the Book of Common Prayer, have had years to be examined and have stood the test of time. We excuse me, where red prayers become a true problem is when they are said without attention to their content, which means that the praying people are going through the motions. As if such is pleasing enough to God. Well, it is not God wants us to have ears that hear, and He wants us to be genuine in our prayers, because all things are to be done by us who call ourselves Christians, all things are to be done in faith. To be done in faith, we need to be attentive in saying our prayers. If we are not, it is not the fault of the prayer. itself, but our own hearts that need to be repentant and humble, so that when we pray, we mean what we say, which makes our prayers said in faith. Also, we learned as parents, having our children read and repeat the prayers of the Book of Common Prayer, that it helps them pray extemporaneously For they learn word order and improve their vocabulary, giving greater opportunity for such prayers to be theologically accurate and in accordance with God's will. One prayer that I have come to appreciate above others is the Thanksgiving prayer in the family prayer section of the Book of Common Prayer. specifically on page 597 in the Book of Common Prayer, and I encourage you to turn there as I will be walking us through that prayer. Page 597 The family prayer section was written and came along with the Book of Common Prayer in 1705 in London. It became a part of the American prayer book in 1892. The origin of each prayer is not so easy to discover. The Thanksgiving prayer in family prayer is from the evening section. And so let's look at it together. To our prayers, O Lord, we join our unfeigned thanks for all thy mercies. To be unfeigned is to be genuine and sincere. And so we are telling God how we are giving Him thanks internally from our hearts. And we begin with thanking him for all his mercy, which is a word that reveals how guilty we are, but he is love, and so he does not condemn us. For our being, our reason, and all other endowments and faculties of soul and body And it is his mercy that allows us to exist, which is to have our being With our being is our ability to reason, which enables us to know God Himself and to have relationship with our fellow man, as well as getting along in the world with the time that we have been given. Endowments are what we have been given to us, meaning we did not attain them ourselves. Faculties of soul and body are our powers. To have an inner person or an essence about us, a soul. An ability to move about also is included with our bodies. The ability to move about, to eat, to digest, to transport ourselves. Excuse me, my loss is just getting lost in my mouth. To transport ourselves, to hug, to make love, to move objects, to protect and be protected. We next give thanks for our health, he says here. For our health, friends, food and raiment, and all other comforts and conveniences of life. Our health both in body and mind. And even if your health is failing in some parts of your life You can be thankful that it is not failing in other parts of your life. Or you can be thankful for the help you enjoyed in the past. And next we include our friends, our food and raiment. Good friends can be closer than a sibling. Food we Americans have plenty of, more than we need. Raiment is what we wear. It is what keeps us warm on these cold fall and winter days. And we give thanks for all comforts and conveniences of life. Three days prior to today, we woke up on Sunday with 25 degrees outside, but 68 inside. And our furnace stopped the next day. I checked the oil and there was none. But we had plenty of space heaters and wood to burn, and we survived. We survived and had oil delivered, and when I wrote this I said, and we could afford it, but then I got the bill, it was thirteen hundred dollars. We will pay it, we'll give it. And we are comfortable and we continue to live literally like a king and a queen. Because there is nothing we want, nothing we want for, nothing. We truly are, in the West, the richest people the world has ever known. I was at Walmart last week. A popular item for sale were tiny single waffle makers. Who needs a tiny wafflemaker? No one It is another example of novelty that people buy each year because we have the money to buy it. We have money to throw away on a single tiny waffle maker. Count this Christmas how many things you buy for others that they truly don't need, and how many gifts you receive that you truly don't need. Such proves how wealthy we are. Next, we state above all. Above all, we adore thy mercy in sending thine only Son into the world to redeem us from sin and eternal death, and in giving us the knowledge and sense of our duty toward Thee. Above all, which means it is the most important. And we say we adore, which again speaks to our hearts. Our condition of our hearts, we adore God's mercy in sending us his only son. And what we pray next is the gospel. It is the good news of God sending his only son to save us from sin and death, for sin is done by us, and eternal death, hell is what we deserve. But God But God, what God then did for us was give us a mind that could understand who we are and what we needed and what God did to meet those needs. To have the sense of our duty is to have a will that chooses to repent and to be baptized and to believe in Jesus as Savior and Lord. We continue. We bless thee for thy patience with us, notwithstanding our many and great provocations. Next, we bless God, which is to honor his name above all other gods, false gods And then our blessing we acknowledge his patience with us, for we know our many and great provocations Which are how we blatantly sin, which is to do what we know is wrong, or not to do what we know is right. And when considering how sins of commission and omission, we can also think upon how God has given us his spirit. That's what we pray about next. He says, for all the directions, assistances, and comforts of thy Holy Spirit So that sin does not have to be obeyed, but we can overcome the temptation to sin, for the Spirit directs us, it assists us, it strengthens us, it comforts us. It allows the devil not to get a foothold in our life. And we continue For the continual care and watchful providence over us through the whole course of our lives, and particularly for the mercies and benefits of the past day. So this thought about the Holy Spirit moves us to thanking God for the many unseen and unknown ways that He cares for us. He is the one who keeps us from bodily injury, from dangerous illness, from harmful paths and from evil people. He does this while we are unaware and even while we're asleep. And we must realize that those dangers are there to harm us every day. And thus we are to choose to give him our appreciation for his protection each and every day. And then we go on. Beseeching thee to continue these thy blessings to us. And to give us grace to show our thankfulness in a sincere obedience to his laws. So next we turn to asking God for something This is the petition part of the prayer. We request that such mercies continue. We do so because if they do not, we are left to ourselves and to the evil one and those desires. That the desire of that devil is that we either die or don't confess Jesus or deny Jesus. Excuse me, that we die or deny Jesus or both We need God to continue his mercies because without them being left to our own strength, our own power, we are doomed. Death might as well be our next request. We continue our request, our beseeching by stating that we need God's grace, which is his unmerited favor, in order to show him thankfulness. So our prayer, catch this, our prayer of thanksgiving includes a request to help us be thankful. And why? Because we would not be thankful if it wasn't for His grace, His Holy Spirit. But that request also includes us being obedient to God's law As stated earlier, to obey is better than sacrifice. And now remind us that our obedience to God's law, our obedience is not for Him. He is not hurt in any manner when we disobey His laws. We cannot lessen him in any way by our disobedience. Our obedience is for ourselves, so that we do not hurt ourselves, damaging our souls. And then finally, through whose merits and intercession we receive them all, thy Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ. Finally, we pray all of this through, which means our access to the Father is by the merit, the work that He did, and the intercession, the prayers that he offered. All that we have been blessed to know, believe, and obey is by way of Jesus, the Savior, our Savior. Beloved, let's pray this prayer together. Please kneel The thanksgiving. To our prayers, O Lord, we join our unfailed thanks for all thy mercies. For our being, our reason, and all other endowments and faculties of soul and body, for our health, friends, food, and raiment and all of the comforts and conveniences of life. Above all, we adore thy mercy in sending thine only Son into the world to redeem us from sin and eternal death, and in giving us the knowledge and sense of our duty towards thee. We bless thee for thy patience with us, notwithstanding our many and great provocations, for all the directions, assistances, and comforts of thy Holy Spirit for thy continual care and watchful providence over us through the whole course of our lives, and particularly for the mercies and benefits of the past day. beseeching thee to continue these thy blessings to us, and to give us grace, to show our thankfulness in a sincere obedience to his laws Through whose merits and intercession we receive them all, thy Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen and Amen. Only to take the opportunity. Continue on on page two hundred and eighty one of the book of comic for Actually continuing on uh page thirty one of the book. The Lord be with you. With thy spirit us pray. O Lord, show thy mercy upon us. O Lord, save the saints And do thy ministers with righteousness. O Lord, save thy people. Give peace in our time, O Lord. O God, make clean our hearts with us. And take God thy Holy Spirit from us. O most merciful Father, who has blessed the labors of the husbandmen and the returns of the fruits of the earth. We give thee humble and hearty thanks for this thy bounty. Beseeching thee to continue thy loving kindness to us, that our land may still yield for increase to the glory and our comfort of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. O God, from whom all holy desires, all good counsels, and all just works do proceed. Give unto thy servants that peace peace which the Lord world cannot give, that our hearts may be set to obey thy commandments, and also that by thee we, being defended from the fear of our enemies, may pass our time in rest and quietness. of Jesus Christ our Savior. Amen. Light in our darkness we receive thee, O Lord, and by thy great mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night. The love of thine only Son. our Savior, Jesus Christ. Continuing on top of page thirty-five, together a general thanksgiving. Almighty God, Father of all mercies, we thine unworthy servants, to give thee most humble and hearty thanks for all thy goodness and loving kindness to us and to all men. We bless thee for our creation, our preservation, and all the blessings of this life. But above all that I am in a school of And the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ. For the means of the grace and for the hope of glory. And we sees it. Give us that two cents of all our mercies. And then we should go for our praise. Not only with our lips, but in our lives, by giving up ourselves to thy service, and by walking before thee in holiness and righteousness alright. Through Jesus Christ, our Lord, to whom we and the Holy Ghost. We all honor and glory. Well without name. Amen. Almighty God, who has given us grace at this time. one accord, to make our common supplications unto thee, and just promise that when two or three are gathered together in thy name, thou wilt grant the request. Fulfill now, O Lord, the desires and petitions of thy servants, as may He must expedient for them, granting us in this world knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come, life everlasting. Amen. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ In the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Ghost, he will dissolve the more. Amen. Required to come forward. We can have some help to take up the offering. Those two would be fine. Oh baby are so painful by all this I was very so Amen. Thank you, Choir. This is the uh one time of year that we give opportunity for folks to stand up for Jesus and to uh Give thanks publicly for that which God has blessed you with and you want others to know and you want God to be praised. Uh no pressure, but uh certainly uh you feel so led, we would like to to hear from you and give thanks with you as you uh as you praise God. Larry. Um purchas just to the other way. Many many things to be thankful for, obviously. Uh