In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I ask you to turn in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 24. That was not part of our reading this morning, but I'd like you to turn there. Exodus chapter 24 It would be quite useful for you to follow along. So far in this series of sermons on Christian corporate worship, we have established that God rejects worship that does not obey his commandments. That does not love him and that does not love our fellow man. Last week we learned that God, because of his nature, is to be worshipped, and because of our nature, we are to be worshipers of God. And finally, our worship of God is to be heavenly relevant. Today we focus more closely on answering how we are to worship God so that we would be heavenly relevant. When I arrived in Pullman, Washington to serve as pastor of Pullman Nazarene Church, fresh out of seminary. I was handed a worship bulletin of the prior Sunday and was told by the Secretary that the content in the bulletin is how they've been worshiping, but I could make changes and do as I preferred. And my initial response was panic. The moment I remember overwhelmed me because I questioned by what authority I was to decide how the God of the universe, the only True God, how I am to decide how He is to be worshipped. No one in seminary had taught me that there was a preferred order of corporate worship, and by preferred I mean preferred by God. When I was a senior in seminary, I was given a book by a local pastor, not a professor, but a local pastor. The book was titled Worship, Old and New by Robert Weber. That book became my first source of guidance. In that book, Weber shows how early Christians used to worship From the temple and from synagogue order of worship. And Christians use that to bring about a new covenant understanding of worship He argues that the orders provided from the temple and from the synagogue each incorporate what we find in Exodus chapter 24. What is so special about Exodus 24? Well, it describes the very first order of worship. of God that He commands, that He directs His people to follow, when they for the first time collectively gather together. Exodus 24 is the first description of corporate worship. Before Exodus chapter 24, God was worshipped by individuals. He was worshipped by heads of families, but never before was there an organized worship of all of God's people gathered in one place. Weber argues, and so do I, that Exodus chapter 24 provides a format, an outline for worship that includes basic essentials for all of God's people to incorporate when they approach God for corporate worship. Hence, this morning we are going to break down each verse of Exodus chapter 24. That is why I want you to follow along with me in your Bibles. So Exodus chapter 24, beginning at verse 1. Now he said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of his elders of Israel, and worship from afar. The very first thing we are to notice is that God initiates the relationship. God calls his people to worship. And as we established last week, he doesn't call them because he needs to be worshipped, but rather the people need to worship him. If they do not, they will worship something else as they do indeed do, not too long after this moment. We also see that God calls his people to come up. The people of God are to come to him. He is where he should be, and we are to go to him. Next, we see that there is a hierarchy that calls certain men to perform certain duties that other men do not and must not perform. Moses and Aaron, along with Aaron's sons, are chosen by God to represent all of the people at God's throne. Verse 2 And Moses alone came, shall come near the Lord, but they shall not come near, nor shall the people go up with him. In this verse, we recognize that Moses had a unique role that we are to see as a type of Christ. Moses was a mediator chosen by God to bring forth God's word to his people. He is also privileged to see God as no other man did. And we are to recall later that Jesus tells us that he is the only one that has seen the Father. In comparison to Jesus, Moses again was a tight, only a tite, as he was more privileged than any other man, but not as privileged as the son of man. Verse 3. So Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the judgments, and all the people answered with one voice, All the words which the Lord has said, we will do. What Moses told the people was how God had instructed them to worship. Prior to this, the people had feared God, you remember, so terribly that they asked that God no longer speak to them audibly, but that they only hear the voice of Moses. So the here, Moses is speaking for God, and the people upon hearing God respond in agreement. Now scholars speculate that this was a covenant ritual that the people would have understood or experienced before, for God was acting as some type of king or tribal leader as he was dictating them the standards of the covenant agreement, and the people according to the agreement must make public acknowledgement of their assent And that understanding that if they break their word, they would rightly suffer at the hands of their sovereign, in this case, God. Verse 4. And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord, and he rose early in the morning, and built an altar at the foot of the mountain, and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. What Moses wrote were the Ten Commandments and other commandments that God had given from Exodus 20 to through 23, chapter 23. That the altar built by Moses was at the foot of the mountain, allows for the people to see and learn by repetition. That it is by blood sacrifice that they are allowed to hear from God and be in covenant with God, and it is a covenant with all the people of Israel as a whole, together. That is the symbol of the 12 pillars representing the 12 tribes that are God's people in the line of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Pillars highlight God's use of symbolism. We will talk a great deal about that next week. Verse 5 He sent young men of the children of Israel who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. The offered animals were according to the law, and we again point to the fact that they were offered before the eyes of the people. So that they could see that there was no misunderstanding that death was necessary for sin to be forgiven and for them to stand righteously before God. The fact that young men were involved was taking advantage of their aggression to do the slaughtering. The burnt offering represented the removing of the guilt of sin. And the peace offering expressed man's gratitude for the mercies of God received. Verse 6. And Moses took half the blood and put it in basins, and half the blood he sprinkled on the altar. Now, this sprinkling of blood is unique to this corporate worship moment. Only here For after, according to Levitical law, it will be done by the high priest and not sprinkled upon the people as a whole. That the blood is shared by God and by the people shows how God is both receiving the sacrifice and then using it to cleanse his people of sin. Verse 7. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has said, we will do, and be obedient. Well, this book read must most certainly contain the laws that we have mentioned, and there is no reason why it didn't include the stories of Genesis Where God first laid out this same covenant with Abraham, then Isaac, and then Jacob. Also, once again, we have this pattern, you notice Moses the leader, reading the word of God to the people, and the people responding with assent to all that God has said. Verse 8. And Moses took the blood, sprinkled it on the people, and said, This is the blood of the covenant which the Lord has made with you according to all these words. The blood sprinkled was likely upon the heads of each tribal leader to represent the people as a whole. It is likely it was not sprinkled on all of the people, for there were possibly two million Israelites at this time. Being touched by the blood will become consuming the blood in the form of wine. Verse 9 and 10. Then Moses went up also Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and 70 of the elders of Israel. And they saw the God of Israel, and there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of sapphire stone, and it was like the very heavens in its clarity. These verses have God's leaders back upon the mountain. They went up to see God and to eat with God. Let us get out of the way any idea that what the leaders witnessed was the same that Moses witnessed when God walked before him. This is different for several reasons. The most obvious reason being that Moses was given a privilege of seeing God's backside like no other man had been given. And second, God was conveying something to these leaders when he manifested himself in this manner. Before the people knew God in the form of smoke, fire, thunder, lightning. Here they are able to see his loveliness. His beauty. His beauty as more blue than any sky they had ever seen. Verse 11 But on the nobles of the children of Israel, he did not lay his hand. So they saw God, and they ate and drank. The first part of this verse reminds us that no man, no man had seen God and would expect to live. It is implied that they could have justly had God's hands laid upon them in judgment. But that was not why God called them to himself. He wanted to be their God and for them to be his people, making this moment very unique, profound, and a holy other. The scholars share in majority agreement that the wording of verses nine through eleven Has God revealing himself to the leaders of Israel while they ate and drank? Why? It was most certainly fitting that the end of the worship of God's people would end with a meal that celebrated the covenant agreed upon. And we are given the importance of a meal finalizing God's gracious work when we are given a picture of our heavenly reward, beginning with a feast at God's banquet table. You are likely ahead of me by thinking that a Christian worship service ending with a meal, Holy Communion is also connected to the meal here in Exodus 24 and to the heavenly banquet feast described in the Gospels And the commandment of Jesus to his disciples to take the bread and eat, to take the cup and drink until he returns. If you are thinking ahead, you are quite correct. This point, this point then brings us to a contemporary application of all of this, what it means to us today. Consider what our tradition, our Anglican tradition, does that embraces the principles revealed in Israel's first call to corporate worship. In our liturgy, God initiates. When we read the first sentences in the prayer book, we are speaking the voice of God. For God's people to come forth and to give him praise. He dictates the time of our worship. Not the time on a clock, but time in terms of our worship starting with his word being spoken. The main and most important point is that God initiates everything in our relationship with Him. From calling us out of sin and guilt to giving us new names and placing his very self, the Holy Spirit, within us. With the Holy Spirit within us, God is always calling us to worship Him and particularly for corporate worship each Sunday. Also within the call, we recognize a necessary hierarchy that calls some men to come up closer to God in order to relate God's word to his people. We call such men clergy, coming from the Latin clericus, which is actually from the Greek Referring to a man who had no inheritance, no inheritance but the Lord. Next comes the reading of God's word by the clergy to the people, and the people responding to the same word by committing themselves to following what they had heard. And we do the same with our readings from the Psalter for every morning and evening prayer, followed by the glory of Hatha. Glory be to the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. which is the Christian expression of accepting what is written as coming from the triune God We have the same pattern in the first and second readings when after we hear them, we in unison say, thanks be to God. Which is also a way of stating our agreement, our agreement to that word read that we will heed what it said. And finally, we have a very special moment in our full Holy Communion service where we have the gospel read down amid the people. It is at that time that we celebrate the incarnation of God becoming as we are, yet without sin. We read amidst the congregation, believing that Jesus lived amidst humanity. We praise, glory be to thee, O Lord, and thanks be to thee, O Christ. In great gratitude of God condescending to us. Next in Exodus comes the sacrificial offerings. Which for the Christian Church is both confession of sin and the preparation of the Lord's table Our confession of sin places our trust in the one and ultimate sacrifice of Jesus, to whom we put our trust for our sins to be washed by his blood. And for us to be worthy to sit at the table that God has laid out for us. That God has said He will withhold His hand from us. He wants to eat with us and we with him. It is hopeful to know That the confession of sins occurs in the Book of Common Prayer purposefully after the reading of the commandments. And after the reading of the scriptures, and after the sermon, so that the Holy Spirit can use God's word read and preached to move upon our hearts to confess what we need to confess. It is after we confess our sins and receive words of expiation and propitiation that we are next free to eat at the Lord's table. As I said earlier, we are to read verses 9 through 11 of Exodus 24 as happening simultaneously. As the men are eating together, the Lord God appears to them. This we believe occurs at Holy Communion. When we understand Jesus to be present among us as we break the bread and drink from the cup. His presence is uniquely with us. A glimpse of his glory is available to us like no other time within our gathering together. Thankfully, the Anglican tradition doesn't apply specific words to the very presence of Jesus among us while we partake of the bread and of the wine, the bread, his body, the wine, his blood. For whenever specific descriptions are given, lines are drawn and Christians divide. Holy communion is to bring God's people together as one, never to divide, unless those who divide are willfully disobedient. I wonder If you have noticed the many narratives in Holy Scripture that tell of a meal being eaten to mark the very unique presence of God. Remember that after Abraham gave tribute to Melchizedek, the priest that Jesus comes from, the order that Jesus comes from, remember what they did afterwards They sat down breaking bread and drinking wine When the two angels came to judge Sodom and Gomorrah, knowing that the angels were a special manifestation of God, Abraham immediately sat them down before a feast where they broke unleavened bread together. After making covenant with each other, the presence of God's peace was marked by Laban and Jacob by sitting down and eating together. And of course, the central part of the Passover is the breaking of unleavened bread and the drinking of wine, marking God fulfilling his covenant promises to save Israel from the angel of death. Early Christian worship, and worship that has been passed down in the Roman tradition, Anglican tradition, Eastern Orthodox tradition. all recognize the appropriate order of Christian worship to end with the breaking of bread and drinking from the same cup. This last spring, during a men's breakfast, the Reverend McCarl shared his appreciation for our liturgy. And during the question and answer time, a gentleman from another Christian church local asked if the Reverend McCarrell was arguing that our liturgy was the only proper way to worship God. I am aware that many Christians ask similar questions, and I understand that it can appear as if Some of us defend our use of Anglican liturgy with earthly pride. An appropriate response to such questions and concerns. That we have as Anglican Liturgy, the Book of Common Prayer Liturgy, what we have is very similar to early Roman worship, Eastern Orthodox worship. And then Lutheran worship, which came later, and then Methodist worship, which came even later than the Lutheran worship The point being that modern Christian worship, modern Christian worship in the West, that is practiced in independent churches today, or churches that want to appear to be independent. That worship is a diverging away from the principles revealed in Exodus 24, with no biblical warrant for doing so. Their diverging has no biblical warrant. When our Anglican liturgy is upheld as a model of how God is to be worshipped It is only in light of how God has commanded that he be worshipped. And what is upheld by us is not what is unique about our worship But actually what we have in common with all other ancient Christian traditions that see that see the same principles here in Exodus 24. After all, God is the same yesterday and today. He is the same God that revealed himself here in Exodus 24. We are privileged to know him today as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, who calls us to worship, who sets up a hierarchy, who gives us his word, and we respond. Who provides atonement and we repent? Who reveals his real presence when we sit and eat with him I ran across this quote that's actually in your bulletin that for me sums up this sermon in just three sentences It is from G. K. Chesterton. He says, tradition means giving votes to the most obscure of all classes, our ancestors. It is democracy of the dead. Tradition refuses to submit to the small and arrogant oligarchy of those who merely happen to be walking about. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father, for our tradition we give you our thanks, not because of its uniqueness. But of what it follows, which are the principles we find in your holy word as you call your people for the first time to worship you. May we, as good stewards, appreciate with all of our hearts, and may we keep it as your will be done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.