In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We're looking at Revelation chapter seven, picking up at verse nine. Revelation seven. Picking up at verse 9, and I begin the question. Of course, you answer this to yourself: what Do you praise God for today? Why did you come to Sunday morning worship? I have been involved in Christian churches that will use Sunday morning worship as a time of testimony sharing. Testimony sharing is when a minister or song leader asks the people of the congregation If there was anything they would like to share with the rest of the congregation regarding what God has been doing in their life Some testimonies were quite emotionally moving. Others were quite, well, long. There were actually services where the minister decided not to preach his prepared sermon because the testimonies had taken up so much time In the denomination I served for a few years, it was common for the preacher to allow testimonies to supplant his sermon. Serving my first year in said church, I was told about such services where the testimonies dominated the service. And parishioners would describe it as being wonderful that the preacher didn't have to preach. These comments were stated before I was scheduled to preach, and I always wondered whether there was an implied message. In my three years pastoring in that denomination and at the local church where I served, no testimony supplanted my sermon. But you assume that already And I hope you don't feel that you want testimonies to replace my sermons, but even if you did, well, I would still preach. But back to my original question. What do you praise God for today? During the services dominated by testimonies, inevitably someone would stand up and thank the Lord for his or her salvation. I thank the Lord that he saved me. And when I first heard such a testimony, I truly did think to myself, come on, that's an easy one. Anyone can testify about how thankful they are for his or her salvation. Let's hear some of the dramatic stuff. Let's, you know, get really get really honest here. I thought about those simple testimonies while studying this end of chapter 7 in the book of Revelation Because of the content of the song that is sung by the great multitude standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. The content of the songs and proclamations in this chapter should be the reason why we praise God today, and every day we gather for worship. Before we get into specifics of the song sung, we need to establish who these people are that are beginning singing. Last week I proposed that the number 144,000 was a symbolic number symbolizing all of God's people under both the old and new covenants. You will remember the number 144,000 is the result of 12 representing the tribe of Israel And twelve, representing the twelve apostles, multiplied together and expressed in terms of a multitude or thousands. What we pointed to last week that affects our interpretation of verse 9 this week is that John heard the number 144,000. He heard it. He did not see the people and count them off one by one, counting all the way to 144,000. What happens in verse 9, which is the same vision that began in verse 1 of chapter 7, is after John hears 144,000, he then sees It reads, after this hearing, I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count. From every nation, tribe, people, and language standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb Because of the symbolism of 144,000 being heard and the subsequent seeing that John does after hearing I propose that the great multitude he sees is the same multitude that he hears is numbered. This multitude consisted of so many people that no one could count the number. But that statement is not made in an absolute sense. When saying no one could count, he does not mean that the number was not definite It most certainly is definite, for God knows whose are his, and he knows us in every way. Instead, it is a description like the one promised to Abraham. When God said to Abraham that he would have descendants greater than the sands of the seashore and greater than the stars of the heavens. Those numbers are greater than a man can count. And I want to take opportunity now to explain once again. The importance of noting the similarity between the described fulfillment of God's covenant here in Revelation and the one promised to Abraham. I have said numerous times that I do not believe that the Bible speaks or treats the salvation of the Jewish race separately from that of the Gentiles. This separation of salvation has been popularized in past years, and I do believe it has an effect upon the church, and that effect is not benign. When God promised Abraham a number of descendants that could not be counted, he was not speaking about descendants of Abraham's loins. Although that is what some Jews and even some Christians believe. The Apostle Paul could not have stated this doctrine more plainly. Than he did in his words to the church at Rome, found in chapter four chapter four, beginning at verse thirteen, and they read It was not through the law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of the world, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by the law are heirs, faith has no value and the promise is worthless. Therefore, the promise comes by faith, so that we may be by grace and may be guaranteed to all Abraham's offspring, not only those who are of the law, but also those who are of the faith. The faith of Abraham. He is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. The Apostles' words state plainly that Abraham's offspring are a people of faith. Whether we are Jew or Gentile, we are all one in Christ Jesus because we have the same faith. John's description of the multitude being from every nation, tribe, people, and language makes perfect sense in line of the faith of Abraham, for that brings us all together. The description of the multitude is also the fulfillment of what God set out to do when he sent his son. We know the verse well, John 3. 16. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God's love for the world was further seen in his command to his disciples to go throughout all the world and preach the gospel, baptizing those who believed. It was also his promise that he would not return, not return until the gospel had been preached to all nations Thus, the description of every tribe, people, and tongue present in heaven in Revelation 7 is a fulfillment of John 3:16. The multitude is described as wearing white robes and holding palm branches. This would have been a good sermon for next week. The white robes are the same as those worn by the martyrs under the altar in chapter 6, who were revealed after breaking that fifth seal. The white represents purity and holiness, and by wearing white, the multitude is said to be as worthy as their exalted Savior who wears the same white. The branches, like the ones waved as Christ entered Jerusalem on a donkey five days before his death, and a week before his resurrection. Symbolize a restoration of God's people, a restoration to paradise where Christ Jesus reigns as King. In verse 13, one of the elders that sits around the throne asks John to identify the multitudes in white robes. Who are they? And where did they come from? He asks. John, not knowing, acquiesces to the elder, who informs him that the multitude consists of those who came out of the Great Tribulation. Now the punctuation in the New King James Version helps us understand what is meant by coming out of the Great Tribulation. It means that they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. A natural explanation confuses us because blood cannot make a garment white. Christ's blood, however, is a blood that was innocent. It was the blood of a perfect man, and thus a perfect sacrifice, making all who would accept his sacrifice to be clean from their sin. Because blood represents sacrifice and forgiveness, and white represents purity and righteousness, those who washed themselves in the blood of Christ were made pure and righteous, and thus white as snow. Though your sins are scarlet, said the prophet, I will make them whiter than snow. By referring to the multitude as coming out of the Great Tribulation, we must not perceive them as separate from the martyrs revealed in chapter 6. nor separate from the Christians who have suffered and preserved in the faith up to and through today. The purpose of the description is once again for the comfort of those first century Christians and all that follow. That God rewards them for their faithfulness, and he will reward all who remain faithful to the end of their days. Because God has rewarded the faithful. Their response is one of praise, of worship, and it is the words, the words in their praise that I wish to focus on this morning. The multitudes are the first to cry out. We are not told whether this is a song set to a tune, so apparently it doesn't matter. The words, the words that they sing are what is most important. From verse 10, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Their words focus on the salvation that God brings through the Lamb. The Lamb that represents the sacrifice of Jesus They praise God for their salvation. These words are followed by those of the angels and elders and four living creatures around the throne. They all fall face down and then say, Amen, praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Those words are in response to praise given to God simply for salvation. They describe the God who saves. The final words of this scene are spoken by the elder who asked John to identify the multitude. His words describe the salvation of the multitude. He says, they are before the throne and serve him day and night in his temple. Never again will they hunger, never again will they thirst. The lamb will be their shepherd. God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Such words describe the salvation that the multitude will experience. And together, the three cries of praise consist of praising God for salvation, describing Him as the one who saves, and describing what it means to be saved. These cries take us back to my description of the testimonies people give in churches regarding their salvation. When I ask or describe it as easy, it is actually to do so, to stand up and give testimony to your salvation is the most profound thing that you can do. Think of it this way. All other testimonies we give, whether we be praising God for our daily bread. Or for our spouse, or for our children, or for our job, etc. , etc. And none of such things match up to the salvation we have in Christ. Because all those things are in this life. Even those things we call miracles, such as a healing from a debilitating and even malignant disease. Does not compare to our salvation. And please don't misunderstand me. God is to be praised when He answers prayers. regarding our daily sustenance, regarding even miracles that save lives. But all of these concern such things that occur in this life, and in this life we are just passing through The words of praise, the cries of the multitude, and the testimonies of God's people in heaven do not consist of words regarding a new job, a good report from the doctor. They contain descriptions of our salvation. So perhaps we need to rehearse in our mind why salvation is so important. God created an earth on which people could live in paradise. But man, represented in Adam and Eve, chose to rebel against God. The sin of man meant that the justice and wrath of Almighty God, who was holy and righteous, had to be satisfied Man was forced to offer blood sacrifice and have his days cut short upon the earth because he was not worthy to be in the presence of the one, true, holy, and living God. The Bible tells us that because of the rebellion of angels and the sin of man, a place called hell was created by God to punish for all eternity those who have rebelled against him. When God looked upon the world, he found none that were righteous, not one. If left to ourselves, eternal damnation would be our destination. The description of weeping, wailing, and gnashing of teeth would be for us to experience were not for the moment God satisfied himself taking on the punishment that we deserved. The only thing that satisfies him is perfection. And because we are not perfect of our own device, eternal damnation is what we deserve. What argument, what explanation or justification could be presented to Almighty God that would stop him from casting us into eternal lake of fire to join the devil and his angels? What explanation? What justification? This is why the revelator Johns asked the question, who can stand? No one. No one can stand. What we have just described is what we are saved from And we have only touched on the punishment of hell and generalities. There are specifics to the punishment perhaps specified to each sin that will be experienced by those who do not willfully bend the knee to the King of Kings. And the Lord of Lords. There's also described in brief what we are saved to experience. The saved will have eternal purpose, as there will be no questions such as, why am I here, or what is my purpose? We exist to serve God The saved will never hunger or thirst, but will be forever provided for. The heat of the day or the cold of the winter will not be a concern. What Adam and Eve were barred from having access to will be ours to eat, to drink. And finally, there will be no reason to shed a tear This is the salvation awaiting the multitude that remains faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. So I began this sermon by asking you why you came this morning. What do you praise God for today? We, of course, have a multitude of things to give God praise for in this life. But what we should always give praise for, what we should always be at the forefront of our thoughts, and the first thing on our lips in our praise to God is for our salvation. The multitude, praise God for salvation. The multitude is us. Let him be praised because he has saved us in Christ Jesus Amen. Let us pray