In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I apologize, it sounds like Carol Channing is preaching to you this morning. But I have been truly blessed and I want to give the Lord praise. I literally lost my voice Earlier this week could not speak much at all. And God has by his grace brought it back. I was concerned. Molly had suggested it to us That perhaps we had a Zechariah and Elizabeth thing going on, that would mean I have an announcement for you that Bobby Lynn is pregnant. She's not I'm very grateful for healing. I said for healing. Grateful for healing. We are in 1 Peter chapter 5. We are ending our study of 1 Peter here on Palm Sunday. St. Peter closes his instruction on leadership in the church with the instruction to young people in general, upholding the virtue of humility. Saint Augustine said, Do you wish to rise? Begin by descending You plan a tower that will pierce the clouds, lay first the foundation of humility. Humility is essential to godliness. Humility is a foundation of righteousness. Humility is essential to godliness and righteousness because both come from faith in Jesus. As humility is required to confess sins and to accept the forgiveness that Jesus offers. Sins cannot be forgiven. Mistakes cannot be learned from without humility. Chuck Daly, a former NBA coach, now deceased said the following about a form of humility. It's discouraging to make a mistake, but it's humiliating when you find out you're so unimportant that nobody notices it. And some of us need to be humiliated from time to time. Humility allows us to see ourselves as we truly are. Comedian Phyllis Diller said of humility, you know what keeps me humble? Mirrors What would be the most humbling of revelations is for there to be held up before us a mirror that would reflect our hearts. The mixed motives within our hearts for practically everything we do would bring a great deal of humility to our consciences. Of course, the opposite of humility is pride. Thus we need, we need Warnings against pride. We can presume that St. Peter's instruction for the people of God to uphold the virtue of humility is important. Because the sin of pride is so very, very harmful. The great Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon said Quote, there is nothing into which the heart of man so easily falls as pride. And yet there is no vice which is more frequently, more emphatically, and more eloquently condemned in Scripture. The scourge of human pride has been condemned by the law, by the prophets, by the apostles. Evangelists, through strident preaching, condemning personal pride, have filled altar calls with people whose consciences have been seared. We might say that God Himself spoke most excellently through the prophets when he condemned the sin of the pride of humanity. An example of this is found in the words of the prophet Isaiah, chapter 14, where the Lord's holy words Seem to have risen up as if he is turning over the tables of the money changers, as his anger is waxed hot against the pride of man. When he would utterly and affectionately condemn the most prideful of men. He says concerning the great mighty king of Babylon, quote, Hell from beneath is excited about you to meet you at your coming. It stirs up from the dead. All the chief ones of the earth, it is raised up from their thrones, all the kings of the nations, they all speak and say to you, Have you also become as weak as we? Have you become like us? Your pomp is brought down to Shaol. And the sound of your stringed instruments, the maggot is spread under you, and worms cover you. How you are fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, Son of the Morning! How you are cut down to the ground, you are weakened, you who weaken the nations. For you have said in your heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will also sit on the mount of the congregation On the farthest sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. Yet you shall be brought down to Sha'ol, to the deepest depths of the pit. Those who see you will gaze at you and consider you saying, is this the man who made the earth tremble, who shook kingdoms, who made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed its cities? Who did open the house of all prisoners from such a poetic proclamation of justice? We can see The pride of man from God's vantage point. A very foolish aspect of pride. is mankind's inability to see himself in his pride. For if he could, he might be less apt to think of himself in any manner that would bring Praise to self. God so eloquently speaks against the sin of pride Especially the pride of kings who make themselves to be like God, because of how audacious And truly silly it is for any human being to place himself on a level that would be remotely equal to God Before the destruction, the heart of man is haughty. So says Proverbs Consider where the seat of pride is, where it resides. It is in the heart of man. And what is the consequence of pride? Destruction and nothing less. Pride is the firstborn son of hell. It is like a parent of all that is unclean and vile. And the great irony is that pride is a groundless thing. It places a man's footing on seeking sand, on shifting bars, on bubbles that burst. And again, what sense is there for personal pride? Our frailty should be sufficient to bring us loath and to keep us loath. For we are but dust, we are but vapor, and thus we shall be gone tomorrow Jesus tells us that no person can add even a single hour to his or her life. And yet we try, various fads, to do that very thing he tells us we cannot do. And consider what we owe. What each man and woman owes to God. We are debtors because we are trespassers. We are sinners. And we have nothing of our own for which we can pay our debt. We are beggars, we are paupers before God and before our fellow man. And here is another great irony with pride. The more you have it The more you are in debt to God. Again, pride is a brainless thing As well as a groundless thing, for it brings no profit with it. You gain nothing. There is no wisdom in self-exaltation. Consider that other vices have some excuse, for men seem to gain something in the immediate by them, such as lust and pleasures enjoyed in the moment. But the man who is proud sells his soul cheaply. And it is the soul, the very essence of a person that is cheapened by pride. Human pride is at the heart of the devil's deception. It is at the heart of the devil's nature. And therefore, whoever bows to pride is a disciple of the evil one. But what of humility? Humility is a grace that has many promises of reward given to it in Scripture. We are aware that there are but three virtues that remain faith, hope, and love. But humility is no less than that trio, for it is required in order for us to receive the three that remain. We need humility to have faith, to trust in that which we cannot see. We need humility to hold on to hope, for hope is admitting that we cannot control the future. And we need humility for receiving love. For we are most unlovable in and of ourselves. And yet humility allows us to love because God first loved us. Every grace seems to be like a nail on which precious blessings hang. And humility hath many a mercy suspended from it. Hear these proclamations from Holy Scripture. He that exalts himself shall be humbled, and he that humbles himself shall be exalted. Blessed are the poor in spirit. God hates the proud, but gives grace to the humble. God brings down the mighty from their seats and exalts the humble and the meek. Consider the men most praised in the Bible, praised by God Himself, are men who were the most humble. Moses and Jesus were both praised by God to be the most humble Moses was said by God to be the most humble man on earth. And Jesus was even greater than Moses in all ways, including his humility. From the lives of Moses and Jesus, we see that men who are closest to the Heavenly Father were and are men who were and are the most humble. A person then who truly knows God knows humility. As we look more closely at St. Peter's description of humility, we can receive practical examples of what humility within the Christian life looks like. Look with me at verse five. In the New King James it begins by including submissiveness. We are to be submissive to those God has called to be our presbyters, our priests, our bishops Such submission is not so difficult when we respect and like our pastor or bishop. It is much much harder when we do not. And yet a humble person is able to submit to his or her elders not because of the person in the office. But because of the office itself and the truth that the person in the office was chosen by God Humility identifies the order of God's authority with the appreciation. That all leaders have been chosen by God, and each leader we submit to, submit to by faith. For we trust that God will care for us even under a foolish leader. Saint Peter did this very thing, suffering under the leadership of the Roman Emperor Nero, suffering even to the point of his martyrdom But submitting under the leadership of the church is arguably more difficult than submitting to political authority. For if you do not submit to political authority, you can be punished. Punished in ways that could harm you even unto death. And thus you have immediate motivation to submit. On the other hand, if you do not submit to church authorities, well what recourse do they have, really have in your life? The church authorities could refuse Holy Communion. We call it excommunication. The church can treat you like an unbeliever that needs to repent and to publicly confess your sins and a true faith. But what is that to a parishioner who can drive one or two blocks down the road, enter into a church that call themselves Christians And be given holy communion, full membership, and a listening ear when you tell them how terrible the people are down Liberty Road. During the culmination service, that which is read during Ash Wednesday, we hear these words. In the primitive church, there was a godly discipline that at the beginning of Lent, such persons as stood convicted of notorious sin were put to open penance. and punished in this world, that their souls might be saved in the last day, and that others admonished by their example might be the more afraid to offend. Instead, whereof until the said discipline may be restored again, which is to be wished, and it goes on. And that last part used to catch me. I wondered why excommunication, such as practiced in local churches, why doesn't that count? Why are they still wishing for this? And then it struck me, what they're really wishing for is that an excommunication would be honored by all the churches. And honored by all that confessed Jesus, so that a sinner could not go down the road into another church. So that people would in fact fear God And take warning and take heed and turn from their sin. For the people of God to submit, as Saint Peter instructs, there needs to be a receiving of the instructions the Holy Spirit impressed upon the second generation Christians who lived after the apostles to submit to their church officers. From Saint Ignatius to the Ephesian Church, he wrote this, second generation It is proper, therefore, in every way to glorify Jesus Christ, who has glorified you, so that you, joined together in a united obedience and subject to the bishop and presbytery, may be sanctified in every respect. Again, from Saint Ignatius, he says, the one who honors the bishop has been honored by God. And the one who does anything without the bishop's knowledge serves the devil. And what would cause someone to work without the knowledge of the bishop? But pride, submission to church leadership is humility before God. And then next, St. Peter includes his instruction to submit to one another. Humility is to submit to one another. Now St. Paul says the same, even before he says, wives submit to your husbands, first he says, submit one to another. Submission then is foundational in our relationships with one another. It is living the instruction. Treat others as more important than yourself. Submitting to one another is assuring that your brother or sister in Jesus Christ are before you in that line at the buffet and are after you in that line for volunteering for work. Submitting to one another is bearing up the burdens of your fellow Christians, so that they do not carry such a load and cares and trials so much That they are overwhelmed and cannot move forward. Submitting to one another says to a fellow Christian, I got this. Let me help you with that. Submitting to one another says to a fellow Christians, your needs first, your wants first. Your feelings first. Submitting to one another is faith lived out For it is saying as a testimony that when the needs of others are placed before your own, you may get the short stick. But that is acceptable in this life. Because God will exalt you in due time. Consider that your fellow man who has no faith in God gets quite upset rather quickly when his needs are not met. And he gets especially upset when his needs are not met and someone else's are being met He gets upset because he has no concept of there being a reality beyond what is immediate. He gets upset because he has no hope for a reward that is ahead of him that is eternal But the Christian does. The Christian has the motivation to remain humble and thus He gives deference, the Christian does, to his fellow Christian, because well God is against the proud He resists them after all. And because by God's grace, he will reward those who are humble in heaven, clothing them with righteousness when they clothe themselves with humility. Beloved, what more do we need in order to be convinced to choose humility over pride? We have heard great warnings against human pride. We have heard great promises for living humble lives. There is no more that we need other than maybe a story. There once was a parish. A parish that had a submission problem. Their problem was that they submitted to one another too much. When sharing a pot muck dinner, no one would get up to eat because each was waiting for the other to go first. When participating in a work day on church property. No one hardly worked because so many people showed up. The work took little time to complete When giving tithes and offerings, the vestry became flustered because the monies received doubled each year, and they were running out of ways to spend it. When it came to bearing one another's burdens, there were ladies who didn't get a call to make meals for those in need because the list was so long for volunteers, and meals were made and delivered before anybody asked. In fact, this parish was so submissive, so submissive, that the prayer requests made were actually prayed for instead of reasons for gossip. Now that's submission. And how did this happen? How did this parish become an example of submission? Here's the answer. They heard and read that Saint Peter instructed for Christians to submit to one another, being clothed with humility. And they did it. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for a message that is so important on a day like this, to understand your zeal. For the downing of pride and the raising up of humility, for that is what you did. And Father, we are grateful for the challenge in our lives May we heed the words of St. Peter and be excited about what you will do lifting us up. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.