In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter three. We're picking up at verse 10. First Corinthians chapter 3, 10 through 23. You've ever noticed nursery rhymes nursery rhymes cause us to abandon reality. Take, for example, the story of the three little pigs. We are asked to buy into the fact that three little pigs can build houses One made of straw, one made of wood, and the last of brick, were to believe this without questioning how they can grasp a hammer or a towel with hoofs and no opposing thumbs. There are too many questions related to the story that go unanswered. For example, where did they learn the skills to construct a home? What does a pig need a home for anyway? How did they purchase the materials that they needed? How did they hoist trusses and lay roofing with no construction equipment? The only character in the three little pigs story that remains true to reality is the wolf. The wolf, after all, wants to eat, and a pig is a pretty good meal for a wolf. Of course, how the wolf ends up being able to blow houses down made of straw and wood is not known, but at least the wolf is acting like a wolf. What I consider a great irony in the story is that a pig that is able to build houses is certainly able to tote a 12-gauge shotgun With one pull of the trigger, with those magical hoofs, the wolf would be dead and the pigs could live in whatever house they wished. Of course, this is getting off the moral of the story, which teaches us that if something is to be built to last, it must be built over time and with quality material. The pig that builds his house with straw is able to finish sooner than his brothers and with less sweat, but he is the first to have to abandon his home. The second finish is a little later than the first, but is quicker than the third, for he builds his house out of wood The wood is sturdier than the straw, and it takes longer for the wolf to blow his house down, but the wolf eventually succeeds. The two brothers then must flee from the woodhouse to the brick house built by the third pig. The house took more time made out of brick and more effort to build, but it was able to withstand the blowing of the wolf and all of them were safe. That is a happy ending, although in the original story The first two pigs actually get eaten by the wolf, and it's only the third that survives. But that's much sadder, so we have to pretend that when the first pig had his house blown down, that he was faster than a wolf. and ran to the to the house made of wood and then they both were faster than the wolf and made it to the brick house. All of it very unbelievable Of course, you may be wondering what this has to do with 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Well, after the Apostle Paul chastised the Corinthians for their disunis unity He describes the importance of building upon the faith of a person, and by using lasting materials, and builders, using builders who are responsible Most scholars believe this passage of scripture is directed to ministers, for they are called to build into the lives of their people. And we will concur that this is the primary audience. But we will also recognize that the laity are to learn something from these instructions as well. This passage is especially important for our day. In the first century, as I noted a few weeks ago, there were not a lot of teachers to choose from. Paul came preaching the gospel. Apollos continued Paul's teaching, bringing the Corinthians to a greater depth in faith. And some teachings had been received by letter and messengers of St. Peter, yet there was no second Church of the Corinthians to attend. There were no books to buy or Christian radio to hear. Today our ability to choose the teachers and preachers of the gospel, or builders, as Paul would call them. is like standing in line at the Golden Corral. There is much to choose, and most of us try a little bit of each. When my children were young and given free reign to fill up their own drinking cup at a restaurant like Golden Corral, they would, you know, a little bit of this, a little bit of this, a little bit of this, a little bit of this But that's what some people do with their theology. A little bit of this, a little bit of this, a little bit of this. They sample a little from several teachers, not realizing that some teachings contradict others as some soda drinks don't mix well together. So the lessons learned in this passage can be heard by laity As you recognize that you are responsible for the choices you make on who you allow to build in your life and what type of materials you're allowing them to use. Well regardless of whom the laity chooses or how ministers build, the one thing necessary is that the foundation must be Jesus Christ. That is in verse 11. The manner that the apostle phrases this passage causes us to question whether he is saying that it is impossible for another to lay a foundation beside Jesus Christ. or that no other foundation can replace Christ who has already been laid as a foundation. The latter interpretation fits the context best. However, the apostle could well be saying both, as it is argued that there is no other foundation to build upon but Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the foundation of the church, both personally and doctrinally. He is the personal foundation in that he is real. He existed. He died. He rose again, and he lives forevermore. Christians do not build their lives on legend or myth, but on a person who is both human and divine. Our foundation is as doctrinal as it is personal, for we build upon Jesus Christ, who was revealed to us as God's only begotten Son. He was begotten, we say, not made. This means that he had no beginning, but always was. It was at the incarnation that he was begotten as a man and remained so, sitting at the right hand of the Father. Doctrinally, we say he created all things. He atoned for the sins of man. He is coming again to judge the living and the dead. Doctrinally, we say that he is the only way to the Father, and that if a man desires eternal life, he must believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, having no other gods before him. A minister must believe, teach, and preach that Jesus Christ is the only foundation, or he is not a Christian minister. A minister who rejects this foundation, the chief cornerstone, must himself be rejected by the church as an apostate and disciplined until he repents. It is sad to report that too often in our day the church has done little to ensure God's people have a firm foundation being preached and taught from pulpits It can seem immature to name names and thus appear to be a tattletale, but I believe It is necessary for the church to publicly rebuke, as Scripture commands, those who preach and teach falsely. Some of you may have heard this name, Bishop Spong, S-P-O-N-G, Spong. He's an example for us. He was a bishop of Newark, New Jersey, serving within the Episcopal Church, who has written books explicitly denying the resurrection of Christ. And denying other core Christian doctrines, yet he has never been brought up on charges from his denomination. The catastrophic result of the church's unwillingness to ensure Jesus Christ as foundational is evident in a poll that was conducted among American Protestants. An amazing 78% of Presbyterians nationwide believe that a man's work is what gets him to heaven. 78% The numbers among Lutherans, Methodists, and Episcopalians are slightly higher. Only 33% of Lutherans, 33% of Methodists, and 28% of Episcopalians believe that Jesus was without sin. Paul Himlike, a theologian, Lutheran theologian at Roanoke College, stated that, quote, these figures signal a complete breakdown of catechetical instruction. An absolute collapse, he said, in mainline Protestantism. Episcopal theologian Gerald McDermott, also of our own note. Concurs the same as he states, quote, This happened because in the last thirty years American pastors have lost their nerve to preach a theology that goes against the grain. They are afraid to preach and teach anything that challenges what people already think. The result is a belief in a meek, mild-mannered God who does not want to judge us. As Christians, I believe it is important that you know who has rejected Jesus Christ as foundation. But once the foundation of Jesus Christ has been laid, is it necessary to build? And we must concur that the building materials with which we build does matter. It can be a great danger to understand one's Christian faith as merely a one-time experience. Once that experience with God is over, we may be convinced that that was enough. Nothing more needs to be done. The illustration of our lives being built communicate that the experience of laying a foundation is only the beginning. If someone converts to Christianity by confessing their sin and Christ as their Savior, that is not an end. That is a beginning. That is why when our Lord appeared to Peter after his resurrection, he told Peter, Feed, my sheep. Feeding is another metaphor like building. Each inform us that there is more growth to take place. And besides, as has been noted by many, Jesus didn't commission the church to make converts. He called the church to make disciples, and a disciple is always learning by definition. It is not difficult to understand, and that is why the lesson of the found of that is found in the nursery rhyme of the three little pigs That the type of building materials used determine how long the structure will last. In verse twelve We find the description of the optional building materials. We have gold, silver, costly stone, wood, hay, or straw. Although these materials are listed in succession, there is an obvious division between the materials that are precious and last versus those that are common and destructible. The precious and lasting materials are those that can stand heat of fire, and in case of fire, are actually purified in the process. The other materials cannot last within a fire, but are destroyed. Therefore, the only way to tell whether one has used lasting or destructible material To build his life is to see whether his building survives the fire of the last day. Our present-day culture provides a good example about how buildings can appear to be made of lasting material, but when they are tested are found to be mere facades We can cover our houses with brick facade, with wood facade, and to the eye it can appear that that's good quality, but when tested, they are shown to be lacking. In verse 13, the apostle states that a man's work will be shown for what it is on the day it will be brought to light It will be revealed with fire, and the fire will test the quality of each man's work. The use of the word day appears to refer to either the light of day revealing a man's work or the day of judgment. as in that one particular day when all of humanity will stand before the judgment seat of Christ The latter interpretation is more likely, for when Paul uses the word day, it is usually in reference to the last day, to judgment day. It is on that day that each person will be shown for who he or she truly is, and what quality is his or her building material. What will be revealed is that while many appear to be godly, for they say all the right things and appear to have all things in order, The day, that is judgment day, will reveal it was all just a facade. And the opposite is true. Others appear to be living disordered lives and say confusing things, but on that day, judgment day, it will be revealed that they have a firm foundation. The fire that reveals what material is lasting and what is destructible is a fire that can be used of God in this present life and the life to come. The life to come again refers to eternal judgment. And this life, the fire exists in the form of trials and tribulations. When these are experienced individually and corporately, they reveal what we are made of, what is really within us. The building material used by parents upon their children is revealed as lasting or consumable when a child is out on his own. The material of a marriage is revealed when stress, financial struggle, and in-law strain the relationship. The building material of a parish is revealed when sin knocks at the door, when disagreement occurs, when dissension is stirred from within. These are the times that tell us what we are truly made of. As the apostle describes in verses 14 and 15, The day of judgment and fire from present trials can reveal a building built with destructible materials. And this alone, he says, however, does not exclude a person from the kingdom of God. A person who has the foundation of Jesus Christ, they will be saved, to be sure. However, a life built with perishable materials will be one of pain and one to escape. Too often we see Christians struggling in their marriage, in their church, with their children, in their finances, etc. , etc. , as they appear to move from one tragedy to another They suffer loss and continuous setbacks for the simple reason that their life is built with perishable, destructible material. They are saved But through present-day fire. The encouragement of the Apostle is for all builders to use lasting materials. And for all laity to receive only lasting materials. For the simple reason that all of God's people are temples. Temples. The temple, as it is designed and built in the Old Testament, is made of and adorned with gold and silver and costly stones. If we are the temples of God, that is, we are chosen receptacles of the Holy Spirit, then we should be built with nothing less than that which is precious, lasting, and costly. The problem resides in the disbelief that God's people are actually temples If ministers truly believe such, they would not build into people's lives simple and mostly incomplete truths. There continues a strong wind of influence today from ministers to make their messages relevant. The critique is that the message of man suffering in sin and in need of repentance and a savior is no longer attractive to the modern ear. The result are sermons comparable to the Time and Life series. Well that's dating myself. Time and Life How To book series, you remember published many years ago Every sermon is based on how to, how to be a better husband, how to be successful in your job, how to be at peace with yourself, etc. The gospel has become a self-help motivational series rather than a transformational truth that leads a person out of sin. and into the loving, gracious presence of Almighty God through the meritorious work of Jesus Christ. If a builder uses the wisdom of this world, he is using wood, hay, and straw. And these will be consumed, and the wolf will have its way with the builders. Those who allow such materials to build their lives may be saved, but with sorrow and suffering in this life. The call is for Christians to build and be built with materials that last, and we do so because of whom we are in Christ. This is why the apostle ends this section by telling us that all things are ours. What does he mean by that? All things are ours. By this he is stating that we are owned temples, and as such we should be built up like his temple. Live and be built up to your potential. You are responsible. In the Christian faith, we do not suspend reality with fairy tale. We are not pigs, for we have opposable thumbs. We can be built up with gold, silver, and costly stones. I will continue to do my best To build up in your lives what is precious and what will survive fire. But building takes time It takes money. It takes great effort, patience, and carefulness. If the Lord gives us the time, may we give him our best effort. Amen. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for this lasting metaphor. Of how our lives are to be built, of how your church is to be built. Father, may we not compromise in any time that we do, bring us to repentance and give us better minds. And may we pass the foundation stone on to our children and our children's children, that all of us and our families may be built up until that day. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.