In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Seed it. Please open your Bibles and turn to John chapter 13. Beginning at the 31st verse, you'll be well served as usual to do so as we go through the Gospel of John We are approaching the text this morning a little differently as I will be commenting On some details going from verse to verse, and then we will hear a summary message of what God has for us. So let's look at John thirteen, starting at verse thirty-one. The person described here As having gone out is of course Judas, the betrayer, and thus Jesus is left with the unsure eleven. Where Jesus says the Son of Man is glorified, he uses the errorist tense, which communicates to us that his glorification has been set. It's been settled. Later in John 17, 10, he says that he has been glorified, and again that means completed in the lives of his disciples. That God is glorified in Jesus is later described by St. Paul to the Colossians as Jesus is described as having been hidden inside God. In such descriptions we have the truth that these are two separate persons, but indeed one God. Verse 32. The first part speaks of mutual glorification, which we can easily understand. The words glorify him immediately are referring to the Father glorifying the Son straight away. The death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus is near enough that Jesus can touch it, and he is making thus a triumphant statement. Verse 33. This is a very special point in the gospel, as Jesus chooses for the first and only time Such gentle words as little children. He uses this to refer to his disciples, and he seems to be expressing what has been welling up in his heart about them He cares more deeply for his disciples than any man has ever cared for other men. And he may be concerned, calling them little children, that soon they will feel like orphans But only for a time. He needs to remind them of the warning he had given them before Where he is going is the cross. It is the grave. It is his descent into hell. These places they cannot come with him. However, they will walk their own paths. Verse 34. The phrase prior to this verse sets them up for what they are going to be doing and continually doing while Jesus goes where they cannot go. Now I say to you, a new commandment I give you that you love one another. Regarding the base of such a commandment, there is nothing new here. God commanded the Israelites to love one another as if they would love themselves. Love your neighbor as yourself, he told them in Leviticus nineteen. God's standard for his people has always been to love one another. But it is what is said next that makes this commandment Jesus gives, oh, so very new. Jesus said, As I have loved you, that you also love one another. The standard has been raised. We are not to love one another as we would want to be loved anymore. But instead, Jesus told us we are to love in a greater manner. His His manner. Verse 35. There is nothing grammatical to point out in this verse. It is a straightforward truth. And it is, I believe, in the age in which we now live. The best means of evangelism we can offer this world is to love one another. Verse 36. In this verse we are to notice that Peter has passed over what Jesus has just said. Peter ignored it completely and refers back to where Jesus is going. Peter was not listening, and he was not believing the words of Jesus, but instead trusted in his own courage, which we know now that it was no courage at all. Verse 37. Jesus had told his disciples that they were to lay down their lives for him and his kingdom earlier. Peter believed he was ready at a moment's notice. Verse 38. By answering Peter in the form of a question, Jesus is not doubting the sincerity of Peter. He is trying to show Peter that he lacks self-awareness and he lacks fortitude. The meaning of the cock crowing is a little confusing in the New King James, I think. It's simply saying that within the time that the cock crows, within those times, Peter will deny him three times. It is a prophecy, and it most certainly will be fulfilled Juxtaposition is a fancy word coming from the Latin and the Greek. It refers to the close placement of two things. And in literature, it refers to two stories that are close together for a purpose, for a particular meaning. In our reading from John, we are to notice the juxtaposition of Jesus telling his disciples to love one another as he has loved them, and then the story of Peter's hubris. And Jesus prophesying that Peter would deny him three times. And Peter doing so, he was not loving Jesus Along with the examining of the meaning of those two stories, we can examine the closeness of the story of Judas betraying Jesus and Jesus telling his disciples to love one another. Well let us take the latter mention juxtaposition first. Judas, we are told, had just left the remaining eleven disciples with Jesus. And it was not until Judas was gone that Jesus gave this new commandment The reason for waiting must have been that Judas could not have been included in this command, for Judas had already turned his heart over to greed, to power, and to self-love. The devil had entered Judas, and thus Judas had not the capability to love in the manner Jesus commanded. The type of love Christians are to practice to one another is the most unique type of love For it is to be done with the love of Jesus toward one another, our brothers and our sisters in God's family. When when renowned atheist Christopher Hitchens, now deceased, when he debated Christians, he would challenge his opponents and audiences to come up with an act of charity that a Christian could perform that an atheist could not He thought he was being rather whimsical, making a good point that atheists can feed the hungry, care for the sick, and provide for the homeless with altruistic motives just like Christians do, and thus making Christianity unnecessary. But the rebuttal to that argument is quite an easy one The rebuttal was and is that Christians can care for the hungry, the sick, and the homeless with the love of Jesus. And thus bring glory to God while an atheist cannot. And the reason or motive as to why a person performs an act of kindness Or love does matter. Motive matters. It matters in the kingdom of God. So an atheist does an act of kindness because he or she wants to feel better about his or herself, or maybe they just simply care about their fellow human being. And all that is fine But when love is expressed in the name of Jesus, the heavens rejoice, and God is honored, and that is more than just fine. And now we can add to that point and say that not only can Christians do acts of love in a greater manner than an atheist because our acts give glory to God We can also say that we Christians can share a love for one another that the world cannot, for two Christians cannot Loving one another and performing acts of love for one another, bring twice the love of Jesus and twice the amount of honor to God. And that is not bragging. That's just saying what's true Well the next section of juxtaposition is to recognize that Jesus gives the command to his disciples to love one another by a standard of his love for them just after he tells them that he will be going away And where he is going, they cannot go. He tells them to love one another so that they do not split apart from one another due to his absence. And dear Christians, are we not in the same position today? The church has been in this situation since Jesus ascended into heaven. We are to be practicing the love of God toward one another, to encourage one another not to lose heart, but to wait until Jesus returns. And because a day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day from God's perspective, Jesus may return today, or he may return a thousand years from today. And so while we wait for him, we are to be loving one another. And the effect of loving one another is so that we do not lose heart and we do not give up waiting. Another effect is that the world will witness our love for one another, and that's an opportunity for them to love the Savior we love. I ask you, why is the church so weak today And if you do not think it is weak, consider that the Christian Church, with all of its denominations, with all of its mega churches and traditions of men Does not have a clear, distinct voice for the culture in which we live. No one is asking, what do the Christians think? No politician today is having a strategy meeting for policy making or campaign planning and asking, what does the Christian Church say today? There is no direct liaison for the Christian faith to the President of the United States to tell him what Christians believe about the moral issues of the day. The only body close to getting there is the Roman Catholic Church. And we haven't had a president ever that I'm aware of that has made policy because of the council of the Pope So why is the church so weak today? We are weak because we are inconsistent theologically, morally, and we are too fractured And why are we too fraction? Because we don't practice loving one another as Jesus command. Let us rehearse what love is when practiced. Remember, it is long suffering. We are to be long suffering with one another. We are to to put up with one another We are to stay in relationships with one another, even when what we say or do to another is not lovable, it's not likable, and it might just be plain annoying. And while the secular world makes jokes and writes skits about loud talkers or soft talkers, or those who always have stories of one upmanship, or those who have body odor, or those who are shy, or those who are obnoxious. Those are the people Christians accept and befriend because love is long suffering. Love is also kind. And being kind is included with long-suffering, but is also going out of our way to care about someone who has had a really bad, horrible day. And it's not fun to listen to someone who's had a really bad, horrible day, but it is kind. And such kindness shows that you care. And I can testify that when you struggle liking someone, you need to start simply being kind to them. Find ways to be kind to them and you will start to like them and guess what? You'll start to care. Love does not envy. Loving another person includes wanting and hoping the best for that other person, even if what they are blessed with is what we've always wanted, and maybe it's more than we've ever wanted. We may try to coach ourselves up not to envy someone because I just don't know what bad part of their life they have going on, and so they might have it equaled out like I do. But that's only to make ourselves feel better. Love does not envy because God has blessed a person, and that means it is God's will that that person is blessed, and therefore we are happy for that person because God's will is being done. Love rejoices when others rejoice. Love does not parade itself. It is not puffed up. The love we have, and the love we are to give to others understands by faith that all things come from God, and thus what I have is God's. If I can publicly speak well, that is from God. If I can run fast, that is from God. If I get a high-paying job, that is from God. If I am pretty, if I am musical, if I have more faith, all of it is from God I'm reminded of an exchange that was took place between Dallas Maverick owner Mark Cuban and one-time NBA great Shaquille O'Neal Shaq, as he is called, questioned the business acumen of Cuban by stating that he simply got lucky in the dot-com era. Well Cuban shot back something like yeah and Shaq worked really hard to be seven feet tall. By such a remark, Cuban does well to reveal the absurdity of one person thinking he is better than another based on what he has been given. And love knows that intuitively. Love does not behave rudely. Practicing love is never being rude, because those who are rude are only thinking about themselves. Love thinks about others first, and that means that love does not seek its own. In a conversation, love does not pretend to listen only to say what they want to say. Love does not enter a business relationship or a friendship because of what can be gained, but instead what can be given. Love does not say, oh, I know what I said hurt people, but I feel better about myself by saying. If something if someone is doing, saying or acting for self, it is not love. Love is not provoked as it thinks no evil. It thinks no evil Love says that I know you did not say that to hurt me, so I am not going to be hurt and I'm not going to be upset at you. Love does not look to be offended, but instead expects to be encouraged. Love does not expect to be ignored, but instead expects to be honored. And if the Christian is ignored by another Christian, well that Christian that was ignored is quite certain that that other Christian must be going through a difficult time, must be taken up with urgent matters, and meant no malice. It takes great effort to expect positive motivation of others, but love makes the effort. Love rejoices in the truth. The truth may be hard to hear. It may be that a person has been harmed by what you said or did, and therefore a person of love is glad to know that he has a chance to apologize and be reconciled. The truth may be that the sin, the problem, the failure is your own, but the love of God re compels you to repent, compels you to make peace and be in good standing with all men. Love bears all things, especially the shortcomings of others, because love overlooks a multitude of sins. Love believes all things, all things including the best from one another, and God's promises Love hopes for all things. All things is hoping the best for one another and for God's promises. Love endures all things. When others don't think well of you, love endures. When others do have malice toward you, love endures. When others don't bear all things, believe all things, or hope for all things, the love of Christ in you will. The final juxtaposition of these stories in John thirteen Is the command of Jesus to love one another just before Jesus tells Peter that Peter's love will fail and that he will deny Jesus. And the closeness of these words exchanged teach us that love practice towards one another is loving a sinner. Notice that there is no shunning, there's no belittling of Peter, although Jesus knew of his weaknesses, and thus he knew sin was inevitable. Love does not avoid sinners or ignore sin, but acknowledges the value of the sinner and the reality of the sin. Only the love of God can care for a sinner as Jesus cares for Peter. And we are to have that love for one another. We are to love one another knowing we are loving a sinner. And we are to love one another knowing that that person will sin against us. And I will sin against them. We will hurt each other, disappoint each other, even leave some scars on one another, and still we're to love one another This call, this command, this standard to love one another as Jesus loved us. is another example of the silliness offered by non-believers who argue that Christianity is a made-up religion so that we might be comforted By a make-believe father figure. That was Freud's argument. But who would make up such a command, a standard as this? If it were made up by one of us, surely we would make it an easier standard. If I was to make up the words Jesus had said, I would have said, I command you a repeat commandment, just don't kill each other. And it would still be difficult, but not as difficult as loving one another as Jesus has loved us. No, this is not made up. The standard is real and it is high. Jesus said to his disciples, and he says to us Love one another as I have loved you, so you are to love one another. And we are to say, thy will be done. Amen? Amen. Let us pray.