In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. The reading for the epistle is what we're working on this morning as we work through First Timothy chapter And we're in 1 Timothy chapter 4. Actually the reading went through 16, but we're going to go only through verse 11. So if you turn in your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 4, we're working from verse 6 through verse 11. No matter how much natural talent a person has, it is absolutely necessary that said person works on the fundamentals of whatever he or she wants to be great at doing. With the fundamentals in place, a person can then work on what is more complicated and precise. I found the following instruction on how people learning to play the piano should begin. Relax the fingers and place your hand on a flat surface with all of the fingertips resting on the surface. And with the wrist at the same height as the knuckles, the hand and fingers should form a dome. All the fingers should be curved. The thumb should point slightly down and bend slightly towards the fingers so that the last nail phalange of thumb is parallel to the other fingers. The fingers are slightly curve curled, curving down and meeting the surface at angles near si 45 degrees. The tip of the thumb and the other fingertips should form an approximate semicircle on the flat surface. Such are the beginning instructions of great detail on how to play the piano. Well I don't know how to play this yet. But I remember wanting to become a great football player and become great at catching the football. I knew I needed to work on the fundamentals each day that I practiced. The fundamentals. Hands out. Don't use your body, unless necessary, to protect the ball. Catch with the top pads of your fingers. With the fingers facing up when the ball is chest high or higher Catch with your fingers facing down when the ball is stomach high or lower. Catch the nose of the ball whenever possible. Once the ball is caught, tuck it in and protect it, covering the nose. And always, always tuck in with your eyes. The eyes should follow the ball all the way until it is secure. And you do this these drills, remembering these fundamentals, every day, every day until you no longer think about it, because it has become deep-seated habits Working on the fundamentals of whatever you want to become great at is necessary. And Paul wanted Timothy to be great at ministering God's word to the Christian church. especially to the Ephesians to whom Timothy was assigned to serve. And so we get the instructions that begin on 1 Timothy 4, verse 6. The first responsibility is for Timothy to instruct. This matches the words Jesus repeated to Peter. When after his resurrection and in order to restore Peter to his place amongst the apostles, after Peter had denied knowing Jesus three times. Jesus asked Peter if Peter loved him and he asked him three times. Peter confirmed each time that he loved Jesus and after each confirmation Jesus told Peter, feed. My sheep. Such is a minister's primary responsibility. The people of God are in need and deserve solid food A good minister provides milk when needed and solid food when needed. To do so, a minister needs to be well educated and constantly improving on his education. So that the sheep, the sheep he is assigned to feed, do not grow hungry, and thus are not carried away by wolves who seek to deceive. The phrase these things next mentioned in the verse refers to what Paul has written about in the previous verses. Two weeks ago, we studied Paul's words about the nature and works of Jesus that sound similar to a creed at the end of chapter 3. And last week we spoke against the false teachers claiming that marriage should be avoided as well as certain foods The primary lesson is that what God has made for us is good for us and we should enjoy it. Such, Paul says, are nourishing words of faith and good doctrine, and Timothy has been faithful to teach them. Unfortunately, not every minister is faithful to do the same. Even in our own denomination, Some men get carried away from the fundamentals of the faith by following along the lines of the culture around them, focusing on social justice issues from behind the pulpit. So to do so leads down a Y road that leads only to heresy This encouragement to Timothy was all the more necessary because of the opposition he was facing at that Ephesian church. His teaching, even his presence probably, was being actively criticized by one party in the church Verse 7. Instead of following the godless teachings of the culture around a minister, He is instead to reject them as profane and as old wise tales. I only discovered this week that the phrase old wise tales goes back to ancient Greece. With the speculation that it comes from older mothers passing on superstitious sayings of supposed wisdom to younger mothers. In the context, Paul uses it It is likely referring to teachings of rabbis who would expound on the law in such a way that would take it to mean far beyond what its natural reading was And such is one reason why Jesus was considered a great teacher, for he was concise in his interpretation of the law and concise in his new teachings. Paul then tells Timothy that instead of paying attention to such unnecessary and misleading teachings, he should pursue godliness. in a manner an athlete would pursue exercise. Similar to the opening examples, such a pursuit has to begin with the fundamentals, and they must be rehearsed over and over again. But this line of thinking leads Paul to mention the profit gained from bodily exercise, and that leads him right back into the prioritizing of the pursuit of godliness. We recall that Paul was addressing just a few verses earlier the dangers of being obsessed with an ascetic life. And focusing on physical exercise can contribute to that excess of an ascetic life. Instead, Paul wants Timothy to focus on a godly life, which is a well-rounded life, which is a life that does everything within its right season. At the end of verse 8, Paul acknowledges the tension of Christian life, which is to have the promise of the life that now is. Which can be profitable, a profitable life, if we enjoy our spouses, if we enjoy good food, if we enjoy godly fellowship, and with passing on our faith on to our children No life is better lived than those who are faithful in marriage, who have children, who love them and love one another. And have spouses of their own who love one another and who are raising their children in the fear of the Lord. Such makes family gatherings comfortable, joyful, and filled with hope. But the promises in this life, we all know, are limited. Limited. Tragedy does strike. Illnesses do come Death eventually separates. And such leads Paul to also mention the promises to come, which is the heavenly promise. Where bodies are made new, where streets are gold, and death is permanently defeated. That is the tension of every Christian. that we must live within. We have the promises where some are fulfilled already and some not yet. In verse 9, the phrase, this faithful saying, is referring back to the phrase, godliness is profitable for all things. Godliness is profitable for all things. And by pointing to it and saying such is worthy of all acceptance. is to say that all Christians should agree that such is true. And I haven't any doubt That if I was to pull all of you hearing me and ask you if you believe that godliness is profitable for all things, you would answer yes. And you would likely do so without hesitation But if I asked you if your life reflected that godliness is profitable for all things, such would be much more difficult to answer. Because we would have to examine ourselves in all things in our lives. Do I see godliness in all aspects of my life? And likely we would see that godliness is not a priority in certain parts of our lives. When confronted with a challenge like this, we must follow the example of King David, who asked the Lord He said, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my ways, and see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. David asked the Lord to try him, knowing that he could not do a thorough job enough of examining himself. The human psyche in its fallen state can compartmentalize certain behaviors and thoughts. So that one behavior doesn't connect with other behaviors, and one way of thinking doesn't relate or even communicate with other ways of thinking. It can be seen in how I behave at work, my vocabulary, my tone, my subject matter, those are all different and not even recognizable in how I behave at home. And most certainly how I behave at church. But all of those different behaviors are different than how I behave when I am alone. And none of those different behaviors need to know about each other. But Paul wants Timothy, a minister of the gospel, thus wanting all ministers of the gospel. To teach Christians that godliness is profitable in all things. And so it is for me to implore you to pursue godliness in all things. With the expectation that your life will profit from it. And the only way you're going to know that your life will be benefited by your godly pursuit is if you try it out. And find out. And I realize, in saying such, that some of you don't have an idea of how you can pursue godliness in all aspects of your life What it looks like may not be clear. So let us start with something applicable to all of us, which is the manner in which we speak. After all, the Epistle of James tells us, quote, the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. The tongue is so set among our members that it defiles the whole body and sets on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire by hell. Sounds pretty bad. Sounds like a tall order to control our tongues. In order for your tongue to be tamed, you must work at it. You must do the fundamentals. And so we start with holding our tongue, holding your tongue, which is to not say anything. Before you speak, ask yourself if what you're about to say is true, wholesome, kind. And if it's necessary. Try not to take what I say next personally. But your opinion is not necessary. Your opinion is not necessary. The culture today has the motto, speak your truth. But as Christians, we don't follow the culture. The Bible says nothing similar. Your opinion is not true Now, of course, if someone asks for your opinion, then it can fit under the category of necessary, but only then I also mentioned wholesome. Many men speak crassly around other men for whatever psychological reasons they have, and it is the Christian man. But here's these words from Paul in his letter to the Ephesians. He said, Let no unwholesome talk come out of your mouths But only what is helpful for building up the one in need and bringing grace to those who listen. And the Christian man, hearing that, concludes that a godly way to speak Is not to be crashed like every other unbeliever, but is instead in a manner that is helpful and useful Upon hearing these challenges, you might want to say, Pastor, such a change in my speaking is to change many years of past talk. It is going to change how my friends and co-workers see me. Yeah? I know. But look at verse 10. Look at verse 10 where Paul says For to this end, he is referring to the end of being profitable in this life and in the world to come, we both labor, so we as Timothy and Paul and suffer reproach. Reproach is disapproval of the world around us. Because we trust in the living God, to trust is to have faith that such godliness will be profitable Beloved, to pursue godliness in all things cannot be done without people reproaching you, and it cannot be done without labor. It takes work. It requires awareness of what you are doing, whether it is godly or not. It takes honesty within yourself, whether you want to be godly, and whether you truly have faith that such is profitable. And you have to make decisions going forward regarding what you want to be, who you want to be, where you want to be. Beloved, the Christian life is laborious, and that means it requires energy, attention to detail, repetition with the fundamentals. Until we get to where what we do, the godly life we live, is a natural part of who we are. During One particular football game in college. I was called to the sideline to run in a play. That was titled left, slot right, 83Z, Y out. The word left told the Z receiver, which was me, and it told the tight end to line up on the left. The slot right told the X receiver and the slot back to line up on the right. The number eight in 83 told the linemen what type of protection they were to give And it told the quarterback how many steps he should take once he received the snap. The number three in 83 told the quarterback and the receiver what route was being run. And the letter Z told the receiver and the quarterback who the quarterback was to look to first. The Y, who was the tight end, and the word out told the quarterback end tight end that he was to be the second choice running out and underneath excuse me running and out underneath the three route which was the go route. You with me? So with that information, the coach added, while grabbing me, pulling me to him, looking at me in the eye, he said, don't drop it. Now I was offended. I didn't drop passes Well maybe one or two, but not not. Well now the pressure was really on me. I needed to also tell you that we were playing in Flagstaff, Arizona, against the Northern Arizona Lumberjacks. They played in a dome where the lighting was terrible. It was a number of bulbs that glared brightly. Up high, making it light up the ceiling while it was darker and shadowy in the field below. So I line up on the left side of the formation. The ball is snapped. I run by the defender, and the ball is thrown. I see it, and then I don't It's in the lights. My mind is racing. I was told not to drop it. But I remember my training. I had learned that if you lose a ball because of the sun, then catch the sun, meaning the ball will be where the sun is. And so I apply that to the lights that are affecting my ability to see the ball. I put my hands out, waiting to catch the light that I trust is the ball, and it falls into my arms Training fundamentals working on the same roots every day, catching balls over and over again until it is second nature, resulting in touchdown dances It used to be back in the 1980s, a starting point for Christian evangelists to tell non-Christians that the Christian life is exciting. The Christian life is fun. Well it may be for some, but more often it's work. It's hard work. The challenge to pursue godliness in all things is before us, and it is daunting. After all, we only talked of the example of controlling our speech. It is a whole other workload to talk about controlling our thoughts. And yet that should be first, for from our minds and from our hearts our mouths speak. Fact is, the Christian life can be quite daunting. And because it is daunting, it is compared to be like a narrow road that few are willing to travel upon. While the wide road is easy, and many travel on it, not knowing that they are traveling to destruction. Beloved, choose your road. Looking at verse 11, it ends with Paul telling Timothy to command and teach these things. This I have done for you. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father, we pray together that we might have the courage. To work hard, to do the fundamentals, to understand that this road is narrowed, to understand that it is difficult to travel on it. But we trust that you have given us the strength, your Holy Spirit has empowered us, that you have shown us the way. Give us the courage to walk it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. That's not take this time to worship the Lord and give you a high strawberry to remember the God