In the name of the Father and of the Son of the Holy Ghost. Amen. God does many things. God does most things Maybe he does all things differently than we would do them. He picks the weaker man before the stronger one. He chooses vulnerable land instead of land that is easy to secure. He chooses a shepherding people as opposed to a warrior clan. He chooses to serve rather than be served. He chooses to die instead of all others dying. Again, not how we would choose. I wonder if you know them. Probably not by name. The husband's name is Amram, and the wife's name is Yaquet. They had three children, Aaron, Miriam, and Moses. There was nothing remarkable about the family. They were not politically known. They had no royal blood. They were, by what we read in Scripture, a typical Hebrew family from the tribe of Levi And yet from them came a leader like no other before him, and like no other until the Son of God walked the earth. I would not choose a leader from an unknown family, an unconnected family, but God did. Evidently, what was remarkable about Moses was that he was physically beautiful. At least that's what the New King James Translation says. But the word beautiful in Hebrew can mean healthy and strong, which describes a child who could survive as opposed to a frail newborn. Let's summarize Exodus chapter 2. Turn there if you would in your Bibles. And there we have a narrative that begins really at the end of chapter 1. Which tells us that the newborn sons of the Hebrew women were to be thrown into the Nile The warped justification of these Egyptians was that the Nile to them was a god, and the god, the Nile, would determine the life of a newborn child. Ya Kobed takes advantage of this warped mind of the Egyptians and hides her son where they would not look for him. Which was in the Nile. Ironically, she was actually doing precisely what Pharaoh had commanded her to do. She put her infant son in the Nile. Interestingly, this papyrus reed container is called, in the Hebrew, an ark. Yes, the same word used to describe what Noah built. And only two places in Scripture is the word ark used. Noah's account and this account. It's hard to avoid the conclusion that there is a parallel to the stories The narrative, in other words, tells the story of God saving a chosen people by way of Noah's Ark, and now by the Ark of Moses. And we should notice also that the heroes in the story thus far from chapter 1 and chapter 2 are all women. The midwives, Moses' mother, his sister, and next the princess are all people of faith and thus heroes All are used of God to bring about this great exodus. And this is a wonderful example of how God can use people of for his kingdom's sake to come without those people having to be leaders. They're just doing as God would have them The women were second-class citizens in their particular societies, but to God they were vessels for his glory. Verse 6 informs us that the princess knew the child was of the Hebrews. Thus each person in the narrative knows that what they are doing is dangerous. Each put their own life in danger for the sake of this one child. Their courage is inspiring as they are willing to sacrifice themselves for the sake of one. Verses ten and eleven tell us very little about how Moses was raised, but we hear from Acts chapter seven, that's where Stephen, our patron saint He gives his sermon, and in that sermon, he summarizes the life of Moses. And in there, he tells us in that sermon that Moses was educated in all of the wisdom of the Egyptians. Now, such is a reasonable conclusion to draw from the fact that he was raised in the court as a member of the royal family. And such training was important, as we can imagine, for the role that Moses was going to play in the future for Israel. He was a chronicler of their history. He was a lawgiver. All needing an education. There's an example of parallels between the law of Moses and the Code of Hammurabi. And of course, that is what the Egyptians study for their law. When the events occur in verses 11 through 15, Stephen tells us again from that sermon in Acts that Moses was 40 years of age. Forty years. And that gives him plenty of time to see the injustices being done to his people, to be concerned about helping his people out of their plight. But the justice for one people does not deserve injustice upon another And Moses is naive to believe that his action of killing for vengeance sake a man he thought was being unjust would not be known. And that if it was known by his people, surely they would accept him. But what was he to them? But a spoiled man who got lucky in life not to have been enslaved as they were enslaved. And so he is turned against by his fellow Hebrews, and his actions become a reason for Pharaoh to no longer ignore the heritage of Moses, and now Pharaoh wants him dead. Fleeing to Midian meant that he likely traveled as far east as the Dead Sea, but the Midians were nomads, so they could have been anywhere in the promised land. And again, we read of a man and his future wife meeting at a well. That happens a lot in the Old Testament. The scene described as historically astute, as Midians were known to be ruthless to women. It is very likely Moses would have had to come to their rescue. Moses again is a man of bravery and a protector of injustices. Maybe the casting of Charlton Heston as Moses was an astute choice. Now the rest plays out very quickly. Moses is accepted by the father of the women, the women he saved, the women he protected He is understandably brought into the family, for we are not told that Ruel, also known as Jethro, that he had any sons. Moses is given a wife, and with his wife, Zipporah, he is given a son, whom he names after his plight of being forced to live in a foreign land. It has also been suggested that Moses named his son to reflect the reality that he had been living in a foreign land when he lived in Egypt. And if that is so, then Moses knew quite well the need for Israel to leave Egypt. At the end of the chapter, the story gets to where it wants to be. And we can conclude this because of how fast the narrative goes. It wants to get somewhere. The king of Egypt has died, and later we are told all men who were after Moses are dead, and that makes his return to Egypt a safe one. But the most important part of the narrative, the part that it has been pushing towards, is that God has heard the cries of his people And in accordance with his covenant with Abraham and Abraham's seed, God acknowledges them, which is a way of saying he understood their plight and their need to be delivered from bondage. I say the ending verses are what the narrative was pushing for because we have to reason how fast these things are happening in the life of Moses. His parents met, they get married, while the children of Israel are going through a genocide. Moses is hidden, he's protected He's adopted by royalty, he's educated, he's called as a protector, he kills a man, buries the man, rejected by his people, runs away to live with foreign people of whom one he marries, takes a new life, and starts a family. I don't know about you or I just know that if someone's going to write my life story, I I hope it lasts more than 25 verses. But that's how quickly we get to where Moses is. And because we will spend a great deal of time discussing what it meant for God to finally Hear the cries of the Hebrews and begin the great exodus of history. I want instead for us to focus on something unique. That which is God choosing a man. If I was to choose to lead an Exodus, I would have chosen an angel. He would have had wings the size of mountains. He would have been able to shoot lasers from his eyes. He would be able to breathe fire from his throat. His commanding voice would shake the ground. He would strike fear into Pharaoh so quickly and easily that the Egyptians would become the slaves and the Israelites would become the rulers of the land of Egypt and any other land that they wanted to conquer. But God chose a man. He chose a man. Men are difficult to follow. Two years ago, our son Isaac was taking a course for his master's degree that taught about different styles of leadership. The instructor pointed out that most people think that there is only one type of effective leadership, and it turns out to be usually the type of leadership that same person likes to follow. Simply stated, we tend to follow those leaders that lead in the way we would lead. Good leaders for me There have been men who are no nonsense, they get to the point, and they get things done. And because I respond to such leadership, I find myself leading in the same manner. But there are other types of leaders, very similar to there being other types of personalities. There are leaders who like to build consensus to be sure everyone is on board before the project is started. before the task at hand is is is tackled. And then there are the analytical who need to have all the fallout possibilities examined before a step forward can be taken. A great example of leaders like myself who see a mountain and say, oh, let's overcome it. Run up the mountain. Meanwhile, better leaders are at the bottom saying that's the wrong mountain. Leaders. All men except one are hard to follow. Leaders except one have faults. Men are inadequate. Men are inadequate in that there is always a weakness in their leadership. Moses was a poor public speaker. We will learn more about it later, but I can say without hesitation But I would not choose a man to lead a people on the greatest exodus in human history who could not do well speaking publicly, but God did Consider what men we remember most and how important their public speaking was to their leadership. Winston Churchill came to mind first in writing this It has been said that Churchill during World War II quote, he mobilized the English language and sent it into battle. Here is a quote from the Churchill Archives. Winston Churchill is viewed as a paradigm of public speaking, the epitome of a great orator New leaders try to emulate him, copying his phrasing, voice projection, rhythm, and language. His voice is still recognizable by many from frequently heard recordings of his speeches. When people talk about the great power of speech, many will mention Churchill and his famous broadcast during World War II in the summer and autumn of 1940. when he consolidated his reputation as a war leader, with memorable and iconic phrases such as, Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few. Such are words that are part of history and which have been passed down to our usage today. Well, that's the type of leader I would choose. That's the type of leader I want. Such leaders for such times need to speak to all in the presence of God. But such was not the kind of leader God wanted. And men, men are inconsistent. Men are inconsistent in that they are strong one minute and weak the next. They say one thing and then do another You can count on them in one moment and then be abandoned by them in the next Moses could be brave, one of the bravest, but at times he was a coward. He was brave in that he would stand up to men who were unjust and violent and meet their violence and give them more. Moses was brave in that he did as God told him and stood before Pharaoh to call God's people to be released from bondage. And Moses was a coward. And that he could not muster up the bravado to speak before Pharaoh at length. And he didn't want to go alone before Pharaoh. And so the Lord provided his brother Aaron to come along and to speak on his behalf. Perhaps it is surprising that a man who is so brave in so many manners and circumstances is found to be a coward in certain instances. We likely expect a person we deem brave to be brave in all circumstances. But men are inconsistent. They don't always match up to the personae that they portray. They don't always do what they say. Consider how some of the greatest blows to the witness of the Christian Church to the world has been when Christian leaders didn't live the way they said they lived. You remember those charismatic preachers from the 80s having affairs and using money sent to their ministry to cover up those affairs. That allowed the public church, the Christian church, to be mocked. whether we were related to them at all or not. The bishops, covering up crimes of pedophilia, have allowed the universal church to be rightfully scorned. And every now and again we hear of small churches who have pastors caught up in some type of affair or Some type of money laundering scheme, and the unbelieving world shakes its head And confirms to themselves that religion is all a bunch of nonsense, anyways. With such potential for men to be inconsistent, I wouldn't choose a man to lead, but God would. God did. And God does. Finally, in general, I wouldn't choose a man to lead, because in general, men are sinful. Men are sinful in that they sin in every way and in nasty ways. God is the one who concluded that the heart of man was continually bent toward evil. Our nature looks to find perverted ways to practice sexual intimacy. We can cheat an elderly woman, widow, out of her last dollar and not ever think about her again. We can distort the truth until we think we are virtuous for trusting ourselves. And we can physically tear another human being apart in or outside the womb. And wipe the blood away just like we wipe away sweat. That's what our natures can do Thus, because man is sinful, a man who leads is going to sin. He is going to do something selfish. He's going to do something unholy. Something he probably wishes he could do more of. And we are going to be disappointed in him. We are going to feel betrayed by him and maybe even disgusted by him. And still, God chooses men to lead. He does so. God chooses men to lead, because all before Jesus and all who come after Jesus are to point us to Jesus. As the only true leader and really the only true man, God chose men to lead because he chose Jesus to redeem mankind from their sins and live forever with him. God chooses men to lead because each leader is to remind us in both his weaknesses and strengths that there is a perfect man who is a perfect leader. And we who choose to follow him, know him, and love him. Jesus is the leader who charges the hill. He is the leader who builds consensus. He is the leader who counts the cost. Now all of this questioning I have done of God choosing men was indeed to set us up, to give praise to Jesus. And I did so because God chose Abraham. He chose Moses. He chose David. He chose Peter. He chose Paul. He chose all of his twelve. So that all of those people can point to Christ and say He is the true leader for all of us to follow. This passage of Scripture was chosen by God for us today to prepare us for the ordinal vows this evening. God chooses men. I don't know why, but that's what he does. The only thing we know of is that those men are to point us to Jesus. God chooses men. And he wants men to choose Jesus. And the charge for each of us is to follow Jesus. Let us pray. Our Father, you choosing a man such as Moses Reminds us, dear Lord, of choosing Jesus to die for our sins and the call for us to choose to follow him. As simple as that, and we accept it as that. We thank you for choosing men, but most of all we thank you for Jesus. It is in his name that we pray. Amen.