Okay, what about the people? In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You will be well advised to turn to Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10, our focus this morning will be on the grand parable known as the Good Samaritan. Interestingly, it comes in the context of a man asking Jesus, what must he do to inherit eternal life? And we don't know if the man asked a sincere question, meaning that he was truly searching Or if he was asking a question to trap Jesus, as some other Christians were wanting to do. When the scribe stood up to address Jesus, such was a demonstration of respect. And calling him teacher was another demonstration of respect. But it is the follow-up question that has some scholars questioning his ultimate sincerity. It can be fairly speculated that the scribe knew the answer to his own question, but it can also be speculated that he wanted to see if Jesus thought the same way. And so when Jesus throws it back to him, he answers with the summation of the law. When Jesus is asked this at another time, he doesn't have the scribe answer as he does here, but answers it himself with the same answer, a summation of the law. The answer comes from the book of Leviticus and the Book of Deuteronomy. So the law of God provides New Testament truth to an everlasting covenant. But for a moment, let us examine what it is being required of all persons in order to be saved. People are to love God with all of their being. Which is summarized in heart, soul, strength, and mind. That phrasing covers all of what it is to be a human being. God is to be first and foremost in our lives. That is asking a lot for us, placing God first and foremost. It does not come naturally. Having inherited the sinful state of our souls from Adam leads us to put ourselves first. Our thoughts and our priorities are about us first. And even when we put God first, it is likely because we want something from Him, and so we're trying to earn His favor. For those who have walked the Christian life for several years, you know by experience that you will spend the rest of your living days striving to put God first in your life while trying to put yourself a distant third. And I say third because we are to also love our neighbor as ourselves. This too is a tall order. If we fail to put God first time and again, then how can we put our neighbor at the same level we put ourselves? Again, we need to accept that we will spend the rest of our living days striving to live up to this summary. And so in Luke chapter 10, verse 28. It was common in Jesus' day for Jews to think that the way to gain eternal life was to keep the commandments. Do as you're told. Statements to that effect can be found wherever one looks in the literature at this period. An older contemporary of Jesus, the famous Rabbi Hillel is quoted in the Mishnah as having said the following Who has gained for himself words of Torah has gained for himself the life in the world to come This scribe that's speaking to Jesus, the one questioning Jesus, had done nothing but repeat the common teachings of his day. But as with the Lord's conversation with the rich young ruler in Luke chapter 18, Jesus knew how to unmask self-righteousness and hypocrisy that was inherent in their understanding of gaining salvation. Whether for the purpose of debate or as a statement of hypotheticals Jesus agrees that a life of perfect obedience to God's law will indeed lead to salvation. The problem, of course, is that no one lives such a life That is what man did not understand, and that is what Jesus was about to show him. Verse 29. The typical Jew of the period did not doubt that the law of God could be kept well enough to earn salvation. The rabbis even spoke of people who kept the law in all of its specifics, and so naturally they talked at a great length about precisely how to keep the law Perhaps then the scribe genuinely wanted to know how to determine who his neighbor is in order that he might keep the law as it is summarized. It should be noted before we look at the answer given by Jesus that the Jews at the time did not include Gentiles as their neighbors, no matter how closely they lived to them. And so Jesus answers by describing a man going on a trip. The 17-mile descent from Jerusalem to Jericho has always been dangerous. The Roman general Pompeii had to wipe out stronghold brigands near Jericho, and the Crusades, a thousand years later, had to build a fort. At the halfway point to protect pilgrims traveling the same road. There are even some 19th-century accounts of pilgrims traveling the road with an armed guard and still being attacked. Stripped and robbed. To describe the victim as half dead is to say that he was unconscious and unable to call for help or even identify himself to any passerby. All of this is significant as we will see. The fact that he was stripped is not inconsequential. A person's ethnic religious community can be identified in the Near East today as it could be in the Near East in Jesus' day. either by his speech or by his dress. In this case, the man could not be identified by a passerby as to who he was or where he was from. They were certainly not all Jews that traveled that road, though many Jews did. And the hearers of the parable would have probably assumed that this man was a Jew. But no one could know for sure. Without clothing, he could be reduced to simply being a human being. Verse 31 The original hearers would immediately know that the priest of the Jews in those days belonged to the upper class of the nation. This priest would have been writing. In the Near East of that time, or for that matter, of this time, no one has who has any status would take a 17-mile hike through the desert. They rode, and this is the natural assumption of the parable. He had a donkey. The Samaritan also was riding, as we discover only after he is introduced. Because there was no need to mention the fact right here. But the point is that the priest was writing, and that's important If we were, if he were writing, excuse me, if he were not writing, he would not have been able to do what the Samaritan did for this man, and the comparison would be lost on us. Not only did the priest have an animal upon which to put the wounded man, as a member of the upper class, he had the means, the money, to do the very thing that the Samaritan did. But for whatever reason, the priest did not regard the wounded man, the victim, as his neighbor. Perhaps he was not a Jew Who could tell? Perhaps he was dead or would soon be dead, and that would mean the priest defiled himself by touching him. The ritual to remove such ceremonially uncleanness was time-consuming, expensive, and in some cases humiliating. These were reasons for the priest to think that the man was not his neighbor. For this priest, life was lived according to a codified system of do's and don'ts, of lesser and greater obligations and of qualified and unqualified commandments. The priest was not simply indifferent or cruel. He was likely weighing the matter in terms of rabbinic legislation. Which had largely forgotten the truth of the Old Testament, which is that he serves a God who loves mercy more than sacrifice. Verse 32. The nature of the road, its contours still visible in our day, and of travel in the desert at the time Led Near Eastern peasants today, when hearing this parable, to assume that the Levite knew that the priest had already passed the wounded man, and passed by himself in large measure because the priests did also. It helps to be reminded that the priests were derived from the tribe of Levi, but not all Levites were priests The Levite would have had the means, would not have the means that the priest had to care for the dying man, but he should have had the conviction to do something. Verse 33. The Lord's audience, those listening to the parable, original parable Would naturally expect Jesus to mention a Jewish layman to be the next passerby. First the priest, then a Levite, and then a Jewish layman. That is a natural progression Instead, to their shock, their amazement, and no doubt their offense, the third man on the road to come by the wounded man was a hated Samaritan. To the Jews, the Samaritans were the scum of the earth, and that's not an exaggeration. And it wasn't simply because of their ethnicity. The Samaritans were heretics, peoples whose religion was a mixture of Judaism and false teachings. They were the worst because they corrupted the Jewish faith. It is striking to our sensitive ears how bitter Jewish speech was toward the Samaritans in those days. We read in a Jewish commentary on the law, he that eats the bread of the Samaritans is like to one that eats the flesh of swine. In the synagogue, if you can believe it, prayers were offered that the Samaritans might not partake of eternal life. The hate was real and it was accepted. The key word in this verse is compassion. The Samaritan had it, while the other two men did not. To have compassion is to have both sympathy and pity. It is to be moved inwardly so that you must help outwardly. It is what all men need to have towards one another. Verse 34. The Samaritan acted on his compassion. And used his resources to bring the man to help. It was the least he could do. Verse 35. Because Jericho was a Jewish town, it would not have been friendly to the Samaritan, no matter how much means he had with him. What he does is in entering the town and assuring provisions for the victim combines compassion with great courage. Verses 36 and 37. Jesus has answered the scribe and answered him well. Even if the crowd objects, and they would object, because of the hate they had in their hearts, but not because of the truth of the example There are several lessons of course from this parable. The first I wish to point is not profound, but simple, a simple lesson on how Christians are to participate in charity. Needs are placed before all of us on a regular basis. There are people who are poor and in need in our own country And there is a great deal of need abroad that we are made aware of by the many me news sources that try to get get our attention every day. We can't possibly give to all of them, but we feel guilty when we don't give to any. But what this parable teaches is that charity Begins with those who are right in front of us. And I don't mean by in front of us, those on our screens. Where money is sent and someone we don't know makes choices as to how it's to be distributed after they take their cut. I mean in front of us as in people we encounter in the flesh. The Samaritan encountered the victim in the flesh and was able to have personal compassion on a specific person. Now I am not speaking against organizations such as Samaritan Purse or Anglican Relief. We should give to them as we are able But biblical charity is first and foremost caring for those you encounter in your life who are in need. Those are people you are to treat as your neighbor. The second lesson I underline is the recognition of just how high a standard the law places on all of us. That is part of our epistle lesson. When the law of God is applied to our lives, we recognize that it exposes our desire to break it and our inability to keep it. Even when it is summarized, we fall woefully short, both in loving God as we should, and loving our neighbor as we should. That is why Jesus is our Savior. He did not and does not fall short in anything. And the only way we can match the standard of God's law towards him and our fellow man is to have faith in the righteousness of Jesus. For it then becomes our righteousness, and it is that in how which we are saved. Thanks be to God. But there is another lesson I want to underline for all of us today. It is the lesson on how radical in our faith Jesus is calling us to be in this parable. The manner Jesus set up this parable of the Good Samaritan can be accurately described as radical. The priest going by and ignoring a dying man is radical. He was, after all, assigned to be a communicator to the people about who God is. And that God had revealed Himself, even in the law, as being slow to anger and abounding in love. God had revealed Himself As having the goal of being God to all he calls, and for them to be his people, meaning he wants to have a personal relationship with his people. God has revealed Himself in the Psalms as desiring to be amidst his people, even the sick and the broken and the victim. But when the priest passes by the victim on the road, he has none of that in his conscience, but only self-preservation. The Levi, I said, was not a priest, but was of a tribe that was assigned to serve the people. He was to be sensitive to the needs of people. But instead, he follows the poor example of the priest. And as we've noted, the people would have thought Jesus would present to them a simple Jew. As coming along and helping the victim, but instead he chooses a Samaritan for his example. And as has been shown, that was radical. And then the Samaritan uses all of his resources to have compassion on a man who would likely have hated him before he became a victim. Radical. And then the Samaritan goes beyond what he can do in the moment by securing help for the victimized man in the days to come. Radical again. And he does it in a city where most of the residents would not only socially reject the Samaritan, but would beat him if they had the chance. Radical again. So Jesus sets a radical example of faith and action before all who would follow him. Remember that he did something similar in John's Gospel when he told the crowd, unless you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you cannot be my disciple. And many stopped following him. Radical. But Jesus' radical standard is a call for a radical faith That turns away from the sins of the world and claims Jesus as Savior and Lord. You young people today You young people have opportunity to be radical about Jesus before your peers by refusing to follow fads and being pure in your moral living. You women have opportunity to be radical in your faith by refusing gossip, by submitting to your husbands, and by praising one another instead of backbiting as the world does. You men have opportunity to be radical in your Christian faith by laying your life down for your wives, by avoiding sexual immorality, and by loving your children unconditionally. But wait, how is such living radical? Young people being pure in moral living is what is expected if we claim to follow Jesus. Wives refusing to gossip and submitting to their husbands. Well, that's instructed by St. Paul in several places. Husbands avoiding sexual immorality and loving their children unconditionally. Are to be husband and father priorities. What is so radical about doing what is expected of you? Well, it has always been radical because it is a calling to do as the world around us does not It is understood that to live by such a standard will show you to be different. Salt of the earth. City on a hill. It shows to the unbelieving world that though you are in the world, you are not of the world, which means you are not a byproduct of the world. And beloved I tell you, the Lord brought this vision to me late in the evening. Christians Living obediently is so radical today because it is so very rare. We can even say that the Christian church is like the victim on the road to Jericho. There are so few who are actually following the way Jesus has taught that the church has been stolen from, beaten, and stripped, and left for dead. And it needs someone who will radically clothe her, pick her up, bandage her wounds, and see that she is cared for. That is radically done by Christians living as God has instructed and as Jesus has modeled. Let us pray. A gracious and heavenly Father, for this parable that is everlasting and the truths therein, we thank you. And I pray, dear Lord, that we as your people would see our opportunity to heal the church by living as you have called us to live, regardless of what the world does. To be the light, to be the city on a hill, to be the salt of the earth. May we all consider this a radical way to live In Jesus' name we pray, Amen.