In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You may be seated. Growing up in the Roman Catholic Church. You are allowed to take your first communion at the age of seven because it is said to be the age of reason. But to partake of the bread at Holy Communion, you are required to have been baptized and have said your first confession. Now, confession for Protestants is something only seen in movies. And what is depicted in movies isn't far from what actually happens. You go into a booth, you kneel before a screen window where the priest is on the other side, and you say words to the effect. Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned. It has been however many days since my last confession. For seven-year-olds, however, the priest can dispense with the booth and simply have the child speak directly to him. The challenge of confessing sins when you are seven years old is great, because while it is said to be the age of reason The concept of sin versus righteousness is not altogether clear, and most seven-year-olds do not keep track of their sins. So most seven-year-olds go into this scenario trying to think of sins to confess, and where their reasoning applies is that a seven-year-old thinks of things He might have done or that sound plausible to have done, but not things that sound too bad or evil. So a seven-year-old might confess that he swore, but not the really bad words, just the D-word. Then he might confess that he fought with his brother over a toy while leaving out the cheap shot to the head. Then he might confess that he did not obey his mom when told he must clean his room while leaving out the part of throwing a tantrum and slamming the bedroom door. The priest, having experienced such a confession more times than he can remember, assigns certain prayers to be said as penance and then pronounces absolution by saying the following I absolve you from your sins in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. The basis for the scenario I have described comes from John chapter 20. Our second reading, chapters 9, verse 19 through 23. I'd like you to look through that those verses with me this morning. So John 20, picking up at verse 19. Then the same day, at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut Where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst and said to them, Peace be with you. This was at the close of the day on which the Lord had risen. It came to be called that day because it was so memorable in the history of the church. After the most astounding and independent revelations had been made to several individuals having seen Jesus personally, now at about 8 p. m. There occurred that which John now describes. The note of the time identifies it with the scene and events of Luke chapter 24. Thus, John had the former account of Luke before him as he reminisces about this moment. To understand the full force of the passage, we must bring to it the statements of Luke, Mark, and Paul The disciples had been prepared by the reports of the women that the grave had been opened and was empty, and that angelic appearances had confirmed the resurrection of Jesus. There was also the impression made on Peter and John when they found it, as Mary and the other women had said, the disappearance of the body of Jesus confirmed by four independent lines of testimony. is strangely difficult to account to account for on any hypothesis except for that there was a resurrection The disciples were evidently confounded by this fact. The Pharisees and Sadducees were quite aware that such an event would be a checkmate of their supposed victory over this scorned and embarrassed rival. The Roman soldiers were pledged in honor and by pride and passion not to allow themselves to be reduced to impotence. Hence, there is no explanation of the body being absent from the tomb except the historical fact of the resurrection. The well-known words of greeting, peace be with you, would come to them at this fearful gathering bringing familiar tones of his voice, falling upon their hungry ears, the assurance of the Master's presence in their midst. But the words would also have a fuller meaning of a message from the spiritual world. It is a voice from the darkness beyond the grave, into which the living have tried in vain to see. And the voice is one of peace. It is the message of the conqueror of death to those who were then conquered by fear. Now declaring that the victory is won. It is the message of atonement, declaring the peace which flows from pardoned sin and reconciliation with God. To the disciples themselves, and through them as the apostles of peace to all mankind. A peace we will come back to. Verse 20 When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Besides the beautiful tone and meaning of his words, Jesus provides further evidence that it is indeed him who stands before them. His hands and his side show the wounds that verify that the same body that hung upon the cross less than just three days prior was standing before them very much alive. He did indeed die. Thus he did indeed rise from the dead. The word glad can be rejoicing. And the wording of the verse can be, when they saw it was the Lord, no further proof was necessary. Verse 21. So Jesus said to them again, peace to you, as the Father has sent me, I also send you. Then Jesus to them again, the words he said before, peace to you, which he repeated Understanding that they had yet to respond verbally, but only by emotion. The first piece was to bring them back into the fold. Remember, they had abandoned him The second piece is to call them to mission. Jesus then says, as my Father has sent me, I also send you. It must be realized what an honor this sending forth was. The same honor Given to the Son, who was sent by the Heavenly Father, is now given to the apostles. No greater honor could be bestowed in this life. And by the sacrifices made by each of the apostles, they understood the privilege. The similarities of the mission of Jesus And the mission of the apostles lies in these following things. Their authority is both divine. They are both sent into the same place, the world. And in much of the same condition the world was mean, despicable, hated, and persecuted were they? And in part for the same end, to preach the gospel and work miracles for the confirmation of the gospel they preached. But the difference was not to obtain redemption, that being the work done solely by Christ, in which he has no partner, and to whom all the glory must be given. Verse 22. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. Beloved, the very same Greek word here, only in the New Testament here, is used by the Greek Old Testament of God breathing life into Adam. Jesus breathes into his apostles as God breathes into Adam. This gospel of the new creation. of Jesus, look back at the beginning of human life, and then to Jesus symbolically breathing a new life into his people We are probably to regard the breath here not merely as the symbolic of the Holy Spirit, but as the means by which the Spirit was imparted to them. Receive, combined with the action of breathing, implies this. This is all the more clear in the Greek because the word pneuma means both breathe and spirit. A point which cannot be preserved in the English. But at least spirit is better than ghost. We have here, therefore, an anticipation of the day of Pentecost. Just as Christ bodily returned from the grave and his temporary manifestation to them was an anticipation of his spiritual return to heaven and abiding presence with them, the Holy Spirit, which would be even unto the end of the world, is symbolic here. Verse 23. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained. The authority to forgive sin and to withhold forgiveness is directly connected to the apostles and then the church at Pentecost receiving the Holy Spirit. Meaning that the ability and authority to forgive or withhold forgiveness comes from the Holy Spirit. And we differ from our Roman Catholic friends in that we do not interpret this passage to be referring to an individual being given authority to give or withhold forgiveness to or from another individual or another group of people. It is best to understand this passage to be giving authority to the apostles and then to the entire church, authority to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and declare and declare forgiveness of sins To all who believe, and to withhold forgiveness of sins, to all who reject the message It is similar to when Jesus sent out the 70, you remember that story, telling them to preach the good news. In Luke chapter 10, Jesus said the following: Quote: Whatever city you enter, and they receive you Eat such things as are set before you, and heal the sick there, and say to them, The kingdom of God has come near you. But whatever city you enter, and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, The very dust of your city will clean which clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless, know this, that the kingdom of God has come near you. But I say to you that it will not be tolerable, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city. In the same manner, in John chapter 20, where Jesus is said to breathe on his apostles, Jesus is sending them into the world. And wherever they declare Jesus as the Messiah, they will also declare forgiveness of sins. And wherever Jesus is rejected as the Messiah, the opposite declaration is made By connecting these sections of Scripture, we are seeing a consistency in how Jesus uses the church and what the church is to be doing. There are people, and you know them, who think they can be Christian without being in the church. They think that the church is only political, because sometimes it is. They think that the church is only social, because sometimes it can be. They think that the church is only hypocritical, because sometimes it is. Such people think that they can stand outside the church and therefore judge it And judge themselves as better than the church. But while the church can behave politically, behave socially, behave hypocritically, which is to say, sinfully. It is also the body of Christ, the city on a hill, the family of God, and the bride of Christ. The church is what God has chosen to use to continue the work of Jesus. Again, that is what Jesus was doing by breathing upon them. He was giving them the charge to continue his work. And then providing a precursor to the day of Pentecost when all who call upon Jesus to be saved are baptized into his name and recipients of the Holy Spirit. This interpretation connects well with the promise of the Holy Spirit as recorded by John just four chapters earlier. When Jesus tells his followers that the Holy Spirit will guide them into all truth, Jesus says, the Holy Spirit will guide you. But that word is plural, meaning you all, meaning the church. This is why we put our trust and faith in the doctrines and confessions of the church. For we believe the promise of Jesus was fulfilled and continues to be fulfilled in keeping a remnant, always a remnant, of believers within the truth. The church is fulfilling its role when it is preaching the Word of God while declaring sins to be forgiven when men and women confess their sin and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And And declaring condemnation when unbelief is continued. The church is also fulfilling its role when it divides falsehood from truth Which maintains the essential teachings of Jesus and his apostles. And another thing the church does is confirm faith in Jesus. This leads us now to our epistle reading from 1 John chapter 5. In that epistle reading John addresses three primary things. First, what is legitimate testimony regarding Jesus Second, how the testimony is legitimate. And third, how each person can know he or she is saved First, a legitimate testimony is verified by three witnesses, for the law of Moses requires two or more to verify a truth. According to verse 7, the Father is one testimony, the Word who is Jesus is the second testimony, and the Holy Spirit is the third. Second, those three who testify together show their testimony to be legitimate because they appeared together at the baptism of Jesus Where God the Father spoke approval of the Son and the Holy Spirit descended upon him as a dove. This is what is meant when John says that Jesus came by water and blood. Which is by baptism and his death. And the nature of the three witnesses is one. The nature is one, and what they agree upon is one. The third part of a legitimate testimony is how a person can know he or she is saved Which means said person has his or her sins forgiven while being given a promise of eternal life. John says that because the three agree in regards to who Jesus is and what he did for the salvation of mankind to be saved, a person must agree with their witness. If you disagree with their witness, then you are not saved. If you agree with their witness, then you are saved. It is that simple. But each of us knows that sometimes we believe more strongly than other times. Too many times our behavior and our tongues don't match what we say we believe. And so we question, and the devil helps us question, whether we are truly believers. Maybe we are not. Maybe we don't believe Maybe we are playing a game with our psyche. Maybe in the end we will be revealed as phonies. Beloved, this is where the church comes in. This is where the purpose of the church is further revealed. The church exists to provide different means for you to continue in your faith, to renew your faith, to confirm your faith, and to mature your faith. The authority Jesus gave to the church is to proclaim salvation to the unbelieving and the believing world. That is what the early Christians did, and what we continue to do today. I read for morning prayer this week from Acts chapter 20. Where Paul preaches so long that a man falls asleep and then falls out of a window. It's a good thing some of you are not sitting on a windowsill right now But that scenario is the church helping Christians mature in the faith, teaching the Word of God, even though it bored someone almost to death. It is to the church that we are to go to hear God's word taught and preached by those God has ordained to teach and preach it. It is to the church that we are to go to hear proclaimed after we have confessed our sins. God have mercy upon you, pardon and deliver you from all your sins. And from these words, we note the difference between saying, as the priest of Rome says, I Forgive you of your sins. We say, God, have mercy upon you, pardon, and deliver you. It is to the church that we go to sing songs and hear spiritual songs in order to encourage one another. It is to the church that we go to bend the knee and receive from Jesus the bread we are to treat as his body, and the wine we are to treat as his blood. With insight into how he uses such means to communicate his grace to us as we inwardly digest it and say it is good. How can we know we are saved? Because of our commitment to the Bride of Christ. Who is beautified by our presence and engagement with her. While people in the church may spoil her innate beauty, The purpose of the church in this life is to confirm the salvation of its members until Christ returns and makes his bride forever spotless. It is for us to be a part of her until that day. And all of God's people said Amen. As we prepare to receive the body and blood of our Lord, remind him of our offering plate tonight.