In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Please be seated. We are in Second Peter chapter three, covering verses one through nine. Before we get to the text, I trust you have heard stories of men who live double lives By double lives, I do not mean men who have secret sins. I am using double lives to describe men who are married. Hold a job and raise children in one city, and also have a completely different wife and children in another city. Their stories are truly remarkable in terms of their seared consciences and in their ability to maintain such deception for long periods of time. Because I have only heard such stories occurring with men, I searched to find if there are women who have lived such double lives. Sure enough, I found something similar in a 2007 column appearing in the Chicago Tribune. Describes a woman named Warren leading a double life. She was happily married, or what appeared to people on the outside as happily married. Until she met an old classmate. She started to exchange emails with him and then share lunch with him and then share a bed with him. He too was married. The two came to an agreement that they did not want to leave their families, but they did want to be husband and wife. And so they chose to remain married and see one another on a regular basis. And this is a quote from Lauren. I hate the word cheating. Cheating denotes wrong and shameful behavior. But I don't feel wrong and shameful. I feel married to the man. In fact, I feel more married to him than I do my husband. End quote. We could, if we were given the chance, point out to Lauren that how she felt didn't change the objectivity of the truth. She was cheating, and we would call it something different. She was committing adultery. She was breaking God's commandment. And what was just as bad is that she was bearing false witness to her husband and to her children, breaking her marital vow. She was leading a double life as she was not who her husband and children thought her to be When double lives are discovered, there is a sorrow that comes over the spouse cheated upon, as she or he feels that their whole life with the guilty party Maybe has been a lie. And we can understand how the victim of said deception would question whether any laugh Any intimacy, any memorable conversation or shared experience? Was it real at all? It could all have been a lie, and it has to make them sick, to think about that The conclusion has to be that he or she never knew her husband or wife. He never truly knew his wife, the man in the article. Years can seem wasted as love was never truly shared. Life gives its greatest meaning when we know, truly know, those whom we have our closest relationships with. Interesting that the word no in the King James Version is a euphemism for sexual intercourse. That is because the word is relational in its most intimate forms. To know in the Bible, to know is to perceive. Learn, understand, be willing, performing, and experiencing To know God, according to the Bible, is to enter into a saving action. To know God is to recognize and accept his claims. To know God is to walk in obedience with Him. Thus, the opposite of having a knowledge of God is to live in rebellion. Our focus this morning is to know God and to know him in the manner he is described in verse 9 of our reading. And I want to read that verse again. 2 Peter 3 verse 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness. But is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. We need to know the God that is described in this verse. But before we examine him more closely, by way of verse 9, We need to look at the verses that lead up to that verse, verses 1 through 8. In chapter 2, it was taught to us that there are evil teachers and thus evil people who live among us, and we are to be confident that they will be judged by God. St. Peter next wants us to address the presence of mockers among us. Mockers who challenge a fundamental Christian belief, the belief that Jesus will come again. That second coming is fundamental to our faith. Recall that in the Apostles' Creed, we state that Jesus will come from heaven to judge the quick and the dead. In the Nicene Creed, we say that Jesus will come again in glory to judge the quick and the dead. The creeds are the summary teaching of what a Christian needs to believe to be a Christian. Therefore, believing in the second coming of Jesus is fundamental to the gospel. You must believe in it. But where is he? It has been a long time since Christians have been saying that Jesus is coming again. At the writing of St. Peter, it was but a few decades. As we stand today, you know it is almost 2,000 years. To understand the delay and to respond to these mockers, Peter first wants Christians to have their minds stirred up. That's the language in the New King James, stirred up. Interestingly, the Sunday before Advent season, the Book of Common Prayer has a callette, a prayer, for the occasion. And because Advent means coming, and we celebrate the first coming of Jesus in Bethlehem, and then we celebrate also his second coming. We pray this prayer. It starts out like this. Stir up. Stir up. We beseech thee, O Lord, the wills of thy faithful people. Stir up. Thus, when we talk about the second coming of Jesus, according to Peter and our collect, we need to be stirred up, woken up. The stirring up that St. Peter wants is within the mind, as Christians are to be stirring, remembering the words, he says, spoken by the holy prophets. The words of the commandment and the words of the apostles. I admit that other translations write out that verse a little bit better. than the New King James. We could read as the NIV does, recall the words spoken by the holy prophets. And the command given by our Lord Jesus and Savior through the apostles The words spoken by the holy prophets, these are such as Isaiah, describing a new heaven and a new earth, where the wolf will lie down with the lamb. Also in the prophets Isaiah, references to the day of the Lord. These are scattered throughout the Old Testament. If such references are referring to the day of the Lord that is a local judgment, it is also referring to a day of the Lord that is the ultimate or final judgment. And we find this day of the Lord phrase in Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Joel, Amos, Obaniah, Zephaniah, Zechariah, and Malachi, all referring to the last day, the day of the Lord. The words of the holy prophets are also describing heavenly signs involving the sun, the moon, and the stars. These are linked to the last day, the day of the Lord. And these same heavenly signs are then picked up in the New Testament, referring to the day of the Lord Regarding the command given by the Lord to the apostles, the context of the second coming of Jesus would mean that St. Peter is referring to the command Jesus gave to go and make disciples. Baptize him in the name of the Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit until his coming again. In the meantime, or as the apostles and the church as a whole are preaching the gospel and baptizing the Christian church, is to remember the warnings of Jesus who said, scoffers will come. They will stop you, mock you, to walk according to their lusts, such people will do whatever they want in whatever manner they want. Lust, after all, is unpredictable. It desires one thing in one moment, and another thing in another moment. And people who live according to their own lust will say whatever they want to say. They have no filter. And they will make fun of you, Christians. They will ridicule, they will mock. And in their mocking, they claim that the gospel is not true. Well, because Jesus hasn't returned. Where is he? Their argument is that everything since the beginning of time is still the same. Nothing has changed. But that argument is willfully ignorant, as St. Peter points out. He says, For before the lands were formed and the earth populated, the globe was in chaos, as Genesis describes And it was from chaos that the Lord God raised up the land from the water and gave each its boundaries. And after mankind corrupted the earth, there was a flood where God judged mankind and judged the earth. Still today, interestingly, mockers forget the flood and its continuing effect upon creation. And this point in the sermon gives me an opportunity to plug again the showing we will have of that documentary is Genesis history. In the documentary, you will be an eyewitness to the continuing effect the great flood has upon the earth today. The flood was real and it was devastating. The scientists today look past it because, well, it doesn't fit their narrative about how they think the earth was formed and how old it is. Evidence for a flood would mean the story of Genesis is true. And if Genesis is true, then God is real. And if God is real, then each person has to answer to him. And because the majority of humanity in the West do not want to answer to God, God is not real. The flood did not happen. And any other theory about how the earth came to be today is what's accepted. That is modern science. Peter continues to defend against the mockers by explaining that each day that passes Is a day where the earth and mankind are being preserved or protected until judgment But the next judgment won't be a flood, but a judgment of fire And the fire will be an eternal one, torturing the devil, torturing his angels, and torturing ungodly men. Perdition, the New King James uses, perdition is a fate of final spiritual ruin, resulting in a state of eternal punishment. That is the fate of all who refuse to repent and believe. The next explanation allows us to spend some time out from under the sun. For we get a glimpse of the nature of God. It is to be remembered by believers that time itself is part of creation. Time was created and is maintained by God. God called the sun, light, the sunlight day, and the starlight night. Those are his designations. And all of creation is governed by time, but God is not a part of creation. He is that by which nothing greater can be conceived. So he is above time and therefore not limited by it or constricted by it. So when the Lord delays When the Lord delays his coming, the delay is from our perspective, not his. And let us be careful when we consider this thousand years as a day, a day as a thousand years. Let us not think that since Over 1,000 years has passed since Jesus ascended into heaven that such is almost two days passing. The phrasing is not literal, it is figurative. It could say that God to God a day is as 2,000 years or 10,000 years. And the message would be the same. His days are not ours. But it's fair to ask, why would God wait 2,000 years? Why would he wait a thousand years, a hundred years, or even a decade before Jesus returns? In verse 9, That question is answered. And in verse 9, we are privileged, privileged to know the heart of God. The Lord is not slack. Meaning the Lord God does not delay. He is not slow concerning fulfilling his promises. The promise of his second coming, to fulfill that, as if the time fixed for the fulfillment of it were past. For it will surely be fulfilled. It will be fulfilled in its proper season. But instead of slack, God is long suffering toward us, or all of humanity. Not willing that any should perish. That is any human being, any soul that he has made in his image. His first will, with regard to the whole posterity of Adam, has been and is that they should be eternally saved. And as proof of it, he has given his son as a ransom for all Has commanded his gospel that the glad tidings of salvation be preached to all, to every human creature. Not willing, not wanting, that any should perish. That is, he does not desire it. He does not wish it to be His nature is benevolent, and he sincerely desires the eternal happiness of all. And his patience towards sinners proves that he is willing, desiring, wanting them to be saved. If he were not willing, it would be easy for him to cut them off and exclude them from hope immediately. Now, this passage, this verse cannot be spoiled by asking rebuttal type questions. But why doesn't he just do it then? Why doesn't he just save everyone? But what of all his rhetoric that condemns sinners But what if his predetermined plan to save those who are chosen and the language he uses to express his sovereignty over the salvation of every human being? Those are good questions, but they are not questions that appreciate this verse. And what we are privileged to know from this verse about God, about his heart. When it comes to God's will, God's will, theologians have given it several categories. And these categories can help us understand this verse. There is God's sovereign will, which is what will happen because God controls all things, and we are to be assured that nothing can thwart His sovereign will Then there is the category of God's permissive will, which is when God allows you and I to make choices that we make and enjoy the rewards or suffer the consequences of those choices. But his permissive will never allow us to make choices outside of his sovereign will. And then there is God's desired will, His expressed heart. It is what he would prefer. It is what he wants for everyone. That is the will expressed in this verse. But many people don't understand a verse like this because they conclude that God is like men. For us, for every human being, because we are under the sun, because our lives are like fleeting vapor of smoke We know what we would do if there was something that we wanted, something we preferred, and we could make it happen. We would do it. We would make it happen. And so we conclude that God is such that He should do what we would do. Make it happen. But God is not like men. God instead controls his desires. God is perfect God is both righteous and benevolent. His character is made up of a perfect charity and a perfect justice. But here, we Christians are to focus on God's charity, his benevolence toward us. Beloved, God is love. He is love in action. Love and caring emotionally and sincerely, caring about your soul Last week we spent a great deal of time hearing about the presence of evil in this world and the presence of people who are evil in this world. And such is not easy to hear, but such is contrasted and overwhelmed by what is said in verse 9. God wills that no one should perish. God wills instead that all would come to repentance, which is a turning away from evil. God wants that for you. And I know he wants that for you because you are listening to my words, and my words are God's words. And his word says he desires you to be saved. And because he desires you to be saved, I can say that he desires you to forgive all who have wronged you in your life. He desires you to seek forgiveness from all you have wronged. He desires you to overcome addiction. He desires you to love and be loved by your fellow man. He desires you to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior. All of that can be said of what God desires, all of it. And more is what it means to live a life of a saved person Beloved, with the knowledge of what God desires, of what his heart wills. We are as Moses allowed to see God. Only Moses was allowed to see God from behind. Because of the revelation of Jesus, who is the heart of the Godhead, and because in Jesus God so loved the world. And here in Peter, we get to hear what God's heart is towards humanity. We get to see God as he is, be inside of him. Let us be humbled as Moses was, and emboldened. Emboldened by this knowledge of God. God wills that you all come to repentance. God wills that you be saved. Let us love that heart of God. Let us pray.