In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. You'd be seated. Turn in your Bibles to Exodus chapter eleven. We're dealing with the final plague. At Christian ThinkTank. com, ChristianTinktank. com, author Glenn Miller Does extensive number crunching of the infanticide that appears to take place with God killing the firstborn males in Egypt. He does this because, Glenn Miller does, because some people have tried to justify their rejection of the God of the Bible because they say He is a vengeful God who preys on the weak. And the accusation is based on the events such as God killing the firstborn in Egypt. Such thinking has been rightly labeled being more righteous than God. The text says that every firstborn of every household will die from the richest household to the poorest of the poor. God is no respecter of persons. God does not show favoritism as men do. And the plague included the firstborn of Egypt's livestock. Conclusions from Miller's crunching of numbers says that only 25% of the households in Egypt would have had a male who was a firstborn. Next, Miller argues that the wording in the text allows only for daughters and sons And that is a conclusion that children were the only ones who would die, not adults who were once a firstborn, but are now themselves heads of households. Next, Miller says that the average household would have been approximately six in number, making it four out of every 100 children that would have been a victim of this plague. The total number dead, from what we know, of the size of the Egyptian population, would have been 69,000 or 3% of the population. Miller then compares the plague to the infanticide that Pharaoh was doing or practicing upon the Israelites. That infanticide was an all-out onslaught upon Israel's children as they were ordered to kill all male children born in Israel or to the Israelites. And it was to be done by Israelite women, the midwives. And Miller makes the point that the infanticide could have been going on all the way up until Moses did his returning. Which was eighty years. Eighty years of trying to kill Israel's newborn males. The number dead would be staggering compared to the number dead at the hand of God at this tenth plague. But what point does such a comparison make? It seems only to say that what God did here was not as bad as what Pharaoh did. But God does not do bad. So there must be some other way to look at this tenth plague. We know of course that this was the last resort, this tenth plague. God had judged the false gods of the Egyptians with the first nine plagues, and that miracle of the rods swallowing the rods. Pharaoh would not believe that the God of Israel was the only true God, and the people of Egypt would not believe that God of Israel was the only true God. And so it had to come to this point. to where the Egyptians would actually kick out the Israelites, not wanting to see them anymore, just as God had prophesied to Moses. And then there is the purpose of God choosing the firstborn. The purpose. Please hear these later passages, passages that God spoke later after the Exodus. In order to confirm the value of the firstborn. From numbers God says, I have taken the Levites from among the Israelites in place of the first male offering of every Israelite woman. The Levites are mine. For all of the firstborn are mine. When I struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, I set apart for myself every firstborn in Israel. Whether man or animal, they are to be mine. I am the Lord. He continues in numbers. The Lord also said to Moses, Take the Levites in place of all the firstborn of Israel. And the livestock of the Levites in place of their livestock. The Levites are mine. I am the Lord. Continuing on in Numbers. Have the Levites stand in front of Aaron and his sons, and then present them as a wave offering to the Lord. In this way you are to set the Levites apart from the other Israelites, and the Levites will be mine After you have purified the Levites and presented them as a wave offering, they are to come and do their work at the tent meeting. They are the Israelites who are to be given holy to me. I have taken them as my own in place of the firstborn, the first male offering from every Israelite woman Every firstborn male in Israel, whether man or animal, is mine. When I struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, I set them apart for myself. And I have taken the Levites in place of all the firstborn sons of Israel. Of all the Israelites, I have given the Levites as gifts to Aaron and his sons. To do the work at the tent meeting on behalf of the Israelites, and to make atonement for them, so that no plague will strike the Israelites when they go near the sanctuary. And then this from Exodus chapter 13, the Lord said to Moses, Consecrate to me every firstborn male. The first offspring of every womb among the Israelites belongs to me, whether man or animal. And again in Exodus. After the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites and gives it to you, as he promised on an oath to you and your forefathers. You are to give over to the Lord the first offspring of every womb. All the firstborn males of your livestock belong to the Lord Redeem with a lamb every firstborn donkey. If you do not redeem it, break its neck. Redeem every firstborn among your sons. In days to come, when your son asks, What does this mean? Say to him, With a mighty hand, the Lord brought us out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. When Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go, the Lord killed every firstborn in Egypt, both man and animal. This is why I sacrifice to the Lord, the first male offspring of every womb, and redeem each of the my firstborn sons. And finally from Leviticus. No one, however, may dedicate the firstborn of an animal, since the firstborn already belongs to the Lord, whether an ox or a sheep. It is the Lord's. These verses tell well how important the firstborn is to God. Another word for setting apart or consecrating a firstborn is to make holy. God makes holy the firstborn. Not because the firstborn are special in and of themselves. But because the firstborn points to something greater still. The term firstborn in the Bible has two primary meanings. The first one is obvious. The first is the literal, it is the factual. It identifies who is the firstborn from any family. The second meaning refers to the rights and authority of a firstborn, simply because he is firstborn. The accompanying privileges of being firstborn were highly valued in the ancient Near East, and in the Old Testament they included a large inheritance, double portion. A special paternal blessing, family leadership, and an honored place at mealtime. But these privileges are not because the firstborn has a greater value to a family or a greater value to God. It is not because there is a special value placed on a firstborn as opposed to the secondborn or a middle child or a youngest child. But it is hard to convince every other child but the firstborn, as every other child thinks the firstborn is overvalued. From the perspective of a child who is not the firstborn, the firstborn is overly favored in every way. He or she gets to do everything first. He or she gets everything new. And the firstborn gets to be a part of the grown-ups. which is always the most coveted of positions. Some second-born children and middle children carry their birth status around with them their whole lives. I got permission to tell you about my Bobby Lynn. She is a middle child, and she shows every symptom of being a middle child. To this day she believes her parents didn't pay enough attention to her. She thinks that that whole Jan Brady thing, Marsha, Marsha, Marsha, was not actually very funny. She thinks her younger sister got away with everything, and she never got a new bike. In fact, Bobby Lynn's first bike was actually literally found in a dump. And it's pretty sad when you add it all up. After each extended family gatherings, I literally have to set her down and walk her through all of her middle child issues all over again And then you get passages like the ones that I read and interpreted today, and a secondborn, a middle-born sibling, has all the more reason to pout about the favoritism of the firstborn. But God's reasoning for choosing the firstborn was not to show favoritism. No, no, indeed. It was instead to prepare the world for his firstborn, for the firstborn son of God. That is it. That was the purpose. The purpose of consecrating the firstborn was because Jesus would be born at a time God chose and born of a virgin. The purpose of blessing the firstborn was because Jesus would be anointed by the Holy Spirit. The purpose of an honored place at the family table was because Jesus would be seated at the right hand of the Heavenly Father. And the purpose of a greater inheritance was to show that the Heavenly Father would give all to his firstborn Son. And our Lord Jesus is the firstborn in several ways. He is the one who has been appointed by God to be an authority over all things. St. Paul says of Jesus, he is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. Being the firstborn of all creation does not mean that Jesus had a beginning. No, it means that he is the receiver of all that a firstborn is to receive of the created world. The inheritor. And because of the resurrection, Jesus is the firstborn from among the dead. St. Paul said it of Jesus. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. In St. Paul's sermon at Antioch in Pithidia, he quotes the passage: Thou art my son, this day I have begotten thee. That is fulfilled in that he raised up Jesus again. In Romans 1. 3, Paul speaks of Christ as declared or defined to be the Son of God with the power of the resurrection from the dead. His resurrection declared him as the Son of God. The resurrection is, in a sense, his Jesus second birth, the beginning of the earned exaltation. He earned it. Which is contrasted from his birth on earth with done in great humility. And his entrance into his heavenly kingdom is done with great exaltation. And finally, and this is so very fascinating to me, finally, Jesus is the firstborn among many brethren. Which is in the consummation of God's purpose of grace when all of the elect are gathered home, are gathered to heaven. St. Paul said it in this way in Romans For whom he, that is God, foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Understand that. Jesus then Is not only the Lord of all who follow him, but he is also our pattern. He is God's ideal son. He is the pattern from which God will make all Christians after the same likeness. Christians are saints themselves, predestined to grow into the likeness of Jesus, and as possessing, hear it And as possessing all the privileges of the eldest son, including the kingdom and priesthood. So they may be called, that is what Hebrews says, they may be called the church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. Church of the Firstborn. Now I realize that it took me some time to get to this point, but this point is a big one. This point is important. I wanted to build it up. Follow me. God chose the firstborn of the Egyptian males to be his Just as he would next choose the firstborn males born into the homes of the Israelites and the firstborn livestock to be his And he chose next his firstborn males of the families of Israel to be consecrated as his and peculiarly blessed and to receive a double portion as an inheritance and a special place at the family table because he was pointing To his own son. Jesus would be the firstborn in terms of God's own son, and in terms of firstborn from the dead. And in terms of being the image into which all of his followers would be made, and thus the point of God choosing the firstborn originally in Egypt. was to choose his followers, Christians, to become firstborn. He makes us, each of us, firstborn. And this point, this truth, is so very important because it gives us hope, it gives us peace, and it gives us identity. When I was in college, I still used my pediatrician as my doctor to get my annual sports physical. I thought that was weird, but my mother told me to do it, so I did it. And I remember seeing in his office hanging on the bulletin board A printout of a boy drawn like a cartoon, and the boy is looking straight ahead with a confident look. And you've probably seen something like this. And the caption read, I know I am somebody because God don't make no junk. And I liked it at the time, for whatever reason. It was a simple reminder that every human life has value. And we Christians would say every human life has eternal value. And then I put together this understanding from God choosing the firstborn of the Egyptians. To die, to set Israel free, and then follow that pattern of God choosing the firstborn to the end. That shows that he has chosen that all who believe in Jesus would be changed and become, actually become firstborn. Each and every one of them firstborn. That is amazing grace indeed. Beloved Christians should not suffer from middle child syndrome. Christians should not suffer from poor self-esteem. Christians should not struggle with Christians with questions such as, who am I? Or what am I to do in this world? And I don't mean to sound like a motivational speaker, but the answer to who am I is I am a firstborn child in the kingdom of God. And the answer to the second question, because I am a firstborn child in the kingdom of God, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I can be the best Eric God intends for me to be. As long as I am a firstborn child in the kingdom of God, whatever I set about doing will prosper. It is that simple. If you embrace that you are a firstborn child in the kingdom of God, you will start to live like that. And when you live like that, the child that you are, then Jesus will be glorified and the devil will remain under your feet and you will prosper. That might sound like a Christian Tony Robbins, but it is not. It is biblical. You followed me to get there. I must mention the following before we are done. Some of you might Follow me in looking at the positive of God choosing the firstborn in Egypt, and you might question that those children died. So how is that a positive? If that is your sticking point, let me say two things. First, dying in the land of Egypt at a young age would have saved a child from a great deal of heartache that life had to offer in the ancient Near East. And it saved a child from following after many false gods. And the second The death of the firstborn in Egypt for the freedom of God's people was honorable. It was honorable and that it was a precursor to God's firstborn, Jesus, dying to free God's people. You see, God the Son fully identified with the firstborn in Egypt, and God the Father fully identified with the families. of Egypt that mourned at the loss of their firstborn. And so we come back to the positive. The idea that God has made each of us firstborn. And the truth that God wants us to live as firstborn. Ever confident in who we are in Him. The firstborn are God's. He makes all who follow Jesus firstborn. And we say to that Amen. Amen. Let us practice