In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I feel like I need to say something. Apologize maybe for that response. Oreo, I was singing the Benedictus Which was on page 15. I didn't look at the page numbers, and you were all singing Benedictus S. Domine, so I was very confused. I don't know if anybody else was with me, but uh we'll have to straighten that out We are in Genesis, in Genesis chapter 20. We're continuing our series in Genesis. If you are like me, you are greatly disappointed when reading Genesis 20. We want Abraham to be flawless, and he is not. We want him to have learned from his past sins, and he did not. We want it so for the same reason we want heroes. We want to aspire to greatness, and we are spurred on by those that we know who have achieved greatness. Their success allows us to believe that we can achieve the same. When they fail, as Abraham did, it causes us to pause and wonder whether obedience is possible. Does the faith we claim actually work? And can anyone follow it? Abraham was not able to remain faithful in all areas of his life Thus, if we are tempted to see Abraham as a complete type of Christ, we should be dissuaded because of his actions in Genesis 20. He sinned by denying his wife yet again. What Abraham does for us then is highlight the uniqueness of Christ Jesus. For if the man of faith, Abraham, did not remain faithful when hard-pressed, it is all the more remarkable to note that Jesus did. And did so while suffering, enduring greater temptations and hardships. So Abraham's faithful Failure is used in Scripture as a means to glorify Christ, even if it was unintentional. Included with the glorifying of Christ in this passage, there is also the remarkable faith of Sarah and the response of God in meeting her with protection. And that is our focus this morning. There is or are dilemmas that each person faces multiple times in his or her life, and women face such dilemmas even more, many more times. It is the dilemma of doing something, it doesn't matter what, but doing something that you are not comfortable with, and yet that something has been ordered by your superior. Simply stated, the dilemma is either obeying the authority over you or going your own way. As you can well imagine, women face this dilemma more often because what the Scripture instructs, which is for wives to submit to their husbands. And before we go further into the text and understand the message therein, I want to dispel unnecessary objections to what I am about to proclaim. I am not under any circumstance preaching that we should obey an authority that would ask us to do something that is salaciously immoral. For example, if a boss were to ask an employee to steal, a husband were to ask his wife to commit adultery, a parent were to ask a son to sell drugs Such instances require a response, just as the apostles who said, when commanded to no longer preach the good news of Christ, they said, it is for us to obey God rather than men. And I use the descriptive salaciously immoral in order to convey that there are certain acts that if we are commanded to do by our authority over us, we simply cannot do because The sin is that is requested is plainly evident. It's wrong. And I realize that it can be argued that Abraham, what he asks of Sarah, is plainly immoral He asks her to lie and for her to accept the consequences of her lie, which is the possibility of committing adultery with Abimelech. And because of the gray area, however, in their familial relationship, which you heard that Sarah is Abraham's sister, his half-sister, the request for Sarah to say that she is Abraham's sister is not so plainly immoral. It is how we should deal with such gray areas that we need to consider. In chapter 20, verse 2, Abraham tells Abimelech, the king of Gerar, that Sarah was his sister. After Abimelech discovers the truth, which again is that she is his half-sister and also Abraham's wife, he confronts Abraham, and Abraham explains his lie, saying, Because I thought surely the fear of God is not in this place. and they will kill me on account of my wife. We are to remember at this point what was said of Sarah when the couple entered Egypt. She was said to be very beautiful. At this point, evidently, age has not affected her beauty, and although She was beyond childbearing years, her looks had evidently held up quite nicely, at least at this point in the story. Abraham anticipated that her beauty would again be noticed, therefore making it likely that the king of the region would try to take her as his own to be his wife. Abraham also justified his lie by explaining to Abimelech that she was his, as we know, half-sister. She is of the same father, but not of the same mother. We then learn an insight into the conversation between the couple. When Abraham explained that he and Sarah had made an agreement. He requested of her as an act of kindness to say that wherever they went, that she was indeed his sister. All of this was done to protect Abraham. It was done to protect himself. It was a very selfish thing to request. As we have stated, he is not a hero in this story. In fact, he is the anti-type of Christ, for Christ Would never give up his life, uh excuse me, would never give up his bride for his life, the church. In fact, he gave up his life, indeed, for the church. But again, that is not our focus. What is to be noted in Abraham's explanation is that Sarah made no objection. She didn't protest. And that does not mean, of course, that she did not have an objection. It means that her predominant attitude was obedience. Sarah's life as a whole stands as a beacon for all women. She is an example for all women regarding faith and submission. Sarah is appelled to all Christians as an example of faith, for in Hebrews 11, verse 11, we read, by faith Sarah herself also received strength to concede the seed, and she bore a child when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful who had promised. That is, she judged God faithful. And along with her faith, the New Testament holds up Sarah to all women as an example of obedience. To Christian women, St. Peter states, quote, As Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughter you are if you do good, and are not afraid with any terror. Now the context of these words by St. Peter to wives is that wives should submit to their husbands. And such a call we know as part of the household codes that we find in other books of the Bible. Now, the household cold here focuses in, St. Peter does, more than anyone else, on wives submitting to their husbands. This household code part is, for Peter, essential. After he calls wives to submit He then compares that a wife submitting could actually win over her husband to the faith if he is an unbeliever. And that says a great deal about the power of submission. And we don't often think of submission as a position of power. Submission, according to St. Peter, also involves chastity. A woman who is sexually faithful to her husband is being submissive. The apostle then describes submission in terms of how a wife adorns herself. While many women concern themselves with their outward appearance. He describes the importance of inward beauty and calls such beauty incorruptible and precious in God's sight. Stating that truth leads St. Peter to uphold Sarah as an example to all women. Sarah's obedience to Abraham, the fact that she called him Lord as in master, is all the more remarkable when we understand and remember the story here in Genesis 20. Abraham is asking her to come in harm's way of what he thinks is a godless king, and she submits. Her obedience is more than borderline in our day. And I assume that most women would not agree with Sarah's obedience here, but again, here it is upheld as an example for all Christian women. The subject of wives submitting to their husbands inevitably moves to discussing instances of abuse. The logic is that if there are examples of men abusing their wives, and that those examples render the whole subject of submission impotent. But the discipline of logic would rule that such a conclusion does not follow. Logic insists that a part does not determine the whole What is true for a part of something is not necessarily true for the whole of something. For example, just as a seat A seat cannot drive down the road by itself does not mean it cannot drive down the road when it is part of a car In the negative, just because a part of a plane fails does not mean the whole plane is going to fail and not be able to fly. And we apply this rule to submission, just because a particular man abuses his wife does not mean that the general call for wives to submit to their husbands is faulty The problem is with the man who abuses, not with the command to submit. What should be emphasized is the power of submission. As I have already pointed out, submission by a wife may lead to her disobedient husband coming to the faith And such power within the act of submission is confirmed in the Lord Jesus, who submitted to the will of the Heavenly Father. That submission gave him authority over sickness, evil spirits, and death itself. We can conclude from this evidence that submission has life-giving power. Sarah's submission to Abraham's ungodly request had life-preserving power. In response to Sarah's faith and because of his mercy, God intervenes. Before anything unholy occurred between Sarah and Abimelech, God appeared to the king in a dream, as we read. And said to him, You are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife. God then commands the king to return Sarah to Abraham, or his whole family will die. Abimelech does so that following morning along with gifts. The appearance of God before Abimelech had obviously shaken the king. Afterward, he was a man who gave rather than took. And what is curious is verse 16 Rabimelet states that his gift of silver vindicates Sarah, followed by a comment by the author that in such actions she was rebuked. This rebuke, we must remember, is not from God, but from the king, who was obviously embarrassed by the situation. So we must not conclude that Sarah was rebuked by God, but instead God protected her purity and life. Along with Abraham's life, and he did so in response to Sarah submitting. That is confirmed in the words of St. Peter already discussed. It is especially clear in his words where he says that women who obey, this is St. Peter now Women who obey like Sarah are daughters of Sarah, if they are not afraid with any terror. Sarah, in her obedience to Abraham, was not afraid. She believed God would be working all things to the good, even if her husband was being unwise, unsafe, scared, and foolish. And this brings us to practical examples. For if Christian women are to be daughters of Sarah, they must recognize scenarios in which they are to obey as Sarah did. If, for example, a husband wants to make a large item purchase that his wife believes they cannot afford. It could be a boat, new car, new home, and the wife believes the cost will stretch their budget to the breaking point. If her husband hears her objection and listens to her reasoning and still decides to make the purchase, what is a wife to do? Staying within the subject of finances, it may be a scenario where a husband is tired of his job and he wants to quit and he wants to start his own company The wife fears that the company will not be a success and that she will have to go out into the workforce to provide for the family and she'll have to leave her young children at home. She expresses her fear, but the husband is not deterred. Three months into his business, he tells her she needs to find a job so that his business can continue. What is a wife to do? In the realm of relationships, a husband could be harsh and overbearing towards his son, and the wife responds by counseling him to let up. The husband does not listen, being stubborn and continues to be overbearing, telling his wife to stay out of it. Does she stay out of it? Even though her son is hurting? What is she to do? Another likely scenario is a rift occurring between a husband and extended family members, the in-laws. In an angry state, the husband tells his wife she is not allowed to be in contact with her parents, should she obey Well these are just few examples of how women get caught up in the dilemma of either obeying their husbands or doing what they believe is right. It may be simply a mistake a wife believes her husband is making or a concern that he is doing something immoral, ungodly, unchristian. If Sarah would have focused on all of the negative things that could have happened because of her husband's request, she would have been without hope. But the person of Sarah is one that all can look up to because Sarah aspired to obedience and trusting God over the mistakes of her husband. Sarah, by God's grace, was able to trust that God would do something good when she obeyed her husband. She was able to obey without fear, we are told. Such is the power of faith and of submission. Faith casts out fear. A wife who is placed in a difficult dilemma must first and foremost choose to live by faith, to submit by faith. She must not be subject to fear, for in the state of fear, she will not submit. And I can hear the many but what-if scenarios that are going through your minds. I anticipate them. There is no possible way anyone can answer what is right to do in all possible scenarios. I believe the point of the passage we have heard, and the corresponding words of St. Peter, is the principle of submission. We are to respect the power of submission. It gives power to life. It gives power to preserve life. We are to have faith that to obey those who have authority over us is to obey God. And when that is done, even in moments of concern and consternation, we need to believe He, God, will protect us. He protected Sarah, and he will protect all who obey without fear. And all of this leads me to address an issue that I have never broached before from the pulpit or even in a Bible study setting. But the issue is so very pressing in these days that I must speak about it. Two weeks ago A parishioner sent me a link to a story about the decline of the Christian churches in the United States. An alarming statistic shows that on the average in the United States, 100 Christian churches are closing their doors every week. 100 every week. And I speculate that a major cause of these door closings can be traced back To parishioners who are unwilling to submit to the ecclesiastical authority that God has placed over them. And no, I don't have statistics to back up my claim. I only have wisdom from experience that tells me that I am right. Let me paint a picture on how it develops. A man is called by God to a local parish, and the parish confirms the call, and he is installed as the pastor, the priest. He teaches honestly and dutifully the Word of God while making staff decisions, decisions on the direction of youth ministry, women's ministry, men's ministry, Sunday school ministry, etc. Not all of these decisions are agreed upon by the local members or longtime members. The decisions are not questionable in terms of being unbiblical or unwise. They're just not what the former pastor did or not what the current leadership positions want him to do. Next is grumbling, complaining to others, holding grudges, and then a lack of cooperation. With the spirit of discontent invading the set and settling in in the parish, some people leave for less contentious bodies, while others only involve themselves in the parish on Sunday mornings. It doesn't take long for the pastor to realize that he is losing his congregation. Well, he needs to keep his job. So he becomes less direct, less forthright in his preaching and teaching. He becomes soft in order to be, well, likable. In short, he compromises, and it is a compromise on the very word of God that he was ordained to preach and teach. When his sermons become fluff and his teachings lack conviction, well, people don't see the need to come to services anymore. They receive nothing of life from the church, so they remain home lifeless The church is soon empty, and the church is soon closed. This, of course, is just one example of how a once vibrant parish becomes available on a realtor's website. But we don't think or nor hear enough about the power of submitting to our church authorities and the power, the negative power, of not submitting to our church authority. And to be sure, to be sure, clergy will be held accountable by God on Judgment Day for not submitting to God's word in order to tickle the ears of his people. But so too will parishioners be held accountable who did not submit to their ecclesiastical authority. Here is the biblical truth. Submission can be powerful when it is done in faith. And it is not just women who are called to submit. All of us, which is each of us, is called to obey those who have authority over us in faith. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God. Here we can all find ourselves in the story of Sarah submitting to Abraham. For each of us are called to submit in some way to authorities both in this world and in the church. Father, may each of us take an account for our submission, and may we uphold Sarah as our example. To trust and faith that you will protect us, that you will meet us where we are needed. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.