In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You will do well to turn to First Corinthians chapter one, picking up at verse four. Which was our epistle reading this morning, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, starting at verse 4. The section of scripture Chosen for our epistle reading has been uncovered by modern biblical scholarship to be a familiar Greco-Roman rhetoric revealing how Saint Paul adapted such style to structure his letters that they might be most effective. In Greco-Roman rhetoric before Paul, there was a literary device known as the exordium. Which was an introduction to a speech or letter by which the writer or speaker would attempt to elicit the goodwill of the listeners or readers by way of praise and encouragement. Before this, Cicero and Quintilian, two masters of Greco-Roman rhetorical style, both recommended the use of what is called the opening. Such an introduction paves the way for stating the main thesis or purpose statement of the letter, which in this case will come in verse 10, which reads. Now, I plead with you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you. But that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment That statement is called the propositio or proposition, and is followed by the ratio, which is the statement of facts that spell out the problem In this case, that would be verses 11 through 17, which is a brief summary statement of the fact that Paul has learned that there are deep and dangerous divisions Within the Corinthian church. The narratio is in turn followed by the probatio or proofs. These are the arguments of the letter, and it takes us from chapter 1, verse 18, all the way through to chapter 16, verse 12. They provide the reasons why the hearers or the readers should take up a specific course of action that is being recommended. The final section, characteristically brief, is the paroratio or summary, the final exhortation, which is found in chapter 16, verses 13 through 18. It is a brief recapitulation of Paul's basic thesis stated again in chapter 1, verse 10. Such is a fancy way of outlining the letter But I think this is a very helpful way to understand the letter. The exact similarities between these various rhetorical forms of Greco-Roman writing and speaking And Paul's structure here in 1 Corinthians puts it beyond doubt that Paul has employed this well-known and accepted structure of writing a letter to influence people. Adopting contemporary styles of rhetoric is not new in the Holy Scriptures. We can say that the Holy Spirit and Moses Used the structure of the ancient Near East political treaties to state and describe God's covenant with Israel. The prophets used a standard legal form of speech and argument to indict Israel for her crimes against God, against the covenant he made with her. Thus, Paul, like many other biblical writers, used the literary and rhetorical forms common to his day. just as Christian writers and speakers today use the forms of our secular culture to speak and write on behalf of the Christian gospel. While Paul adopts the style of his contemporaries to influence, as stated prior, he also makes an overarching point that is often missed. First, he praises them and encourages them by describing how they have everything they need in this life to be holy and pleasing before God And next goes on to describe their various sins and problems resulting from those sins, which reveal how they are not using everything they have been given. And thus an overarching lesson is their dependency on God to use the gifts they've been given. So let's look at each verse. Verse 4, chapter 1. I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given to you by Christ Jesus. Here is an expression of thankfulness. The emphatic use of the singular, I thank my God, is in contrast to the plural previous in verse 1, where Paul is saying he is joined by Sosthenes, but now Paul is the author of this epistle. And instead, he's writing this letter in his name alone and with his sole authority. Verse 5 That you were enriched in everything by him, in all utterance and all knowledge. The word everything refers to every gift which equips a Christian to live the Christian life. The word utterance is Rhema, Logos, meaning discourse and reason. Knowledge refers to that what was needed to understand in order to be saved. Verse six. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you The testimony, the testimony referred to here is what the apostles shared with the Corinthians concerning Christ, their own testimony and the truth of Christ. And then it showed also that the Corinthians, what they showed to Paul is that they believed and they exhibited fruits. That also was the testimony. Verse 7. So that you come short in no gift, eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. To say come short in no gift can be stated in the positive, you have every gift that you need. We know that outward expressions of the gifts of the Holy Spirit were healing, prophecies, speaking in unknown languages, and then words of wisdom. The revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ is referring to his parousia, which is his second coming. Verse 8. Who will also confirm you to the end that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ? The Who in this verse is, of course, Jesus. He will confirm which is to keep or establish or maintain, which refers to their position in the faith. Jesus will keep them in the place of having all that they need to live the faith up to the time Jesus returns, which is what the phrase, the day of the Lord Jesus Christ, means. In our adult Sunday school class, we've been studying the Ten Commandments in light of our gospel reading, which tells us that the greatest commandment Are to love God with all of our heart and soul and mind, and to love our neighbor as ourselves. I argue the first five commandments tell us how to love God. No other gods, no idols, no name in vain. Honor the Sabbath and honor your father and your mother, which translates into honoring God. And the next five tell us how to love our neighbor. No murder, no adultery, no stealing, no lying. And when we get to the commandment number ten, I explain of all the people in the world. And all the people in history of the world, we have no excuse for coveting. As I've explained from this pulpit before, we are kings and queens. We live better than most kings down through history. We can pay for people to clean our homes. We can travel around the world. We can order most any food we desire and enjoy a different cuisine each day of the week. We can cool our homes in the summer And heat them to our comfort during the deep winter freeze. And we can be entertained at the click of a button There is no need that we are in want for. Thus, covening should not have a pull on us, and yet it does. It does because our hearts are wanting. We lack in our hearts a gratefulness for what all that we have. To know such is true, consider that the richest men in the world, that the world has ever known, still want to be richer. It is a heart issue What St. Paul has explained to us in his opening to the Corinthian Christians is how all Christian people have everything they need in order for them to live faithfully The Christian gospel that they profess they believe. We Christians lack nothing, which is to say, we have been given everything we need to walk faithfully with God And yet, and yet, like a coveting man who has everything, we don't like, we don't live like we have everything we need. As described, Paul is complimenting and encouraging these Christians at Corinth before he presents the probatio, or proofs, that describe the problem. And the major problem was that there was division among them. The division was expressed in groups who insisted that they were followers of certain teachers only. such as Cethas or Peter, and then Apollos, and then Paul, and some only Jesus Now, we would think that those who said they followed Jesus only were in the right. That's the right group. But in order to follow Jesus, they had to have the teachings of Paul and Peter and Apollos. But the point wasn't who was right. The point was that there was division, and that division contributed to their problems. The following were problems in the church caused by them choosing sides. Their division left them susceptible to worldly wisdom against God's revelation Their division led them to not know how to deal properly with unholy living among them. Their division led them to suing one another in secular courts. Their division confused them on marital roles and the sin of divorce. Their division caused a lack of wisdom when dealing with meat offered to idols. Their division had them going against their consciences Their division led them to disrespecting those weak and poor among them, which led them to disrespecting the service of Holy Communion. Their division led them to not properly use the gifts of the Holy Spirit. Their division prohibited them from rightly and properly loving one another. Their division disrupted their corporate worship, which is the very thing that all of us are created and called to do. Their division disabled them from properly knowing and understanding the hope of the resurrection of the body and the hope of eternal life. It should be known, but it must be said, that unity is an important part of the Christian life, but it isn't the most important part. Unity at all cost is the rowdy cry of those Christians who have not defended the Christian faith, but have allowed their denominations to become corrupt. In their doctrinal teachings. And when you become corrupt in what you say you believe, you next become corrupt in how you live. You lose your moral compass. A man denies the virgin birth, which leads to questioning the authority of Holy Scripture Which leads to no longer believing that Jesus is the Son of God, that his death on the cross paid for their sins, that there was a resurrection, and even leads to doubting whether Jesus lived And finally, people no longer believe they are sinners. Instead, they believe they have all the beauty inside them, as Whitney Houston sang. It is truly a slippery slope that so many have slid down, reminding us why Jesus said that the road to heaven was narrow and few travel on it. But when, but when, if ever, is it appropriate for Christians to divide from one another? First, Christians should never divide over personality differences, and yet that is what Christians mostly divide over. The church being called a body, a bride, a family, a nation, means that we have to remain united while being so different. And we are, as Christians, defined by our obligation to forgive one another, even when it's over and over again. And being Christian is loving one another, for Jesus said, you remember, the world will know we are Christian by our love for one another. And that love is patient and kind. And both of those are to be put into practice when we encounter differing personalities within the church. So again, personality differences are not to divide Christians. The only division that is justified, which means rightly done before God, is when the leadership of a church Will not address and correct known immorality or false teaching When such is not addressed from the top by those God has given authority to in order to protect his bride, the church Such as has already spiritually divided the church, and such a church will not stand. When I refer to known immorality, I am referring to sex or money abuses that people know about, whisper about, and in general most people in the local church know about, but it is never addressed. Beloved, the proverb, a little leaven leavens a whole lump, is true. Any sin not confronted and confessed and repented of infects all the souls around it. When I refer to false teachings, I mean anything that goes against the substance of the Apostles and Nicene Creeds, which summarize what is necessary for a person to believe in order to be saved. Other than leadership not addressing known immorality or false teaching, I see no other reason to divide from others who call themselves Christians. But we have today in our Western Christian culture softies. Softies don't want to work through personality issues. Softies want to bounce from church to church, usually every three years, getting in only so deep into other people's lives. before they softly go away and find another church where they can again get in only so deep into other people's lives for another three years until they are off again Such Christians are not soldiers in God's army, but are only pretending, only plain, only making the Christian life easy for themselves. That is why they are softies. Beloved, living the Christian life is facing the grind. The grind of loving and forgiving over and over again. While you yourself are being loved and forgiven over and over again, because you need to admit That you're not so easy to get along with all of the time. Try to recall the Greco-Roman literary outline I described at the beginning of the sermon. The last part was called the pero ratio, which is the summary of Paul's answer to the problem of division. He states his answer in chapter 16, beginning at verse 13. This is what he says. How to handle division problems. Watch. Stand fast in the faith. Be brave. Be strong. Let all that you do be done with love. To watch is to watch out. It is to be purposefully looking for dangers that divide. The watchman, when on duty, must always be awake and alert, convinced that one moment of lacking awareness will doom the entire city. And the devil is always working to divide Christians. Most of us knew with the first mask mandate How the devil would use it to divide Christians. He will use anything he can To stand fast in the faith is to be firm in holding and defending the truths of the gospel. It is not yielding to any foe, but instead maintaining the truth And adhering to your confidence in God and to the doctrines of the gospel with unwavering constancy. It is to be firm in maintaining what you believe to be true and in holding on to your personal confidence in God Notwithstanding all the arts, the insinuations, and teachings of seducers and friends of false doctrine. To be brave. To be brave and strong is stated next, and it is a reiteration of standing fast. It is an underlining of what needs to be done in order to live the Christian life, a life that does not divide over the trivial. Soft people don't stand fast. They run away. Soft people do not defend truth, but give in to what is contrary. Soft people don't have confidence in God, but only trust in their ability to flee. And next we are given the summary of what enables us to stand fast, which is the love. The love given to us. By Jesus Himself. And such a love is to be with us, motivating all that we do. Such is the same love that is described in three chapters prior. It is that love that is patient and kind. It is a love that is not boastful, that is not proud, it is not envious, it keeps no record of wrong and it thanks the best of others. Soft people can't love in such a manner. To love in such a manner takes courage. It takes moxie to stare down your own insecurities, about your own inadequacies, and choose to die to such feelings and instead choose to love. Beloved, it takes courage to not have divisions among us. It takes a hardened nerve not to be moved. We have been equipped by God to do so. So let it be done among us until he comes. Let us pray. Oh God, we thank you for this challenge. We thank you for the courage of the apostle to address the problem of division that continues to this day. But you have given us an answer. You've called us to stand fast and you've called us to love. May each of us take this challenge upon us and live it out until you return. This we pray in Jesus' name.