Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We will be dissecting Luke chapter seven, starting in verse eleven, our gospel reading this morning. Prior to our gospel reading, Jesus had just healed a servant of the centurion Prior to that, Jesus had preached the Sermon on the Mount. Thus, Jesus had revealed himself in his authority by word and by healing. Verse 11. Now it happened the day after that he went into a city called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him and a large crowd. Once again, we are reminded that since the ministry of Jesus went public everywhere, he went, he was accompanied by a great crowd. He was a phenomenon, and everything he did served to further increase the people's enthusiasm Interestingly, Luke is the only one of the gospel writers to include this particular story. Nain was a town some twenty miles southwest of Capernaum. It would have taken a day to walk there, for Capernaum is where Luke says Jesus was prior But what we are being reminded of is that the Lord didn't simply stay in Capernaum, but was in fact walking throughout Galilee and visiting all of its towns while preaching and healing. Verse 12. And when he came near the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother. And she was a widow, and a large crowd from the city was with her. Such was a unique and unplanned situation, at least unplanned as far as any expected itinerary. A widow was bearing her only child, which meant it was a woman Who faced a future without help in a time when women alone were particularly vulnerable to economic hardship And a woman who had to hear had to bear the burden of knowing that her family was coming to an end. The large crowds suggest that the people of the town appreciated what this woman was facing. Verse 13. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her and said to her, Do not weep. The wording of Luke is quite revealing. When he wrote this account, it was post-resurrection and post-ascension of Jesus. Luke had interviewed the apostles. He had interviewed Mary, the mother of Jesus. Thus, he had heard first-hand accounts of what Jesus said and what he did. The result is Luke referring to Jesus as the Lord. The Lord, he says. And it is odd from my view that any Christian would struggle with understanding that the Bible teaches the divinity of Jesus. When so many eyewitnesses and first century followers accepted that he was God without a doubt Verse 14. Then he came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say to you, arise. Luke recalls how the dead man was being carried in a what he calls an open coffin. The Jews sometimes used coffins, but often they did not. Likely the body was wrapped in a cloth and the resting on an open what they called a briar or a burial plank Making it easy for Jesus to touch him. We remember from Jewish law that touching a dead body led to being ceremonially impure. But of course, Jesus touched the leper previous. But by touching the dead son, the Lord rendered the boy alive, thus no defiling took place. Verse 15 So he who was dead sat up and began to speak, and he presented him to his mother. We should note the almost poetic manner Luke describes the miracle. He tells us that the dead man sat up, which is something that dead people do not do. Then he began to talk, which again is something dead men do not do. It is here that we should remember how the boy The prophet Elisha brought back to life how he sneezed seven times, which again is something the dead do not do. And finally, the Lord gave the boy back to his mother, and the wording is precisely the same used in the case of the prophet Elijah returning the dead son to the widow of Zarephat. Who again he made alive. Verse 16. Then fear came upon all And they glorified God saying, A great prophet has risen up among us, and God has visited his people. The people could not have been expected to understand that God was standing before them Remember that the Lord's own disciples didn't understand. But with true insight, they gathered at least these two things. First, Jesus had displayed the same power that Elijah and Elisha had displayed over 800 years before. That put Jesus on the same level of the great prophets in Israel's past. That is a high compliment indeed. The Jews knew that there had been no such prophet in Israel for close to nine centuries. But such a miraculous occurrence proved that there was once again a prophet in Israel. You would have to be a Jew, living then under the thumb of the Roman state, hoping against hope as your parents, grandparents, and great-grandparents had hoped. For some divine intervention on behalf of God's people to realize what an important impact this realization would have had on all who were there to see it. And then on those who simply heard of it second hand. Second, they knew that the power Such men had at their disposal was not their own. It was from God Himself. And so they very rightly, if not fully understanding drew the obvious conclusion, Almighty God had come among them and was working through this person, Jesus of Nazareth. Verse 17. And this report about him went throughout all the Judea and all the surrounding region. Verse 17 says that we've what we would expect to occur. People would have to share what they had witnessed, and the excitement about what God was doing was understandably contagious. Having looked at each verse of this miracle account, that again is unique to Luke. I want to make the following observations for some important meditation. First, we observe how serious Jesus was in spreading his good news. The kingdom of God had come and was being revealed in the person and actions and words of Jesus Christ. And he was making every effort within him to go from town to town. Revealing himself as many as possible could hear him and see him. He was not a guru who rented out an auditorium. Or who sat on high, expecting everyone to come to him, Jesus came to the people Jesus made himself vulnerable in being out in the open, having no handlers, but only men who were closest to him so that they could be eyewitnesses to his works and to his words. Second, we observe that a large crowd followed Jesus We learn elsewhere that people of these crowds had various reasons for following him, and Jesus was always challenging them to examine their motivation. Jesus was never about simply having a large crowd, but was repeatedly trying to widow that crowd so that people who followed him would not be deceiving themselves. One of the approaches I have in ministry, and one of the reasons I have embraced the Anglican way, is because it is not popular. We do nothing in our ministries or services at St. Stephen's to appeal to the flesh. Instead, we do what most do not. Which is to be formal and reverent and not make our worship about what we like. We govern our Sunday school, our Bible studies, and All that we do when it comes to scriptures by what the Bible says rather than what we wish it said We catechize our children old school style, which has them memorize and recite. Not many churches do that, and not many parents out in the community want it. We do these things because we believe that such is most pleasing to God. He is our first and our last audience. For churches in our denomination that are struggling to keep their doors open and because of low attendance and increasing debt, I want them to embrace being different because it is pleasing to God and no one else is doing it. Few churches are liturgical, reverent, sacramental, and biblical in their preaching and teaching. And there are Christian souls out there who want to be liturgical, reverent, sacramental, and biblical. We just need to let them know we are here. Third, we observe the details Luke includes about the family and the funeral encountered by Jesus and his followers. Luke tells us that the man is dead, and all who are part of the funeral are certain of it. The dead man was the only son of his mother. As stated, this spoke to the troubled um the trouble faced by his mother. She was a widow. We are told, which tells us that she had already suffered tragedy through death of a loved one. Widows didn't receive pensions or social security in the first century There was no life insurance paid out to pay off her debt. Her only financial hope was her son caring for her, and he was on a pallet, likely wrapped in a cloth, and being taken to a tomb. The woman's prospects for any future financial security were being taken to the same tomb. Fourth, we have already observed that Luke called Jesus the Lord. But we can add to that observation that Jesus had compassion on the woman. The Lord, our Lord, had compassion on a woman he did not personally know, and he had it in a moment when all he could do was observe a funeral procession. Now, we can easily easily conclude that there were many, many funeral processions that took place in the lifetime of Jesus, having lived 33 years. And many that took place in his three years of ministry, and certainly some of those he witnessed firsthand. But in this instance, Jesus chose to express his compassion by performing a miracle. And it can be asked, and I think fairly Why Jesus didn't have compassion on all who faced the tragic death of a loved one, so much so that Jesus raised them all from the dead. The simple answer is that such was physically impossible. By becoming a man, Jesus Had chosen to limit himself as all human beings are limited by time and space. And Jesus chose only certain ones to raise. Because in raising the ones he did, he was pointing to a greater resurrection. One that would be the final resurrection to eternal life. But this widowed mother would benefit in this life by her son being raised, just as we have described. But consider that this son would indeed die again. He would have to face his mortality all over again, sometime in the future. Which again tells us that Jesus wasn't bringing the young man back to life only for the sake of this life But was pointing to something much greater than the raising of one young man in one moment in time. Fifth, we observe that Jesus enables the once-dead man to immediately move He sat up and immediately communicated. He began to speak, giving obvious evidence to all who were there that what Jesus did was a true miracle. In making the miracle obvious to all, he is making it obvious that he is pointing to something greater beyond the miracle. He was pointing to himself to be the Messiah, the one of whom they had been waiting for, and the only thing that was required is for them to believe in him 6. We observed that Luke observed, which was that fear came upon all who witnessed a man rise from the dead. The Greek word for fear here is phobos, which can mean awe, it can mean reverence, and it can mean terror. It fits well here because the people expressing expressed being in awe, as some said, God had visited his people. But it could include terror, because the power to raise a person from the dead, that power was within Jesus. And that type of power Should invoke some sort of terror because, as Jesus said elsewhere, such power includes being able to send a person's body and soul to hell. My turn excuse me. Yeah. I turn now back to the Lord having compassion on the woman. The Greek word for compassion is to have pity, and it's to feel compassion as an emotion. We would say that Jesus felt for her, which means that his emotions identified with hers. Jesus had empathy for her plight. Now, I have been arguing that this healing was more than for the purpose of for one young man to live. And we can say the same about raising Lazarus from the dead. And Jesus felt compassion before that miracle as well, for we are told that Jesus wept when seeing the emotions of those who had loved Lazarus and who had watched him die. But Lazarus, after being raised, would also die again in the future. As Scripture says, it is determined that all men die once. Well, Lazarus and this young man in Luke chapter seven actually died twice. C. S. Lewis Faced death twice. Two years after his wife's death, Lewis began to have problems with his heart. He fell into a long coma and then unexpectedly recovered. Regarding the whole ordeal, Lewis said, quote It would have been a luxurious, easy passage, and one almost regrets having the door shut in one's face. To be brought back to life and have all one's dying to do again was rather hard In the cases of this young man in Luke 7 and Lazarus, I'm sure it was rather hard for each to face death again. And in both cases of their first death, the compassion, the empathy Jesus showed was for those who were still alive, but suffering from the pains of death. And I argue that the compassion Jesus showed, the empathy he had in this story, points to a greater compassion he has for all who call him Lord and Savior. Charles Spurgeon says the following about this Greek word for compassion Quote, it is not found in the Septuagint. The fact is, it is a word coined by the evangelists themselves. They did not find one in the whole Greek language that suited their purpose, and therefore they had to make one up It is an expression of the deepest emotion, a striving of the bowels, a yearning of the innermost nature with pity. That is how Jesus feels about those who follow him and call him Savior and Lord. And just as being raised from the dead points to something greater, which is the final resurrection, so too does the compassion of Jesus point to something greater, which is the compassion he has for us. As we struggle in this life to remain faithful to Him. Beloved, the compassion of Jesus expressed here is to get you through days when you don't want to get out of bed. When you don't know how the bills will be paid, when you don't want to have to change another dirty diaper. When you don't want to watch a loved one suffer, when you don't want to suffer yourself, when you have to stand by and watch a loved one slowly damage themselves And that compassion is for when friends abandon you. And all such things, Jesus has compassion for you. Understanding Jesus having compassion for you is to be in contrast to seeing him as having feet like brass and eyes like fire, as he is described in the book of Revelation. He is thought by some to be eager to return and pass judgment on all sinners. Some have speculated that one reason for the rise of Mariology, which is the worshiping of Mary, the mother of Jesus, It was because of how Jesus was being preached and how he was being presented in art in the Middle Ages, which was as a divine judge who was eager to condemn. Depictions of Mary and prayers to Mary were to a gentle woman who would pray to Jesus for the people, and Mary would hear the prayers of the people because she had compassion. But as we have learned of Jesus in this story in Luke 7, Jesus had compassion and has compassion, a great compassion, and a desire For you to endure the difficulties of this world because the promises in the next world are there for you, where you will have no need for compassion because you will be like him. Beloved, Jesus wants us to know him as our Savior who has compassion on us. And that compassion, that empathy, is to motivate us to trust him. To place our faith solely in him and to love him even more. We may note again that there were mourners who joined the widow, and thus they had compassion. Many went out to mingle their tears with hers, but the sympathy of all could only go so far. They cannot be expected to enter into the privacy of her woe. Human sympathy is at best imperfect, sometimes selfish, and always finite, always temporary. Not so with the compassion of Jesus, who joined that funeral procession. He could say, as no one else could, I know your sorrows. The condolences of the kindest friend on earth knows limit, but Jesus knows none. Jesus is compassionate toward you, and that should make all the difference. Let us pray. A gracious God, for this example of compassion that you placed in your son. For all that he revealed to us about who you are, all of this we are very grateful. And may it be used in our motivation to love you more, to trust in you more. That we might trust you to the end of our days. This we pray in Jesus' name