In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Certain passages from Holy Scripture can be difficult to hear Where they stir up emotional frustration because they sound so easy, but are actually very difficult for some people One such passage for me is St. Paul's directive to be not weary in well-doing. I've commented before that such instruction is frustrating because we are not told how we are not to be weary and well-doing. Another passage, again, for some people, may be St. Paul's instruction to count it all joy when you encounter various trials. Again, how do you count something as joy when you feel no joy, but in fact you feel the opposite? In our passage from Philippians chapter 4, verse 6, we are instructed to be anxious for nothing. That is not easy to do for some people. Anxiety overwhelms some people so much so that just thinking about their anxiety makes them anxious. Now, to Paul's credit, he does say that we are to replace our anxiety with prayer, supplication, and thanksgiving. For those who suffer from greater anxiety, prayers, supplications, and thanksgivings don't balance out the feelings of anxiety I hope to help with such a dilemma in this sermon. So let's look at Philippians chapter 4, looking at verse 5. The word gentleness might be rendered forbearance, allowing it to carry with it the ideas of patience and graciousness. When we consider that the church at Philippi was facing some opposition, specifically persecution for their faith, Paul was then reminding them to be gentle-spirited as Jesus himself was. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul refers to, quote, the meekness and gentleness of Christ, using the same word here. A reason why Christians should be gentle is given, which is that the Lord is near. The phrase at hand is ambiguous in the Greek as it is in the English. It can mean near in terms of space or time. Either understanding would make sense here. Either understanding would serve as an excellent reason for Christians to face the difficulties posed by other people with patience And with grace. Either the Lord is at hand to help and protect us, or he is near to returning, and we have only to be faithful servants until he comes. The latter case is favored by most commentators as it is a reminder of the Lord's admonition to be like faithful servants who are waiting for their master to return. is worth pointing out that the sentence, the Lord is at hand, is not grammatically connected to anything else. It stands by itself. So it is just as possible to provide motivation for the exhortation that follows it or from the exhortation that precedes it. Or it's likely both. Consider this point. There is a reason not to be anxious because the King of Kings will soon be here and put all things right. and reward his people for anything they have endured in his name. In verse six, the anxiety That Paul is commanding Christians to lay aside is defined as unreasonable worry that detracts, that distracts, excuse me, worry that results from a forgetfulness Of God and a forgetfulness of his promises. There is, of course, a proper kind of worry, the worry that comes from love and concern for others The proof of this type of worry-anxiety is actually in verse 6 and in chapter 2, verse 20, it describes Timothy being concerned about the Philippians' welfare. So there is simple advice to us here. Take your troubles to God and let the Almighty take care of them. The practice of your faith in Jesus to have all things under control is to counter the worry that tempts us. And we are to remember to thank God for what He has done for us, which will sweeten your spirit and keep your troubles in perspective. This is not the only place where Paul combines peace and thanksgiving. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 15, he says, Let the peace of Christ rule your hearts And be thankful. But you say, What if I don't feel at peace? What if I don't feel thankful? What does my lack of feelings combat my anxiousness? How does that work? We will get back to such dilemmas. In verse 7, we are given a promise, a result of not being anxious. The result is that God's peace will keep them, meaning it will replace the anxiousness and it will be sufficient for them. This peace is something that no one will understand who imagines it that it somehow takes some human effort There is something godlike about it, making it more wonderful than a person can know until such a person experiences it. A vast multitude of saints through the ages will say to that, Amen. They have found the peace of God like a like a garrison of soldiers protecting them and warding off the enemies, allowing them to rest. In the serenity while the world creates more chaos. Peace is both a very important word and idea in the human life Having a very elastic concept and definition. I grew up, as many of you did, with the word peace being used politically. as in wanting peace between the Soviet Union and the United States, or wanting peace in the Middle East. Today there is talk of the need for peace in the inner cities and between the races. Even when there is no real conflict, people still talk of the need for peace. But peace is also an intensively personal and private condition. Soldiers at war who are facing death every day can have peace, while people living in political and social conditions of quiet and prosperity still think they need more peace. People mean different things when they use that word piece. Humorist writer P. G. Wodehouse once quipped That the peace that passeth all understanding can only be experienced by the man who gives up golf I think golfers would get that. Some people define peace as simply the absence of inner turmoil or frustration or worry. That obviously is part of anyone's definition of peace, but Paul certainly means much, much more by peace than that. Because he held That a person could have peace in the midst of many trials and troubles of different kinds, and even have it during the most profound disappointments in life. Of course, the peace that Paul is describing is not a peace achieved from ignorance of a cold heart. Man can achieve such peace in the flesh by caring nothing about the world or his own self. The most evil man in the world can have such a peace But it is only the peace in the sense that a man in a coma has peace. Instead, Paul is talking about a different thing. He calls it the peace of God But what is the peace of God? Well, it is first a gift. It comes from him. Jesus, you remember, told his disciples, My peace I leave with you. And here in Philippians chapter 4, verse 7, we have a similar idea. The peace of God Actively guarding our hearts. Second, we can know that the peace of God necessarily includes having peace with God Himself. Such peace is what every human being needs, whether they acknowledge it or not. To have peace with God is to be forgiven of sins and being able to call him Father. It is laying one's head down at night, trusting that your soul is in his care, whether you awake the next morning or not. Thirdly, the peace of God is a supernatural reality. Thus it is not something that we can create on our own work or or work up to it by some technique such as Practicing yoga or some other transcendental meditation. This is where it is found as surpassing all understanding. Such peace lies in the spiritual world, and that is why it can touch our souls Is where we have deep communion with God, and such communion lies beyond both our comprehension and our vocabulary. Corey Timboom, whom I have mentioned in this pulpit before, endured a concentration camp of the Nazis during World War II. Joined by her father and her sister. Her father died only two weeks after being captured. Her sister Betsy lived for a significant time before expiring as well within the camp. In Corey's book titled A Prisoner and Yet She writes about the peace of her sister as an otherworldly thing. As Corey and Betsy were becoming acclimated to life in a concentration camp. Corey observed the following as she watched her sister Betsy in the barracks sitting on a bed a few rows over doing some mending. She described her sister as follows. There was something home-like about the way she sat there. Her face was so peaceful and sweet. The pleasant atmosphere which Betsy always seemed to create at her about her at home had not left her even here. That she lived a life devoted and in service to the Lord before her imprisonment, which shone on her face and in her actions while imprisoned. It is hard to imagine using the word peaceful when describing anything about the experience of a person imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp. But there it was. I get concerned when Christians do not have peace. The supernatural kind. I conjecture that a lack of peace is from an incorrect way of understanding ourselves. And the expectations we might have that do not come from God's Word. I am thinking of expectations such as how we should feel on the inside. I have mentioned Dr. Carl Truman's book before, titled The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self, where he argues quite convincingly that we moderns are living in a therapeutic age Where we see ourselves and the world, including its history, through therapeutic lenses, where everything is diagnosed psychologically, and all that comes back to how we feel And by feel I mean our emotions. What I'm getting at is that the peace of God transcends and descends our emotions. It goes higher and deeper than how we feel at any given moment. Think about how we talk to one another, whether in a deep conversation or chit-chat. How are you feeling? We begin focusing on emotion. Oh, I'm so happy for you, we respond. Again, emotion. That sounds sad. I'm sorry to hear that. Again, focusing on emotions. I have the worst Bible study question ever asked. Here it is. It sounds something like, how does that passage make you feel? But it is not just feelings in the therapeutic age, it is also desire. What we desire is suddenly who we are. Our identity is what or who we desire. Beloved, this elevating of feelings and desires are idols to be smashed. Please hear these truths Feelings can be controlled and even changed. Not with ease, I would never pretend it is done with ease. Desires can be controlled as well, and yes, even change. Again, not easily, but it can be done. And being ruled by feelings or desires is the opposite of God's peace, which is again a gift spiritually given. In fact, the peace of God has a defiance about it, which again points to its supernatural nature. For Paul, the peace of God acknowledges the many things that tempt anxiousness, but instead of crumbling under all of life's weight The peace of God fills the heart in defiance of negative expectations. No matter the existence Of reasonable fears and even crushing disappointments, the peace of God overcomes. Consider that Paul does not encourage Christians with the peace of God so that all things will go well from now on. Things were not well for the Philippians, nor for the Apostle Paul, who was riding, we remember, from prison. The only motivation Paul gives is that the Lord is near. Again, God's peace is supernatural. It rests on the reality of God as known, loved, and trusted by his people, and upon the reality of his second coming. And the heavenly hope, which is the happiest conceivable ending to one's life as a follower in Jesus Christ. There is a Latin phrase that we Christians should get to know better. It is pronounced hub specie eternitatis. It means literally under the aspect or from eternity. What it means practically is viewing a thing in terms of eternity. And that is what Paul is pointing to here. Christians are to live their lives each day, soup speci eternitatis, in view of eternity. With a view to what will be soon, with a view to how that soon-coming future ought to profoundly change our view of our present circumstances in life. Things have a very different meaning and a very different aspect if they are considered in reference to what they mean for eternity. Be anxious for nothing. The Lord is near. Troubles can be very heavy, but they get much lighter if they are viewed. From the sight of eternity. The Lord Jesus had to go to the cross. A greater suffering no man has come near to enduring in this world. And yet he was strengthened to endure it, for the scripture says, for the joy that was set before him. On the other side of the cross was a future so magnificent, so wonderful, so happy that the prospect nerved him to bear up under the crisis, though he had To pass for our salvation. Well, says Paul, you are to think of your own life, your own problems and troubles and sorrows in this same way. Sub space eternitatis in view of eternity. The Lord is near Perpetua and Felicity, a young noblewoman and her slave, were martyred for their faith in A. D. 203 under the Empress Severus. At the time of their arrest, Perpetua had an infant son and Felicity was pregnant. While she was in prison, Perpetua wrote about the circumstances leading up to their death. in a diary that was later published as the Passion of Saints Perpetua and Felicity, one of the earliest writings by a Christian woman. In her diary, Perpetua describes an interaction with her father as he came and begged her to recant her faith. While we were still under arrest, my father, out of love for me, was trying to persuade me and shake my resolution. Father, I said, Do you see this vase here, for example? Yes, I do, he said. And I told him, could it be called by any other name than what it is? And he answered, no. Well, so too I cannot be called anything other than what I am, a Christian. Prior to their arrest, the women had been studying the scriptures and preparing for baptism They were baptized in prison by their teacher, who was imprisoned with them. The prison warden was so inspired by their faith, he also converted. A penalty for professing the name of Christ, perpetua and felicity were sentenced to death. Yet with God's peace in their hearts, they remained serene in the face of their fate. A note from an editor at the end of Perpetua's diary describes the day of their victory dawned, and they marched from the prison to the amphitheater joyfully, as though they were going to heaven. with calm faces, trembling, if at all, with joy rather than fear. Propetua went along with shining countenance and calm step, as the beloved of God, as a wife of Christ Putting down everyone's stare by her own intense gaze. Perpetua and felicity were thrown into the arena of wild animals, but they were not killed. Tragically, the Emperor Severus then commanded that they be put to death by the sword. Beloved, the martyrs are for our encouragement. And that what we face in this life, we can do so with the peace of God in our hearts, as it was in their hearts, making our trials but shadows. But we can face even our shadows with the peace of God and our eye on eternity. Let us pray. Our gracious God, for these challenges we accept them all. Seeing the standard is set before us by our Savior and by those who have followed him to martyrdom death. Encourage us this day to face all of our fears for they trust that you are not only near, but there is eternity waiting. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.