In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, beginning at verse 18 Be mindful that it is your responsibility to follow in God's Word and be sure that the preacher is preaching the truth. So check it out. 1 Corinthians 8, chapter 1, verse 18 and following. We are to recall St. Paul's instruction in verse 10. of chapter 1, for the Christians in court to have no division among them regarding what they confess in terms of the Christian faith. It is with that goal in mind that we are to look at the remaining verses of this chapter. So follow again with me. In verse 18, Paul summarizes his entire message and the gospel itself as, quote, the word of the cross. There have been many attempts made through Christian history, and they are being made well as today, to refashion Christianity into a message that does not focus on the cruel death of our Redeemer. But for Paul, for the Bible, for the New Testament, the gospel message is about the cross. Without embarrassment, we say that we have a Savior who died for us. Verse 19, the word wisdom, or the Greek Sophia, is used for the first time quoting the prophet Isaiah. It is used 17 times in 1 Corinthians, and six of those times it is used in the first three chapters. Elsewhere in Paul's letters, Sophia is used only 11 more times. So obviously this idea of wisdom is a matter of concern for these Corinthians. Corinth, you recall, was steeped in Greek culture. And for Greeks, Sophia referred to philosophy together with rhetorical eloquence. The men who could think and speak well were the most respected. These Corinthian Christians apparently had fallen prey to the temptation to want their newfound Christianity to compare well with Greek philosophy and the morality of those eloquent sophists, as they were famous for their teaching. Paul's message is that Christianity could not be born of human wisdom. Its message is of a crucified Messiah. No worldly wisdom would ever come up with that. So Paul begins with this citation from Isaiah. reminding them that the world's wisdom, far from being the pattern that Christians are to emulate, and not something that Christians are to embrace for themselves That wisdom stands, in fact, under the judgment of God. In fact, God said that he would destroy human wisdom In verse 20, the word scribe is a reference to a Jewish rabbi or teacher of the law. Both Jews and Gentiles are to be the focus of his remarks in the remaining verses. From verse 21, we are to understand that the world's wisdom and God's wisdom cannot be reconciled. The wisdom of the world keeps people from God. It does not bring them to God. In verses 22 through 24, The word stumbling block is the word scandal, which has here mean a meaning, not something that makes a person stumble, but something that is deeply offensive. The Jews sought miraculous signs because that is what they expected the Messiah would deliver for them He would, they believed, be like Moses and repeat the triumph of the Exodus, but on a greater scale. Their Messiah would shake off Rome like Moses shook off Egypt. The Greeks, in comparison, wanted reason and Sophia Theirs was a great civilization that astounded the world with its progress. It was their very advances that had caused many to abandon the belief in their traditional gods. and pursue philosophy and reason instead. People still do the same today. Instead of signs and Sophia, God gave them a crucified Savior. For both the Greeks and the Jews, it was like trading grandeur for humiliation. For the Jews, the crucified Messiah was an oxymoron, like jumbo shrimp. To the Greeks, it wasn't so much irreverent as it was ridiculous. In verse 25, the wisdom of God is compared to the wisdom of men. Some may ask Why didn't God just give them signs and a wisdom that would have impressed the world instead of this silly story of a cross? The reason for Paul is that it is in this weakness and foolishness that salvation comes. Here in this foolishness we find the true wisdom, and in this weakness is true power. In verses 26 through 28, we see that there is another way in which the gospel defies expectations. Not only is its message totally contrary to what the world expects of a religion that is worth their attention, It does not find its converts among the beautiful people, the great people of the world, but it finds its converts among the least of these. This included the Corinthians themselves. There is a third-century pagan critic of Christianity who made this very point when he said, he wrote. In offense, Christians included in their midst the uneducated, the dishonorable, the stupid, the slaves, even women and children All were thought to be third-class citizens. And of course, Jesus takes such criticism as a compliment. In verses 29 through 30, we are given the reason why God chooses the lower class. It is to destroy every human pretense. of our merit before God. Every human idea that we have something that will make God sit up and take notice of us. It is done to destroy our pride, the very thing that destroyed Adam and Eve. From verse 31, we can sum up the point by noting that everything we have and everything we are that is good is from the Lord. Only He is deserving of our praise. As Christians of today, we may think of our faith as repeatedly laughed at Scorn by comedians, Hollywood in general, neo-atheists, the liberal press, liberal professors, and so on. But still, we face nothing like what believers faced in the early days of the church The message of the cross was genuine foolishness in the view of a great many, especially the cultured elite. The Jews, of course, were incensed by the claim of Christians that the Messiah had come, but that he had come to be crucified. They had an expectation of the coming of the Messiah, but crucifixion, weakness, suffering for sin had no place in their expectation. The Messiah's coming would be in a glory, not humiliation. Add this to Deuteronomy chapter 21, where God says to curse anyone who hangs on a tree The Christian doctrine of Jesus Christ was such a complete repudiation of Jewish thinking about the Messiah, it is no wonder that they found it profoundly offensive. At the same time, we have the Gentiles rejecting it for different reasons. The notion that the meaning of the world should be found in a Jewish rabbi who was crucified outside of Jerusalem, in their view, that was ridiculous. Christian faith and experience has over many generations since cast such a halo around the image of the cross That we have a very difficult time appreciating what a cross symbolized in the first century world. We make crosses of gold and hang them around our necks. Our churches are decorated with crosses. We sing of the blessed cross, the glorious cross, the rugged cross. We pray that God would keep us near the cross or beneath the cross. But citizens of the first century would have thought such expressions madness. For a moment, consider it from their perspective. Jesus was a convicted, sentenced, and crucified criminal. No criminal deserves to be worshipped and certainly does not deserve to be thought of as God. In a fascinating and important study on crucifixion in the ancient world. A German scholar named Martin Hengel Points out that references to crucifixions were few and far between in the literary remains of the culture. The sophisticated were ashamed of crucifixion, and having witnessed it, they had a deep aversion to it. And he states the following, quote, For the men of the ancient world, Greeks, Romans, barbarians, and Jews, the cross was not just a matter of indifference, just any kind of death It was an utterly offensive affair, obscene in the original sense of the word. There is a graffiti that has been discovered by archaeologists on the Palatine Hill in Rome. It dates from the third century. It is a drawing of a youthful, it is drawn by a youthful hand, and it depicts a boy standing in the posture of worship with one hand raised. The object of his devotion is a figure on the cross. And the figure has the body of a human and the head of a donkey. And underneath the picture is scrawled the words, Alexamenos worships his God. Thus the graffiti is a young Christian's beliefs being mocked And chief among those beliefs that made the boy's faith so silly to his peers was this notion that he worshipped someone who died on a cross. And here I wish to say something about modern Christianity that goes back at least to the 70s and into the 80s. Even though God did not intend for the Christian faith to be popular or mainstream, and that God knew that it would be the opposite of every cultural fad, Some Christians have tried to make it popular with the apparent concern to make it appeal to younger generations. And so we have Christian radio with Christian rock and even Christian rap. We have Christian celebrities who try to be fashionable and trendy. We uphold any celebrity or any professional athlete who claims to be a Christian as models for our teenagers We have cool pastors who wear skinny jeans and wireless microphones while talking real to the people. We have latte bars and vestibules and entertainment for the kids. who will we would never expect to sit in worship. And we have wacky youth pastors who try to make Christianity fun. And none of this has anything to do with the gospel. And if I may, appears to be ashamed of Jesus on the cross. What St. Paul believed would reach the younger generations is what reaches every generation of believers. It is the historic, detailed facts of the gospel story, the story that Jesus lived in detail. It is those details that include his gruesome death along with his glorious resurrection. There is a reason why people don't believe and why they find the cross offensive. And St. Paul said it to us in verse 18. He said, For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. They are perishing. They are perishing precisely because they do not know themselves to be perishing and have therefore no conception of their being in desperate need of redemption. As Paul says of himself in Romans chapter 7, Christ never made sense to him until he realized himself a sinner, in bondage to sin and in desperate need of redemption. Christ and the cross is for those, Paul says in verse 18, who are being saved. These Christians in Corinth had experienced the transformation of their lives. They had changed in many happy ways. But they had changed because they had embraced the message of the cross, received the forgiveness of their sins, the power to repent of those sins and to live a new life and to have hope for a life to come. Paul came to Corinth with no other message than the message of the cross. The message of our sin. God's wrath, Christ's substitution of himself for us, and bearing our punishment. He came with that message in defiance of the fact that it was ridiculous to the Greeks Because it was the truth. And the only way they could get out of their sin was to hear that truth and accept it. The fact that they did not know they were perishing didn't stop Paul He preached their sin and God's wrath and Christ's redemption and the Holy Spirit worked that truth in some of their lives and transformed some of them. But some might say he could have appealed to them differently and been more successful. And the only answer is no. No, he could not have. Considering the Jews in comparison to the Greeks, they thought about life to come and how to get there. But they didn't think in terms of salvation, of their being deserving of God's wrath, of their being unable to escape it by themselves. and of their being rescued by a loving and powerful Redeemer who had to take their place and die for their sins. They thought of heaven as something that they must earn in the ordinary ways of ceremonial and moral obedience. But by God's will, some among them also fell under the Holy Spirit. Their own terrible sin and guilt they understood. The exquisite holiness of God and being Christ for them, sin for them, made their plight becoming righteous for them It is only when our sin and God's wrath is revealed to the conscience that suddenly the cross makes perfect sense. And Christ is seen for what he and he alone can give. The message, of course, fell on deaf ears in Corinth many more times than it was embraced. But God had converted people in that city. And the Holy Spirit opened the eyes and ears of them all, of what they would never have believed before, suddenly became to them utterly self-evident. Also surprising and wonderful. And so we make a complete circle. Paul reminds these Christians that worldly wisdom has nothing to do with the gospel. Worldly wisdom, such as it was prized and sought of in Corinth, has self-sufficiency and self-congratulation and self-love shot through it. It promotes itself as the answer to man's needs, and that of course is for us genuinely ridiculous. For we have been living with that wisdom now for thousands of years and have not gotten much of anything from it. There was no gospel, no good news in Judaism or Greek philosophy. There was advice, advice that didn't amount to much, as it turned out. But no wonderful news of God's love and our rescuer from sin and death. True wisdom Is much more honest, painfully honest than the wisdom of the world. It forces us to recognize that our problem is not our circumstance, it is not other people Our problem is ourselves. We are sinners. Selfish, disobedient, unkind. We do not by nature live in a way that pleases God. Our Creator's greatest purpose in us, we do not fulfill. We are utterly careless of God and His interests, His law and His commandments, His holiness and purity. And all that sin must pay a wage. It provokes the holy wrath of God, his justice. This may not be what people think about their lives. It's certainly not what people want to think about their lives, but it is in fact the truth about their lives. There is a dilemma of epic proportion. What can be done? How can I face God with my sinful life? And then comes the wonderful good news, the word of the cross. You can do nothing, but Christ has done everything. On the cross he bore in your place the punishment of your sins. Believe in him and you will be saved. Saved in this life and saved to live and love and rejoice forever. That was the message Paul brought to Corinth. Salvation for sinners through God's love and Christ's sacrifice That is the message of the cross that has been proclaimed throughout the world ever since. It remains foolishness to most human beings even to today. But to those whose minds the Holy Spirit illuminates, it is the most clear and compelling, the most self-evident and self-authenticating, the most heartwarming and soul-stirring truth in all the world. The message of the cross is that mankind is perishing in sin, and that Christ and Christ alone can deliver men and women, boys and girls from guilt and sin and give them eternal peace. It may not be hit. It may not satisfy the tastes of the sophisticated. It may not appear to vast numbers of people to be a message of any immediate relevance. They may well prefer to think about many other things, and they do. We know the basic temptation of Satan is what he said to Eve in the garden. Did God really say? The devil has deceived many people by having them doubt what God said. And he is a master at making that first question a domino question so that if he can get a person to doubt one thing God has said, Then many other things God has said are next doubted. He did so in the Episcopal Church in the USA Presbyterian Church. By doubting God actually said that he did not want women to hold leadership over man in the church. And once that was doubted, the whole Christian ethics was doubted, and we have those in those churches today who both teach immoral things and are immoral themselves. Another form of did God really say is I wish God would have said it differently or done it differently. Those who think and say such things are listening to the whispers of the devil. Repent from such thinking and accept what God actually said and did. He sent his son, Jesus, to die on the cross. That is what he said, and that is what he did, and that is what he wants us to tell the world. I listened to a gentleman named Jeff Walton this week. This gentleman lives in Washington, D. C. , and he works for a think tank. That in part evaluates trends in religion. He stated that religious communities grow when they offer people something that no one else is offering. And the serious people want something that is counter-culture. The message of the cross Is something that no one else has, and it most certainly is counterculture. What we must do better is lift high the cross without shame and believe in its redemptive authority. If we pass that confidence in the cross On to the next generation. We will see God's kingdom come in our lives. Believe it. Amen. Let us pray.