In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue our preaching through the book of Genesis. We are in Genesis chapter 2, which is where our epistle reading came from. It is well discussed and defended that the basis for the fall of humanity by way of our first parents Is and was the sin of pride. Eve wanted to be like God, and then Adam wanted to be like God, and then Humanity became much less like God than before because humanity sinned, all of humanity sinned when Adam and Eve sinned. But chapter 2 of Genesis reveals a sister sin to pride at the fall. The sin of choosing to be discontent. Consider how more subtle being discontent is to the sin of pride. The sin of pride is usually outwardly manifested. It has to be because at the heart of pride is selfishness. And that means the person is concerned about him or herself first and last, resulting in decisions being made, thoughts being focused upon, while figuring out the question, what is in this for me? Choices are made in accordance with the prideful person, what they perceive is best for him, and the selfish acts that follow can be viewed by others. Choosing to be discontent in comparison starts and can stay within a person. It can reside in the mind and the soul without anyone else noticing. It is only after a person acts out his or her discontentment that anyone can know that the sin was present. Without being seen. And the acting out may not appear to be discontentment. It can look instead like lust or greed or simple disobedience But it starts in the heart with being discontent. Consider a woman who has a broken marriage because of the sin of her husband. He is a habitual drug user. The woman and mother is a professing Christian and is protective of her children and she wants to stay away from the influence of the father so she separates from her husband to protect her children and herself from her husband's blatant lawbreaking. She lives in celibacy and provides for her children. God helps her into a good-paying job and a nice home. But loneliness grows within her as she longs more and more for companionship, both physically and socially. She meets a man who is not a Christian, but offers the companionship that she craves. God has said that she should not be unequally yoked, and that he can be sufficient for her during her time of trial. But what she wants, she wants now. And what she has, she wants more of. And so she ignores the scriptures. She ignores the authority of the church, such as not only ignoring the church but her own conscience. And she chooses the unbeliever. And such is not a made-up story, but one of many that I have witnessed as a pastor. The devil is most certainly aware of the enticement, the enticing power of the sin of being discontent. God is well aware of the enticing power of the temptation to be discontent, and so he gives us what can easily make us content. He first gives humanity rest. After six days of created work, God establishes his creation with a day of rest. He didn't have to rest, for he tells us through the prophet Isaiah that he does not grow weary or tired He does not sleep. Sleep is for the temporal. God is not temporal. He is eternal. The eternal does not need to rest And yet he rested on the seventh day. And by doing so, he sanctified the seventh day, making it holy, making it a day for being holy, for us practicing to do holy things. The seventh day being holy is later solidified as being part of God's covenant with his people. It is the fourth commandment where God says, honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. It is to be understood as a day for humanity. It is a day every human needs to be able to find reprieve in order to be well in serving God in the next six days that follow. It is a day, Jesus taught, that is for mankind. The Sabbath is made for man, not man for the Sabbath. The Sabbath then serves us. It enables us to be more physically healthy, more mentally healthy, and more spiritually healthy. The Sabbath puts our human lives in proper order regarding priority. God's order of time is regarded as right and necessary. When we remember the Sabbath, we remember God and we remember the one who created the day to remember Him. From the revelation of Jesus as Messiah, we learn that the Sabbath is not only a day that enables us to rest and therefore to properly prioritize our lives. It is also a type of eternal rest that God promises for those who follow Jesus as Lord and Savior. And not only is the Sabbath a type of heavenly rest, but we are to understand that Jesus himself, his person, is a Sabbath rest. For he gives rest to the souls of men. Souls that before the forgiveness of God through Jesus, souls are blotted, marred, scarred, troubled, and in turmoil. What Jesus provides the soul is rest, a rest that is better experienced than described, for it brings a calm to the seared conscience and a hope of a guilty heart. These aspects of the Sabbath as it serves us are targets of the devil, prime, prime targets. The devil has worked on you and will continue to work on you to tempt you to be discontent with all that the Sabbath means to your understanding of time. He tempts you to be discontent with the era you live, as you contemplate that the decades before you, this before this present day, were much better and you would have been much happier if you would have lived only in those times. He makes you discontent with the time you spend at work, trying to get you to think about jobs you don't have or that would be a lot better than the one you do, even though it provides all that you need. The devil tries to make you discontent with time in terms of your social and recreational life. He tells you to live for the weekends and then complain about how fast they go when Monday comes around. The devil and his demons tempt you to find something, anything to do on Sunday besides worshiping God. The devil loves football on Sundays. He loves soccer on Sundays, basketball on Sundays, baseball on Sundays, fishing on Sundays, air shows on Sundays, traveling on Sundays, visitors on Sundays, and for you to feel that there is not enough Sunday fun days in your ear. He entices you to want every day to be a Sunday fun day, and that they don't have anything to do with God Because the Sabbath day is a type of heavenly rest for believers, the devil next tempts us to be discontent with the hope of heaven. The promise of heaven for those who believe in Jesus is to be one of the greatest motivations for us to remain faithful to our God. And so the devil attacks it. He attacks it by getting us to imagine heaven as boring, probably like listening to Pastor Eric's sermon. Who wants to do that? He attacks it by getting us to imagine heaven as merely existential or too difficult to attain. He wants heaven to be so very surreal to us that it is unreal, and that we should want something more or at least something different. He tempts us to be discontent with heavenly hope. And the third way we are tempted to be discontent with the Sabbath. is for us to be discontent with Jesus himself. Immature Christians can sound a great deal like an atheist And that atheists spend a great deal of time arguing against something they say doesn't exist. In the same manner, immature Christians will complain about the manner God loves them while not believing God loves them at all. The devil works to get us to ask the why questions. Why did this have to happen to me? Why don't I feel different? Why does everything happen to me or not happen to me? The devil tries to convince us that we can stand in judgment of God, for we can do a better job at running the universe better than he is doing. When professing Christians take such a posture in front of God, he or she is saying that Jesus is not enough. What Jesus did was not enough. What Jesus said was not enough. What he taught was not enough. How he loved with his arms stretched wide was not enough. And we should be reminded here of the disciples that we read in our gospel reading who no longer followed Jesus because what he was teaching was too hard for them to understand. For them, Jesus wasn't what or who they thought he should be and they walked away. If people can be discontent with the man who spoke living words, then people can be discontent with anything. In Genesis chapter 2, not only did God provide the Sabbath for his people, he also provided a help meet for Adam. Male and female, he created man. When Adam named the creatures of the earth, he realized that he was alone. He didn't have a mate, like all the other creatures did. Now, consider that this is actually a good discontentment. This is a righteous discontentment. For Adam sees that that his soul needs something. Just like a man when he realizes he needs God, that's a righteous discontentment. And so man can righteously be be discontent in recognizing his need for companionship. In this case, a woman. God wants us to want more when it is applied to his will. He wants us to be discontent about not having enough of his kingdom, not having enough of his righteousness. For Adam, it was God's will that he would want more and that he would get more, and once he got more, she alone would be enough. The poets and theologians have recognized how appropriate it was for the woman to be created from the side of Adam. She is not of his head to rule over him, or of his feet to be under him, but by his side. She is his helpmeet. Adam needs help and Eve needs help, needs to be helped, excuse me, needs to help. She is for him and he is for her. She is from his side also, for she is from what is closest to his heart. She thus becomes a source for his love and unity and wholeness. And God gives them unity and wholeness by making the two become one. We should be careful here, for man by himself does not need a woman, nor does a woman need a man to bear the image of God. Each bears the image of God within themselves, by themselves. When God makes them one, it is a spiritual unity that cannot be broken in this life. It cannot be broken because the word God made is based on covenants. And a man and a woman becoming one is a covenant designed and blessed by God. St. Paul writes of an interdependence men and women have for one another. Woman comes from man in the beginning and then men come from women in every birth since the beginning. The interdependence is where true equality resides, as well as being in Christ, for we are told by Paul, in Christ there is neither male nor female, but all are one under Christ Jesus. But humanity isn't content with male or female, nor with one man and one woman. No, humanity thinks it can do better than God, so we make up new categories. Most have heard of the LBGT categories, standing for lesbian, bisexual, gay, or homosexual, and transgender. Today there is a gender, which uses the A as a negation to stand for not identifying with any gender There is the big gender that supposedly allows a person to identify as both male and female at the same time. There is gender fluid, which supposedly allows a person to identify with either male or female, depending on the situation and how they feel. There are other categories, but these I have listed cover most people who used extra categories Now let it be clearly understood that people who struggle with identity issues are not to be laughed at. scorned, mocked, jeered, or treated in any way as less than a person who in them has the image of God. Compassion should be given for a person who struggles with his or her identity. But such persons who struggle with identity do not have the right or the authority to make new categories of gender. To be discontent with what God has established might be a great deal of the problem they are having, or a cause that they are having, a cause of their identity struggle. So there they were, Adam and Eve together in a garden that contained all that they needed for life and for godliness. It was all at their disposal to feast upon, to frolic, to be free with one another and with all of God's creation. All but one thing. God had set parameters around them so that when they stayed within those parameters they could enjoy it all. And with peace of conscience and heart, all but one thing. And it is the one thing that the devil used to entice with feelings of discontentment. Now I say feelings of discontentment because it could not have been anything else. For Adam and Eve to succumb to the temptation to be discontent could not have been physical because everything they needed was provided for them. There was no physical need. It could not have been a logical temptation for being discontent while having everything needed does not make logical sense. It had to be an emotional temptation. Adam and Eve were tempted by the devil to feel discontent, leading them to want what they could not have and did not need. It is an irony of the human condition that what we feel, the emotions we have, are a great deal of what it means to be human. And yet, they are the least trusted part of us as humans. Our feelings cannot and should not be trusted as authoritative. And yet all of us allow them to rule us from time to time, and sometimes even to the point of sinning because of what we feel. The devil is aware of Genesis chapter 2, in that he knows it presents the building blocks for human societies. The building block of man and a woman becoming one, having children and subduing creation so that their family can grow and flourish. The building block then is attacked. If the devil can break up the man and the woman, he can control societies and the cultures they built. And he attacks the building block of a man and a woman who are one flesh by tempting them to be discontent with one another. God counters by telling men to enjoy the wife of your youth. He speaks of love between a man and a woman as a beautiful example of his love for his people. He instructs men to love their wives as Jesus loves the church, and for wives to respect their husbands as they are to respect the Lord. He then instructs through Paul that women should give their bodies to their husbands and their husbands, their bodies to their wives, so that the devil cannot tempt them to want desire someone else. It is all there for married couples to be content. And yet the temptation to be discontent has a hold on many. Many who even claim that Jesus is their Lord and Savior. A clear message in Genesis chapter 2 is that God is always providing enough for his people to be content. But it is it is by faith that God's people, we as God's people, are to trust that what He has given us is enough. Hear these many passages of promise and have faith. From Philippians chapter 4, verse 19. And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in the glory of Christ. From Matthew 6, verses 31 and 32. Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. From Matthew chapter 7, verse 11. If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your will your Father, who is in heaven, give you good things to those who ask of him? From Luke chapter 12, verse 24, consider the ravens. They neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds? From Psalm 34, verse 10, the young lions suffer want of hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. And finally, from 2 Corinthians 9 verse 8, and God is able to make all grace abound to you So that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work. May we abound in every good work. Let us pray. Our Father, we at this time together acknowledge your goodness, your provision, that you have given all that we need for life and godliness. Father, forgive us for times of being discontent. Remind us of its danger. Remind us of the way the devil attacks us to tempt us to be discontent. And may we always remember and focus upon the promises you give and have fulfilled. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.