In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. In your Bibles, we're going to be covering from Ezra chapter 5. Through Ezra chapter six. So we're dealing with all the content of five and then all the content of chapter six. Historical negationism. Historical negationism is making illegitimate distortions of historical record. It is also called by some historical revisionism, but such a description is not harsh enough. Historical negationism is doing more than revising the past. It is an attempt to change the past. From what it truly was. It is for good forging documents and labeling them as genuine evidence It is the inventing of implausible reasons for distrusting genuine documents. It is manipulating statistics to say something did or did not happen. Notable examples include Holocaust denial. Armenian genocide denial, Japanese war crime denial, and American Southern slavery depictions. The purpose is primarily for the sake of propaganda. For example, if the Nazi Party of Germany wants to make a political comeback To regain political power, it would have to change the number of Jews that were killed in concentration camps. In fact, it would likely have to deny the existence of concentration camps altogether. They would then have to come up with evidence that would put into question historical footage, both in moving pictures and still pictures, of the many people who were discovered by the Allies when they opened up those gates to those camps. The Nazis would then have to destroy or change documents that ordered such camps to exist. And the words of Hitler calling for the extinction of the Jews would have to be stricken or distorted. And finally, the Nazis would have to come up with evidence that shows that the Allies were not less evil than the Nazis when it came to war crimes. That would play on the consciences of the masses. From my research of the subject of Holocaust denial, I discovered that the Germans had in place before the Second World War ended, that if they were to be defeated, they would destroy all German records that spoke of the Holocaust. Tells you what they really knew about the Holocaust. Himmler was one leader who ordered camps to be destroyed, even the breaking down of crematoria to hide evidence of crimes against humanity. And perhaps most of us think in the following manner. The inhumanity And the vast number of deaths caused by the Holocaust give us a sense of disbelief To our consciences, perhaps because we don't want to believe that our fellow human beings are capable of such atrocities. And when we see the evidence in picture form, we do believe it. And such pictures are so horrifying, we are in disbelief that anyone would deny that it happened When considering what we have just witnessed, at a certain level, we are watching historical negationism occur among us today. We have seemingly very uneducated people insisting that we tear down images of men of our nation's history that had beliefs that we deem now unconscionable. Such men had prejudices that some conclude disqualify them from the human race, even if the memory of them includes virtues that are worthy to emulate. And I preached several weeks ago that to destroy monuments to such men is to not understand the gospel. And I use that because here in Ezra V, we have the privy to a letter that shows a people. Who understand the grace of God so much that they have every confidence that God would give them victory over their detractors. And that they could and would fulfill God's call on them to rebuild the temple. They did this all in light of their own sin, knowing their sin Allow me to retell the story that is found in Ezra 5 and 6 so that we don't have to read it all this morning. I hope that once we do, then we can highlight two portions of this narrative that I believe stand out Recall from last week that we learned that Israel had stopped rebuilding the temple because the Samaritan leaders They kept writing letters to the kings of Persia and getting those kings to side with them in regards to forcing the Israelites to stop rebuilding. Every time there was a new king of Persia, he would be told how dangerous these small the small tribe of Israel was, those that had returned to rebuild the temple A return, by the way, that was not only allowed by Cyrus, king of Persia, but Cyrus helped them along the way. But the Samaritans kept lying in their letters, saying that Israel was a bunch of rebels, and so Israel kept running into walls. Soon they got tired of being turned away, and so they chose to be faithless. They no longer believed that God wanted them to build or rebuild the temple. And then because God called his prophets, Haggai and Zechariah, and their words were believed by the people, causing them to get up. off of their faithless rear ends and start building again. But the Samaritan regional governor, appointed by the king of Persia, didn't like the fact that the Israelites had started building the temple again. So he challenged them and he asked them by what authority they were doing this work. Now it should be noted that the governor went to great lengths to be just. He needs to be given credit for that. He did great went to great lengths to be just. In the matter, because he allowed the people of Israel to present their side of the events and to testify of their perspective in the letter sent to the king. A letter, as I mentioned, was then sent to Darius, the then king of Persia, and it included Israel's side. How they saw the issue. After the king received the information, he had his scholars search the archives to see if the testimony of Israel was true. And of course it was true. And this caused King Darius to issue a decree that verified all of the testimony of the Israelites, and he even re-upped the commitment of Cyrus. Allowing and aiding the Jews to rebuild the temple. Tatania is his name, the governor. And all who were under him had no choice but to abide by the king's directive. And so we read at the end of chapter 6. That Israel finished the work that they had started, and they next offered to the Lord offerings of worship according to the law of Moses. And they did so, dedicating the rebuilt temple. And it says, with all joy. Chapter 5 and chapter 6 of Ezra. And what we have in these chapters is a story about how God sifted the hearts of the kings of Persia through his hands, moving them as he willed. The obstacles that were set before the Israelites were of no consequence when the people worked by faith and not by science. In these chapters, we have a story about how God used his own people. Used his own people to work towards his sovereign will. For that to be fulfilled, and he also used people that are not his people to work with his people to accomplish his sovereign will And we can conclude that no matter how chaotic the world seems, we can conclude that God does the same today. He uses his people. And he uses people who are not his people to work toward fulfilling his sovereign will. And all of us can say thanks be to God. What stands out in the events described in these two chapters, I believe, is twofold. The first standout is the honest confession made by the Israelites in their letter to the king, King Darius. They could have, in their reaccount of the events, left their past sins out. They could have briefly mentioned why they lost their land, not stating any detail. Instead, they confessed that their forefathers, in blood and in faith, had provoked the one true God in order to reveal his wrath. Their punishment was to become enslaved and taken from the land God had given them and place them in the land of what was Babylonia and now Persia It was their sin. They owned it. And they repeated it in writing so all could know it. I started off the sermon by talking about historical negationism because Israel is so very unique in doing the opposite. For they have the ability as a people to freely record the sins of their forefathers and confess those sins as their own. What these people of God seem to have understood is that the sins of their forefathers is part of who they are. It's part of their identity. That God has both punished them as a people and forgiven them as a people in relation to the sins of their forefathers is who they are I have mentioned before that I don't know of any people in the history of the world that records in detail the sins of their forefathers in the same manner that Israel has done. Historical negationism for Israel would be to try to erase the grace of God upon them, and they could not do that. It appears to be important to the redemption of God's people to acknowledge the sins of our past. And the mercies of God regarding those sins. In order to see ourselves for who we truly are Then this should occur as a nation, should occur as a church, and should occur within individual families. Consider the history of this parish. God has done gracious things among us, even while we have broken relationships with many people who no longer attend this parish. And I've said and done things in my relationship with people that have fallen short of the glory of God. Some have been confessed and offensive mended, and some have not. And all of these those instances are part of my history, and part of the history of this church, and my identity as a pastor of this church. But we don't record those breakups. If I'm going to write a summary of each year, I don't record those breakups Those lost relationships. Because they're not pleasant. But they are us. They are me Consider that when we read our New Testaments, we see similar stories. Mark left the mission field out of fear. Paul no longer trusted Mark. Barnabas left Paul because he disagreed with the way Mark was treated. Later, Paul confronted Peter on having on behaving like a hypocrite and told others about it. Other people left Paul's ministry because the temptations of the world was too strong for them. People lied to the church leaders and they were judged on the spot, and that's part of the church's identity There was incest in the church. Detractors sent false letters in Paul's name to cause fear. That's part of their identity. There were several false teachers and people who stirred up dissension and people who were filled with fear and all of it had to be overcome by confession and forgiveness and reconciliation. All of that and more happened in the first century church. That is the church. That is us. When we confess it as us, it allows us to be free of it. For we can be confident it is washed under the blood of Jesus. And what we have done wrong and what has been forgiven us make up who we are before God Now, I know how that might have sounded to some, and so I need to make a side note And I'm not saying that each of us needs to go around confessing our past sins to one another. That would be uh unnecessary But when past sins are true and they have relevant information about present circumstances, we should find freedom to share about those sins. Because the blood of Christ is applied to those sins, and that gives glory to God as a testimony to his mercies in Jesus. And when we have a chance to do that, that we ought to do. The second thing worth noting From chapters five and six is found in one particular phrase, in one particular verse. Look at chapter five, verse five. The phrase is, but the eye of their God was upon the elders. The eye of God was upon them. God was watching over their situation. And God was caring for them so that the outcome would be to his will and to their favor. Hear this truth from Psalm 34, 15. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. Now that may concern you because you think that you are not righteous. And this is true in and of yourselves. But you are not in and of yourselves, you are not alone. Jesus has forgiven you, the Holy Spirit dwells in you, and it is the forgiveness of God in Christ that makes you righteous So the eyes of the Lord are upon you. And from Job 36, 7 we hear how God cares for his people. Quote, He withdraweth not his eyes from them. He doesn't stop looking out for you and watching out for you When I say to my wife, which I do from time to time, I admired you from afar today, what am I communicating? Am I not communicating that I looked upon her with love and I looked upon her full of care, admiration, and affection? What I can't tell my wife is that my eyes were upon her in order to protect her from danger. I cannot mean that because I do not have the ability to be omnipresent. Thus it is only God who can say that he looks upon his people, and that means that he loves, cares for, admires, has affection for, and protects his people. Consider the whole time Samaritan enemies were writing Persian kings trying to negate history, God had his eyes upon his people. The whole time the people stopped working and thus stopped believing God's promises, God had his eye upon his people so that their faith would return. The time that Israel made itself vulnerable by telling King Darius about their sinful past, God had his eyes of mercy upon them, having forgiven their sin and turning the heart of the King Darius Toward their favor. When Ezra describes these events in chapters 5 and 6, we are to know that Ezra was not present. Ezra was not yet in Jerusalem when these events happened. They were told to him. And in recounting of the events, as he writes them down, he places that phrase, but the eye of God was upon the elders. That's his phrase. Ezra is then commenting by the influence of the Holy Spirit to describe the events in such a manner. It is Ezra who had faith that God was involved in every aspect of these events, even though the people Only saw letters going back and forth and angst among their enemies who kept trying to stop them from working Thus we can say that God enjoys being behind the scenes. God's way is to partake in the salvation of his people without being seen. And that is interesting to note when we add that knowledge of God to the fact that God wants his people to worship him. You see, secular critics accuse God of having some type of ego because he requires his people to worship him. The truth is we have to worship him. That is not just a law, it is our nature. The created has to worship the creator. But not for the ego of the creator, but for the natural urge of the created. Thus God works behind the scenes And it is the nature of the Godhead, the three in one, to give glory to one another. And so the Father praises the Son and the Spirit And the son praises the father and the spirit. And the spirit praises the father and the son. And all of them love God's people. Realize, beloved, that to say that the eye of God is upon his people is to say that God loves his people. And in an age of itching ears and scratching clergy, it is frustrating to highlight God's love for his people. Because it is so often said that it fails to be in the right context and carry the full weight that it should. But it must be said, and it must be believed. God loves his people. He shows his love by watching over them, by having his eye upon them. He loves each of you. He watches over each of you. He has his eye upon each of you. And that is not scratching ears, but preaching the truth. And just because you don't see him, just because you don't know where he is, you are to be assured that he is with you, watching you, and watching over you. That is his promise, and he fulfills his promises. He is a God of covenant. Now God's providence was evident this week. We sing one hymn for morning prayer throughout the week. And this week's hymn was Jesus Loves Me. And I considered the third line of that. It fit quite well. It reads, Jesus loves me, loves me still, though I'm very weak and ill. Now the author, Anna Warner, originally penned it as a poem for a novel. It was a poem to be read to a dying child. Now it continues. From his shining throne on high comes to watch me where I lie. It is because of the fact that Jesus watches us that we sing the next, which is, yes, Jesus loves me. Thus the two standout points from chapters 5 and 6 of Ezra are that the people honestly confess their sin and that God loves them. That is the gospel. That is the message of Jesus. The good news is that while we were still in our sin, God loved us. And therefore gave us his son. You say, you got that out of Ezra? You got the gospel? Yes, we did. Let us pray. Our Father, we are thankful, so thankful that here in The historic book, in the events that transpired, we find the basics of what saves us and continues to save us. The fact that we are sinners, yes. Sinners fallen, yes. Sinners with guilty pasts, yes. And also your people loved by you. And for this all, for this all, that is who we are, and we thank you for making us who we are. In Jesus' name. Amen.