The Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. Heaven is a wonderful place filled with glory and grace. I want to see my safe. your space. Heaven is a wonderful place. I want to be there. You know, if I was preaching that in South Carolina, you would have joined in with me. You can try it again. Do you know the words? You really do. Heaven is a wonderful place filled with glory and grace. I wanna see. Be my Saviour's face. Heaven is a wonderful place. I wanna be dead. That's a brown circle. The rising interest regarding socialism among college-age students today is surprising. On one hand, because it has not been so long that we cannot Point to the corruption and to the downfall of the Soviet Union as an example of what a society ought not to do. And the cultures of North Korea under A socialist oppressive regime, and the Cuban government, with their socialist poverty, provide for us immediate examples of why socialism does not work. Convinced that socialism is the devil's scheme to convince cultures that heaven can be created by humanity on earth It is to believe that mankind can create a utopia in which all persons have all earthly cares provided for while living within peace with one another. But we know, as Christians who believe in the Holy Scriptures, that the sinful nature of mankind cannot create a utopia. We have, we will, and we do. Turn upon one another. In 1534, a group, 1534, 17 years removed from the beginning of the Reformation. A group of Anabaptists took over the city of Munster in Germany, proclaiming it to be a haven for Baptists who rejected Roman Catholic rule and who were bound to together by the belief in adult adult baptism only, in order to be saved. And they believed that all valuable goods and foods should be shared equally among the inhabitants of the city. The city was named the New Jerusalem. It was named that by its inhabitants. And well over 1,000 new residents flocked. To this walled city. Flock to what they understood to be a heaven on earth The city was soon besieged, however, by a Roman Catholic bishop who wanted to take his city back for the church. Meanwhile, an internal rebel. Rebellion took place within the city walls, resulting in a self-proclaimed Gideon having his head cut off and placed on a spike on the city wall, giving warning to anyone inside and out of this new Jerusalem that it will not be torn down. Next, a self-proclaimed David was given full authority within the city wall. And with that full authority, he proclaimed that he had received a new vision from God that allowed men to take on multiple wives. He then proceeded to marry in 1680. young ones of his own. Within a year the siege took its toll, and with the people starving, the gates had to be opened, and the leaders of the city were captured And imprisoned. So much for a heaven on earth Communities that try to resemble heaven are not possible because heaven by definition is the place that Jesus prepares people that is full of comfort and prosperity and peace and final freedom from sin and death Humanity has no possible means of providing such a setting for itself. And each time a group of people try such a community, a leader goes mad with power. Each community is like those who tried to build the Tower of Babel that they thought would protect them from all of their enemies, including natural disasters. But to come down. And he brings them down himself In John 14, which I encourage you to turn to now, in John fourteen, verse one, Jesus describes heaven proper. Heaven described by Jesus truly is a wonderful place. Jesus does this description of heaven, gives this description of heaven on the healing. Of Peter being overconfident that he would die for the Lord, and then Jesus responding by prophesying that Peter would instead fail Jesus and fail then himself. And I want you to note. that it is on the heels of that because whenever you and I hear John 1, we usually hear it in the context of a funeral sermon. Let's read a passage that gives us hope for heaven. But we have to notice that Jesus gave that hope in the context of Peter denying. Let not your heart be troubled, Jesus says. What a wonderful hope to be given to a man who would fail and fail miserably. Let not your heart be troubled. In the midst of your failure, let not your heart be troubled. In the midst of your sin that seems to count you out, let not your heart be troubled. In the wake of your Denial of Jesus, let not your hearts be troubled. Those words are for all of us. All who have sinned. All who have had their guilt removed are told these same words. Let not your heart be troubled. He goes then to prepare heaven for us because Heaven, he says, is a real place. Today, as you already have known, because of the colors around you and our song sung, we celebrate the Godhead, sending the Holy Spirit to dwell amidst the church and to dwell with And so, in honor of that celebration and in light of Jesus' teaching here in John 14, this says that the Spirit of truth will come and be in the midst of God's people. I start this sermon by saying that because of the Holy Spirit, because of the Holy Spirit, you and I, we can keep our eyes on the heavenly prize. Because Jesus gives the promise of heaven in the context of prophesying Peter's denial of Jesus, we can underline the importance of keeping heaven before us as our ultimate prize. To be sure, there are earthly rewards that are joyful to receive. A prize from school, a promotion at work, a plaque from the lodge, a trophy for the league. championship. All of these are to be praised in this life. But nothing that is rewarded in this life can compare to our heavenly reward. As one Christian pop singer stated, if Jesus went to prepare a place for us, and he is still preparing a place for us, then this must be a garbage dump compared to what he is waiting for. for for us in heaven. Whenever I am feeling defeated in this life, I can always look to the promised heavenly reward and be encouraged Whenever I am dissatisfied in this life, I can always know that heaven will indeed satisfy. Whenever I am discontented in what this life offers, my countenance can be lifted up, knowing that all All I need and more, more than I can ask for or imagine, is awaiting us in heaven. And it is the Holy Spirit who can take me to that state of hope, and this allows me to not get bogged down in the mire in which this fallen world would have me wallow. The Holy Spirit helps me rise above the mire of this world when my eyes see heaven as my reward. And next we see that because of the Holy Spirit, the Father and the Son are always with us. The statement that Jesus makes in verse 6 should be memorized by every Christian, for it truly is what separates the Christian faith from all other religions, and it is what every Christian ought to know. Jesus is not just one way to the Heavenly Father and thus one way to heaven. He is the only way. That cannot be said enough, for it flies directly in the face of compromising churches, and it flies in the face of all other religions. Because of this statement by Jesus, Christians cannot accept the sentiment that all religions are the same or that all religions lead to the same God. They are not the same and they do not lead to the same. But the devil would be happy if you came to such a conclusion. Now Philip in our gospel reading evidently didn't pick up on the significance of what Jesus said, that he's the only way. Philip focused on wanting to see the Father in heaven. And Jesus is disappointed that Philip did not recognize that to see Jesus was to see the Father, thus the Father was in Jesus. And here is another reason why we Christians embrace the doctrine of trin the Trinity, that the three are one and the one are three. When Jesus is with us, the Father is with us, and the Holy Spirit is with us, for the The Holy Spirit, the third person of the Godhead, is the presence of the Father and the presence of the Son, and in and of itself its presence among us. Last summer, I had a good laugh from my son Isaac when the extended family was gathered for a wedding down in North Carolina. And as we tend to do as a family sitting around talking theology, and one member of the family, who I shall not name, claimed that she did not like how Christians talk about Jesus being in their heart and using such language as asking Jesus into your heart She pointed out that Jesus is not in your heart, he is in heaven, seated at the right hand of the Father. What Isaac said that made me laugh was, but that's a technicality. Saying Jesus is not in your heart but in heaven at the right. right hand of the Father is a technicality. For the two and the Holy Spirit are one in substance. Theologically, because if you have seen the Son, you have seen the Father, the same can be said that if you have the Holy Spirit in your heart, you also have the Son, and you have the Father. And to be sure this is a great mystery, because they are separate in person. But it is also true that you cannot have one without having both the others. The Holy Spirit enables us to have the Son. It enables us to have the Father Well next because of the Holy Spirit. Our prayers are heard by the Son and the Father. Our prayers are heard. Having just celebrated Ascension Day, we should have within our consciences the knowledge that Jesus needed to ascend to the Heavenly Father's right hand so that he could be our intercessor. He needs to be the one that pleads on our behalf because he is the one worthy to receive glory and honor and to receive honor from the Father. As it has been said, we pray by the power of the Holy Spirit to the Heavenly Father in the name of Jesus. the Son. All persons are involved in our prayers as we pray to God. When Jesus speaks about prayer in verse 12 through 15, he emphasizes what he will do. Greater works will the church do because of what Jesus will do. Which is to go to the Heavenly Father. We have access to the heavens where God the Father resides because and by way of Jesus. Whatever we ask in his name, he will do. He will do. And then he says, I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another helper, the Holy Spirit. It is his prayer, the prayer of Jesus. That is needed for us to receive the third person of the Trinity. And then Jesus says, I will not leave you orphans, I will come to you. And then he says, I will love him who keeps my commandments. I will manifest myself to him In verses twelve through twenty-one, Jesus says, I will some nine times by my count. Nine times. What he will do. Thus we are utterly dependent on what Jesus will do. Dependency is not a negative, it's not a weakness, it shouldn't be an insecurity, but the opposite of all of those things. We are dependent upon the one who is the most worthy of our trust. We are dependent upon the sinless Savior who loves us to death and beyond death. And who wants us to overcome death just as he did. And with all the confidence we need to be assured, Jesus wants the best for us. And that by the power of the Holy Spirit and through the mediation of Jesus, our prayers are heard by the Godhead But with all of that, there needs, I admit, needs to be addressed a misunderstanding by some regarding what Jesus meant, what he said Whatever you ask in my name, that I will do. That sounds like quite a promise. Now because I have personally walked in churches and Christian circles that taught me that because of the verbiage of Jesus in places like this We can take him literally. And thus, if you want a new car, for example, ask for it. But don't ask for it in generality, as I was taught. Tell Jesus what type of car you want. Be specific about it. If you are going to pray for a new car, well, then go ahead and pray. Pray for that 2016 Camaro Royal Blue, black leather interior. And now now I perceive that such people who taught me this way, this manner of praying They were sincere. They believed that Jesus actually meant, ask for whatever you want, and I'll give it to you, literally anything But Holy Scripture is to be interpreted by Holy Scripture. The St. James tells us that we have not what we need because we do not ask for it. But merely expect it to be there for us. And so we need to ask our Heavenly Father for what we need. But then James continues. He says, when you do ask of our Heavenly Father, you ask out of selfish ambition. And being selfish is one of the reasons our prayers go unanswered. Elsewhere, Jesus teaches us to pray to the Father, these words, thy will be done. And then Jesus models the prayer in the garden by saying, Not my will, but thine be done. And so we use such verses to inform the teaching of Jesus here. That when we pray, In the name of Jesus, we are to ask for anything, anything that is in accordance with God's will. So I conclude that. It is not a new Camaro that righteousness. My sanctification. St. Paul stated clearly to the Thessalonians, this is God's will for you. Pray this for your sanctification. And we are to pray with all the confidence that God the Father hears us by the mediation Men and women who would be saved from sin and death. And we know we should pray that way because that is God's will. God wills that no man be condemned but come to repentance. And we pray for Christians who have gone astray to come back to the fold because we know that too is God's will, wishing that no sheep be lost. And we pray for the healing of the sick because Jesus told us to pray for the sick. And all the while we pray God's will be done. Others can pray for Camaros. I will pray for God's will to be done on earth as it is. in heaven. Finally, from the teachings of Jesus here in John fourteen, and in light of the Holy Spirit being promised, we learn that because of the Holy Spirit, the love of God is with us. And the love of God is within us. Verse 21. At that day, Jesus said, That day is the day the Holy Spirit comes. comes to all who believe in Jesus as their Savior and Lord. At that day, all who believe will know that Jesus is in the Father and we are in Jesus and Jesus is in us. To say that Jesus is not in us, but instead is at the right hand of the Father is truly a technicality, and Jesus would correct it. Because of the Holy Spirit's presence within every person, we can confess. Jesus as the Messiah. And such a confession is evidence that the Holy Spirit is within us. Jesus is to be understood also to be within us How does this work cannot be explained, but is to be believed. And so because the Holy Spirit fills the heart of a believer, and that means Jesus fills the heart, and along with Jesus the Father, hear this now, the problem of evil is solved. You heard me right. The problem of evil questions how God can be a benevolent God and yet allow evil to occur in the world and thus allow innocent people to suffer great pain and death. Well first we should question the premise that there are innocent people in the world. Second, we should realize that the evils in this world are primarily done when mankind does it to himself Third, God shows just how benevolent He is, in that those who confess Him are given His very presence within them. And that means that whatever they experience in this life after After, after they confess him, and the Holy Spirit is within them. What they experience is never experienced without the presence of God with them. Thus when a Christian suffers, God suffers. When a Christian is shunned socially because of her faith, the Holy Spirit is shunned. When a Christian is imprisoned because of his faith in Jesus, Jesus is imprisoned with him When a Christian is whipped because he will not bend a knee to Allah, the Father is whipped. Thus there is no problem of evil, for while God allows for men to suffer, he does not let them suffer alone, because he most certainly is benevolent. In closing, let us not overlook how the teaching of Jesus here in this section of Scripture reveals the heart. of our triune God. He wants to live, He wants us to live with Him for eternity. The place where Jesus prepares for us, verses 1 through 4. He wants us to know him personally. Verses 6 through 11. He wants to use us to build his kingdom by way of prayer and according to his will, working and changing our own wills. 12 through 15. He wants to be with us here and now and wherever we go to the end of our days. Verses 16 to 21. And so what is there to say? Thank you, Heavenly Father. Thank you, Lord Jesus. Thank you, Holy Spirit. Abide with us however you will. Only abide within us forever. Amen.