In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Those of you who have hearing aids probably think if your hearing aid is not working well today Because our microphones are not working today, our system is down, we apologize, try to make up for it We're going to do something a little different. So in your Bibles, as you follow along, in John chapter 6 We are not going to be going verse by verse through 1 through 14, the story of the feeding of the 5,000, but actually We're going to be looking at the teaching of Jesus at the end of John chapter 6, really starting at verse 24 and following. So be ready to go back and forth in your Bibles. A little personal story to begin with, and my wife is not here, so that's always the safest time to tell a story about her The first time I brought Bobby Lynn to my home, my family's home, was the fall of 1984, because her brother had married my sister. She had been to our family home before, but not as my romantic interest. And wanting to be a gracious host, I had her sit down in the living room, and I asked her if I could get her anything to eat. She paused, looked thoughtful, and said, I would like some bread. It is helpful to understand that Bobby Lynn and her father are both bred connoisseurs. Her father's love for fresh baked bread and multi-grain breads was passed on to her. So she liked bread. Okay. However, in the Jorgensen poem It was a home that rarely saw any fresh baking, any good cooking, and the only bread that we had was oven joy sliced white bread. For those of you who do not shop at Safeway, Ovenjoy is their base brand. It is a step lower than Wonder Bread. But because this beautiful creature asked me for bread, well, I'm going to get bread. So I bring her a slice of Northwest Oven Joy white bread. I next ask her if she wants something to drink. giving her the option of coke and milk lemonade, she says, or asks, could I have some water Sure, sure, I say so I go and flip on the faucet and fill her glass up with tap water and I bring it to her and then it hits me. She thinks she's in prison. Either she thinks the house is a prison Or this relationship is a prison and she's ordering a suitable meal for a prisoner, bread and water Thankfully that was not the case, and she told me much later that if she had known that I was going to bring her oven joint bread, she would not have had the order, and and I was relieved Isaac Watts, the great hymn writer and theologian, but also a logician, in his book on logic, he makes the point that if a boy grows up Having a thatched roof for a home, and that's all he's ever seen, then anytime that he hears the word home, he's going to think of a thatched roof Well, when I heard the word bread, I only thought of oven joy white sliced bread And such is not the image that Jesus would have us have in our minds when he makes the statement that he is the bread of life. In our gospel reading, we once again heard the story of Jesus feeding 5,000 men and more. We say more because only the men were counted, and we assume that some of them had wives and some families had children. And so we say that there was 5,000 and more. And I say that we read it again because we have heard before from the three other gospels this same story In fact, this miracle of Jesus feeding the 5,000 plus people is the only miracle that is told in all the four Gospels. The only miracle that is told in all the four Gospels. That includes, it is quite curious, that it in John includes it is quite curious to me, because we know by now that he is so very picky as to the discourses and the miracles that he tells. And we know, because we know the end of John's gospel, that he only tells us about seven miracles. So it is curious again Why he would tell us this one when all of the other gospels already have this and John is the last gospel to be written. Why would he include this miracle? It is curious until we read the discourse that Jesus has with the people about himself, as I said, starting around verse 24 in chapter 6 For in there he is teaching them about how he is the bread of life. And we find this again later, starting at verse 24. And I have concluded That you cannot tell the story of Jesus feeding the 5,000 plus without including the teachings of Jesus teaching about himself afterward. Explaining the meaning of the feeding of the five thousand. Like the woman at the well And like Nicodemus, before the woman at the well, the people who are trying to find Jesus, they're looking for him in verse 24. The people who are trying to find him thought only in terms of the material world. Nicodemus could only consider being physically born again. The woman at the well could only consider quenching her thirst physically. And now the people who ate of the bread that Jesus multiplied could only think about being fed physically And Jesus confirms this in verse 26 of chapter 6, when he says that they are following him, following after him, because they physically ate the bread and were physically filled. Jesus then points them to a different world, a world they did not know about, points them to a different world or a different understanding of their world by pointing The fact that he has food that will not perish. Food that is not earthly Food that does not of enjoy white sliced bread. Bread that satisfies forever The people respond by asking Jesus, well, what should we do to get this bread? How can they get involved? How can they work to earn it? It is much like the disciples wanting to know how they are going to feed this many people. Only thinking in the material world. We can at least now give the disciples credit that they recognized that several days wages would not pay the bill for feeding so many people. That they got. But still they were thinking that they could work and make it dumb. That they could physically do work, earn wages, and then possibly pay the bill to feed this many people in the material world And so Jesus next reveals to them the glory of the gospel. The people are seeking him. He tells them that he is the bread of life. They say, How can we get this? They want to work for it. And then he reveals to them the gospel. He reveals to them The truly good work. Work is actually belief. Work is belief. Work in the kingdom of God is having faith in Jesus. That is it. Nothing more required. Nothing more to be seen here. That is it. That is all that is needed. It is exactly what was needed by the disciples who told the people to sit down. Even though they had but five barley loaves and two small fish. Now only John, interestingly, mentions that the boys' loaves were barley loaves And that was because it was inexpensive bread for the lower class. The fish, no doubt, were more than a tidbit. You can think of pickled small fish. This was added to the lunch to make it more flavorful because bread isn't that flavorful by itself. So you picture this scene, and you think to yourself, well, this is a joke that you can feed 5,000 plus with five loaves and two small fish. That's a joke to consider. But you also need to realize that it's also a joke to consider that mankind can be saved from hellfire and the guilt for sin simply by believing in Jesus And yet, as a joke, these both are, both occur, both are true. In the discourse of chapter 6, verse 31, the people are still thinking of this physical bread that fills their belly. When they mention that Moses fed the Israelites with manna in the desert, and we are to remember that that manna bread was given daily, except for the Sabbath day. It was a daily meal. And perhaps that is what the people wanted from Jesus. They wanted perhaps a daily meal. They wanted a handout every day. And so this mention of Moses is a bit of a challenge to Jesus Because the prophecy said that one like Moses would be raised up. Moses said this himself in Deuteronomy 18. And it also says that the people are to listen to this one that is raised up like Moses. But the people here want Jesus to show them how he is like Moses. How these people represent themselves here shows a great lack of self-awareness. They are not aware that they actually would not believe, even if Jesus multiplied bread for them every day. They still would not believe Their forefathers didn't believe, and they are no different than their forefathers. Recall the story of the rich man and Lazarus. Recall that the rich man is being tormented in hell and he asks of Abraham for some relief and he doesn't find it. And then he says, Well then could you send someone up? from the dead to tell my brothers how horrible it is down here. And of course, the lesson is, as Jesus teaches, that No. Even if you were to send someone up from the dead, they still would not believe. Of course, Jesus is that someone. Who rose from the dead. And people today still do not believe. Some even today questioning if Jesus ever existed. When Jesus next in verse 32 says that he himself is the true bread that has come down from heaven. He is then here comparing himself to manna, the manna of Moses, the manna that Moses called down, and he's comparing himself to the bread loaves he recently multiplied. He is the true bread. Those breads all fall short. Those breads are not lasting, but Jesus is, of course, everlasting. Those breads were types and shadows of the true bread. The true bread is food for our spiritual sustenance. Bread that will save our souls alive. Bread that is assimilated within us conveys a consciousness, a reality of eternal blessedness. Not immediate fullness, but eternal blessedness. The kind of strength that will arise within us when once the true bread is consumed Is an eternal possession, an abiding advantage, the satisfaction that is not exhausted by short intervals like lunch to dinner. Instead, it remains forever. The true bread, the true bread is veritable heaven for you and in you. Consider this also. That Moses was not the actual giver of the manna. God, of course, was the giver. And this is much like the feeding of the 5,000, for it was the disciples who handed the bread to the people who gave out the bread, but the bread was multiplied, coming from Jesus. All the giving then was the work of God. It was the work of whom God had sent. On whom we have to believe. Jesus, he is the veritable giver of this true bread coming from heaven The giver then, the giver then and the gift are the same. Jesus. And Jesus next explains the unique relationship he has with the Heavenly Father And that those who come to him, those who follow him, who consume him as eternal bread, are the same people the Father gives to him. Those who follow him are given to him by the Father. And then Jesus says, because the people the Father gives him are such a great gift that he will lose nothing. Verse 39. The people God gives him, he will ensure they are forever with him. Have you ever wondered why God told the disciples After the feeding of the 5,000 plus, after they were all filled, why he told them to gather up the fragments of bread that remained. Ever wondered that? Why not just let the birds eat the remains? Or just let it feed the soil? What's the big deal? Well, it is because the collecting of the bread is symbolic of what Jesus will do with the people the Father gives to him. He will collect them all. No matter how scattered, no matter how small the fragment, he will gather them all. We know this is what is meant to gather up the bread fragments because they were able to fill how many baskets? Twelve in number? And what does twelve represent? People of God. Twelve tribes of Israel, the 12 apostles, the people of God, chosen by God, the New Testament church. And just as Jesus didn't leave one fragment of bread on the ground that day that he fed the 5,000 plus, so he will not leave one of God's people in the grave. He will rescue all who believe in him by raising them, by raising us from the dead, giving us life eternity. Hallelujah. Amen. When we hear of doubters who are talking amongst themselves, you see that in verse 43? Doubters were talking amongst themselves, their reasoning that Jesus could not be who he said he was. They know his family. They know the town that he came from. They know his home. There's no mystery here. He's just a man like us. But this is to remind us of what just happened in the feeding of the 5,000. How did that happen? How did that happen? That is a reasonable question Can we imagine that one loaf morphed into another and then another? Can we imagine the matter of one fish morphing into another fish and from that fish another fish and so on? Can we imagine that where there was once nothing in a basket, all of a sudden there was something and it was very full indeed? Something coming from nothing? And this type of inquiry has been done by many. Consider this commentary coming from Hilary, an early church father from the fourth century. He said this about this miracle. The method eludes our powers of observation. Five loaves are offered and broken. While the apostles are dividing them, a succession of new created portions passes. They cannot tell how. Through their own hands. The loaf which they are dividing grows no smaller, yet their hands are continually full of the pieces The swiftness of the process baffles sight. You follow the eye, a handful of portions, and meantime you see that the contents of the other hand is not diminished. And all the while the heap of pieces grows. The carvers are busy at their task, the eaters are hard at work, the hungry are satisfied, and the fragments fill twelve baskets. Sight or sense cannot discover the mode of so noteworthy a miracle. What was not existent is created What we see passes our understanding. Our only resource is faith in God's omnipotence. Amen. But so is the same for us accepting who Jesus is. He does not pass the eye test. He is more than what is seen, just as the five loaves and the two fish were more than what was seen. But those who don't have eyes to see and ears to hear can't accept it. They see just another man. And that is why the Father and the Holy Spirit are necessary, so that eyes can be open and ears can be open to believe, to know the truth. After Jesus explains this, he says to those, these most difficult words, perhaps the most difficult words that Jesus says in all of the Gospels. Verse 23. I mean verse 53. He says this, most assuredly I say to you, unless you eat of the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood. You have not life in you. And then, as if that is not provocative enough, and instead of Jesus saying, Oh, of course I'm speaking metaphorically Jesus once again doubles down. He does not back away from this hard saying, but stays with it. And he emphasizes that his flesh they must eat and his blood they must drink. It is him that they are to feed on, he says, if they are to live forever. And with this doubling down, we must consider the dietary sensitivities of the Jewish life in the first century. Their dietary laws were one of the clear ways they were able to separate themselves from the Romans and from the Greeks as their overlords. And their dietary laws strictly forbid the drinking of any blood from any animal, especially a human, and any thought of cannibalism was near blasphemy. So it is not a wonder that we are told in verse 66 that many of his disciples went back, meaning they went back home, and walked with him no more. They left. They quit. They walked away from the hope of eternal life. And Jesus didn't go after them. He didn't explain himself in a in a different, less offensive manner. He let them go Knowing that whether a person stays to follow Jesus or leaves to go their own way, it is the Father's will. When Jesus next asks if his disciples will also leave, Peter gives that wonderful response that is on our lips as well. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And so Jesus does. And those words of life are why we come to him, for in him only do we receive such life. So now, do you see that the miracle of the feeding of the 5,000 plus was to lead to a moment of a decision? It was to lead the people to eat of Jesus or reject him completely Just as it was last week, we have an all-in or all-out moment That is what John is communicating with these narratives, with these discourses. It is all in or all out. Now of course there is a great deal more to be said about these words of Jesus in John 6 regarding the consuming of his body and blood, when you compare them to the words that he gives in the Lord's Supper. Saying, take, eat, this is my body while holding the bread. And saying, take and drink, this is my blood while holding up the wine. We don't believe in the doctrine of transubstantiation. The bread at Holy Communion turns into the actual flesh of Jesus, or that the wine turns into the actual blood of Jesus. But we do believe that the very presence of Jesus is in the bread and in the wine in a manner that we do not try to explain. As Bishop Sutton has pointed out, to believe in the real presence is to believe in the real presence is to believe in the real absence, and that is no belief at all. And so when we take of the bread and eat, we are doing just as Jesus had said. We are consuming his flesh. Is the bread the flesh? Well, no. And yes. Is the wine we drink his blood going down? Well, no. And yes. These are representatives of his flesh and of his blood like nothing else we do in life. And as we consume them, we are consuming them in light of his command to eat of his flesh and drink of his blood. For what we do in the physical world points to a reality of a greater world, an eternal world. We are what we eat, and we eat Jesus. Taking the bread, beloved, and drinking from the cup, dear church, is the most profound thing you will do each week. The most profound thing you will do each week. Believe that. And one last point. When you see ministers up here trying to consume the rest of the bread, trying to drink the remaining portions of the wine in a timely manner And you realize the service is almost over and you're thinking to yourself, hurry up, man! Or that seems so unnecessary. Consider. Consider when you see it the next time that it is pointing to what Jesus said, so that nothing is lost. So that nothing is lost. Amen. Let us pray