In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in Hebrews chapter six, working from verse four through verse twenty. I'd like to start off by talking about titles. The historic titles given to men of great fame and influence are fascinating, if not curious. We know of Alexander the Great, King of Macedonia. There was Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia. We all should have heard of Charles the Great, aka Charlemagne, King of the Francs. As you might have guessed, there is no set of criteria for giving someone the title Great. There is a large number of people in history who have been given the title, and quite a few who have called themselves great. When they were alive, but no one called them great after their death. There are other nickname titles given to people of history They include titles like The Blessed, such as Alexander the Blessed or the Bold Such as Philip the Bold, and then the Conqueror, such as William the Conqueror. And there are negative nickname titles as well Such as the devil Robert, Duke of Normandy. And the one title that has for a long time intrigued me, Julian the Apostate. Why was Julian called an apostate? Well, Julian was born into the Constantine family. After Emperor Constantine made it legal to be Christian and to spread the Christian faith within the Roman Empire, Christianity was spreading rapidly When Flavius Claudius Julianus was made emperor of Rome, Julian was raised to be a Christian. Having been tutored by Eusebius, the bishop of Nicodemia. But when Julian was older, he decided to study the ancient philosophers. And as a result, it turned him to Neoplatonism. By his own admission, Julian despised his Christian heritage as he perceived the faith was forced upon him during what he described as a bitter and lonely childhood. Julian thus made it a priority to turn Rome back to its pagan gods while targeting Christian leaders and churches with laws that restricted their influence. He became a true enemy of the Christian faith and of Christians. Hence the nickname given to him by Christian historians, Julian the Apostate. The origin of the word apostate is from the Greek, originally meaning a runaway slave. It was also used as a synonym for defection, desertion, and rebellion. These are all appropriate descriptions of someone who has known the Christian faith And has at one time claimed to be Christian and then turns away from the faith so much to the degree of denying all of its truths. When the preacher to the Hebrews turns to the dark reality of apostasy in verse 4 of chapter 6, of people turning away from the Christian faith, he does so abruptly. However, his abruptness is necessary. Consider that the first part of the chapter he is encouraging these Hebrew Christians. to have certain beliefs and certain practices of their faith established so that they can go on to perfection Which is to say, to be made holy, walk with the Holy Spirit while following the life of Jesus, their Savior. But if those foundations are not established, there is great risk of turning away from the truths of the Christian gospel. And once that truth is turned away from The great scandal is that there is no turning back to the faith. You are forever lost. Now, before we examine that warning in greater detail, I ask that you follow me as we follow the argument of the preacher from verse 5 through 20 of chapter 6. For a person who has once tasted the heavenly gift to leave the faith only to return again is the same as saying That the suffering, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus was insufficient the first time, therefore it must be done all over again. That is putting Jesus to shame. The metaphor in verses 7 and 8 Compare the unbelief of someone who turns away from the faith to growing thorns and briars when what was planted was herbs. Although the preacher has to give warning like he has, he also wants these Hebrew Christians to be positive because of how God views them. God knows of their love for one another and for their fellow Christians. They have practiced this love and God knows about it. But the concern is in verse 11, where we understand that the same works that they have been practicing toward their fellow Christians That work needs to continue to the end, which means there is concern that they are faltering The warning against becoming sluggish emphasizes the concern of the preacher that they are faltering. Next is the reason why the Hebrew Christians should not be sluggish in their faith. It is because God is the keeper of promises. His covenant promises are certainties. And people who trust in God's promises to the end of their days are most certainly rewarded. Abraham is then the prime example of one who trusted in God's promises and did so to the end of his days. And the reasoning of the preacher continues by comparing how we treat the promised words of our fellow man to how we should trust the promised words of God all the more. He then describes two characteristics about God that are underlined to increase the faith of believers. The preacher calls them immutable things, the New King James Version, immutable. What is immutable does not change. It is a certainty. And as it relates to God, we can say that it always was, always is, and always will be. We can be certain that God does not lie, and because God does not lie, and He has said that He has an eternal refuge for us, it is there that we can place our hope. Thus we are what are immutable are what God has promised and his oath to assure that it will be done. And what will be done is our heavenly reward if we remain faithful to the end of our time in this life. The problem is, not everyone is faithful to the end of their days This, of course, is not the only place in the Bible that refers to people losing faith. We must remember that Scripture is best interpreting itself, or as some have said, Scripture interprets Scripture. One place that helps us understand how a person is lost to the Christian faith, never to return Is 1 John chapter 2, where St. John describes apostates in the following manner. He says, They went out from us. But they did not really belong to us. Such a statement works like a proverb. For we all know people in our lives For a time, and they were very much a part of our lives for a time, but then decided to no longer be a friend And we can best handle such abrupt departures from us, accepting that such a person or such people were never truly friends. Because after all, friends don't just leave friends. What John is describing, however, is more than a proverb. It is a reality check that if a person once believed in Jesus and next denies the faith entirely, Such a denial proves that said person was never a true believer, with the consequences being much more than a lost friendship. Jesus taught the saying. When he used the parable of the sower, you will recall that in that parable, the seed that is the Word of God Falls on rocky soil and springs up, but it has no root. And so when the trials and tribulations arise, the plant dies. Now remember, it was a plant, or it looked like a plant like all the other plants. It was a person who said that he believed and did so with a glad heart Only to find that the faith was not set deeply enough in the heart. And then there is a seed that grows amidst thorns. Again, the plant grows and at one time looked like all the other plants, only to have the thorns choke out the plant. Jesus explains that the thorns and thistles that choke the plant are cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches. In plain speech, the enjoyments of this life become more important than the promises of God. And we know such people They may be people we are very, very close to, people we love. We watch them and we don't like what is happening, but we don't see how we can stop it. They trade eternal life for this life. They insist that they deserve to be happy. And so they abandon their marital vow, or they abandon a moral standard, or they just stop pursuing God, and they decide to pursue earthly pleasures or earthly wealth. What they define as earthly happiness has become their God, and they serve it well. It is thought by some when God says that apostates cannot turn back to the faith, then it means that God won't let them. But that is not consistent with Holy Scripture. God says He desires that no one be damned, but instead all come to repentance. That is his heart. It doesn't mean that is his sovereign will, but it reflects his love for all he created in his image. The cannot. The cannot return commit then communicates that they will not return It is the nature of apostasy not to want to return. It is the nature of salvation that if you truly have it, you will not deny it, and if you deny it, then you never truly have it. And that point reminded me of a law in Deuteronomy that states that a man who has divorced his wife and then she marries another man And he divorces her, that the original husband is forbidden to take back his wife again. His original wife again. Commentators believe that such a law is for the purpose of punishing fickleness in marrying and divorcing frequently and abruptly. And that does make sense. But there is something deeper being represented in such a law. The very nature of marriage is an abiding covenant that is not to be broken because two have become one. If a man does break it and then tries to restore it, then he never understood the nature of marriage the first time. In the same way, a person who commits his life to Christ Jesus and professes to be a disciple and later departs from said faith, and then later wants to return to the same faith, he cannot, because it never was a faith that he claimed to have He cannot return because he will not return, for he never was there the first time Some preachers have connected this teaching by the Hebrew preacher as the same as the unpardonable sin described by Jesus in the Gospels. During our study of difficult sayings in the Bible, during our midweek Bible study, we tried to tackle this sin against the Holy Spirit, aka the unpardonable sin. And we discovered that there are difficulties to know precisely what it is. Some are convinced it is referring to a person who once was a professing believer and then turns to be an apostate Others like myself believe it is specifically against the Holy Spirit. It is attributing what is godly to be evil and what is evil to be godly in a blasphemous manner. What is consistent with either interpretation of this unpardonable sin is that there is a line that is crossed. A point of no return that is past, leaving no opportunity for repentance or restoration. The Hebrew Christians were to be fearful of such a line, such a point, and so are we. The prophet Hosea described the Israel people of his day in a similar manner. Hear this from Hosea chapter 5, verse 4 through 6. They do not direct their deeds toward turning to their God, for the spirit of harlotry is in their midst, and they do not know the Lord. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. Therefore, Israel and Ephraim stumble in their iniquity Judah also stumbles with them. With their flocks and herds, they shall go seek the Lord, but they will not find him. He has withdrawn himself from them We are to be warned here that once harlotry is embraced, i. e. , acknowledging other gods, the line is crossed. There is no return. Such warnings against leaving the faith seem to come to a contradiction with the doctrine of predestination. Again, we studied said doctrine about two weeks ago during our weekly Bible study, and we were able to conclude that predestination is a doctrine taught for Christians to be confident that their salvation is in the hands of God, not in our own hands, which we should be very glad for. And it is a doctrine that because of God's will being assured, it casts out fear. We cast out fear of the devil who cannot reach us. We cast out fear because we cannot be separated from God. But if we are predestined in our salvation from sin and death, why do we need to be warned against apostasy? And while such is a reasonable question, it tries to venture into a field of understanding that we are not privy to. There are certain understandings that we are not given light to know. The subject of where the will of God overlaps with our personal wills Where we make our own choices, that overlapping, that place of it is mysterious, and it's not revealed in Scripture What we know from Scripture is that God is holy. He is fully, He is completely sovereign over all of His creation. And that we, as his creatures, created in his image, are fully responsible for our choices. That is what we know, and that is enough. Therefore, the warning against apostasy, those warnings are needed. Now what I anticipate is necessary is to distinguish what is apostasy and what is rebellion, resulting in disobedience Where we might wonder is whether a person choosing to live in sin is a person who is also apostate. There is in Scripture a description of people living in egregious sin against God, who are also able to repent from such sin and be restored to God. Jesus told us, you remember, the parable of the two sons, the young man who wanted his father dead, living a sinful life according to the flesh, squandering his inheritance. And was still able to return to the arms of a loving father. The sin of David was worthy of earthly death. For he committed adultery going against his vow to his own wife, and then the vow of another man's wife. And then he tried to cover his sin by having that other man killed But when he was confronted with his sins and confessed his guilt and prayed for God's mercy, he was forgiven, fully and completely forgiven. So living in rebellion against God is not apostasy. But it very well may turn into apostasy. That is the warning for all of us. There is a line. There is a point of no return. And it is foolish for any person to test where that line, where that point is. Well, beloved, the topic of apostasy is a difficult part of the faith. It is difficult because there are no warm feelings that come with it. There is no positive mental attitude imparted when addressing the warning against apostasy. But it is real and it is necessary. For we all know people who seem to be living very close to that line, very close to that point of no return. We need to pray for them. And we need to pray for ourselves. That we will always abide in Christ. It is only by abiding in him that we will not be led astray. I close with this Poem by Joseph Addison Alexander from the 18th century. I'm sorry, 19th century. It reads. There is a time we know not when, a point we know not where, that marks the destiny of men to glory or despair. There is a line by us unseen that crosses every path, the hidden boundary between God's patience and his wrath. To pass that limit is to die. To die as if by stealth. It does not quench the beaming eye or pale the glow of health. The conscience may be still at ease, the spirit lit and gay. That which pleases still may please and care be thrust away. But on that forehead, God has set indelibly a mark, unseen by men, for men as yet are blind and in the dark. And yet, doomed man's past below may bloom as Eden bloomed. He did not, does not, will not know, or feel that he is doomed. He knows, he feels, that all is well, and every fear is calmed. He lives, he dies, he wakes in hell, not only doomed, but damned. Oh, where is this mysterious born by which our path is crossed, beyond which God Himself has sworn that he who goes is lost? How far may we go on in sin? How long will God forbear? Where does hope end and where begin the confines of despair? An answer from the skies is sent. Ye that from God depart, while it is called today, repent, and harden not your heart. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father, we thank you for this warning from the preacher of the Hebrews. These are hard words to hear, but we hear them, we acknowledge them. Father, save us, save us from ourselves, and keep us in your family all the days of our lives. This we ask in Jesus' name. Amen.