In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We are moving away from the Gospel of John this weekend because it doesn't quite match up with uh With a Palm Sunday next weekend that our text will finally match up uh according to the calendar. So I'm going a different uh direction this morning And I do want to say f first of all because we've lost an hour of sleep, might not be as sharp as normal. But I told my wife that uh Minister has one uh thing to consider and be appreciative of, uh, neither will you be a sharp. So we're both in the same boat. We're in Colossians three We're going to be challenged this morning about loving one another, and I don't think we can be challenged enough on that. One of the more memorable victories from my college football playing days was beating Oregon State. By a score of forty-one to twenty-two, way back in nineteen eighty-four. Wow. Oregon State that year was not a good football team, but they were part of the mighty Pac-10 And they had lost only by eight points to the number six Ohio State Buckeyes two weeks prior. The game was supposed to be a blowout by the Beavers. The University of Idaho was from the Lowly Big Sky Conference. And when walking on the field to see our opponent, it was obvious that they were bigger than us. It was obvious that they had all the confidence in the world that they would beat us. And to make it worse, our starting quarterback went down early in the first quarter. He now coaches in the NFL. He was very good. Rick Sloan, a transfer, came in and he told us to start running those backside routes, which you're not into football. That simply means we're going to be throwing this ball all over the field. Well, I caught three balls that game, my sophomore year. They could not stop our passing attack, and our defense played stout enough to slow their running game down so that they could not keep up. We won, beat them by 19 points. It wasn't close after the second quarter. Tough games. Games you are supposed to lose and lose to a bigger, stronger, and faster opponent, those are the best games to win. They are the most satisfied to find a victory. The battle is tough. You have to rise to the occasion and be tougher than the battle. Overcoming odds, overcoming doubters, overcoming your own limitations and the limitations you put on yourself makes a victory all the more sweet. St. Paul's charge to the Colossians to love in the manner he described is a tough challenge to take on. It is tough, a tough charge to complete. But what makes it all the more sweet is when you complete it, when you love in this manner. A minister I know was preaching at a council where half the congregation consisted of fellow preachers. He decided to preach about the necessity for Christians to love one another because he had experienced some animosity from his fellow clergy recently And felt that St. Paul's charge here in Colossians and in 1 Corinthians 13 needed to be rehearsed. Such love requires men to set aside unnecessary squabbles and opinions, and to think the best of one another, and to forgive harsh words of offense. The sermon was so effective, read sarcasm into that comment, five ministers chose not to participate in communion after the sermon because they were mad at the preacher for preaching about love. Think about that. Ministers of the gospel. Men who are called to preach the love of God in the person of Jesus Christ. chose not to love a fellow minister of that same gospel. Such as a shame, a disgrace, a travesty, and an embarrassment. And here is yet another reason why the Christian Church is so impotent in preserving our culture from rot and from getting the masses to turn from their sins and their wickedness. We can't even love each other in the clear manner described in Scripture. Because we see too many Christians failing to love one another, And because Jesus prayed and taught about the need for Christians to love one another, and because Paul believed it necess a necessary topic to teach in detail about We can conclude that this is indeed a tough thing to do. Loving one another in the manner God insists is a tough thing to do. But that is what makes it all the more sweet when we do it. The tough tasks are the sweetest tasks to accomplish. So if you turn with me to Colossians, we find there in chapter 3, Paul being led by the Holy Spirit to remind these Christians at Colossae what they were like. before Jesus gave them life. What their lives were like, living day to day before Jesus came into their life He reminded them of their sinful lifestyle, how God had taken them out of such immoral mud. The sins are specifically listed at the beginning of the chapter, and they seem to apply to most men and only some women. For they focus on the sins of sexual lust and the love of money. And such sins tend to be the greatest of struggles for men as opposed to women. We men are more easily pulled away from God by the temptation of sexual pleasure That is our weakness, and it is why the advertising industry bombards the airwaves and print media with half-nude women and suggestive slogans. Sex does indeed sell. Add to this the desire for money which allows men to buy things they do not essentially need, and you have what most men are willingly led astray. by. Such realities need to be mentioned from time to time in the church, for they do indeed are, they are indeed every man's battle. These are the sins that result in broken marriages. They are the sins that keep young men away from committing their lives to Christ. At the point of temptation, the pull of such sins is what makes Christian men no different than godless men in terms of how strong that pull is. Well, the rhetorical device St. Paul uses to get these Christians at Colossae and us to flee from such sins of the flesh is to speak about them as in our past. As Christians, we have died to ourselves, Paul explains. We have chosen Christ instead of ourselves. Therefore, just as we die to self, then we are to die to the desires of the flesh now, which are those sins of sexual pleasure and the love of money. Or what money can buy. Next, Christians are to put off, as Paul says. Sins that start internally and then find themselves expressed in the manner we treat or speak to one another. Anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language, and lying Are sins that become natural when a man lives a life pursuing sexual pleasure and earthly goods. Men who live in sexual immorality are men with black hearts. And the only thing that comes out of a black heart are evil speaking from the tongue. These are to be put off. And that phrase, that phrase put off, is usually found referring to clothing. Thus Paul is providing an image of Christians regarding how we are to think about removing sin in our lives. We have to think of it as physically doing something, which makes us no longer a part of our the sins of our past. The older sinner we once were is like an old garment to be removed and discarded. We are not that person anymore. When the image of putting on comes next in verse ten When it does, it uses the phrase, put on the new. And then most translators add on, put on the new man. That's not what the Greek says. There's no word man there, but translators put that word there. Put on the new man. And that word is put there because it seems necessary for the word who follows it in the New King James. New Testament scholar F. F. Bruce believes Paul is referencing Christ Jesus as if he is saying, put on the man, put on Christ. And this makes so much more sense because when verse 12 tells us to put on tender mercies, kindness Humility, meekness, and long-suffering, those are indeed characteristics of Christ Jesus. Thus, we are to have a visual image within our imaginations that we are putting on Christ Jesus. He is now our identity. And when we do, we are to put on tender mercies. Put on, Jesus, put on tender mercies. Tender mercies are feelings of pity toward other Christians Not the pity that makes us perceive another person to be less fortunate than ourselves, but a pity that helps us identify with another person. I know your struggles, your failings, your needs, because they are my own. And therefore, when I see you struggle, I have tender mercies toward you. I empathize with you. And when I put on Jesus, I put on kindness. Kindness is easily one of the most overlooked godly characters by Christians in that it is not upheld as important as it should be. It is caring about what another person needs in any given moment, kindness. It is searching for what care another person needs in a given moment. Kindness is put on by being conscientious of the needs of others. It is looking for needs to be met, even if the moment is contentious. Being kind is as simple as seeing a person struggle and carrying boxes and offering to help Being kind is as difficult as having a harsh word spoken to you and you return it with a soft one. is asking the Holy Spirit to show you what you can say and how you can say it in a moment that will calm the storm and break down those emotional barriers that are dividing people If we ask, if we ask in any given moment, Holy Spirit, how can I be kind in this moment? He will tell you. Believe that. Believe it. Putting on Jesus is to put on humility. Such a characteristic is what Jesus is known for. Jesus defines humility, for he made himself of no reputation and took on the form of a servant. Living out humility is to internally, inside, internally believe that I am not what is most important in the world Thus I am not what is most important in any given moment. Humility is more internal than it is external. It is telling yourself, what I want does not matter right now. It is choosing to perceive others as more important than self. It is to lose your life for the sake of others just as Jesus told his followers to do Putting on Jesus is to put on meekness. Meekness comes from humility. Meekness is speaking gently and working gently with others. It is being quiet and careful so as not to offend unnecessarily It is speaking the truth only in love. A meek person does not boast. A meek person does not bluster. A meek person does not speak to be noticed. A meek person does not insist that his or her opinion must be counted. And with this characteristic, it might be harder to see Jesus as meek. For we read a great deal of his aggressive words uttered to the Pharisees and to the Sadducees. We might conclude that a meek person does not call a group of people hypocrites or false teachers. But a meek person is not a weak person. For a meek person says what needs to be said, and to whom it needs to be said. A meek person does not speak softly to a person who is burning in a building. If the Pharisees and Sadducees were teachable men, they would not have been spoken to harshly. They were not teachable men. Putting on Jesus is to put on long suffering. Long-suffering is a characteristic of God underlined in the Old Testament. It is an act of taking it on the chin time and time again and still staying in the relationship. It is putting up with people again and again. It is being hopeful that a person is going to change. Maybe this guy. Change for the good, maybe this time, even if there's no evidence of any change coming. It is Jesus Waiting to come again, but waiting until all who are his come to repentance. Long suffering Long suffering goes along with being not quickly or easily provoked to wrath. It is not doing what what can be so easily done. Like quitting on another person or blowing up on another person. Putting on long suffering should never be difficult for any of us. Well we all know how much long-suffering our Savior has done for each of us. Next, we are told to put on Jesus That is bearing with one another. Bearing with one another. And we might be tempted to conclude that bearing and long-suffering are the same, and certainly they take the same humble position to practice. But bearing with one another is in the context of forgiving one another. This means that we are to have forbearance about the sins of one another. And that includes forgiving one another, and that includes if someone has wronged us, or we simply can't stand to be around said person, we are still to forgive. And Paul doesn't say we need to wait for the person who has wronged us to ask for that forgiveness. The person who drives us crazy to ask for that forgiveness, being a forgiving person, is putting on Jesus, for that is what Jesus came to do, was to forgive us. That we must forgive each other is what Jesus has already taught us. Paul is simply repeating what Jesus emphasized. Our character, our identity as followers of Jesus are to be persons of forgiveness. Let us read verse 14. But above all these things, put on love, which is the bond of perfection. And there is our summary. It is consistent with what Paul defined as love to the Corinthians. Remember there in 1 Corinthians 13, Paul begins with love and then follows with the most challenging definition to live to, to live up to. And here he describes holy living that is challenging and difficult to live up to, and then reveals what he is actually describing all along is God. It's God's love. As we would expect, this is the word agape, the love of God. Thus to forgive. Forbear, practice long suffering, behave meekly, humbly, to be kind and grant tender mercies to one another is to love one another And here we can bring together the sermon from last week, and with this one, we are to pour out unrestricted love for Jesus, and part of that unrestricted love for Jesus is to practice loving one another. We know this because God has told us that we cannot say we love Him unless we also love our brothers and sisters. The book titled To End All Wars, and the movie by the same title Is a true story of British troops, young men, who endured great suffering at the hands of the Japanese in Thailand during World War II. These men were part of the slave builders that built the bridge over the river Kwai. The story is told by an officer named Ernest Gordon, who was captured along with some men of his battalion by the Japanese. And taken to a prison camp deep into the Thailand woods where they would suffer from disease and physical torture. After suffering great hardship while working on the bridge, Gordon became ill with diphtheria, and he was in its latter stages. Gordon became so ill so quickly that he was ordered to be placed in the death house where bodies of already dead soldiers and those who were certain to die were sent before their bodies were either cremated or buried. Gordon stirred enough in that death house for someone to notice him and insist that he go to a hut to see if he can recover. It was in that hut that he met a man by the name of Dusty Miller. Dusty was a gardener from Great Britain. He too had survived from diphtheria as he was recovering himself. It was at that first meeting that Dusty committed himself to helping Gordon recover. And what he had to do to help Gordon recover was out of the ordinary. Gordon writes He came to my legs and we both looked down at them. They were not a pretty sight. Skin ulcers had laced them with an ugly pattern and open sores, half-formed scabs and dry blood. Hmm, quite a mess, aren't they? said Dusty. I think I'd better wash them first. Then I'll clean out the pus. And that began a daily routine. Dusty would work the evening in the kitchen and tend to Gordon in the morning with repeated cleaning and rebandaging of Gordon along all along, because the necessity of his duties meant that he had to be with him whenever he was not working. He massaged those infected legs routinely. And through conversation, Gordon learned what motivated Dusty to be so kind. It was because he believed kindness came back to you, and because kindness spreads. But there was also what caused him to believe this about kindness. It was his love for the Lord Jesus Christ that freed him to love others in such a sacrificial manner. Dusty put on love. Dust he put on Jesus. And he rolled up his sleeves, and he cleaned another man's wounds day after day until the man was healed. I think we should think about acts like Dusty's, when we are tempted to be trite, when we are tempted to withhold forgiveness. When we are tempted to be mad at someone for telling us that we need to love others. We should think about the Son of God, creator of the universe, wrapping a towel around his waist. And washing the feet of men, even men who would betray him. That image kept in our hearts, in our minds. Will not allow us to be unkind, to be impatient, to be unforgiving toward one another. Thus he chose what was most difficult. We are to choose what is most difficult. Love one another. The reward is oh so sweet. Amen.