In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. Genesis chapter 25. And our reading picked up at verse 19, but we are actually going to be covering the entire chapter. So if you want to turn there, we'll make some comments about the first part of the chapter. Genesis 25. One of the obvious typologies in Scripture is children being a type of the fruit of the Spirit. Remember that children are called the fruit of a man's loins. The effect of the Holy Spirit on a person's life is also called fruit, and are various fruits as you know them, love, joy, peace, patience. and so on. Thus, when we read Genesis 25, that Abraham took on another wife, and by her had more sons Thus with them we are to understand that there was more fruit in Abraham's life. The fruit, or sons, He has from his new wife Katurah, however, are not the same as Isaac. Isaac is the promised seed. Isaac is the only son of the covenant line. The fruit of Abraham that he has from Keturah Can be identified as earthly fruit or fruit that benefits him in this life, but does not have anything to do with the life to come. Now this typology is true in our lives as well, as there is fruit that we produce after being born anew that is Eternal, like Isaac, that fruit is being under the covenant of Christ, knowing that heaven is our inheritance. The most important fruit There is also fruit we enjoy in this life that is not eternal, but a byproduct of living godly lives. A good paying job can be a fruit, as it can be a byproduct of a hard-earned education and a good work ethic. A good marriage is a fruit in this life. Jesus said that in heaven men and women will not be given in marriage, but in this life, Proverbs says that a good woman is from the Lord. A good church, good friends, good meals, etc. , are fruit in this life that we are free to enjoy They are not eternal, but we are allowed to enjoy them. Abraham's sons born to Keturah are enjoyed, but they will not receive the inheritance of Abraham. And by this I do not mean to say that heaven will not be their home. I do not know that. The scripture doesn't go there. But I mean that they are not chosen. They're not of the chosen line from whom the Savior will come. Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac because Isaac was of that line The sons born to Keturah are not heard from after Abraham's death other than Midian, and Midian will be a type of what Ishmael was to Isaac and Esau was to Jacob. Although the fruit of Abraham is mentioned, it is not the focus of the chapter. The focus of chapter 25 is the birth of twin brothers Jacob and Esau to the parents of Isaac and Rebekah. But before we go there, however, we need to compare the lives of Ishmael and Isaac as it is described in this chapter. Look at verses 12 through 16, and there we are given the names of Ishmael's sons, 12 in all. Each of these sons were princes. They were leaders who settled their own towns and were successful, each of them, in this life. But number 12 symbolizes a complete people, just as the 12 tribes of Israel represent all of Israel, and the 12 apostles represent all of Christ's disciples. By Ismael having twelve sons, God's promises fulfilled. You remember that he gave to Hagar, saying that he would make her son into a great nation. It should be underlined, if only to shore up what I have previously explained that Ishmael had twelve sons. I've argued that sons are fruits of the Spirit, and it just so happens that there are twelve fruits of the Spirit, twelve sons, twelve fruits. A coincidence? I think not. After Ishmael's twelve sons are listed, we learn that Isaac, his wife Rebekah, was barren. We then learn from verse 20 and 26 that she was barren for 20 years, 20 years before she gave birth to her twin sons. This is not what was expected. This is not what we would expect when comparing the fruit of the flesh with the fruit of the spirit. We would not expect that Ishmael, who was not of the chosen seed, would be more fruitful in this life than Isaac, who was the chosen seed. What is expected is that all who worship the only true God, that they would be blessed more abundantly than pagans in this life and the life after. Because we expect this, we get disappointed time and time again. The pagans have more. The enemies of God triumph in this life. Examples abound. The backstabber climbs the corporate ladder. The perverted obtain mansions and yachts. The deceiver successfully steals from the poor and the widow. The godless are voted into high political positions. The Patriots win Super Bowls. And the pause on that one These are just a few examples of the wicked succeeding in this life. And yes, they succeed either on the backs of the godly or as the godly struggle. Ishmael has twelve sons, while Isaac, for the first twenty years of marriage, has none. The preacher in Ecclesiastes announces the reality of the wicked, seeming to triumph in this life when he says There is a just man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs life in his wickedness. It doesn't seem fair, and it isn't, at least in this life. This 20 years was a trial for Isaac But not just Isaac. Is it it is a trial for many who are called children of God King David, who, you know, wrote most of the church's Psalter, was repeatedly disappointed and expressed his disappointment in his songs to the Lord. He wrote, For I was envious of the boastful when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. For there are no pains in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men, nor are they plagued like other men. Behold, these are the ungodly who are always at ease They increase in riches. Men of the world are those who have their portion in this life and whose belly God fills with hidden treasure. They are satisfied with children and leave the rest of their possessions to their babes. Again, we think this is not how it's supposed to be. The righteous should be more blessed. The children of God should be less troubled. How is it that the barren couple asks that we should be desperate to have a child and the sinner is able to procreate without love, without commitment, without scruples? How is it? The man out of work asks that so many men hate their jobs and speak unkindly of their bosses when there are men like me who would be grateful to have an opportunity to provide for my family. How is it? That a man can smoke like a chimney, eat like a goat, and drink like a fish, and live to be a hundred. And there are men who have never smoked that contract lung disease There is no denying that in this life the godless prosper. Thankfully, there is a solace that Should be apparent in regards to these discrepancies in prosperity. We are to remember the words of our Savior Who told his disciples that none of them had left anything that would not be returned to them a hundredfold in the life to come? Heaven is our place of retribution. It is the place where all will be made right. It is where the martyred saints under the altar will have their prayer answered as they ask, How long, O Lord, how long? Another solace is the virtue of patience. The children of God must often say, It is not yet my time. We are weak, but you, O God, are strong. We are despised, but you are honorable. The flesh, like Ishmael, has no such delay. The flesh brings forth its fruit of wrath and envy and emulation while the Spirit of God waits. The Spirit waits from year to year. Isaac and Rebekah waited twenty years. But when it is time, it is the fullness of time. It is the perfect time, meaning that it is as God would have it. The flesh, in contrast, has it immediately. It has it now, just as it wants it, and it is imperfect. It is fallen. The Spirit instead waits, waits until the fullness of time has come. The Spirit waits until after Isaac prays. Notice that. We should not understand that this is the first time Isaac has prayed. such a prayer, but we should understand that it is the first time the Holy Spirit responds positively to the prayer. When God answers prayer, it is again not as we would expect. No sooner had Rebecca conceived that she felt trouble within her. This cannot be It was enough that the son of the covenant, Isaac, and his lovely wife Rebecca, had to wait so long and watch while the unrighteous prospered. When that time is over, it should all go well. But it does not. If all is well, Rebecca asks, why am I like this? After she inquires of the Lord as to what is going on within her, the Lord answers her and says Two nations are in your womb. Two peoples shall be separated from your body. One people shall be stronger than the other, and the older shall serve the younger. What could possibly possibly worse for a mother to hear? Her family will be divided, and it is certain because the Lord has told her And once again we ask, how can this happen to the family of God? The family that God chose to be a great nation, to proclaim the truth that Yahweh is the only true God. Well perhaps it is the term chosen that the Israelites became enamored with. The word chosen can imply privilege. The word privilege implies blessings and blessings that are expected in this life In a similar way, I have observed Christians being enamored by the word saved To find out if another person is before the Lord as a believer, we might ask, are you saved? Answers vary, but sound something like, yes, I was saved at the age of twelve. But we are to notice that the word saved has a finality to it. It is used as if all is finished regarding a particular person's salvation. And we seem to assume a person who is saved has the blessings of heaven at his or her disposal. When the trials come, when prayers are not answered, when sickness, accidents, and many other troubles occur, we don't say it out loud, but we wonder Is he really saved? We think it because we are assuming that a person who is chosen or a person who is saved Would never do anything bad, and nothing bad would happen in his life. Isaac and Rebecca would tell us differently. The struggle that goes on within Rebecca is a type of that which is in every Christian and in every Christian body, which is the church. Within her are a child of the spirit and a child of the flesh. And like Ishmael and Isaac, the two are opposed to one another. And as we have already learned by studying Ishmael and Isaac in an earlier sermon, there is first the natural and then the spiritual. Ishmael and Esau are the natural, and they are first, making them men of the flesh. And Isaac and Jacob are spiritual, as they came after the flesh, being born second, making them men of the spiritual. And from this example of Isaac, we have to admit that seed from a chosen man of God results in both the carnal and the spiritual. It is honest to admit that what each of us produce in this life is mixed, mixed being of the flesh and of the spirit. And we should not be surprised by this. But I am afraid once again we are. People of God commit acts of sin while being marked as holy and righteous. People of God live at times according to their flesh. If they live all the time according to their flesh, they are not people of God as their works prove. But there is not one man of God beside Jesus who does not live from time to time according to his flesh. Too many Christians have placed Christian leaders on pedestals, expecting them never to produce acts of flesh, only to be sorely disappointed when it happens. Some even become disillusioned with the faith because sinful behavior of a man of God is unearthed. It's revealed. Of course, if there is egregious sin practiced by a church leader, he must be removed from his office. But church leaders will always practice sins of the flesh because they too, like all of us, see through that glass dimly and therefore make foolish decisions, careless comments. And commit unwise practices. That is the way of it In addition, not only does carnal seed come from men of God, the carnal seed is mixed in with the seed of the Spirit. Esau and Jacob were together in the womb. This fact forces us to acknowledge that even acts that we perform for the sake of God's kingdom are mixed with influences from our flesh. That is to say that when a person acts in obedience to God's commandments and loves his brother, He may be doing so with righteousness and selfish motivation mixed together. The selfishness may be small, but it is there. For instance, a man may give to the poor, but do so congratulating himself that he is more thoughtful than others. A man may risk his physical well-being to save a woman in distress, and at the same time praise himself that he is braver than all the rest who are around her. The seed of the flesh, in such instances, is undetectable, but it is there. The fact that Esau and Jacob were together in the womb also forces us to acknowledge what is in the church. Rebecca is a type of the church, for the church is a mother to the people of God. The church nurtures God's children. Within the church, within its womb, are sons of the flesh and sons of the spirit. Jesus used the analogy of tares and wheat. Thus the very nature of the church, while upon earth, involves the presence of flesh and spirit. There are men within the church who, although called Jesus Lord, Lord, are actually men of the flesh. And there are men and women of the flesh who pray side by side. With men and women of the Spirit, who will be separated from one another when the Lord returns and judges. And this is hard for the Mother Church, as it was hard for Rebecca. It is hard to know that the family will one day be split. Splitting of the family occurs in this life, of course. We know it well here at St. Stephen's, as we do, as most churches do that strive to worship in spirit and in truth. At times it is hard. What is to be learned from this passage of Scripture is that this is how God has planned it. We should then not be shaken when we experience the struggles within us as individuals. The carnal is still present and it is in conflict with the Spirit of God. We should not be shaken when we see the struggles within others, even men to whom we have given high esteem. We should not be shaken when we see it in the church. For it is as God said it would be, and it is for us to work through it. through the days of conflict, knowing that better days are always ahead. When there is strife We are tempted to say that something must be wrong with that person who is struggling or wrong with that church because they have conflict But there is nothing wrong, because it is as it should be. In fact, if there is no strife, then there might be something wrong because the devil doesn't need to stir up anything allowing a person or church to remain in a state of being lukewarm. Strife can be sanctifying where stagnation is a sign of death. So this entire chapter teaches us to accept our struggles as part of the Christian life. And to be faithful while struggling to know that God's will is being done. It may take 20 years, as it did Isaac and Rebekah. It may take even more, as it did with Esau and Jacob. But God's will is being done, and his will will be done that we can lean upon. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful God We thank you for the stories in this chapter that truly do describe the lives that we are living. Describe the church as it is striving to honor you. May all of us, may all of us recognize the struggle and not back away from it, not shrink from it, but walk through it, knowing that there is a better tomorrow. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.