In the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You will be well served to turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 1 starting at verse 6. 1 Peter 1 starting at verse 6 Let us all imagine together that Jesus has returned. The dead have been raised. And all of humanity stands before him at final judgment. But before that final judgment Each person that has ever lived receives a special specific book that has his or her name written on it With the date of your birth and the date of your death. You and I, all of us, receive our own book. And we are told that each book is uniquely about our lives. And so we eagerly open them. I open mine, you open yours. And as you start to read yours, you get confused. You are in the book, all right. You are a character in the story But the story, the main character in the story, isn't you at all. The main character is Jesus. And so you think that there has been a mistake, and so you look around to whom you could complain. And then we start to talk to one another, and we realize that in all of our books, in the book of every person who ever lived, the main character in that book is Jesus. And then it dawns on you this world and the way of history that it has played out hasn't been about nations rising and falling. It hasn't been about accumulated wealth or political power or social justice, or individual freedoms, natural disasters, world wars, plagues, or anything other than Jesus You next look back at your book and start to read specific stories from your life. You read about the time you got into a fight with your sibling because he played with your stuff. And you told them specifically not to touch your stuff. And you complained to your parents about the unfairness. And your brother is always touching your stuff. And during that whole scenario, one afternoon in your childhood, you thought the events that happened were about you. But no, they were about Jesus and Jesus establishing his kingdom. Next you read a story of a broken relationship that you at one time thought would end in marriage. The pain of that breakup was almost unbearable at the time. You thought half of your heart was ripped out, and you remember well the internal turmoil you went through. Those were tough days for you. But those days were never about you. They were about Jesus and how Jesus was establishing his kingdom. And then you read about the time that you posted on social media after a terrorist attack, praying for France! You type over the picture of a French flag. And here, in the book of your life, you learn that the tragedy in France was never about France. It was about Jesus and him ushering in his kingdom. Next, you read of a time when you decided to stay home from church for what you called me time, after all psychiatrists insist that such times are healthy. Now, as you read that story, you learn that what you thought was a time for you wasn't about you at all, but it was about Jesus and his coming kingdom. And now it dawns on you, all of those times in your life where you thought what you were doing was the most important thing in the world. When the thoughts you were having and the emotions you were feeling were the apex priority of your life, now you see that none of it was ever about you. It was always about Jesus and will forever be about Jesus You next ponder how your life would have been different, how your thoughts would have been prioritized, how your lusts would have been under greater control. How your conversations would have been so very different, how goals in life would have been better focused, how so very Much, very, very much would have changed if you would have known that the ways of this world are all about Jesus and his kingdom being established on earth as it is in heaven But then you catch yourself. You actually did know that all of your life was about Jesus, or at least you knew it should have been. And now you face judgment. How is that going to go? As we look at 1 Peter 1, verses 6 through 12. We learn that all of life being about Jesus was initially a secret. A secret angels longed to look into, longed to see. Last week we looked briefly at verse 6 and the reality that although heaven is our destination, life is filled with various trials that grieve us. But consider how easier it is to endure various trials, even the most grievous ones, when we accept that what we suffer is not about us And that the Heavenly Father is using such trials to reveal Jesus as Lord and to bring about his kingdom, his eternal kingdom. How much easier or quicker our trials would be if we no longer saw ourselves as being unjustly treated or wrongfully accused or suffering for no reason Angels long to see the purpose of suffering, and you and I get to experience it. Verses six through nine are actually a part of one long running sentence that starts at verse three. Translators break it up for clarity, and preachers break it up because we can't handle all that is said in this one sentence. In the midst of trials, we can easily focus on self because we simply want to survive the trial. But we lack right perspective when we do this. The trial, as was said, is not about us. is how God wants to use those trials to establish the kingdom of God, the kingdom of Jesus, in both this world and in our lives. When we watch a child go through a trial, let's say a toy is taken from her, and she begins to whimper and cry. We don't feel necessarily sorry for her because we know that the injustice that she feels will soon pass and that her emotional pain will not last long. But she doesn't know that. She has not matured enough to know that her trial will soon pass. We too often are like that little girl. But we are to mature and know that our grievous trials are only for a little while. And there is a goal to our grievous trials. There is always a goal. Peter says it is to prove our faith to be genuine and to increase its value to be more precious than gold. As it is being refined by us staying in the trial, while allowing the fire of the trial to burn away that which is impure. And so if we were to ask, what is going on with me right now? What is happening to me, referring to a trial that we are experiencing, the straightforward answer is that you are being sanctified. God is making you more holy through your trials. And here is fair warning. This is by experience, more than scripture Here is fair warning. If you do not allow God to make you more holy, to improve on your virtues as you go through a particular trial, You should know that you will have to go through another and another until you allow God to burn away the dross, for you are his child. He has elected you, as verse 2 states, and therefore he is not going to allow you to remain imperfect, but he is always striving to perfect you until you enter into his glory. But some of this that I've just said sounds like it's about us. After all, Peter is describing our trials and our faith and our being tested. That is about me, you, right? Well no. The sentence continues May be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Consider how the devil plays with individual people, convincing them that the life they live is solely and primarily about them. He convinced Eve that her knowing good and evil from the side of evil was about her. He convinced Cain that his offering being accepted by God was about him. He convinced the people as a whole that building a tower to reach the heavens and to protect them from another flood was about them and their survival. He convinced the citizens of Sodom and Gomorrah that their lives that they lived were for the purpose of pleasure of their flesh. He convinced Sarah that she couldn't conceive because she trusted in her perspective. And on and on it goes. We are all of us easily deceived that our lives are about us. Examine the secular world today where people have their minds On only what is for them. Even when they perform what they consider an altruistic act, it is a lie. For the motivation is for how the act makes them feel. Christians are not called to behave in a virtuous manner because of how it makes them feel It was a number of years ago that a popular atheist named Christopher Hitchens, now deceased, publicly debated the Reverend Douglas Wilson. And Hitchens was quite confident in his challenge for Wilson to name a virtuous behavior that is practiced by Christians and not practiced by atheists. The challenge was to make the point that a person doesn't need to be a Christian or a believer in God in general to behave virtuously. And I was never happy with the response of Doug Wilson, not to criticize him, but he did not point out an obvious distinction between virtuous behaviors performed by Christians and those practiced by atheists. The obvious distinction is the praise, honor, and glory of Jesus Christ The Christian can practice virtuous behavior to the glory of Jesus, while the atheist cannot. My point is that while Peter is seemingly focused on the lives of his hearers while he speaks to their trials and their faith, by continuing on, he makes it clear. That the trials and the purification of the faith of these Christians is done for the praise, the honor, and the glory of Jesus Christ. For as Jesus is revealed, the faith of the Christian is purified. At the beginning of John Fox's Book of Martyrs, written in the sixteenth century from a Protestant perspective. We have this paragraph from the first chapter, introduction. It is, quote, as it is not our business to enlarge upon the Savior's history, either before or after his crucifixion. We shall only find it necessary to remind our readers to the discomfiture of the Jews by his subsequent resurrection. Though one apostle have had betrayed him, though another had denied him under the solemn sanction of an oath, and though the rest had forsaken him, unless we may accept the disciple who was known unto the high priest The history of his resurrection gave a new direction to all of their hearts, and after the mission of the Holy Spirit, imparte new confidence in their minds. The powers with which they were endued emboldened them to proclaim his name, to the confusion of the Jewish rulers and the astonishment of the Gentile proselytes. I want our focus to be upon that opening remark, the proclaiming of the name of Jesus. All martyrs who appear in John Fox's Book of Martyrs died in order to proclaim the name of Jesus. They did it for the praise, honor, and glory of Jesus to be revealed. The martyrs have been given Have been given a special place in the book of Revelation, being under the altar, calling out for vindication, because they understood that their lives were not about themselves. They saw the story of humanity. Even their story, their personal story, was about Jesus. Peter continues by graciously assuming that the elect, to whom he writes, love Jesus, even though they have not seen him. And this gracious assumption reminds us of the words of Jesus to his disciples, you remember, as he tells Thomas. Thomas needing to touch, needing to see, that more blessed were those who had not seen and yet still believe. Such a belief can only be generated and fostered by the Holy Spirit. Because such faith is generated and fostered by the Holy Spirit, the joy that results can be inexpressible and full of glory. If it was a joy generated by us and for us, it would most certainly be expressible and contain no glory, especially no glory of God. Moderns find it quite easy to express joy as it flows out of them in their music and self congratulations I looked it up this week. The words love and baby continue to be the top ten words used in popular songs, such as how moderns express joy. But if your joy is not about you, if it is from God, it cannot be expressed with human words. It is far too deep, far too wide, far too rich to be uttered by earthly words. Peter continues his long sentence by getting to the point of our salvation. The beginning of the sentence was calling for God to be blessed. The middle of it was about grievous trials that we go through. The ending is our salvation. And once again we are challenged by the point of it not being about us. And once again we note that our salvation is actually not about us, even though we are the great benefactors of it. No, our salvation is about the establishing of the kingdom of God in which Jesus reigns supreme. St. Peter's final point in this section is to reflect on how privileged we are to know what we know about the story of Jesus. When Paul tells Timothy that all scripture is God-breathed, he was initially referring to the Old Testament. When Jesus revealed God's plan from the scriptures to the men walking on the road to Emmaus, he was showing them the gospel from the Old Testament. The good news of God sending his son to redeem the world has always been evident but not clearly seen. Even the prophets who spoke the words of God did not see what you and I now clearly see. Jesus is the seed promised to Eve. Jesus is in the life of Seth. Jesus is the secondborn to Adam, to Abraham. Jesus is the persons of Jacob and Joseph. The gospel story is in Moses and then in Joshua and then in Saul and then in David and then in Solomon. It is continued in Elijah and Elisha. It was described by Isaiah, Jeremiah, and all the rest. The prophets also didn't know the story of the world, the universe, that it was all about Jesus. Not even the angels knew that they longed to see it. The same word for see, to see it, same word for see we find in the gospel accounts of the resurrection. People came to the garden that Easter morning and stooped down to appear, to see into an empty tomb. That is the idea, that is the image here. Angels peering down, with studied gaze, longing to know more of this great salvation. They longed to peer, even though there was no salvation for them. The angels that fell were damned. Those that did not were established forever in the fellowship of God. And that was all. But for the elect, men and women, in so many ways, lower beings than the mighty angels, God shows us his extraordinary love and grace and mercy. From this desire of angels to see, to peer into, consider how important perspective is and how it can seemingly change everything. If you stood up in front of the tomb of Jesus at the entrance, as it was shorter than your eyes, you would only see a foot or two inside. giving you a perspective that suffering and death continue. But if you stooped down and peered inside, you would see a tomb empty and all things have been made new. A life-changing perspective. The perspective that your life is not about you is a privileged one to have It is stooping down. It is peering inside. It may get you off your phone and thus off your social media sites. It may get you to not care if you are slighted, if you are judged, even if you are forgotten. It may get you to care first and foremost about the kingdom of God and his righteousness. A passage from our study of Ephesians is appropriate to close on. Here is a summary of the Christian life from St. Paul, Ephesians chapter 4. He said. Walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, with all loneliness and gentleness, with long-suffering, bearing one another in love. From the perspective of seeing your life primarily about you, St. Paul's summary looks unlikely. It's not going to happen. You can't do these things. With the perspective of your life and everyone else's life being about Jesus, living a life of lowliness, of gentleness, of longsuffering. Putting up with one another in love. That seems doable. It's that simple. Let us pray. Our God, we thank you that we are a part of this story. But we also thank you That we can realize we're not the focus of the story. We're not the main character. And for that revelation that it is Jesus, that our lives are to be about Jesus and his kingdom. Father, for that revelation, we thank you. We thank you for perspective, an eternal perspective. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.