In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in the Gospel according to St. John chapter 10. I want to start off with telling you a story about a young boy by the name of John. A boy named John was raised in a typical American home in the late 19th century. He was challenged by his mother On a regular basis, as to whether he had accepted Jesus into his heart. On June 15, 1871, little John professed Jesus as his Savior, and he received his first communion. Thirteen years later, our little John was all grown up as he received his PhD from Johns Hopkins University. When he took his first teaching post at the University of Michigan, he became a member of the Student Christian Association. In his first presentation to the students organization, John told these Christian students that faith in God and trust in Jesus was the duty of every man. But something happened over the years that changed John. By 1933. John had co-authored the Human Manifesto. The Human Manifesto claimed man to be a part of nature Having evolved over time, along with the rest of the world evolving, and thus This human manifesto concluded, there was no need to believe in the spiritual, nor, John claimed, was there a need to agree on a universal morality. John then transferred his theory of mankind and the world into how humans should be educated. The goal of education, according to John, John Dewey, was to fit children into the social entity of the state. The importance of public schools reprogramming children is clear in this quote by John Dewey. I believe that in this way a teacher is a prophet of the true God, an usherer in of the true kingdom of God. Be not confused by this language, for John Dewey is borrowing religious terms to promote a humanist agenda that clearly stated that man is his own God. When I was in the fourth grade, and my elementary school leaders decided to literally break down the walls in our school. building, that is, that separated the classrooms and chose to have open classrooms where there was free exchange between fourth graders I had no clue that my teachers and school administrators were being influenced by John Dewey. When schools started sex education courses, where my fifth grade teacher became the primary conduit in my life for sexual morality And that free birth control would be offered to us two years later. I was not aware at the time that I was being made a disciple of John Dewey. And I wonder how many of us were made disciples of Dewey, of Spock, of Kinsey. Without a choice of our own or any critical thinking of our parents as to whether Dewey, Spock, Kinsey, Masters, and Johnson And all the rest actually knew what they were talking about. I exposed these behind the scenes influencers in my life here because of the teaching Jesus provides on the Good Shepherd and His sheep Well, there is a great deal of positive teaching about the Good Shepherd and how he cares for his sheep in John's Gospel here, chapter 10. We must begin by pointing out that there are other types of shepherds Jesus describes that are dangerous to us. And we are to be aware that Jesus teaches about the Good Shepherd in light of the Pharisees, who were acting at that time as shepherds over God's people. And yet, and yet these shepherds, these leaders over God's people Would not acknowledge something as clear and obvious as a blind man being healed. That is what just happened prior to Jesus teaching about the Good Shepherd. The Pharisees were unwilling to acknowledge the miracles of Jesus. And this led him to teach them about what it meant to follow thee. good shepherd, as opposed to all those other bad shepherds. Now I want to speak about the Pharisees for a minute before we go to the biblical text. I was uh playing quiet uh with some of the folks that we traveled with to Israel. I didn't know them very well, so I was just playing low-key. And uh that changed when a gentleman said something that caused my personality to be exposed He said, and I don't remember the exact topic of conversation, but he said that Jesus himself was a Pharisee. And boy did I object to that. Especially as I am, as you know, in the middle of preaching the gospel according to John, and Jesus is treating the Pharisees as his main target in this gospel challenging their self-righteousness. Now the manner that I jumped into the conversation and challenged this gentleman, you could tell immediately that he wanted to take it back. But later, our lecturer, who was not a part of that original conversation, he explained that the Pharisees, and I had not heard this before, But that the Pharisees arose because the priest of Israel had become corrupt and political And so a group of religious men who wanted, who wanted something good to lead Israel back to the covenant that God had made with Abraham, Moses, and David. This group started a what we could call a grassroots movement. Such men regained and then retained the religious identity of Israel just a generation prior to Jesus. This is a good thing. Because they were not part of the religious establishment, they had to earn the respect of the community. And they did. And these became known as the Pharisees. But as Jesus exposes The Pharisees let this respect of men go to their egos, so that the praise of men was what many of them began to care about most. So Jesus technically could be labeled a Pharisee by some because he was independent of the religious establishment. What he was not a follower of any rabbi, because the Holy Spirit and the Heavenly Father were his teachers. Because the Pharisees wanted to enter the kingdom of God, because they wanted to enter the kingdom of God, but not by way of Jesus. And because of the refusal to heed the evidence that Jesus was the Messiah, because of that stubbornness, Jesus tells us the following parable. The parable about the Good Shepherd. Now, in our gospel reading, we started at verse 6, but I want to read verses 1 through 5. Jesus said, Most assuredly I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs up some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. That he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out And when he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Yet they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers. So, what this parable makes clear is that there is no other way to enter the kingdom of God but by Jesus Himself. A fact that the Pharisees did not like. But our gospel author John gives us insight that those who Jesus spoke to didn't understand the parable that what I just read to you. So the teaching in verses seven through eighteen explain the parable what we read for our gospel reading Jesus, starting at verse 7, first explains that he himself is the door for the sheep. And to understand this, it must be understood that all who came before him were thieves and robbers And it is of great comfort that his sheep, the sheep Jesus allows and in and protects, did not and do not heed the voice of thieves and robbers. Now, those who Jesus describes as thieves and robbers are not the good prophets who came before Jesus. Instead, they are those who wanted money, who wanted power, who wanted position by means of religious influence. They were like the Pharisees. But to get a clear picture of what Jesus is describing, and I saw a picture of this recently, we should imagine a fence Built with assorted rock sizes piled up to make a fence in a circular manner This is to keep the sheep from wandering out and to keep the thieves and the robbers from getting in. A thief, a thief would climb over such a fence and steal a sheep. to add to his own flock, or to start his own flock if he didn't have any sheep, or to shear the sheep and cut it up and cook it up for personal comfort. And with these so many reasons to steal sheep, there would be many possibilities for sheep stealing. The bottom line is that thieves steal sheep for profit. I hope it is not a surprise to you to know that there are men and women Who enter into the Christian faith and then ministry for the purpose of financial gain. I hope you realize that. Some of you will remember Peter Popoff. Peter Popoff back in the late 1980s was exposed to be a fake faith healer. His wife was found to be the voice in an earpiece, telling him the names and illnesses of the attenders of his tent meetings. They had evidently filled out a card when they entered in, said their name, where they're from, and what ailed them. And Popoff would pretend that the Holy Spirit was speaking out names to him and saying where they were from and giving him the the illness that they were suffering from And all the while it was his wife in his ear. Now, before he was exposed, he made hundreds of thousands of dollars off of desperate people. The televangelists, well, they're easy targets. There are bishops and even popes who have used their powerful church office to collect personal fortunes. There are denominations that care more about pleasing their deep pocket donors than standing for Jesus. And a thief may not want just money. He may want power and influence and the praise of men, just as the Pharisees did. And thus there are many possibilities of ungodly motivations for men and women to become religious leaders. And such consideration prompted St. James to write the following Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. The next wrong type of shepherd that Jesus mentions is the hireling. The hireling, as Jesus describes, is a coward. As soon as there is a danger from wolves, the hireling flees. He flees and is a coward because he is only motivated by his own well-being. And the well-being of no one else. This type of shepherd, this type of leader comes in and out of people's lives because people are what he uses. They are a means to his end, whatever that end might be Such leaders bounce around. They only stay for a time in which it does them best, and then when tensions and problems and dangers arise, they find another place they think needs them as their new leader. But such leaders don't actually care for the sheep, as is evident by the manner they leave the sheep, leave them in danger, and to suffer at the jaws of wolves. Sheep scatter when they lose a shepherd. They don't scatter when leadership is carefully managed and handed off. Such hireling shepherds, such leaders that cause sheep to scatter, are really not shepherds or leaders at all. Just pretenders. And pretenders come and go. These shepherds, these thieves and hirelings, are in contrast then to Jesus. And we are to notice that Jesus does not contrast them to a good shepherd. Not a good shepherd, but the good shepherd. He is proclaiming emphatically by stating the good shepherd, that there was no one like him. There was no one to whom he should be compared. Every great man of faith of the Old Testament were mere shadows, types, symbols that pointed to Jesus. But none of them can be compared to Jesus. He is the definition of the one and only. A few years ago, comedian Stephen Harvey, yes, that same Miss Universe host, had a bit where he imagined introducing Jesus I want to read it to you. This is what he said. He said, if I had the pleasure of bringing out Christ, this is how I would do it. It ain't got to be the way you would do it. You may not think it's just right, but this is how I would do it. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honor to introduce a man who needs no introduction. His credits are too long to list He has done the impossible time after time. He hails out of a manger in Bethlehem, Jerusalem, by way of heaven. His mother is still headlining the Catholic Church today. His daddy is the author of a book that has been on the bestseller list since the beginning of time. He holds the record for the world's greatest fish fry. He fed 5,000 hungry souls with two fish, five loaves of bread. He can walk on water, turn water into wine, no special effects, no camera tricks. He has a headshot on every church van across the country. Even before the Kings of Comedy, he was hailed the King of All Kings. ruler of the universe, Alpha and Omega, the bright and morning star. Some say he's the rose of Sharon, and some say he's the Prince of Peace Get up on your feet, put your hands together and show your love for the second coming of the one and only. Quite an introduction. Indeed, Jesus is the one and only, the good shepherd And from Jesus Himself, we are given an introduction that the good shepherd is the doer. And that sounds strange because how can a shepherd be a shepherd and a doer? But the Good Shepherd is the door. And again, not a door, but the door. He is the only way to come into the sheepfold. If anyone wants to be a part of the sheepfold, be cared for by the Good Shepherd, you have to get in by way of Jesus. This is emphatic. There is no universalism spouted here. Jesus is the only way to heaven. And we state it once again: not all religions are the same. They don't lead to the same God. Jesus is the only way. I learned on our tour That Muslims believe that Jesus will return again, just like Christians do. I didn't know that. But they believe Jesus will return and reveal himself to be a Muslim, as will Moses and Abraham. But in truth, the truth is that Jesus finds no commonality with Muslims. There is no inclusiveness. Jesus is the only way. And as the only way to get to the sheepfold, Jesus also assures that no one can get to the sheep unless the Good Shepherd, who is the door, allows it. This means that the sheep are always and forever safe. And there is to be great comfort and security provided to the sheep that the devil cannot get to them. Demons cannot get to them. And the will of man cannot get to them. The sheep are protected always and thoroughly by the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd proves his devotion to his sheep by giving up his life for them The sheep of the Good Shepherd are loved more than the Good Shepherd loves his own life. There is no greater love than that. That is the greatest of love. And because of the complete sacrifice of the Good Shepherd. The sheep that are his own are given abundant life. I turn To my Bobby Lynn earlier this week, as I do from time to time before we go to sleep, and I asked her, are you happy? When I ask if she is happy, I am not asking if she is emotionally feeling happy, but I am asking if her life is full of joy and contentment. She smiled as she usually does and planted a kiss on me telling me she is very happy. And so am I. And we have happiness in our lives not because we have earned it, not because of earthly wealth, not because of earthly success or earthly health. No. It is only because of the Lord Jesus. The Good Shepherd has given us abundant life. And I find great joy in all of our children in their endeavors as they are now adults. Not because of worldly success, but because I hear and see that their lives have the right priorities. They are seeking the kingdom of God first. They want godly influences in their lives and they want to make a difference for the kingdom of God. That is abundant life. It is a life that can only be given by the Good Shepherd. And so finally, the Good Shepherd is personally, personally involved with his sheep. He loves his sheep so much, so very much, that he knows every detail about them. His knowledge of them is so that he can provide for their needs emotionally, psychologically, physically. And the good shepherd is known by his sheep. And this is why teachers of Christianity speak of our faith being a relationship. For it is worshiping a God who wants to be known by those who are his own. The Good Shepherd is God and friend to those he loves. Considering all the shepherds who want to influence our lives and want us to follow them. Considering the many motivations that these shepherds have for us to follow them, we are to contrast them all to the Good Shepherd. And when we do, we ought to fall at our knees with thankfulness that He has brought us into His fold. We are to love him more because we can visualize how lost we would be if he did not go out, pick us up, and place us on his shoulders to bring us back to the fold. Brothers and sisters, fellow sheep, be reintroduced to Jesus. He is the King of all kings, ruler of the universe, Alpha and Omega, bright and morning star, the rose of Sharon, the Prince of Peace, the Great I Am. And the Good Shepherd. Let us pray.