In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our readings this morning were not from Proverbs, but we are looking at Proverbs. And we're looking at Proverbs in terms of the subject of anger. I purposefully chose the topic of anger from the book of Proverbs for Father's Day. One of the things you as a congregation have become accustomed to is hearing sermons on Father's Day that instead of celebrating Fathers, I wish to challenge them And some of my challenges can be a bit of a bop in the nose. And there are reasons for that. I have believed and continue to believe that fathers slash husbands Our key to reviving our culture with the gospel. How husbands slash fathers lead in terms of living the gospel Is the direction this parish and our culture will go? I will never back away from that belief. But why address anger? Well, I cannot explain my reasons any better than a blog post that was written a couple of weeks ago by the Reverend Doug Wilson. It was titled or is titled An Open Letter to an Angry Husband. Wilson explains that the letter is fictional. So that no one man would think it was directly to him, but the letter is very personal. And any man who struggles with anger and struggles expressing anger can find himself in that letter. It is a letter, I believe, that every God-fearing preacher could write, because there are many fathers slash husbands who fit the description. In Wilson's letter, he describes a scene of the husband barking at his wife and children in a cruel manner in public at a church picnic. The pastor has heard of the man's temper before, and now he has witnessed it himself. And the pastor concludes, rightly I believe, that what is seen in public is a sign of something much worse going on in private. Wilson also makes the point to the angry father slash husband that he is hiding behind behind his machoism. And he's hiding behind the biblical teaching of a wife needing to submit to her husband. The angry man knows those verses well. And thus justifies the bullying of his family with the Bible. I know such men. And I could be such a man, but by the grace of God. Anger can be a serious problem for both men and women, but when it is a problem for a man, it has serious Devastating consequences. And I use the word problem. Anger is more than a problem, it is a damnable sin And we read from Colossians chapter 3, verse 6 through 9. Paul says, Because of these, the wrath of God will come on the children of the disobedient. In which you also walk in these, when you lived in them, but now you also put off all of these: anger, wrath. malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. In that verse, Paul leaves no doubt the seriousness, the sin of anger. I try to recall stories of human anger expressed in the Bible. Recall Cain killing his brother Abel. Recall Saul becoming angry at David to the point of trying to kill him. Consider what these two stories express of expressed anger, what they have in common. The first thing we should learn from Proverbs regarding anger is that anger is the fruit or expression of other sins. The fruit or expression of other sins. Underline and highlight that point. That we don't condemn ourselves like we should for being angry when we fail to see the connection that anger has with other deplorable sins. When it comes to anger, there is always something underneath or at the heart of that anger that needs to be addressed. Consider these two proverbs from chapter 27, verse 4. Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy? And from chapter 29, verse 8, scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath. Now ponder what is similar about these verses. Each mentions causes of anger. Causes of anger. Note this next point, please. Much anger, much anger is produced by envy or jealousy. And Proverbs is so very helpful to show us that connection. Rarely does anyone want to admit that he is jealous or that he is taken over by envy. Such allows others to know that a person is insecure. Or at least subconsciously aware of his shortcomings. And there is something pathetic about a person who is jealous or envious His constitution is weak, and he tries to make up for it by being angry. In the second verse read, we find that there is also a connection between anger and scoffing. Scoffing means to ridicule. A person who ridicules is a person who displays a critical spirit. And a critical spirit and an angry spirit are one and the same. We often don't connect cruel and critical speech with anger But the one is an expression of the other. Again, there is something pathetic about a cruel person, even though no one wants to admit that he or she is cruel Consider that it is easier to admit that you are angry if you are able to excuse your anger with some type of righteous indignation. In truth, angry people are often jealous or cruel, and thus their anger makes them pathetic. Is that too harsh? Does that make you angry? I am horrid for the purpose of keeping us away from anger. The very real problem with the repeatedly angry person is that he or she does not see what everyone else sees so well. Anger displayed reveals a sorry condition of the mind and heart and makes a person appear small, very small. They appear small because we all know how easy it is to give ourselves over to anger. We can all do it at any time. We all feel it and are tempted to give into it, but a person who is small in character gives into it all of the time. Hear this next proverb. If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small. If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small. Anger is not mentioned in the passage, but a person who faints at a time of adversity is giving into the emotions like anger instead of rising above it. And thus, if you can't control your anger, there is again something very small about you. And the only way to grow from your smallness is to admit that you are behaving in an angry manner. If you are a jealous person, an insecure person, a cruel person, you must be willing to admit it. And most importantly, to admit it to your wife and to your children To scare you even further away from anger. Here are these proverbs. From chapter 15, verse 8, verse 18. A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger quiets contention. From chapter 29, verse 22. A man of wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression. Both passages teach that an angry person causes others to sin. Anger begets anger. It begets bitterness. It begets hatred. Over time, anger, especially in a Christian home, results in unbelieving children. From Proverbs chapter 22, verses 24-25. Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man, lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in his snare. How many times have we seen an angry father resulting in an angry son, and an angry daughter resulting from an angry mother? Sin is anger is like a nasty genetic disease. It is a sin that is passed on to the next generation. Now I've been focusing on the male species, but Proverbs doesn't. From chapter 21, verse 19. It is better to live in a desert island than with a quarrelsome and fretful wife. But pay careful attention how serious Solomon is about living with a quarrelsome woman. It would be better to live alone in complete isolation than to live with an angry woman. And why do women get angry? Well, from this pastor's experience, women get angry primarily primarily because of bitterness wrapped up in their heart. Bitterness is caused by withholding forgiveness, and forgiveness is withheld because when a woman has expectations and they're not met, well, that's the first cause. She expects to be treated a certain way, and soon she becomes disappointed. And the devil tells her that she deserves to be treated a certain way, so she agrees and she refuses To love unconditionally, and therefore she withholds forgiveness. As time passes, unforgiveness becomes bitterness, and bitterness becomes anger. And when a woman lives with anger, she becomes unbearable. She becomes so unbearable that living with a volleyball is a better companion than the woman. An unexamined result of anger. It is a a number of people get hurt. From Proverbs chapter 30, verse 33. For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife. In short, anger is destructive and harmful to others. Consider what is needed for a person to be angry. What is needed is an object of their anger. Bitterness, envy, resentment, and other such sins are so deep-seated, people don't know why they're angry anymore. And then transference occurs. Angry people let their anger out on others who emotionally remind them of the sin that started their anger. As a pastor, I have noticed people becoming angry at their spiritual leader for some cockamami excuse when the real target is angry at God. The angry person may think himself or herself simply venting strong feelings or expressing his or her sense of injustice, righteous outrage. But when he or she is really examining themselves, they are hurting other people. Always. Anger always results in the hurting of other people. When anger is embraced and people are harmed, the next result is a destruction of relationship. Anger puts people and keeps people in adversarial relationships Just as important as admitting that anger is caused by jealousy, insecurity, and a heart bent toward cruelty is the admission that anger is an attack on people. An attack. And this is why Jesus likened anger to murder in his Sermon on the Mount. The two include the same principle. It is a desire to destroy another person. And that that something like this could happen, that one person could be angry at another person to the point of wanting to witness the other person's demise. That's why Jesus addressed the sin. It is why the apostles used so many words to teach the people and implore the people to love one another. And if you are to love and care for others as Christ loved and cared for us, that means we can never justify darkening the lives of others with our anger. Our selfish pride and our small resentments. Anger in this way is seen as a repudiation of virtually every Christian principle, everything that we are to be about as Christian. And thus it is fair to ask an angry man, are you a Christian or are you not? Here is another proverb regarding anger from Proverbs chapter 19, verse 19. A man of great wrath will pay the penalty. For if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again. The reality identified in this proverb is rather sad. We might want to believe that an angry person simply needs to be heard and have love expressed to him in order for him to be rid of his anger. But the sin of an angry person isn't the anger only, as we have seen Until a person deals with the sinful habits of sins like jealousy and envy, withholding forgiveness and alike, there is no rescuing him. The wisdom of these proverbs has been eye-opening for me as a pastor I have practiced the being slow in being contentious with an angry person, and it did help calm the situation. But being kind and being slow with emotions does not save someone from their anger. The only thing that saves a person from anger is the blood of Jesus. The blood of Jesus does not atone for a man's sin until he confesses that sin and repents. An angry person needs to know that if he does not deal with his habitual anger, it will be forever too late. Because anger is such a dangerous sin, and a sin so easily fallen into. It becomes so very difficult to get out of it. Therefore, it is a praiseworthy achievement when it is rooted out, when anger is rooted out. Consider this next proverb from Proverbs 16, verse 32. Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. Ruling your spirit, controlling your emotions. The wisdom here first is that being slow to anger is preferred. And most important message is that it is greatly difficult to be slow to anger. Consider the energy, the resources, the sacrifice of an army that it must use and make to overthrow a city. Lives are lost when a city is overtaken. People have to die when a city is overtaken. For a man to control his anger, he must die. Die to himself Die to his pride, die to his self-righteousness, die to his jealousy, die to his callousness, die to his perception that he is right and everyone else is wrong. But this is why the Christian life is referred to as a great race, a battle to fight, a cross to bear. A person who is angry is not a lost cause, but there is a great deal before him to overcome. And so when a man does overcome his anger, we can glory in such achievements, just as we glory in the achievements of great military men. And the fight to overthrow anger is always a just war. Always From Proverbs 19, verse 11. Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense. When a man has control over his anger, he is not provoked even when the offenses are real. Even when someone truly has wronged him, he's still in control. And such self-control is an example of how a man is full of the Holy Spirit. Such a man is to be admired and to be held up as an example. From Proverbs 15, verse 1. A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. This proverb puts the subject in full view for me. Soft words reflect a soft heart, for from the heart the mouth speaks. Harsh words come from a hard heart that is full of anger. And as we have learned, anger is the result of other deplorable sins. And harsh words result in more anger. And more anger. And so what can be done for a person who has given over to anger? I believe the answer is obvious. It's obvious because it is what any person needs to do in order to have his or her sins forgiven and to be filled with the Holy Spirit. What does the scripture say? If we confess our sins, confession begins with acknowledging our sin, the sin of anger. And then after acknowledging anger, we must acknowledge the sin underneath the anger. Are you jealous and envious that someone has a job you think you should have? Confess your your coveting. Are you callous towards the needs of others? Confess your cruelty. Are you withholding forgiveness from someone? Confess your failure to love. When you do this, the scripture goes on to say he, God, will be faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And so we are to believe we are forgiven. The sin of anger and all the sins that led to our anger is no longer who we are. Your identity has changed, for you are now a person of Christ. And once that happens, what's a Christian to do next? I believe a person of anger has some reparations to pay Not for the atonement of their sins. Please don't ever hear me say that. His reparations need to be to those his anger has harmed. If you are a man of anger, you need to apologize to every person who has been hurt by your anger. You need to apologize with no excuse, no expectation of people needing to apologize to you But only seeking with a humble spirit that your relationships be restored I said earlier that fathers and husbands are the key to bringing revival to our culture. And I say it again. With the vision of men being humble in spirit, confessing their sins, receiving the love and mercy of God in Christ Jesus our Lord, and exemplifying that love and mercy first to their families. And then to the church, and then to their neighbors, and then to all whom God places in their path. Of course, there is an anger that is not sinful. Jesus got angry. There is a righteous anger. But that is not the sin that Proverbs is warning against. Don't let the devil fool you into justifying your sinful anger by identifying it as righteous anger. Righteous anger is under control. Anger is a serious sin that needs to be acknowledged and confessed and washed by the blood of Jesus. Christian men, put anger far from you. Don't allow it in your home. Do not entertain the emotion. Stay away from venues that tempt you toward anger. Christian fathers, Christian husbands, Christian men, the kingdom of God needs you. Let us pray.