In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Our focus once again is on the two readings, the epistle reading and the gospel reading. And I want to begin by highlighting for you the call X, or For those of you who are new to us, the prayers for the week that we pray each week, this week being the fifth Sunday after Epiphany. On the third week of Epiphany, we prayed that God would mercifully look upon all our dangers and necessities. By stretching forth his right hand to help and defend us. On the fourth Sunday after Epiphany, we prayed that God, who knows our frailties May grant us strength and protection to support us through all dangers and temptations. Today we pray that the church may be kept in the true religion While being defended by God's mighty power. I trust you see a theme in these prayers, or at least a recognition that you and I, as individuals, and as a church lumped together are in need of help. We are in danger. And without the help of God, we are doomed. And I'm not being overly dramatic. In the 1980s, a series of books became popular among evangelical Christians that depicted the Christian life as unseen warfare. The novels were written by author Frank Peretti, who described the daily life of a Christian as unaware of the spiritual battles that were occurring around them. As he or she went about his or her daily life. Feretti described angels fighting with demons over what influences an average Christian while being tempted to engage in sin. Ferretti describes a demon attacking an angel with a fiery weapon in order to have an advantage over a woman. He is trying to tempt While the angel returns fire with heavenly weaponry that would thwart the demon Now how accurate Paretti was is unknown, but his writings seem to awake an awareness within Christians Of an awareness that was not present before. At least that was true for me. These prayers for the past few weeks have also had a similar effect on me, waking up something about the danger we are in. How much danger I am actually in each day, I have not been aware of. But as a pastor, I am observant to the dangers parishioners face. Consider The devil tries to make you unhappy in your marriage, thinking that maybe you married the wrong person. The devil and his minions work to make you unhappy in your work Wanting you to conclude that you have pursued the wrong vocation. Demons are working to make you unhappy in your church by calling you to follow your emotions rather than your convictions. Spiritual warfare is being raised over your desire to pursue sex over covenant, to pursue food, over self-control, to withhold forgiveness over love. To accept doubt over faith, to surrender to fear over the sovereignty of God. But we don't see the warfare, we don't see the danger. The devil doesn't appear before us in a red suit with a pitchfork in his hand, speaking audibly to us about the temptations he's going to put before us. He is subtle. We don't like something about someone or something, and we still and so we allow it to fester within our conscience. We feel slighted, uncared for, disrespected, even though it was not done to us intentionally. Still we know we don't like how we have been treated. We might talk to others about it and and when we find someone that thinks similarly about the person we are upset at You're upset with. We now have an ally that testifies and justifies why we are upset. Soon everything about that person or about that organization or about that leadership, everything they do now is wrong And gives us additional reason why not to like them, or him, or it. And it all adds up to canceling said person or said organization out of our lives. What we don't see, what we think was just us and our will, was actually a series of demons. coaxing us along, encouraging every evil thought and every evil emotion, every hate, every anger. What we failed to see was the danger we were in, and our need to be protected from such danger. In the passage read from Colossians, we have to notice how important it is for Christians to work on relationships with fellow Christians. It is the recognition that if we cannot practice the Christian charity we are to be given in Christ and to give in Christ, if we cannot practice it toward fellow Christians Then the world cannot know the truth of the gospel because we are not a witness to it. And it further is evidence that the love of God actually is not within us. That Christians don't forgive and love other Christians is a real problem within the church, and I have felt it firsthand. As a pastor, I am a walking pariah for some people. People see me in public And having not been in church or no longer pretending to walk with the Lord, the sight of me, not me personally, but the office that I hold reminds them of their not being in church or not walking with the Lord and brings guilt and so they avoid me. They look the other way or if they have to engage me they act like they are quickly going to the bathroom. What they don't see, what they don't know, is that there is a spiritual warfare going on within them that yells, get away from him. In one voice, and be reconciled to him in another voice. Unfortunately, the voice that says, get away from him, is the voice most heeded. Let us look at Colossians chapter three, beginning at verse twelve. Paul has previously told the Colossian Christians what to put off, which are the sins of malice and sins of the flesh. He now turns to what they should put on. And these things to put on are to be done as being a part of the, he says, the elect. Most references to Christians being the elect is to connect them with the Israelites who were the elect, while also teaching each Christian that his or her salvation is determined by God, not by man. And are we not grateful for that? He then calls Christians holy. Calling Christians holy is to call us what God has made us, for the holiness that we have is his work. To call us beloved reveals the heart of God toward us. He so loved the world that he gave us his son. And now being the elect, being holy, being beloved, we are to put on tender mercies, which is us passing on the grace of God to other people. We are to put on kindness, which is to be to others as we wish they would be to us. We are to put on humility, which is not to think highly of ourselves. We are also to put on meekness, which is being gentle to one another, which is to be gentle in the realm of physical gentleness, spiritual gentleness, and emotional gentleness. We are to put on long-suffering, which is bearing with one another, having the heart that says, even in your flaws, I will love you and respect you. And we are to put on forgiveness, which is a willingness and eagerness not to hold someone's sins against them, even when they hurt us personally. But to forgive someone of their sins even if they do not ask for said forgiveness. And our standard for forgiving others is how we have been forgiven. That is why we pray, forgive us our trespasses. As we forgive those who trespass against us. He then tells us that we should put on, above all that has been mentioned, we should put on love. He calls this love the bond of perfection. That means that the love is like an upper garment. which completes and keeps together all the rest, which without it would be loose and disconnected Consider that grace is practiced where love is wanting are mere hypocrisy. And we remember from 1 Corinthians 13 that this love we are to put on consists of being patient, being kind, keeping no record of wrong, just as Paul has described to the Colossians. In truth, you cannot put on kindness, meekness, long-suffering, and all the rest unless you put on love, for such things are the substance of love. And look at the result in verse 15. We have peace with God as He rules in our hearts. And how does he do that? By us putting on love. Now I know from some Calvinists that statement doesn't sound right. All that saves us comes from God. And I say, absolutely. But the instruction for us to put on all the attributes of love is Holy Scripture. So it is something that we do, and yet our salvation is entirely what God does. Yes and yes. How does that work? I don't know. But I know what the Bible says, and you read it with me. We are responsible to put on all that is associated with the love of God, even while He secures our salvation. Practically, it is remembering that love is our standard. And then remembering what love is: patient, kind, merciful, etc. And then it is choosing to practice that standard in all my dealings within the church. So that email that I am writing because I am frustrated and angry has to give way to love. That speech I want to give to put someone in their place. has got to be silenced and replaced with words of encouragement. That ignoring that I want to continue must be replaced by giving another person my time and my energy. That withholding of forgiveness, while keeping record of wrong done to me, needs to be acknowledged as sin, and I need to choose love, which is to choose to forgive. Consider this. Just as I was talking about the spiritual dangers that surround us, so we must realize that the emotion You have to be angry, to be bitter, to insist justice for yourself. Such emotions and the defense of such emotions are voices of the devil And his minions calling you out to lash out. But the voice that says, be patient here. Or the voice that says, Be meek there. Such is never from the devil, but only from God. Thus voices and emotions that are not love are not of God and must be rebuked. Jesus in Matthew 13 provides a parable for us to understand the battle that rages over our souls. We should remember first that Jesus told the, in the same chapter, told a previous parable about the sowing of seeds. In that parable, the sowing was the preaching of the gospel, and the ground was the hearts of those who would hear the gospel. Some hearts are rocky and no seed takes root. Other hearts contain weeds which choke out the healthy plant. Other seeds were received with fertile hearts, where they took root and grew healthy. This parable, this parable we examine. Seems to be more about Christians and their lives as they already have growth and health and salvation In the parable, it is the enemy of the sower who sows the tares, the weeds, amidst the wheat. In our lives, as Christians, it is the devil himself who sows tares, weeds in our lives that grow along with what is fruitful and healthy. Teres can be false teachers, deceitful men, and those who simply make life difficult. We can want them out of our lives, asking the Lord to remove them, but a good farmer knows that if you harvest the tares too soon, you also are going to damage the wheat. This reminds us that not every everyone who says they are a Christian actually is a Christian. Jesus Himself. Said that many will say in the day of judgment, Lord, Lord, looking for him for salvation. And he will say, I have never known you. One of the more fascinating stories in the Bible is that of Judas Iscariot, who we knew we know portrayed Jesus. And people like to ask difficult questions such as, could Judas have chosen not to betray Jesus or was he destined to do so? We can answer that and not be absolutely sure. What was always fascinating to me is that when Jesus sat down with his apostles and Blessed the bread while breaking it and passing it and saying to each, This is my body. And then blessing the wine and passing to each of them, saying, This is my blood. He shares it with all of them alike, which is to say that Jesus communed with the man he knew would betray him. Such was truly love and sorrow mixed. Having at the time knowledge of what was in the heart of Judas and what he would do. Jesus talks elsewhere about separating true believers from those who say they believe. But that too is only to occur at the day of judgment and not before. Because the hearts of individuals are unknown, The day of judgment is not only going to surprise many because they thought they believed, but they did not. Observers of such surprises will also be surprised, because outwardly we were certain that this person was a Christian. But there was no inward faith. And there are others that look outwardly like they don't have faith, and yet there is a saving faith within Because we are susceptible to deceiving ourselves, thinking we have a faith when we do not, the words of our collect this week are necessary to pray. Again, we are to pray these words. That the church may be kept in the true religion while being defended by God's mighty power. The easiest and most haunting example we have is the mainline Episcopal Church. We could point to the ordaining of women, which began in 1974 But we have to go back even further to understand what justified the ordination of women. During the 1950s and 60s, Episcopal seminaries, along with mainline Presbyterian seminaries, were following the teachings of a man named Rudolf Boltmann Who was following the tradition known as Higher Criticism, which dates back to the 17th century? Higher criticism was looking at ancient texts such as the Bible. From twentieth century lenses, and denying what did not hold up to contemporary scholarship Its fault, higher criticism's fault, of course, was that no ancient text can hold up to 20th and 21st century standards For there was no using of footnotes, no checking of quotes, no bibliographies for cross-reference, no means to historically verify stories The end goal of these higher critics was to demythologize the Bible. So texts such as Paul saying to Timothy, I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man. These were to be viewed by modern Christians as misogynistic and thus stuck in their historical context. It then became a common practice in seminaries to look at a biblical text in light of modern sensitivities, allowing the sensitivities to lead the way. Hence, a bishop looked at the justification of ordaining women and concluded that ordaining openly homosexuals fell under the same argument. Soon there is nothing in the Bible that speaks to morality that carries any authority The very existence of Jesus of Nazareth falls next, falls next, giving us today leaders in the Episcopal Church who care more That happened that happened this year, who care more about speaking about climate change than preaching the gospel to a lost and dead world Meanwhile, the devil smiles and the demons cackle. Maybe you have noticed, maybe you have not. But I have a ritual before I preach. I kneel and I first rebuke the devil and his minions from this sanctuary so that the people of God can clearly hear the voice of God. I then ask the Holy Spirit to anoint my words, and that I cross myself three times, first on my forehead, asking that my mind might be blessed. Then I crossed my lips, asking for my speech to be blessed. And then I crossed my heart so that my heart would believe the truth of God's word. It is my way of saying, as St. Paul said, so that after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified from the prize. I do this because, as we have prayed these past few weeks, we need God to mercifully look upon all our dangers and necessities. By stretching forth his right hand to help and defend us. We need that God, who knows our frailties, may grant us strength and protection to support us through all dangers and temptations. We need that the church may be kept in the true religion while being defended by God's mighty power. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, we submit all of these prayers together to you. Confessing that we are indeed in danger. Help us, dear Lord, to keep our wits about us, to pay attention to the fighting that goes around us. And to engage in it, that the devil might not have his way and that we might not be disqualified. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.