In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Encourage you to turn in your Bibles to St. John's Gospel chapter 7. We read uh through the first section of that chapter, but we'll be covering all of 1 John, I'm excuse me, all of John 7. So uh please turn there and follow along. They will serve you well You may or may not know that I attended the Ravens game last Sunday. Some members of my family. I'm not going to talk about the score. That's not the point of this story. At halftime, Jared invited us over to sit with them, for several seats around him were vacated, and he was sitting with Katie's father and brother. And when we sat down with them, I noticed, Caddy cornered to me across the aisle, the steps, was seated a man. At the end of the row, wearing a Pittsburgh Steeler jersey and a Pittsburgh Steeler hat with dark sunglasses on I asked Kevin, Katie's father, what's the deal with that guy? For it seemed to me rather ridiculous for a Pittsburgh Steeler fan to be wearing a Steelers jersey at a stadium of their arch enemy when the Steelers weren't even playing. In response Kevin shook his head and said, typical Pittsburgh Steeler fan. And then he told me that during the first half of the game There was a loudmouth Seahawk fan sitting in their section, and he was talking up a big game about the Seahawks when he then noticed this Pittsburgh Steeler fan sitting there And he got right in the guy's face, stopped everything, and said for everyone to hear, Ravens and Seahawks fans together, well, we can all agree to hate that guy. Nothing personal, Larry, about that at all. But I think that story is appropriate Because it is what is occurring in the world today toward Christians. The Muslims hate us The atheists hate us, the secularists hate us, the religious liberals hate us. They are all pointing to us and saying to one another, well, at least we can all agree to hate that guy, the Christian. In John 7, we have a number of people pointing to Jesus and saying virtually the same thing. But we can all agree to hate that guy. Recall that in John 6, Jesus had said some very hard things to understand and then accept. Unless you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you cannot be my disciple. And many who were following him, the scripture says, all except the twelve, stopped following him. They quit. They went home. So the following of Jesus had dwindled significantly as we come to John 7. But the reputation of Jesus and the hate for Jesus appears to have grown. We are going to examine John 7 in three parts. The first part is his discussion with his brothers, which we read for our gospel reading. The second is Jesus teaching in the temple. And the third is that last day of the Feast of the Tabernacles. I understand John should choose each of these three sections as examples of division that Jesus caused simply by being who he is. And what I hope that we all get out of this sermon is an appreciation for what for why Jesus offends And in anticipation that you too will offend as you walk the Christian road to the city of God. In John chapter 7, verse 1 through 9, we have an exchange with Jesus and his brothers. The occasion is the Feast of the Tabernacles. Let me remind you that the Feast of the Tabernacles is the last holy day celebrated in the Jewish calendar. Jewish families were to build a sukka or a hut to remember the 40 years wandering in the desert before entering the promised land. The celebration was to be seven days of worship and eating and enjoying, with the eighth day, the last day, as a Sabbath day for all to gather. The Feast of the Tabernacles took place in the month of Tishri, which for us is in our fall, and thus the feast also celebrated the year's harvest, like we do every year as well. Like every other Jewish feast, the best place to be for worship on such a celebration was the temple, which meant the city of Jerusalem. Which is where Jesus ended up in the middle of John 7. To understand this exchange that Jesus has with his brothers, it is best to point out That they are not believers in Jesus as the Son of God. They do not believe He yet is the Messiah. And I will not speak to the issue of whether these are Jesus' actual brothers or cousins. Much of early tradition has them being cousins But the text gives us no reason to understand them to be other than brothers, sons of Mary and Joseph. That these men knew Jesus as a man from Galilee, a man just like them, is likely why they had not yet believed in him as the Messiah. We have no evidence that Jesus did any miraculous things while growing up. We do have evidence about him being very wise in his teaching in the temple and wise beyond his years. That wisdom may have given his relatives a reason to envy him, seeing that he was one that you could resent. Because of his favored status. But again, we don't know. They just didn't believe. In verse 3 and 4, the brothers are challenging Jesus And that challenge amounts to basically saying this. If you are who you think you are And if you are who many say you are, then prove it to the world or stop this nonsense. Put up or shut up. Well this type of criticism of Christianity has not ceased. Repeatedly the secular world and the religious liberals challenge Bible-believing Christians to prove themselves. If Jesus can heal, well then you go ahead and heal for crying out loud. If Jesus performed miracles, then you too should be able to perform miracles. If your God truly is benevolent, then let us see him stop the violence in the world And such challenges are not actually looking for miracles or for God to stop the violence, but they are actually trying to get us to stop professing, to stop believing what they consider to be nonsense. The response of Jesus to his brothers is quite telling, very insightful in regards to the unbelieving mind. Jesus first says that he has not made his claim as the Messiah known to the world because it was not yet his time. He lays down his life and he takes it back up on his own terms, not theirs. Second, He points out the nature of his unbelieving brothers, and this is where we get into the mind of an unbeliever. They are always ready. They want the miraculous to occur now. They want the truth to be revealed now. And that is what the flesh insists upon. They want their pleasure, they want their satisfaction, and they want it now. But the nature of God's people, the character of God's people, is to wait The promises of truth revealed, of strength to overcome, are made to those who wait on the Lord. As we celebrate another Advent, which is to say, as we look forward to Jesus coming again, Jesus returning, we realize that we have passed many, many advents. And while the world says, well, where is he already? And shouldn't he have returned by now? We know that we are to wait, wait on the Lord. And here is a reason to hate Jesus. A reason to hate Jesus. He does not give what the flesh wants when it wants it. He is not a genie that grants wishes. He is not a miracle machine that allows some incantation to be uttered and then bam someone's healed. Bread appears or water divides. And he is not the Messiah people were looking for because who they were looking for would bring them military might That would overcome Rome, bring Rome to its knees, and that was to occur now, in their lifetime. They want it all. The unbelieving mind wants it all now. They did not want a Savior who said, My time is not yet fully come. For the unbeliever, I'll serve for the believer, for the believer, the word yet is so very important to us. My time is not yet fully come. The word yet tells us that there will come a time. And it will not only be Rome that will be bending its knee, but all of mankind. Yes Well the next section of the passage of this John 7 has Jesus teaching in the temple For he delayed coming to Jerusalem, let his brothers go ahead, and he came on later, arriving after his brothers And in verses 11 through 12, we find that the people are divided over who Jesus is and if he's really any good for the Jewish people. Is this a man that is worth for all of us to care about? For them, Jesus was anywhere from being good to being a deceiver. And that's quite a contrast, good or a deceiver. But that is the way it has to be. For Jesus taught and said many challenging things and confronted deep-seated sins of the religious leaders of his day. That there is no doubt that he would cause people to either be for him or against him. It has been Rightly noted, that the religious liberals have presented a Jesus that would provide no reason for him to be crucified The religious liberals have given an interpretation of Jesus that does not confront the sin of anyone, that does not teach anything unique about himself Make no claim of the divine. Does no miracles that reveal the divine. He says loving things only, so they say. That's it. We know that those loving things that they say he says are really not loving, because love confronts sin. Love roots out falsehood. At best, the Jesus presented by the religious liberals says only the benign. And why would the Pharisees and the Sadducees want to kill a teacher who said nothing of consequence? Why would Rome agree to murder a man who posed no threat to anyone at any time? Well, the answer to those questions is they wouldn't. And so it is ridiculous to teach of a Jesus in such a manner. The actual Jesus divides That is the way of it. Those who hated Jesus once again challenged his authority because he taught with authority. In doing so, they reveal how weak they actually are. Those who are bold in their personalities can cause a dislike of those who are not. Those who are bold can appear threatening to those who are timid. Add to a bold personality a teaching that is black and white in its contrast that draws lines and upholds holy standards, and says things that are a true revelation, as in never having been said or claimed before. And the result is a great many people not liking said person. Add to that boldness, the ability to see into their hearts And the hatred for Jesus could only increase. When Jesus told them that they wanted to kill him, They thought that was their chance to prove that Jesus is the crazy one. Because they could act incredulous, as if Jesus had no basis for making such a claim. But again, Jesus knew their hearts. And they did not know that Jesus knew their hearts, or at least they didn't want to admit that Jesus knew their hearts. And so they put up a front that tries to make Jesus seem to be the demented one. But because Jesus was correct about their motive That gave them another reason to hate him. And their hatred for Jesus blinded them to understanding the plain truth about the law. Jesus then gives them example of how they're not even seeing the plain truth about the law they say they follow. They had accused, remember, Jesus of healing on the Sabbath day, thus Jesus working on the Sabbath day. But Jesus points out to them that they too work on the Sabbath day when they circumcise. You see, the law says that you are to circumcise a young male born into the covenant of Abraham on the eighth day And if the eighth day fell on a Saturday, the Sabbath, for the Jews, well, then they went ahead and followed that commandment the eighth day and circumcised a child. Jesus points out this exception, not condemning them for it, but simply points out that they too do some work on the Sabbath, just like he did some work on the Sabbath. The commandment of God says to love your neighbor, and Jesus loves his neighbor by healing on the Sabbath. It was an exception. Of course. The law isn't contradictory. You simply do as the law commands, as Jesus did. But exceptions, according to the hearts of those who hate Jesus, are for them to choose. Such grace is what they give to themselves, never considering giving such to Jesus. And this is how Jesus can challenge them to stop looking outwardly and to look at the heart. See what's going on in your heart. But they don't want to admit the righteous heart of Jesus, even though it's plainly obvious. And because they know it's obvious and they don't want to admit it, that makes them more mad and gives them another reason to hate Jesus. There is a consistency of those who hate Jesus. They only look on the outward. meaning the physical world. These were the first century empiricists, insisting that all knowledge comes from their sensory experiences only. They talk about where Jesus is from. They could only know that Jesus physically was from Galilee, to them only from Galilee. They could only understand that Jesus could go to a place they could not go to, because Jesus said that and they didn't understand it, so they only understood it in terms of, oh, he must be talking about going amongst the Greeks, and we wouldn't want to go amongst the Greeks. They could only understand the world in terms of their own experiences with the world, never considering that there is an entirely different world altogether. But a funny thing happens, if you read that text, a funny thing happens when Jesus teaches. Regardless if there are people around him that hate him, some people can't help but believe in him. His words are so full of life and truth, some stop denying the obvious and believe him to be the Messiah. As verse 31 tells us, many people believed on Jesus as the Messiah because they stopped denying the obvious. What more could be expected for a man claiming to be the Messiah than what Jesus has already done? Nothing is the answer, and this is where we come to this what I call the the come on moment We can say, come on. When someone is acting like they don't really understand something that they simply have chosen not to understand, rather than admitting it's understandable We can say, come on. When we see a person denying the obvious It was not the Pharisees, not that the Pharisees didn't have the evidence in believing in Jesus right before them. Thus we can say to them, come on. For they knew the evidence was there. Jesus divides, and they chose the side of unbelief. Well, the last section of chapter seven is the last day of the feast of the tabernacle. Verse 43, look at that verse. Verse 43 sums up this sermon and thus all of the events that have happened in this chapter. It says, so there was a division among the people because of him. The him is Jesus. In this section, you have people arguing about interpreting Scripture properly to better identify the Messiah. Jesus caused that argument. You have soldiers disobeying orders to arrest Jesus because they were in awe of his teaching. Jesus caused that. You have the Pharisees claiming the crowd to be accursed. Because they're believing him. Jesus caused that. You have a Pharisee sticking up for him. Jesus caused that. You have Pharisees accusing that one Pharisee of siding with Jesus. Jesus caused that too. Jesus divides. And this should have been expected. When God said that there would be strife between Ishmael and Isaac for generations, We see that literally in their descendants as Arab states and the Jewish state cannot remain at peace It seems that since 1948, the center of the world has been the Middle East, where Arab states and the Jewish state are in repetitive tension. And that tension will not be resolved with any type of peace agreement. Don't ever get happy about one. For the Arab states and the Jewish state are under the curse of God, as descendants of Ishmael and Isaac, respectively. Therefore, and understand this well. The only way such a curse can be overcome is by the blood of Jesus. Know that and believe it. But Jesus divides. So here is the great irony of God's redemptive plan of God Almighty The redemptive plan of God Almighty, the greatest irony, is that the man who divides is the only one who can bring peace That the world hates us should then not be a surprise. The world is under a curse, and the only one who can lift that curse is Jesus. And Jesus divides. The only one who can bring peace is the one who divides. Jesus will say later in John, if the world hates you, remember that it hated me first. There is no question, now more than ever in any of our lifetimes, that Christianity and us Christians are under attack. Recall that I have said from this pulpit that the devil wants to do one of two things to each and every one of us. He wants to either deceive us, to deny the faith in Jesus Christ, or he wants to kill us. One of the other. And that is where the hate comes from. And our challenge, and it is a great high calling indeed, Our challenge is that we are to love those who hate us. We are to pray for our enemies. As we profess Jesus, the Jesus who divides, let us accept that there will be hate toward us. But our response is no jihad. Our response is not a sword for a sword. Our response is to love as Jesus loved and to pray as Jesus prayed. So following Jesus is like sitting at a Ravens game in a Pittsburgh Steeler Troy Palomalo jersey. With a Pittsburgh Steeler hat on and sunglasses. People are pointing, they're whispering, what's the deal with that guy? And someone is pointing and saying, well, we can all agree to hate that guy. We should expect such a response because we follow the one who divided, the one who men hated. But we love him. And so we endure for him. Not because we like to be different for different sake. Or not because we want to be obnoxious and bother Ravens fans. We expect it. Because the world hated Jesus first. And we are to love our enemies because Jesus loves us. Amen and Amen. Let us pray