In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Keep me seated. As an addendum, I want you to know that Uh I mistakenly had written down, uh failed to write down the verses prior to the Matthew reading. where uh Jesus talks about uh marriage and divorce. Uh so that's going to be part, if you turn to Matthew chapter five, that'll be our focus, uh, those three sections of Scripture Uh talking about marriage and then oaths. When I was in middle school I was part of a group of guys that I thought were friends. And one day I found myself excluded by them. I didn't know why. I didn't know what I did, but I was on the outs. My friends, my group, left me out. I remember being frustrated. I remember being sad. But I remember being resolute as well. I was resolute that no matter what happened in my social life, I would not allow what other people thought of me to determine my identity I didn't take such an outlook on life because I was raised to do so or because of my Christian faith. I didn't have that faith. I didn't know Jesus then, but Jesus knew me, and I see that now. When I left middle school to attend high school, I made new friends and reacquainted myself with old friends. My senior year in high school, we played our crosstown rivals. And many of their players were my former friends from middle school. I intercepted a pass on the final drive, a pass that was intended for my previous friend. We won the game And I could say that revenge is sweet, but I didn't care. Well maybe I did, I'm telling you the story, so I cared a little bit. But Jesus was introducing himself to me, and I was caring about a great deal more than a middle school social shunning. I share that story knowing the possibility that some of you hearing me might have a similar experience of being left out or shunned or mocked as a young child or teenager and the sting of that treatment remains even into how you perceive yourself as an adult. I was imagining this past week how there are likely students in middle school and high school who are glad that public schools are being held virtually this fall because they don't feel like they fit into any social group at school. And that feeling of not fitting in eats away at their confidence and their self-worth. Social problems in high school are petty and silly when viewed objectively. We grow up physically and emotionally and we move on. But when in the midst of them, they can feel like the most awful thing we could ever experience. But it's a lie. Jesus tells us it's a lie. And he tells them that it's a lie in many different ways. And I believe he was telling his disciples that fitting in socially is not important when he preaches on several issues on what we call the Sermon on the Mount. In our series, examining how Jesus thinks and how he shows us how we are to think, We come to his teachings on marriage, on oaths, and justice, where each of them appear to be separate subjects But in fact, they have a relationship to one another in regards to how the standard Jesus sets goes against the ways of the world. Jesus thinks differently than the world, and so should we. And when we think differently from the world Then the world and those who are of the world will not be our friends. And that is as it should be. For some Christians, the teaching of Jesus regarding marriage and divorce, as found here in Matthew, is the definitive teaching No other passages of Scripture are needed. Jesus said that divorce among his followers was not allowed except if one spouse commits adultery. Then the only Then and only then may the afflicted spouse divorce the guilty spouse. But But St. Paul added to the teaching of Jesus by stating that if an unbelieving spouse abandons a believing spouse, Then the believing spouse may rightfully divorce the abandoning spouse and be free to remarry you. So those are the only two reasons. But there are many scenarios that don't fit perfectly into the adultery or abandonment categories. Like spousal abuse. Thus it is helpful to turn to the Old Testament, just as we talked about last week, to see what the law of Moses says. My point is not to go down that line of thinking today to discover all that the Old Testament says on the subject of divorce, but only to mention that there is more to consider. But the point Jesus makes is not to focus solely on the issue of adultery and divorce But to compare how the world thinks about marriage and divorce in contrast to how his followers should think, you and I. Later in the ministry of Jesus, as recorded in Mark chapter 10, the Pharisees asked him about marriage and divorce by citing the law in Deuteronomy that allows a man to divorce their wives, allows men to divorce their wives by simply writing a letter of dismissal. That's all that was required. Both references to the law here in Matthew 5 and in Mark 10 are referring to Deuteronomy chapter 24. Where it goes to great lengths to describe what is allowed and not allowed when it comes to writing a letter of divorce and then remarriage. Interestingly, the passage in Deuteronomy 24 assumes that letter writing will take place. The law is not given so that the Israelites could know about how to go about divorcing. It is given because God knows the hearts. He knows it was already happening. And Jesus says to the Pharisees that God allowed such letter writing for divorce because of the hardness of their hearts. Another way to say it is that God knew that to place a higher higher standard upon Israel Giving them a law that was much greater than those around them would be too difficult for the Israelites. It would be too much for them. He knew they could not live up to the standard, a standard that Jesus changed. Because of Jesus, God's people can live up to the standard God had always intended. Which is for a man and a woman to remain faithfully married. And one of the reasons for the new standard It's for the followers of Jesus to think upon marriage differently than the world around them In the ancient Near East, the Gentile world saw marriage as a binding contract that closely simulated a business contract. Because it was a businesslike contract, the relationship could also be broken in a businesslike way. A letter of dismissal. God allowed Israel to behave like the world for a time. And when Jesus came, that time was up. No longer are God's people to behave like the world when it comes to marriage and divorce. We are to think differently than the world. We are to live by a higher standard. One of my political heroes is Ronald Reagan for a variety of reasons. First president I ever voted for. But what Governor Reagan did in 1970 lessens him in my eyes. In 1970, Governor Ronald Reagan of California signed the first no-fault divorce bill in the United States. Similar bills have since been passed in every state of the Union. For Christians, divorce is where we find all parties at fault. Next, where Jesus forbids us to take oaths based on certain truths, we find another way to think differently than the world. The ungodly say that a person can make a promise and not keep that promise because that promise might be based on something that is not binding. What is implied by the restrictions Jesus teaches is that people were swearing promises while invoking objects such as I swear by heaven or I swear by the city of Jerusalem, as if As if those things had the power to bless or curse, depending on whether the oath was kept or not. Apparently, it was also a practice to swear on one's life, as if the person had the power to curse himself or bless himself. Thus, Jesus was addressing baseless superstitions and replacing them with a standard that meant that a promise is a promise is a promise. Your word as a follower of Jesus is to be fulfilled because as followers of Jesus we are followers of the Word, as Jesus was the Word, and because when God speaks It comes to be. Thus we are to be the same. What we promised comes to be simply because we spoke it. Thus, thinking like Jesus is to throw off superstitions and to be people of our words. We too then must throw off superstitions and only trust in God to fulfill the words we promise. Perhaps it's not a surprise to many of you, but it is to me that of the four regions of the United States, you have the West, you have the Midwest. You have the South and you have the Northeast. That the South is the most superstitious, according to percentage of people, 42. 7% of the people in the South are superstitious about something. But what's surprising to me is that the East is not far behind. 42. 2% of people are superstitious in the East. A 0. 5 difference. In the South, some believe, quote, women should never put their purse on the floor, or they'll go broke financially. Also, you are never to clean, especially sweep, on New Year's Eve, or on New Year's Day, or you sweep good luck out of your life. Also, when two people are walking down a street and there is a pole in front of them, they're never to split the pole by each walking on the opposite sides. If they do, they will receive bad luck. In the South, some believe that if you see a red cardinal, someone you love is coming to visit. Others say, never tell anyone the dream that you had the night before until you've had breakfast, unless you want it to come to pass. Others believe that painting their porches blue wards off evil spirits. Generationally, baby boomers don't walk on cracks in the sidewalk to preserve their mother's backs. They also don't walk under ladders or open umbrellas indoors or go camping on Friday the 13th. Generation Xers knock on wood, believe bad news comes in threes, pick up four-leaf clovers, and avoid breaking mirrors. Millennials so far only believe in crossing their fingers and trusting in beginners' luck. As Christians, we are not to put our trust in what looks like an omen or some ritual or prescribed danger, but instead we are to trust in the only one who has true power. Power is not contained mysteriously in numbers or artifacts, but instead is only found in the God who made all things, and supposedly And supposedly those things that have mysteries and scary powers, those also were made by God as well. Jesus wants us to see a rabbit's foot for what it is. A rabbit's foot. He wants us to see the constellations for what they are. They are not there to predict our futures or to determine our steps. They are heavenly bodies that he placed there for us to envision his greatness and his glory. Our yes needs only mean yes, and our no only means no. The next difference from the world Jesus wants us to have is our thinking and our sense of justice. The world's sense of justice is as the Old Testament states: an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. You hurt me, allows me to hurt you back. You damaging me allows me to damage you. That makes everything equal. This standard of justice was well known in the ancient Near East. The Code of Hammurabi, for those who do not know, was a carved-in-stone set of rules that predate the Exodus by almost 300 years. These codes of laws that govern Babylon have a line that reads, quote, if a man knocks out the teeth of his equal, his teeth shall be knocked out. It would read for us teeth for teeth. Thus, such justice, this eye for eye, tooth for tooth, Israel already knew before God's law, and this is likely why God continued it. But Jesus is calling us to think differently, to think differently about the subject of justice. Jesus says not to resist what a person is trying to do to you. Jesus said that if someone smacks you on one cheek, offer the other cheek for them to slap. If someone wants to take the very clothes off your back, offer even more clothes. If someone wants you to take your time and effort for their sake, give them your time and effort and give them more than they ask for. I pause here to say that with these instructions, Jesus most certainly is asking us to think differently than the world. And maybe even too much differently. It could be that Jesus is speaking speaking in a hyperbolic manner again, just as he did when he told us to pluck at our eyes or to cut off our hands. What we can be certain of is that Jesus wants us to think differently about justice toward our fellow man. Consider what someone is doing when they slap your cheek. The person is expressing anger toward you in that particular moment. They want their justice now. A person who wants your tunic for time and labor wants it now. They are concerned most about the moment, the present, and getting what they think they have a right to get. Christians, in contrast, we are in the moment people, but not in terms of justice. In terms of justice, we are eternal people. Our concern, our thinking is to be about eternal justice. And that means we are concerned about heaven and hell. Like many young men, I struggled with this passage as a I questioned if God wanted me to be a wimp, allowing people to bully me. But wisdom from life and scripture has taught me that this passage is about one person seeking justice from another person. And Jesus is wanting us to be a witness about him when we are in such moments. This passage is about living as a testimony to him. When a person wants to hurt me because they want to steal from me, or simply harm me, or harm someone I love, or someone that needs help. Jesus wants me to step in and protect and defend and even harm if that is required in order to protect and defend. But if someone wants to hurt me because of my Christian faith, and that Christianity threatens them like it threatened the Jews and the Romans, a threat that was conjured in their minds, never real. It is then that I am to offer my other cheek, offer my tunic, my cloak, offer my two miles Because when offering my willingness to suffer, it is then that I am Christ Jesus to that person. And there is no more powerful way to witness the gospel of Jesus Christ. Than to be a suffering servant in the name of Jesus. This passage meant a great deal to the martyrs of the church because they knew they were being Jesus. As they were given opportunity to show Jesus to those who oppressed them. Where the world thinks of justice now, Jesus is thinking justice forever. And we are to be thinking about justice forever when it comes to sharing our Christian faith. St. James informs us that friendship with the world is hostility toward God. When you are friends with the world, you think like the world. Covenant promises in marriage can be abandoned according to worldly thinking because earthly happiness is the priority. Keeping your oaths is not necessary because what is best for you in the moment matters most. And justice in the eye of the self-righteous. Who get to determine when justice has been served, they want justice now But Jesus tells us to think differently. Marriage is a lifetime binding, a lifetime binding of souls. Your word as a believer in Jesus is binding. And your willingness to suffer injustice for the sake of your testimony of Jesus is priority. Your friends of this world will abandon you when you think in these ways. But Jesus won't. Let us pray. Our merciful God, we thank you for the standard that Jesus has set for all of us. It is undeniable that it is different than the world And yet our minds need to be opened. We need to be transformed and be renewed in our minds to think in these ways as we do. May you be glorified. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.