In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. You will be served well to turn to Romans chapter twelve in your pew Bibles. Romans chapter twelve, picking up at verse one. The verb translated present from the instruction to present your bodies Is the same Greek verb found in Romans chapter six, verse thirteen, sixteen, and nineteen There, Paul had said that Christians were not to present their members to sin as instruments of righteousness, as once they had been doing. That instruction by St. Paul was very general. Now he will proceed in greater detail to describe the life that followers of Jesus Christ ought to live. It is a reminder that the final chapters of Romans have already been anticipated in a general way. We have already heard of the Christian life, at least in general. And now we are going to find out what specifically it is to be. It is interesting, by the way, and will become clearer as we proceed into this chapter. that the description of the Christian life that Paul gives us is a further explanation or practical explanation of the ethical teachings of the Lord Jesus as we read them in the Gospels. They are, as Paul twice labels his ethical teachings, the law of Christ And in particular, they follow a number of details from the teachings of the Sermon on the Mount. So you can think of the Sermon on the Mount as being a general way in which we should live, and then Paul is getting to more specifics. The term bodies, present your bodies, again from the instruction, present your bodies, is not a specific reference to the physical part of a person, but actually to one's entire life. We are to hold nothing back, but instead we are to give ourselves to God as a sacrifice. Which is to say we have to offer ourselves to God in recognition that we belong wholly, all of us to Him And we must strive to be worthy of him. That is why he gives us the phrase acceptable to God. I want to say this off of my notes. We often hear Christianity too often today as just it's to be a part of your life. Paul didn't understand it that way at all. It's to be all of your life. It's to affect all of your life. All of your thinking, all of your doing is your Christianity. Anything else to Paul is not Christianity. The phrase reasonable service is also translated spiritual worship Which sums up Paul's main point. Our lives are to be the worship and service of God at all times and in every way. The worship practice in the Lord's house, as we do today, and on the Lord's day, is simply to be a corporate and focused concentration. of that constant self-surrender expected of every Christian every day. No exception. Verse 2. By renewal of mind, Paul means the gaining of moral perception and moral sensitivity. that will direct a believer's path to godly living. The renewal of the mind is, of course, the Holy Spirit's work, as Paul has already said in chapter 6, 7, and 8 in Romans. But it is a work in which we participate. We're not bystanders. Those of you who have been Christians for some time and have read the Bible through a number of years will know that what we have before us in Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2 Is perfectly characteristic of Paul's writing. There are two great areas of biblical truth: doctrine and then practice. Theology, and then ethics. It is a description of what God has done for us and an account of what we are to do for God. Romans chapters 1 through 11 is doctrine or theology, a theological account of what the Lord has done for us, saving us from sin and death. Romans chapters 12 through 15 is how the theology is to be lived out by the Christian. And the connection between the two sections of Romans and the two areas of the Christian faith is this single word. Therefore, it means that what has been established allows us to say what follows. And here is an important point. Doctrine is never taught in the Bible for its own sake. Doctrine is never taught in the Bible for its own sake. It is taught to produce a response by the believer. And that response ought to be love and gratitude that seeks to express itself in a life of obedience and service offered to God because of what He has done for us. This, therefore, is Paul's way of saying what Jesus said to his disciples in the upper room the night of his betrayal. He said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. The Christian life comes out of the believer's love for God. And Christ, which itself is the result of what God has done for us. This does not make doctrine secondary, but it only points to the end or the purpose of doctrine. And it also teaches that if your doctrine is poor, meaning that you think incorrectly about God, then your ethical practices will also be poor. Said another way, when you think in a poor manner about God, your life will be lived in a poor manner. Again, our Christian life is to be lived in response to the gospel and the forgiveness of our sins. But of course, it isn't just Paul who connects the gospel to the Christian life in this way. In remarks very similar to those of Paul here at the beginning of Romans chapter 12. And after giving the account of our salvation, in 1 Peter chapter 1, Peter uses similar language. He says this: therefore, gird up your loins of your mind. Be sober and rest your hope fully upon the grace that is to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Thinking first and then acting. In summary, you can't live the Christian life until first you are a Christian. In the first two verses of this chapter, we are given a very general statement of the Christian life The setting aside of ourselves to God in gratitude for his saving love and renewal of our mind, which is our inner life Leading to a transformation of behavior that will demonstrate itself in an increasing separation between our way of life and the way of life practiced in the world around us. Verse 3. The first part of this verse is easily understood, but most difficult to practice every day. Because we underestimate the very pride we have in ourselves. We readily think more highly of ourselves than we ought to. It's natural to the human fallen condition. Pride is a daily battle, even for those who think they have low self-esteem. What is curious in this passage is the phrase measure of faith. The main point of referring to a measure of faith is that Christians are not to compare themselves to one another. But are instead to see that we are all the same, which is to say we are all in this together. We are all fundamentally the same before the Lord. Verses 4 and 5. As we remember the metaphor of believers together forming the body of Christ, it is a dominant theme in Paul's letters. Sometimes, as in Ephesians and Colossians, the point of the metaphor is to describe the dependent relationship of the body to Christ Himself as the head. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, as is the same here, the point is to describe the interdependent and interconnected relationship between the parts to one another as a whole body. We all belong to the same body, and each has his own contribution to make. You remember how Paul stretches this out in 1 Corinthians 12. Someone is an eye, someone is a hand, someone is an ear, and so on. It is a wonderful and easily understood metaphor. We all need each other. In general, what we can say from these verses is that a great deal of the ethical change in our lives and the ethical difference we are to have from the world has to do with our minds. Which is how we understand the world around us. It is not solely on the mind, of course, for a great deal more of our ethical change and ethical difference has to do with the grace of God. Personally, my conversion, I never saw myself as prideful or selfish Until the Holy Spirit dropped the scales from my eyes so that I could see myself for who I truly was and who God truly was. But consider in these short five verses of chapter 12 how the mind is a major focus. He says we are to be transformed by the renewing of our mind. We are to prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God using what? Our minds? We are not to think more highly of ourselves, but instead we are to think soberly, which is to be aware of our surroundings and how God is not a respecter of persons. Which is to say that God favors no person over another, but sees us all equally, which is how we are to see one another, how we are to think about one another. This passage from Romans fits nicely with our gospel reading because Jesus at the age of twelve Knew the value of properly developing his mind. And I say properly because as G. K. Chesterton once said, I don't fear the uneducated. I fear the poorly educated. There are many people who walk about having letters after their names. to indicate the degrees that they have earned who are poorly educated, but think that they should be making decisions for the uneducated. Such people are to be feared most. But back to the gospel reading from Luke chapter 2. We don't know hardly anything about the boy Jesus. This is the only story we have. But it is obviously a necessary one because God inspired it to be recorded. That Jesus went missing from the family. may seem rather strange to our modern ears, especially when we see children liter literally tethered to their parents. With the anticipation that that they would run away like a dog if the tether was released. But when families made the trip to Jerusalem, especially From as far away as Nazareth, which was about ninety miles, such a trip would take about five days. And when families traveled on such journeys, they would take extended family and friends along As it was either the Passover Feast, Pentecost, or Tabernacle Feast, when the families would worship together in Jerusalem. And the families would not always stay together when they traveled. So it was easy for the family to assume that if Jesus wasn't with Mary and Joseph, he was with some aunt or uncle or cousin. When they gathered to take inventory of their party, it was discovered that Jesus was missing. Their journey back did not necessarily take three days. But instead the writer of Luke could be counting the days Jesus was in the temple. A day and a half travel before Jesus is discovered missing, and a day and a half travel to retrieve him is more likely. The Talmud says that within the temple walls there were three synagogues, one at the gate of the court of the Gentiles another at the entrance of the court of the Israelites, and a third at the southeast part of the inner court. It was in these synagogues that the rabbis would expound on the law. Among the famous doctors or rabbis then living and teaching in Jerusalem were the famous Hillel. who would have been a very old, nearing a hundred years at that time, and the equally well-known rival Shemai Others would have been Gamelael, the master of Saul of Tarsus, who we know as Paul And Jonathan, the complier of the Chaldee paraphrase of the sacred books, and Simeon, the son of the successor of Hillel, and possibly Nicodemus. Who, some years after, came to Jesus by night, and when the end was come, reverently assisted in laying the Son of God with all honor in the tomb. We may with great probability assume that amongst those doctors whom the boy Jesus questioned at the Passover feast, some, if not all, of these well-known men were sitting before him. And while it is touching that Jesus was in the temple and thus the place where his parents should have first looked. It is most intriguing that he pursued the development of his mind. We should remember that Jesus himself told us to love God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. To love God with our mind is to do as Paul describes, which is to prove what is good, acceptable, and perfect will of God. And again, as I have said before, when St. Paul refers to the will of God, he is not talking about God's will. in terms of whether you should buy that particular house or join that particular gym or eat that particular candy bar. He is talking about discerning good and evil. He is talking about knowing the voice of God versus the voice of the world. And I wonder How many of us allowed God to transform our minds and search out the good, what is good, acceptable, and perfect will of God concerning how we should respond to a pandemic. Many searched out secular news in order to learn how to respond, and many of us look to our trusted news sources to know how to respond. But how many confessing Christians allowed their minds to be renewed in order to find the perfect will of God to respond to a pandemic? That is a challenge for all of us to take up. Consider all of the ethical decisions you have had to make. And how you have had to decide which decisions are actually ethical, and how you are to respond to people who understand the issues differently. Vaccines are especially difficult to decipher regarding the ethics involved. And here I am not just referring to COVID vaccines. Some Christians don't want to have anything to do with vaccines because in the development process aborted fetal tissue was used. That is a legitimate concern, and yet other Christians recognize that the principle of what man meant for evil, abortion. God meant for good a vaccine that can prevent illness. As a pastor, I support both sides because I don't want people to do things or not do things that will go against their conscience. were to do all things by faith. What I do know, however, with certainty Is the will of God in the matter which is to not condemn my fellow Christian for the decisions he or she makes? And it is not for me to disfellowship with Christians that see things on such matters as different from me. Once again, being on this side of the sun and seeing through the glass dimly Accepts that I am in no position to charge, try, convict, and condemn anyone on such matters. This is why the metaphor of all of us being one body is so helpful. Because it is not just about vaccines. It's the many different choices we make, different, that is, from one another in the same body of Christ. Differences that make it a feeding ground for the devil and his minions to find ways to create discord. Let us consider the many ways our present culture thinks differently than how Christians are to think. Our present culture says cancel anyone who has sins in their past that are no longer acceptable. In contrast, Christians say repent and be forgiven. And don't ask for forgiveness for something you haven't done. Our present culture says, look out for number one and get what is yours. In contrast, Christians say, think of others before yourself Our present culture says, pursue your pleasures, especially the sexual ones, and identify yourself with your desires. In contrast, Christians say flee sexual immorality and practice self-control while identifying first and last as a Christian. Our present culture says, fear death and accept any restraint on your freedoms to avoid death. In contrast, Christians say to die is gain, to live is Christ. Our present culture says there is no God, there is no devil, there is no heaven, and there is no hell. So eat, drink, and be merry. In contrast, Christians say, eat, drink, and be merry, because there is a God, and He provided your meal, and there is a devil, so resist him. And there is heaven. So look to it as your reward. And there is a hell. So warn people who are lost in their sin. Beloved, the devil is going to continue to come up with many ways to get you to think differently about your faith, about morality, about what to fear. And you're going to have to continue to prove what is good, acceptable, and perfect will of God. That is the Christian life. Stay in the fight and allow your mind to be renewed. Here is a new thought for you. When you look around and conclude how successful the devil has been by using this therapeutic age. He has developed to get people to change their minds on what is sexually immoral and what is a lawful marriage. And what is decent regarding entertainment, and what is to be feared most, consider this, how God will use all of this to usher in his kingdom. Consider God's track record. A womb was vacant and a couple very old, only to become parents of millions. Joseph, son of Jacob, was in a pit only to be raised to rule Egypt. The people of Israel were being mocked by a giant. Who no man could defeat until a kid with a rock took him down. Jesus was dead. The disciples were scattered. All of it appeared to be a victory for the devil, all of it until day three If we get our minds off of COVID numbers and on to what God does when all seems very, very bad. That is getting your mind renewed. Let us pray. Our gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for the renewing of our minds. We thank you for dropping the scales from our eyes. We thank you for the perspective that is needed to be saved. Now we ask, give us the courage to live it out. To live out this renewing of our mind, that we ourselves might be transformed, and that we might help transform the world. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.