In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. In your Bibles you will note that we are covering Genesis chapter nine and into ten and into eleven even though our reading only came from Genesis nine. As a prelude, I mention That in formal and informal debate, it is important to define terms Oftentimes, proofs for arguments are written and followed, with either side using different definitions, and the result is arguing past one another. For example, we might argue whether batgamon is a sport. To determine whether it is or not, we must first agree on our definitions of batgamon and sport. And if you are a politician, you will need to define what the word is means. That's a nineteen nineties reference for those of you who are young. Some defined a term by a synonym. A synonym, you remember, is a different word with the same meaning. Synonyms, however, are limited because many words do not have exact synonyms. A more formal means of defining a term is lexical. A lexical definition provides an established meaning of a term, and you know those are found in dictionaries. And for those of you younger, those are books, and they have words in them. However, the most popular way to define a term is neither by synonym nor from a dictionary. It is in casual conversation defining a term by example. For instance, if I am trying to define the term sport by example, I would say that a sport is like the game of baseball. In baseball, there is physical exertion. Skill is required. Strategy to defeat an opponent is necessary to be successful. And a score is kept to determine a winner. I would never say when asked to define the word sport that it's like Batgamon. In fact, I would use another common means to define a term, which is to state what a term is not. If I was asked what a sport is, I could answer, well, it's not backgammon. A typology is similar to defining by example And a part of typology or typological interpretation is recognizing anti-type. Anti-type. Meaning that we can discover Who our Savior is by examining the person of Noah, and we can know who Jesus is not by examining the failures of Noah and his sons and those who come after. For as much as we have discovered the gospel within the story of Noah, we must also recognize that there is failure, great failure. And with that great failure is a recognition that there needs to be a person who comes along later who is greater than Noah. As righteous as Noah was and is, his life is a type of a man who has been baptized. Who is under the covenant of grace, and yet he is still a fallen man. He is not the son of God, and the record of the latter part of his life reveals this. Again, today we examine three forms of failure that are recorded in Genesis 9, 10, and 11. In each of these failures, we will likely see ourselves and the fallen men that we live amongst. And these failures will also allow us to highlight a man who did not fail, and in fact, faced even greater temptations and yet chose, yes, chose not to sin. The first two failures described in general are the misapplying of good things In Noah we have external blessings misused by his volition, and the result is to his own shame. In Nimrod, we have personal gifts that are perverted to injure others. In Babel, we have an outright apostasy So there was a systematic goal of highlighting man's glory over God. Noah and his fall comes first. His failure is great even though he is one of the elect. He is a believer. Believers do fail and fall, and some fall very hard Their salvation is not lost, but their reputation is, and their relationship to others may be lost as well. The fall described here with Noah is hard because he was the only man who was righteous. And yet he chose to abuse God's good gifts. Before regeneration, before the baptismal waters of the flood, Noah cut down trees. Laying the axe to them to build the ark. His cutting down was similar to how God would cut down all of the rest of mankind in the flood. After the flood, Noah became a planter. Now consider that. Consider that he became a planter. It is appropriate for a man who has been saved because he is a sower of seeds. As a sower of seeds, he gets a harvest of ten, twenty, a hundredfold. The kingdom of God is like a seed, Jesus said. The Son of God is like a sower in the field, Jesus taught. The seed is the truth of the gospel, and the ground represents the hearts of men. Thus, it is natural for Noah as a type of Jesus to plant a vineyard. A vineyard is also appropriate for regenerate man, for that is the work of the church. The vine is to be trained, which means it's to be pruned and cultivated. The church being the continuation of the incarnation of Jesus is to train its members. Sin is to be pruned off. Righteousness is to be cultivated. The result is precious juice, fruit of the vine. It is the fruit of the vine that makes the heart of men glad. Drink thy wine with a merry heart, says the writer of Ecclesiastes. For laughter and wine maketh merry. As part of the seven-day sacrifice that Aaron and his sons were commanded to perform. The use of wine is mentioned, and it's the same type of wine that Noah is making here and drinking here. Wine is a gift of God. But like any gift, it can be mistreated and even abused. Noah abused the wine. He becomes drunk with his own fruit. And the scripture warns us of this elsewhere. You have heard these before. Wine is a mocker. Strong drink is a brawler. Those who linger long at the wine find that it bites like a serpent. As a result, Noah is bitten and then he is mocked. Christians should be reminded of the words of Scripture: all things are permissible, but not all things are profitable. Noah is never forbidden to drink of the vine, but his abuse of his freedom leads to his shame. In Christ there is much freedom. We are neither bound by the law nor ruled by the flesh And yet to disobey the law or allow the flesh to reign will only end in our personal shame. Shall we go on sinning that grace may abound? May it never be, Paul says. In Noah's case, his nakedness is exposed. Having lost his reason in his drunkard state, he sheds his clothes, and people are able to see him as he truly is. Freedom abused exposes inner struggles. Freedom abused exposes to others who we really are. A man can only hide sin for so long. He can be fooled for a time, thinking that because no one has seen him sin, his sin is not known. He is fooled by the silence of God. Nothing happens to him, at least at first. As we see in the life of Noah, freedom taken too far exposes a man. It may be in his youth he is exposed, or it may be in his older days, or it may be when he stands before God at the day of judgment. Whatever the scenario, every man's sin will be exposed. Unfortunately, but not uncommonly Sin of the father brings out sin of the son. Ham sees his father's nakedness. And if that would have ended there, that would have been enough. But Ham tells of the shame. Tells of the shame of his father to others. Noah's fall was a misuse, even an abuse of blessings. Ham's exposure of his father, that's a lack of love. There are some whose hearts are so selfish, so filled with spite, that they look for opportunities to expose the sin of others. Meanwhile, they continue to hide their bitterness and conceit within. Beloved, the more I serve as a pastor, the more I'm convinced That bitterness is an ever-present sin waiting to devour its next victim. Be warned. Be warned away from it. Rebuke unforgiving thoughts. Thankfully, there are those like Shem and Jepheth who are charitable, understanding that to condemn their father is to condemn themselves. And so they act with charity by walking backward. Walking backward to cover their father Here is an example to us, to all of us. Coming upon the sin of a member of Christ's church should not mean that we begin a series of phone calls or emails to inform others. It should mean that we take the opportunity to show charity. Love covers a multitude of sin. Covers. This does not mean that we ignore the sin revealed. It does not mean that we don't bother with the person and leave them to their own sin. It means that we go to the brother alone and call him to repentance so that we might win him back. It means that we can acknowledge the sin and then walk backwards. Beloved, we need more walking backwards. If you have ever shared the sins of others for no redemptive purpose, you need to turn around and walk backwards. If you have ever condemned in your heart a brother or sister in Christ because of a revealed moral weakness, you need to start walking backwards. If you have ever withheld forgiveness from a Christian and house bitterness toward another child of God, it is time to walk backwards. And to do so quickly, for the devil is squeezing you. Beloved, walk backwards. The church needs more people to walk backwards. Our next anti-type compared to Jesus is Nimrod. In whom we see a worse form of evil than in Noah. Noah misused blessings and exposed himself. Nimrod exalts himself to the Lord over his brethren. Little is told of this form of apostasy, but what is told is enough. Nimrod, his name literally means rebel. His rebellion was in his leadership As he moved, hear this now, he moved God's people away from the family, from a patriarchal government which was instituted by God And he changed society into a kingdom ruled by violence. First, Nimrod began to be a mighty one. It says he was a mighty hunter before the Lord. And being before the Lord meant that he did it in the sight of God and he bragged about it. And then he became revered by the people that they looked to him, Nimrod, for strength and protection before they looked to God. You will remember Israel repeating this sin as they look to other nations to help them instead of looking to God. The sin repeats itself, especially when Assyria comes knocking and they go of all places to Egypt to look for help. Once again, choosing the strength of man and of the armies of men instead of the one true living God. The gifts of God to Nimrod are strength, bravery, leadership Instead of using these gifts, he uses them to elevate himself and to enslave a people. Nimrod evokes a spirit of domination, seeking to enslave and impose a yoke and place chains upon bodies and minds of his brethren of all people. We can conclude these things about Nimrod from chapter 10, verse 10, where it reads, And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel. This is the first kingdom of man. It is Nimrod's kingdom. Babel, which means confusion. That confusion plays both ways. And then it refers to the confusion of a people who lived in the kingdom of Nimrod while still knowing the God of their ancestor Noah. And that that word confusion refers to a confusion that will come to their languages and that will separate them From Nimrod we have other nations rising up and imitating what he started. Other cities of other nations rise up with different systems or polities that no longer resemble the family. These cities of nations with their national systems and false religions are seen later by the Apostle John in his revelatory vision. Like Babylon the Great, their judgment is assured. It will be in the pit of fire. The third failure, and thus the anti-type to Jesus amongst Noah's descendants, the third one is the building of Babel. As stated previous, this failure is different in that it is not a misuse of a gift, as Noah's was. It is not misapplying of gifts and hurting many people as Nimrod did. This failure is an evil worse than Nimrod's. Because it is a systematic departure from the truth. It is done with the purpose of self-exaltation instead of God's glory. In short, it is apostasy. The story begins in chapter 11, look at it, with a people traveling to find land. They soon find a plane, and doubtless it was a plane much like that that was chosen by Lot. It was a plane that was attractive to the eyes. When their pilgrimage ended, their thoughts turned to their own glory. And we note here that for the people of God the pilgrimage never ends Our pilgrimage does not end until we cross over to the other side unto God's glory. But those who live for themselves, their journey ends when they say it ends. When it ends, they turn inward and attempt to build up themselves. What they want to build is a monument to themselves. They say to one another, let us make. God once said that, let us make, when He created man. Thus the Babylonians took it upon themselves to speak like God They, of course, cannot create, but in their minds they are, they are like God, and because they think they are like God, they believe they have a place in heaven. And so they build a building to ascend to heaven. The people of Babel Have left the worship of the one true God and exchanged it for a worship of themselves. In response, God confuses their language. This is necessary so that man cannot communicate easily, making unity more difficult, for in his unity Without God, man becomes delusional, believing that he is God. And if you examine history with the knowledge of the Babylonians, You can see how this attempt to raise up nations so that they can be like God has been tried and retried in different parts of the world throughout history. With these failures, starting with Noah and then Nimrod and then Babel We might become dismayed because of man's depravity and the depth of that depravity. As I stated at the beginning of this sermon, there are types and there are anti-types. And these failures are anti-types And as such, they allow us to see how Jesus Christ is superior to all of these failures An easy comparison is our reading, our gospel reading today, Jesus in the desert being tempted by Satan. Whereas Noah misused a blessing of God and became drunk with the fruit of the vine, Jesus in contrast resist the temptation to turn a stone into bread. And Jesus was perfectly within his right to eat bread. He had the power of the Trinity at his disposal to make bread from stone, and he resisted. In his freedom, he remained disciplined. Whereas Nimrod used his gifts of leadership, strength, and bravery to create his own kingdom and to oppress men. Jesus, in contrast, is offered all authority over the kingdoms of this world, and yet he resists. The authority the devil offered him was one of fear and oppression. To receive that authority, Jesus merely needed to bend his knee to Satan. To do so would obviously break the first commandment. It would also be to believe that the same that same lie that Nimrod believed Which was that true authority resided on earth. True authority is only found, however, in the one true God who reigns in heaven. Finally, whereas the people of Babel worked to prove that they were like God by building a tower up to what they thought was their rightful place. heaven, Jesus in contrast, resists the temptation to prove that he is the Messiah, the Son of God, by jumping off the pinnacle of the temple and surviving. The citizens of Babel put God to a foolish test. The tower never would have reached heaven, but in their foolishness, that is what they continued to believe. Jesus resists foolishness and by doing so opens the eyes of men. Although the failures of Noah, Nimrod, and the citizens of Babel reveal how hopeless mankind is when he relies on his own strength and his own wisdom. The contrast found in Jesus allows us to have faith, our faith, confirmed in Him alone. Where men failed, he succeeded, and that is why we praise him. These three failures were necessary. So that men would look for someone who would never fail. Our failures are necessary. so that we would look to the only true Savior, Jesus the Christ, from the failures of men. Come the glory of God. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and merciful Father. For these who came before us who, although chosen by you Although believers in you, for these who have failed, we see ourselves and we see our own failures. We see our need to walk backwards We see our need to relinquish our own strengths and to only serve in our strengths in your kingdom. And we see that the only way to achieve heaven is by Jesus alone. And so with those confessions, we confess our failures, but also our salvation in Jesus. In name whom we pray. Amen.