In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We read only a portion of Genesis chapter twenty-seven. We will be covering the entire chapter So you will be well served to turn there in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 27. The narrative in Genesis 27 Is rather hard on preachers. I do not say this as a complaint, but as an admission, that I am weak in my ability to garner the good that is recorded In the lives that are described and the behaviors described herein, it's difficult to find redeeming value. Just look at the characters and look at their actions The last two verses of chapter 26 tell us that Esau married two Hittite women. His choice in wives Grieved his parents because they feared, just as Abraham feared, such women would take Esau away from worshiping the one true God. We again from this have the opportunity to point out that one that who a person marries is the second most important decision one makes in his or her life. Chapter 27 begins with Isaac wanting to bless his oldest son, which no doubt grieved the Lord, for the Lord clearly revealed to Rebecca that the oldest in her womb would serve the younger. Isaac seems to disregard the prophecy by secretly telling Esau to prepare a meal in the celebration of the blessing. The planned deception of Rebecca to deceive her husband, no doubt that too grieved the Lord, because she wanted to control the situation. rather than to trust God that the prophecy he gave her would be fulfilled. The behavior of Jacob, no doubt, grieved the Lord For Jacob not only went along with the deception, but did so in the name of the Lord when he assured his father that he was Esau. As we examine the sinful behavior of these characters, we must remember that they are, were, God's chosen people. Isaac was chosen. He was a man of God. Rebekah is chosen. She is the right woman for Isaac. She is the one from whom the promised seed continues. Esau and Jacob are their children. They are thus covenant children, born in a covenant home. The problem is not that these people don't know God, for they know him quite well. Thus we cannot dismiss their behavior as simply a result of them being unbelievers. They know God and still they behave in this manner. The reason for their behavior should be familiar to us, for it is the cause of our misbehavior as well. The family strives to achieve by the flesh what can only be achieved by the spirit. Even though we are sons of God, we are still tempted, and yes, even practice trusting in the flesh to achieve God's favor rather than living in the spirit. In the first place, Isaac, if possible, tries to give a blessing to the son that is of the flesh. In like manner, many Christians desire the acts of their flesh to be blessed. In spite of our knowledge that the flesh is fallen and thus under the curse, we work to redeem it in this life. We want to have an abundant life in the flesh as well as the spirit, even though we have been clearly told that the flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. The Apostle Paul explained this to the Corinthians when he was teaching them about the new bodies that we will inherit at the resurrection. Because of Adam's sin and the ensuing curse that all men are born into, the flesh we currently live in is corrupt, and thus it cannot inherit the kingdom of God. God must and will change us, giving us new bodies that are called incorruptible, because the kingdom of God is incorruptible. But still, even with this knowledge, many children of God want God to bless our works in the flesh. Now so as not to confuse, I need to clarify how I'm using that term flesh. The Apostle Paul uses the word flesh in two different ways. The first way refers to the natural flesh or our physical bodies. The second way refers to works or acts that we perform in order to earn God's favor. In this sermon, I am using the term in both ways. We want God to bless our physical flesh for doing good works. We want them to be counted as righteous works and by such receive physical rewards for them. We do this even though the scripture clearly teaches that our works are as filthy rags unto the Lord. They are filthy rags because everything we do, regardless if it is good to the outward eye, everything we do is tainted somehow by selfishness and pride It's always in there somehow. Because our works can never be pure, never holy, as God's works are, they are to God filthy rags. The sons of God may stir up the flesh to seek a blessing, but it will always be in vain. Whereas Isaac in his old age attempts to bless the flesh, Jacob, the youngest in the story, attempts the same by energy and cunning. He is young and eager to be blessed. He first desired that birthright and then he pursued it. He now desires the blessing of the firstborn and will do what is necessary in his eye to get it. The idea of waiting on the Lord is not in Jacob's understanding. Patience is not in his vocabulary His sin is the sin of youth. Youth wants the pleasures of marriage without the covenant responsibility. Youth wants the wealth of its elders without working and saving. Youth wants to have a say and make an impact on society without wisdom. that only comes from living many years and having life experiences. Such sins are not just the sins of millennials today. Such sins are the sins of all who are, who were, and who will be young in life. Sins of youth. Indeed, Jacob wants what the Lord wants. He wants the blessing, and God wants it for him as well. But Jacob is willing to compromise his principles to get it. He succumbs to the spirit of compromise, what we call situational ethics. As circumstances change, so does his sense of right and wrong change. In fact, the goal of the blessing becomes so important to him he is willing to present himself as a man of the flesh. He dresses like Esau. He even places animal skin on his hands and neck to impersonate Esau. Thus the chosen son, the spiritual seed, puts on the manner and appearance of a carnal seed. of an unbeliever. The use of such animal skin before him is strikingly different Remember when Adam fell, God gave him a coat of animal skin to cover his nakedness, his flesh, which was noticed because of the fall, the curse. That skin covered the shame of Adam and Eve. In like manner, the prophets would wear hairy garments, testifying the same truth that mankind has fallen. But Jacob is not wearing such a garment to cover his sin, but actually in order to sin, in order to deceive. And I cannot shy away from identifying how the compromising of Jacob is similar to the compromising of many Christian churches today. Some compromise by taking or not taking moral stands based on what the spirit of the age dictates. When the present culture condemns sexual deviancy, well, the church follows. When the same culture begins to embrace sexual deviancy, the church not only follows But consecrates the deviancy with special wedding services for homosexuals and baptisms for the transgender. And for what? For what? What is the purpose of such compromising? They argue that it is out of love. They love the sinner, they say. But they don't love the sinner. They hate the sinner because they want them to stay in their sin. And that means the sinner will suffer eternity for it. That is not love. Another way Christian churches compromise is by the manner they evangelize. And I'm quite certain in these instances that the reason for such compromise is for the blessing of being relevant. Like Jacob, these churches are young and eager and thus try to get people in their doors by being energetic and cunning. Just as Jacob dressed like Esau, so these Christians dress like the world. The music they produce, the auditoriums they build, the programs they institute are an attempt to look like the world The flesh, in order to reach out to the world. Like Jacob, they desire for a blessing, but their manner of achieving it is faulty And note, please, that I am not saying these people are not Christian. I am simply drawing parallels between the behavior of the chosen son Jacob and the many modern churches. In contrast to this approach, the Apostle Paul described the proper manner of evangelizing when he said this to the Corinthians. But we have renounced the hidden things of shame, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully, but by the manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. Rebecca Acting like her husband and her favorite son Jacob, attempts to earn God's favor as well. She was the one who personally received the promise regarding Jacob, and yet, instead of simply trusting in the promise, she attempts to do just as her grandmother-in-law Sarah did To control the manner that God fulfills His promise. There are results, very negative results, that occur. Because Isaac, Jacob, and Rebekah walk according to the flesh and not the spirit. A tragic result is that Isaac's family is forever torn apart. His sons are at odds as Esau hates Jacob and makes plans to kill him. Another result is Jacob living in fear of his brother We shall see this later as he must face his brother and the possibility of his death. And Rebecca experiences a painful result as well, for Jacob, her favorite son, must leave home. When he does, Rebecca does not realize that she will never see him again. Never again. All of this occurred because the people of God walked by the flesh rather than by the spirit. They pursued works of the flesh rather than having faith in the promises of God. Now, in the end, God's will was done. Jacob became the one that Esau served. Jacob became the man that would be called Israel, and from him we know the twelve tribes of Israel come. God's will was not thwarted by the behavior of these people, but was realized through their behavior and better said, despite their behavior. Let us now look at the manner God works through the lives of ordinary and even disobedient servants. Isaac was stubborn, wanting to bless his oldest and favored son. God used his old age, his large stomach, and blindness to have him bless the chosen son. As stubborn as Isaac was, he still was a man of faith, because he served the only true living God who made the universe by a spoken word. Isaac knew that he himself, once he had spoken a word of blessing upon Jacob, could not go back on it. Like God's word, Isaac's word was to be fulfilled, thus he would not recant his blessing or allow a blessing upon Esau to supersede the one he put upon Jacob Even though he was stubborn, God got through to Isaac as is evident by the blessing he gave Jacob and the prophecy he spoke to Esau. And I want you to look at these verses, noting that the word order is carefully changed. In verse 28, Isaac blesses Jacob, saying, Therefore may God give you the dew of the heaven, of the fatness of the earth, and plenty of grain and wine. Contrastingly, in verse 39, Isaac gives a prophecy regarding Esau, saying, Behold, your dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth and of the dew of heaven from above. Did you hear or see the reverse of order? Did you see in reading it? The order is switched, whereas Jacob is the chosen son, the son of the Spirit. He is to receive dew from heaven and then the fatness of the earth. Esau, the son of the flesh, will receive fatness of the earth before the dew of heaven. The eternal difference is that Jacob will be a man who is first and foremost a man of the spirit. The blessing he receives in this life will be a residual effect. of his primary place, which is in heaven, his home. Esau, however, will be a man of this earth. The blessings he received will be only of this earth, and anything of heaven will be only a residual effect. Isaac's words to his son confirm that there are men of the flesh and men of the spirit. And the difference between men of heaven and men of the earth remains. There are Jews who continue to look for the Messiah, whom they believe will make them inheritors of this earth. They yearned for the re-establishment of the temple on Mount Sinai and the re-establishment of the Davidic throne. But for the spiritual Jews, we call them the church, they believe the Messiah has come, and the true temple is in heaven, where the Son of God, Jesus Christ, sits at the right hand of the Father. And like Esau, the earthly Jews are satisfied with their earthly inheritance. Like Jacob, those born from above will only be satisfied when the kingdom of God is on earth, becoming the kingdom of heaven. Like he did with Isaac. God works through the life of Rebekah as she panics for fear of Jacob's life. She learns that Esau is angry and intent on killing Jacob. She decides that Jacob must flee from the family, not knowing when Isaac would pass and how long Esau would wait before he took vengeance. In her haste, Rebecca makes a wise decision. She sends Jacob to live amongst her family, which is Abraham's family. It is the same family that Abraham sent his servant to to find a proper bride for Isaac. And although she sends Jacob away to preserve his life, the real purpose is God's purpose. Although her reasons are not pure, Rebecca acts as the Christian church should. Instead of keeping her best loved son, the mother church must send them out. Jacob is sent forth to toil, to win flocks and herds. So too should young men, our best young men, be sent forth. We remember that Jacob lives with his uncle Laban. As he does, he becomes an owner of literal sheep. But the Bible uses sheep as a metaphor for winning over men and women to the gospel. Young men of the church are to be sent out to win, young men and young women, to the gospel. We must keep this in mind as we raise boys. We are to send them out, send them to win the world. Because of the narrative of Genesis twenty seven It has taken us and me a number of different directions. So I want to summarize my points First, works of the flesh, which are works that we try to achieve God's blessing, they never achieve that desired end. Second, regardless of what men do, whether with good intentions or ill, God's sovereign will always be accomplished. We can see this in how God works to his end through the simple behavior of these who are his chosen people. And after stating these truths, I am aware that there is a rational thinking that goes like this. Why bother worrying about or even praying about our behavior or choices? Because God's will is going to be accomplished in the end. The answer is in the lives of Isaac and his family. As we pointed out, there are repercussions for being stubborn as Isaac was, or impatient as Jacob was, or persistent regarding her own ways as Rebecca was. When we consider that God sees the stubbornness, impatience, and selfish persistence of his people. He uses them, despite how sinful they are, he uses them to accomplish his righteous and holy will. And to this we are to respond with, to God be the glory. Last week we highlighted God's mercy. And today we highlight the glory, the glory that is owed to God from us. Because he assures his sovereign will despite what his servants do. Thus Genesis chapter 26 and 27 teach that salvation is in the hands of God. We don't choose it, and we don't keep it, for it is to God and God alone. In the narrative of Genesis, there is no mention of how the wills of people, the choices that people make, mix with God's plan of salvation. That will be a mystery to us on this side of the sun. Seeing what God does through sinful and incompetent men and women We understand him a little more. He conveyed himself in the same way through the prophet Isaiah, where he said, But now says the Lord who created you, O Jacob. And who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by your name. You are mine. Everyone who is called by my name, whom I have created for my glory, I have formed him. Yes, I have made him Again, because God uses us for his kingdom, despite our behavior. Again, we say, to God be the glory. Amen. Let us pray. Our God, we thank you for working through the lives of sinful people That means working through our lives. And so we say, to you be the glory for all that is good, that is righteous, that is hopeful in our lives and hereafter. Is all from you. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen