In the name of the Father and of the Son. Of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Seated. Please turn in your Bibles to the Gospel according to St. John chapter 15 from our gospel reading this morning. The disciples were the first To hear the words of Jesus as read from John 15. They were the target audience regarding the suffering Jesus warned about. The hate that Jesus warned about, the martyrdom that Jesus warned about. And here is their fate. James, the brother of John, was beheaded alongside his accuser, who recanted his testimony against James and who became a Christian. Just before they were martyred together. Philip, the first to be called disciple, was scourged, thrown into prison, and later crucified in A. D. fifty-four. Matthew, the former tax collector and gospel writer, suffered martyrdom by axe and sword in A. D. 60. James the Less, brother to our Lord, was beaten and stoned, and finally had his brains dashed with a club. Matthias, the replacement of Judas, was stoned and then beheaded. Andrew, brother of Peter, was hung on a tree and next stoned to death. Peter, after being encouraged by his followers to flee the wrath of Nero, was visited by the Lord as he was walking out of the city and Jesus was walking in. Peter asked where he was going, and Jesus replied, I am come to be crucified again. Peter understood and returned to his fa to face his fate while insisting that he be crucified upside down. as he was not a worthy martyr to die in the same fashion as his Savior. Jude, also called Thaddeus, was crucified at Edessa, which is now modern Turkey In A. D. 72, Bartholomew, after spreading the gospel in India, was beaten and crucified by idolaters. Thomas, the one-time doubter, after enraging pagan priests in Parthia and in India, was martyred by the thrust of a spear. Simon, after preaching in Africa and Europe, was crucified in A. D. 74. John, the beloved writer of this gospel although cast into a cauldron of boiling oil, had his life miraculously preserved and died at an old age Knowledge of suffered persecution and martyrdom of most of the first hearers of Jesus saying, If the world hates you, You know that it hated me before it hated you. Hopefully hearing that gives us a better perspective regarding how serious Jesus was in his warning. And what it was like to be warned in such a manner. I want to touch logistically with you Briefly, you remember that the verses and the chapters of our Bibles were not there originally. In fact it was 1551 that they were placed in our Bibles. Therefore, I think it is best that we ignore chapter 15 and chapter 16 demarcations because we need to understand Jesus is continuing a teaching that he started quite a bit ago. Remembered that Jesus was talking about abiding in him? And then he explained that to abide in him was to obey the commandments of the heavenly father and then he said that the greatest commandment to obey is for us to love one another And notice how that sermon two weeks ago matched so well with the bishop's sermon last week. God is saying something to us and quite loudly, I believe. From talking of abiding and obeying and loving, Jesus next explains that when you do such things, the world will hate you. The word world is cosmos, and it can mean the physical world, or as in this context, the way a culture operates. Later in John's Gospel, Jesus will tell his followers that they are not of this world. And there he means that Christians do not operate the way the culture operates. And that input is added to this passage in that the world hates Christians because they do not operate in the same manner that the culture does. Or at least they shouldn't. Where the culture is unjust, the Christian is to be just. Where the culture is unloving, the Christian is to be loving. Where the culture is calling evil good and good evil. The Christian is to be calling evil evil and good good. And you have heard me say this before, but I'm going to nag you by saying it again. Christians should not be fad followers. Although some fads may be morally benign, Christians should be careful as to what they follow, for you cannot know where it will lead you. especially leads you into placing your trust into something that is not Christ. It is when we are following Christ And not following the cultural fads of the day that the world, the people of our culture, hate us. They hate us because our morality or stance against their immorality makes them feel guilty. And because they feel guilty, they want to shut us up. Even when we have said nothing but merely lived our lives differently than them. The difference bothers them, and so they want to create laws that force us to live as they do. The tragedy in Orlando last week is clear evidence as to why the world hates Christians. For as Christians, we can condemn the mass killing of people by the action of a lone gunman or a group of terrorists. And we can also condemn sodomy, even while our culture tells us that to do so is to side with the terrorists. But our culture is folding in on itself. It's folding in on itself when it tries to embrace Islam as a peaceful religion. And embrace the homosexual lifestyle as normal. For the reality is that the former has already condemned the latter, and that will not change. And Christians, the Christian faith stands back from it all and says that all need to repent and come to the cross to find forgiveness. The culture hates that because it wants all sexual behavior to be normalized and it wants all religions except Christianity to get along And when these things do not happen, the devil convinces the culture that the Christian faith, and thus the Christian church, is at fault. Such was the case when the Roman culture crumbled, and such is the case as the American culture crumbles. When a preacher applies the words of Jesus from John 15, 19 to examples of modern life, he is bound to make someone angry. But that is part of what a preacher must do to shake the sinner from his or her confused state of being. If you claim to follow Jesus and also find yourself popular amongst your unbelieving friends, your unbelieving neighbors, your unbelieving co-workers, and even your unbelieving family, then you are more like the world than you are a follower of Christ. Yes, I said that. And I said that because I don't know how to apply the words of Jesus When he says, if you were of the world, the world would love its own Jesus is not telling us, of course, to be jerks so that the world, our present culture, will hate us, but only to live out our Christian life, and that will be enough. Now, if you say in response to what I have said that you are merely a kind and considerate person to people in your life, and that is what you thought you were supposed to be, I would profoundly agree with you. I am challenging you, however, to consider why the disciples were hated. They were not jerks, they were not unkind. Realize what caused the apostles to be martyred. They spoke up. They challenged the falsehood of the gods of their culture. They claimed there was only one God. And they claim that Jesus was that God, and that mankind could not find forgiveness for their sins outside of Jesus. That is why the world hated the apostles. It was because they spoke up. And by speaking up, they rejected the manner their culture operated. Now, I have heard some of your stories, and I am well aware that some of you know what I'm talking about. As soon as you spoke up in a conversation at work against the sin of sodomy or against the sin of abortion, you felt that hate. As soon as you confessed Jesus as God to an unbelieving family, you felt that palatable social tension. And you knew that if those conversations continued and people heard what you truly believe on such issues, well, those who heard you would likely never speak to you again. It is to be understood, most especially by Christians, that speaking the truth in love and the love of Christ is necessary for people to be saved from sin and death. God spoke the world into existence. Jesus is said to be the Word. Thus God has chosen that the means by which mankind is to be saved is by the truth of the gospel being spoken. We say in our culture that the two subjects that always bring about disputes are religion and politics. And that is because words have power God made it so. Sooner or later the Christian must speak, and those words you speak will cause the world to love you or hate you. Jesus goes on to explain the necessary divide that occurs when people are faced with the choice to believe or to reject him as their savior and as God. Because people of the world do not know the Heavenly Father, they are not going to know, and the word know meaning understand or relate to They are not going to understand or relate to Jesus. And because they do not know or understand Jesus, they are not going to understand or relate to those who follow Jesus. That is the way of it. It can be no different. Because the word hate is used so frequently by Jesus, we should examine it more closely. The Greek word for hate, in its most basic meaning, means to detest. To detest is to want nothing to do with what is hated Therefore, the world, the culture, wants nothing to do with God the Father, and therefore it wants nothing to do with Jesus the Son, and therefore it wants nothing to do with those who follow Jesus. And it is of no use for the Christian to cry foul or to claim such hatred as unjust, for Jesus reminds us in verse 25 that the world hated him without a cause. Which means that they hated him unjustly, and it did not matter. Next, the mention of the Holy Spirit coming and bearing witness and the witness of the apostles as to what they had seen Jesus do. This is the counter to what the world says about Jesus, and we know the world lies about Jesus. The culture would say that Jesus was a false teacher, a pretend miracle worker, and a rebel against the state. But the Holy Spirit and the apostles as eyewitnesses were to be a continuation of the presence of Jesus in the world to save humble sinners Now as I stated earlier, we're to not see chapter 16. We're to understand this is a flowing teaching. And verse 1 of 16 is a continuation of Jesus providing his apostles this teaching that we are privy to here, a teaching that they needed in the immediacy. It was the apostles who would face immediate danger and the choice between martyrdom or to deny faith in Jesus. It was the apostles who needed to apply these words in the immediate future It was the apostles that Jesus was concerned would stumble in their faith because of how difficult the days ahead were going to be It was the apostles who were to be put out of the synagogues. It was the apostles who were killed by those who thought that they were doing God's work. It was the apostles who needed to hear that such things would come to pass and for them to accept it as the will of God. Jesus knew. Jesus knew that the devil would tempt the apostles into thinking that such persecution and such suffering and even death Could not be the will of God. And thus they must be doing something wrong if their preaching and teaching leads to such pain. And so Jesus thwarts such thinking before it can take root, telling them that, yes, indeed, this is my will for you. And sorrow. Sorrow would indeed fill the hearts of the apostles as they watched their Savior die and as they faced their own cowardice in that moment. Sorrow would indeed fill their hearts as they waited those three days. But all of it was for the good All of it was for the eternal good. And even Jesus going away after his resurrection would be for the eternal good. The Holy Spirit needed to come down. The Holy Spirit needed to empower the church in order for God's plan to redeem the world to come to pass. While all of this part of the teaching of Jesus is actually a repeat of what we have studied in John before. There is a point in these passages I want to underline for all of us. Very important. When Jesus says in verse 13 that the Holy Spirit will guide you into all truth, The word you in the Greek is plural. We don't have that in modern English We use you for singular and we use you for plural. In the King's English they use the that meant singular, you, and thou meant you plural. In the South, we know they use you all or y'all. The point of this is to identify that Jesus isn't telling his apostles that the Holy Spirit will lead them individually to the truth. But instead lead all of them together as the church to the truth. And all of them together represented the church. Thus Jesus was telling that the Holy Spirit would lead the church, his chosen people, to all truth. The application for us is that we too are guided by the Holy Spirit to all truth when we are within the church. And I am not talking about the local church, although I am. And I am not talking about the Reformed Episcopal Church, although I am And I am not talking about the Anglican Church in North America, although I am. Instead, I am talking about the church with the big C, the universal church. As long as we stay within the universal church, we are guided into all truth, no matter what happens to the culture around us. And a lot is happening in the culture around us. Although the teaching of John in chapter 15 and 16 had immediate and specific application to the apostles, the same principles apply to Christians of all cultures of all eras. In our culture, in our era, we experienced the temptation toward fear Toward fear, as acts of terror occur more frequently and more heinously And the media intensifies its coverage of said acts of terror from every possible angle of blame that they can come up with. These two ingredients, the media and terror, can make it seem as though the world is crumbling around us. Thus, we are tempted to shut our doors and windows and stay home, hoping that the world does not come into our lives. But that is not what the apostles did. They went out and they spoke up. And that is what Jesus told his followers to do. Did you notice that in the descriptions I gave of the apostles who were martyred, that some of them were martyred far from Jerusalem? Having traveled as far east as India and as far west as Europe. They did this knowing the words that Jesus spoke to them. The world would hate them, persecute them, and kill them. Beloved, we should not need the guilt. Of Jesus walking past us out of our homes into the world while we are going into our homes to shut our doors and windows so that the dangers of the world cannot reach us. Yes, the world can be a dangerous and scary place because there are evil people who have made themselves tools of the devil. Yes, when we speak the truth of the gospel in that same world, we make ourselves a target of evil people. But St. Paul's words, his words, to die is gain, to live is Christ. They are to ring true for us if we call ourselves Christian. Jesus taught the disciples what was ahead of them What was ahead of them so that they would not cower, so that they would not be paralyzed by fear. It is our responsibility to take those same words of Jesus and apply them to our culture, our era, our today. As we stay in the truth, as we stay in the church and speak up And live out the gospel. Our days in God's hands are in God's hands, and no one can or will touch us. And thus God wills it. And if God wills it, we are to say, so be it, for we know in Christ our death will never be in vain. I prepared this sermon not really thinking that it was Father's Day, but it struck me This morning, that such a sermon, if it needs to be preached to anyone, is the Fathers For who needs to be the bravest in a family? Who needs to cast away fear? Who needs to stand up and speak out? But our fathers. Our fathers to lead, and for our families to follow. For the world, this slogan is for them. To fear, to fear is vain, and to live is following the Zeitgeist. For the Christian To die truly is gain, and to live truly is Christ. Amen and Amen. Let us pray