In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn with me in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. We'll be working through four verses, 24 through 27. And in case you're wondering why we're wearing white today This is a Sunday in which we mark that Jesus was brought to the temple and by law his parents offered two turtle doves. in response to him being included into the kingdom of Israel forty days after his birth. I know most people think it's holy writ to say it's Super Bowl Sunday, but it's actually the offering of Jesus at the temple. This morning, interestingly, we are dealing with a sports metaphor. Surprising to me, some people don't like sports metaphors In defense of those of us who use them often, the apostle offers one, extends one himself, so it's in holy writ, so it's certainly legitimate. Before we examine the apostles' metaphor more closely, we must remind ourselves of the context in which this metaphor is found. The Apostle is concerned for the weak in faith within the Corinthian church. The weak are disturbed by fellow Christians eating meat offered to idols, even some of them sitting at banquet tables that reside in pagan temples. Paul has been describing his own self-sacrifice for the strengthening of the weak and his sacrifice for spreading the gospel. He now moves to a sports metaphor in order to give a picture of what type of sacrifice he and all Christians should be making for the sake of the gospel. The old saying, history repeats itself, appears true when a general comparison is made of the cultures such as the United States and Ancient Greece. Greece was a culture made up of many independent states. The greatest of these states was Athens. Athens was the first state to practice democracy. Each man within the state had a right and responsibility to vote over political issues. The major cities of these Greek states flourished with incomparable learning, farming, and trade. Success brought more leisure for the people, and they combined their leisure with their religion. In order to honor their many gods whom they believed resided on Mount Olympus, the Greeks organized athletic games. The victories of the athletes were thought to bring honor to the gods. The Games became known as the Olympic Games and began in 776 BC. These games took place every four years. The city of Corinth resides west of Athens. And because the Olympic Games had been going on for over eight centuries at the writing of the Apostle Paul, the people well understood the use of this sports metaphor. In fact, the Corinthians, the people loved these games so much that they started their own. The Isthmian Games, as they were called, by some accounts overshadowed the Olympic Games when they were started. The Isthmian Games occurred every three years, and like the Olympic Games, consisted of running, jumping, and throwing contests, as well as chariot races. Like the Greeks, we too find ourselves living comfortably from our success as a nation. Our leisure time enables us to enjoy all types of sports. Although we do not organize and participate in sports to honor other gods, some worship their chosen sport. as a God. We know that many choose a seat in a stadium over a seat in the house of God Like these Greek cultures, we uphold our athletes as blessed of the gods. The point being that if any culture Could relate to the apostle using a sports metaphor, it is our culture. From his chosen words We can sense the apostle giving us a pep talk and a locker room before the great contest. In verse 24, We get the sense that God is speaking through the apostle, and we must understand this. It's not just to these Corinthian people, but to all who would read these words in the future if Christ tarries. He tells us to run in such a way that you may obtain the prize. And he is talking to each of us personally. This is the second person singular you. You as an individual. You are to run the race in such a way that you may obtain the prize. The great Newt Rockney, football coach of Notre Dame, was known for his talks that would inspire men to play beyond their known capabilities. Sports can do that for a man. It can push him beyond what he knows as his capabilities. And the most famous of his speeches is in regards to George Gip. Gip was the greatest running back Notre Dame had produced up to his time. By many accounts he was a selfless man who gave up his time to those who requested of him When he gave up his time to a group of boys during a rainstorm, he developed complications of a common cold, which resulted in pneumonia and resulted eventually in his death On his deathbed, he reportedly made the request that when the boys were down, could Rachney encourage them by asking them to win one for the Gipper. At halftime against the then powerhouse Georgia Tech, Rockney suspended talks of strategy and technique and told the story of George Gip and his request. This is supposed to be the line with Rockney speaking. And the last thing he said to me, Rock, he said. Sometime when the team is up against it and the brakes are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they've got and win just one for the Gipper. The Notre Dame team went out the second half and beat favorite Georgia Tech on the wings of inspiration. Rockney never confirmed that the death-bed story of the Gipper was a true story. But the story proves to us that pep talks can move men. And the first point in our pep talk is that we are to run the race to win. Only one can receive the first prize in a race. Second and third prizes are modern day concessions. In the first days of the Olympics, there were only one winner per contest. The others simply lost regarding regardless of which place they came. Personally, I tried to drill that into my children as they matured, telling them that second place was only the first place of losers. Interestingly, when when playing cards with my mother-in-law I noticed a particular strategy she was using and I asked her if she was trying to win. She said no. She was just trying not to come in last place. Some of us don't relate to that type of thinking. Mr. Vince Lombardi was the famous football coach for the Green Bay Packers in the 50s and 60s. And he was attributed to have said, winning is not everything. It's the only thing. With modern-day sensitivities the way they are, the attitude of Coach Lombardi is understood to be misplaced testosterone and a byproduct of centuries of male patriarchy. And all that stuff is supposed to be bad. I remember the first volleyball game I ever played at a church function. I was a college student. My first chance to spike the ball, it brought down the ball on the face of the pastor's wife, who was on the other side of the net. And the piercing eyes of those playing communicated as their lips blurted out. This is just for fun. Fun for me has always been about winning. Personally, I've never found fun in simply playing a game. All of these years later, I'm still trying to learn how to play something just for the fun of it When it comes to my faith in Christ, I pray I never learn to be in the race just for fun. It is all about winning. It is all about winning because the reward is eternal, and so is the penalty for losing. In verse 25, the apostle compares the prizes of an earthly race to that of an eternal one. The prize for winning a foot race or a discus thrown at the Isthmian Games was a wreath made out of Isthmian pine. It was a plant from which the reeds were made and for which the games were named. These reeds, as you may imagine, were not poorly put together. They were carefully crafted. They were coveted by all who competed in and all who watched the contests. The winners were honored also with an image carved in stone, but it was wearing the wreaths that mattered to them. And this may sound as if the Greeks immortalized their victors, but such was not the case. They purposefully chose wreaths of perishable material For as the leaves perished in the crown, the crown became more corrupt, and the image was pressed upon these victors that their glory was fleeting. Another wreath would be rewarded to another victor three years later. We of course are not running a foot race, we're not throwing a discus or jumping into a sand pit. We are running a race for the life of our souls. This is not a race in which competing is all that matters. It is not a race in which the outcome is inconsequential. What we are running for is an incorruptible prize. The only ones who will receive such a prize are the ones who win. That prize is referred to as an incorruptible crown. No passing of time can wither its rigidity. No earth-born substance can eat away at its virility. The apostle Peter calls it an unwithering crown. Paul described it to Timothy as a crown of righteousness. James in his epistle describes it as the crown of life. All who enter into the presence of God after the final judgment will receive this crown and will have won the race. And we must underline that winning the race is more than simply competing. Today, children who participate in sports can become confused because they are rewarded for simply participating. Because of all of our boys playing sports, we did have a large share of trophies. Within our trophy display, we had divided the trophies that had been earned From the trophies that had simply been handed out. The trophies earned were given out for winning championships and being a valuable player Those trophies were set aside from the rest that were received just because our son had a warm body and showed up. We all know that the reason why trophies are given out to all participants is so that they can not go away with hurt feelings. A serious problem with being so concerned about hurt feelings is that few participants strive for greatness. They don't know how to work harder for a prize that is earned Because we compete as Christians to win rather than simply participate, we must embrace a regimental life that consists of calculated training. In verse 26, the apostle describes his race as one that is run with certainty. He is certain he is certain that he knows why he is running. Success as a team or individual in competition begins with knowing what you're competing for, setting goals. We must know what we are fighting for. With a goal in sight, our practical everyday behavior is then dictated by what it takes to achieve that goal. It is a given that a Christian's goal is eternal life. This is, however, where the sports metaphor can break down. Or an athlete may or may not choose to pursue an ultimate prize. A sprinter may choose not to run in the Olympic Games. If he does, he will most certainly not win the gold medal. But that does not mean he will not run in another race and be a victor in that race. When it comes to the race for eternal life, for our souls, there is only one alternative result. Those who win receive the prize of eternal life. Those who lose reserve death, eternal death. The goal is singular and obvious for the Christian. The apostle runs the race with certainty of that goal. And he boxes with a target before him. Boxing as a sport was also a part of the Greek Olympic Games. The punches the apostle was throwing were not at the heir, but at an opponent. And that opponent could be a demonic force, or it could be the old man within Paul that tempted him to sin. It was more likely both. But he was never just punching air. Verse 27 describes his regiment as the disciplining of his body. Those who competed in the Greek Olympic Games were not much different than those who are highly trained and skilled today. The original Olympians were given time and resources by their fellow countrymen. Trading for the Games began ten months prior. All athletes had to take an oath that promised fair and hard training, not just in the competition, but in their training. Part of their training consisted of regimented diets. Olympic athletes were restricted as to what they could and could not eat during their training. Before competition, they were required to take an oath swearing that they had abided by all the dietary and training restrictions. And using this description of a disciplined athlete, there is no possible means for a person to understand that their Christianity can be just a Christmas or Easter affair. In fact, there is no room to understand Christianity as a once-a-week Sunday-only affair. To discipline oneself in order to bring one's body under complete submission is to be full-throbbed, sold out, 100% giving Oneself to living for Christ. And the final clause in this passage digs deep into our psyche. As the apostle explains why he does live like this, it explains why he gives way to the weak in faith. He explains why he denies himself his rights as an apostle. He explains why he is all things to all men. He explains why he disciplines himself as a world-class athlete. He does it so that he himself would not be disqualified, so that he himself would not lose. And I wonder if this surprises us. Are we surprised that the apostle might be concerned that in the end he might not make it? He might not win. And here we have a powerful message that cannot escape our notice. It must not escape our notice. The apostle is helping us understand that our salvation The eternal living of our soul is never to be taken for granted. Because we are saved from hell in which all men Due to their sin deserve, and saved unto eternal promises that we've done nothing to earn, we are to be living in a state of gratefulness. We are to be secure in the grace of God to be sure. He will in no wise cast us out. And at the same time, we must never lax into a self-assurance that would allow us to take a day off. There is no tomorrow in the Christian life. We are to live as if we have no assurance of anything but the grace we are given today. That is the mentality we must have. That is the urgency the Apostle Paul lived with. And I will take it as providence and timing that the helicopter accident in California That took the life of a world-class athlete, his daughter, and seven others, occurred as we were about to touch on this passage. May God have mercy upon them. All who were in that accident, all of their races Their life races were over in an instant. And that's an important difference when using a sports metaphor. In sports, we know when the game is over. It is over when the distance to run has been reached, when the attempts have been completed, when the clock expires. Our lives are not so sure regarding our finish line That is one message we have for the world that should always be a part of our testimony regarding our Christian faith. We all will die. We just do not know when. We know it that we will die. And we embrace it because our Savior did. We are to say regarding our own personal finish line, not my will, but thine be done. Because we will die, and because we don't know when our personal finish line will appear, we are to train as if it is today. And train that way every day. When it comes to our Christian life, your very solo. Winning is the only thing. Let us pray. Now Father, we thank you for the confidence of the Apostle Paul. And we thank you for his example to live life in such a manner that every day is the finish line. And we take it as a charge to our lives. May it be resonating in our souls each day we wake. This is our finish line. Let us live That winning is the only thing that matters. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen