Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated I remind you that our goal has been to look at the offerings from Leviticus and all of their requirements and to find Jesus. If you have waded into a few Christian ponds different from where you are now, you have discovered when praying the Lord's Prayer that there are differences Most Presbyterians and Baptists pray for the Lord to forgive us our debts, while all Anglicans historically pray that we be forgiven our trespasses. Why this is so is not easily discovered. One guess is that it was caused by the English gentry being concerned about their land And because one of the greatest sins, according to the English, was trespassers poaching on their land, thus they chose the word trespass. Whereas the Scottish, who are connected to Presbyterianism, being tight with their money and who considered failing to repay a debt to be a great sin, chose the word debts. Others have speculated that the Scots changed the word just to thumb their nose at the Brits. What we will find in our study of trespass offering Is that both New Testament meanings for the words trespass and debt have a role in describing the offering that we call the trespass offering? Today we begin looking at the trespass offering, which is the next prescribed offering in the book of Leviticus. We can contrast the trespass offering with the sweet savor offering, as the sweet savor offering was for making the worshipper pleasing to God. Whereas the trespass offering was for the pardoning of sin. The trespass offering further distinguished itself from the sin offering we examined last week And that the sin offering was for a person or persons being in a state of sin because of unknown sin committed Whereas the trespass offering was for specific sin committed. The sin offering addressed the very nature of each person. being born into sin, and therefore being sinful. And the trespass offering being for specific behavior which were specific sins committed. Another slight difference between the sin offering and the trespass offering is that while both could be for sins committed unknowingly. The trespass offering could include sins that were knowingly done and sins of a particular level of seriousness. Now, saying that there were some sins placed on different levels of seriousness than other sins may surprise some of us. After all, the New Testament tells us that if we have broken one law, no matter what law it is, we've broken the whole law. The Greek word, usually translated into the English as sin, means falling short of the mark, homartia. And we know that we come short of the mark of perfection all of the time. So it can seem that all sins can balance on a teetotter, teeter-totter, what's a teetotter, teeter-totter, as they appear to be equal in weight. That conclusion is accurate insofar as to conclude that all sins need the grace and mercy of God. But it is also true that some sins practiced clearly indicate that a man has gone down Farther into depravity, and as such, is going to have a more difficult time getting out Lesser sins can lead to more depraved sins. Life is filled with slippery slopes waiting for us. I used sexual sins as our examples last week, and so I do again. Looking at a naked woman can turn a man's thoughts to lust. If he does not stop there, he will turn to what is called soft core pornography, which can tempt him toward hardcore pornography pornography, causing all women to be sex objects for his viewing pleasure, and for some people the slope keeps going, turning into bisexuality The point is that some sins act as a gateway drug to more depraved sins until nothing satisfies the flesh. In the Old Testament, we can see that some sins demanded a sacrifice, while other sins, more depraved sins, demanded a sacrifice and a ransom While still other sins demanded the very life of the sinner. Our discussion about the law offerings is the discussion about the grace of God. Because the offerings all point to what Jesus accomplished in one sacrifice, his own life. There are, however, sins committed that required By God, the life of the offender, the life of the sinner. Such sins were idolatry, blasphemy. Offering of a child sacrifice, conjuring up the dead, adultery, cursing one's parents Even Sabbath violations require death by stoning. Such sins loom in the back of our conscience, making us apprehensive of other sins. For these judgments tell us that God takes certain sins gravely serious, and that they require immediate and permanent judgment in this life. In the book of Numbers, chapter 15, verse 30, such sins are called presumptuous sins. And verse 31 explains that such actions are a despising of the Lord's commandments. Despising. Essentially, such sins are committed with the full knowledge that they are against God's commandments, but the sinner chooses to go against those specific commandments to make a statement that he and he alone is going to be king of his life. Regarding sins committed unknowingly or carelessly, if you look in Leviticus chapter 5, verses 1 through 6, we have examples. And those verses are examples of a person who can be a witness to an oath made, but keeps quiet about it. Such a person has chosen to remain quiet and is therefore guilty of bearing false witness by an act of omission, which is not doing what you know you should have done. Next, we have the example of a person who unknowingly touches a beast that God has declared unclean. Guilt is present even though the person was at the time unaware that they were doing something wrong. Next is the example of a man who makes a rash promise by oath and later realizes that his promise was indeed rash. He too is guilty, and therefore he must make a trespass offering. In Leviticus chapter 6, verses 1 through 7, we have other sins described, sins that were premeditated. In those verses, we have described a man who knows that he is lying, and yet he does it anyways, because the lie will personally benefit him. That they benefit by making themselves richer. Such are examples of how money can be the root of many evils, and such guilty persons are to offer a trespass offering. What is unique and most vital to these trespass offerings being accepted is that it was of the guilty sinner for that person to confess. their sin, to confess. In Leviticus 5. 5 we read, he shall, the offerer shall confess. To confess is to take ownership or full responsibility for the behavior, for the act. Now, when we are young, we have a difficult time taking full responsibility. We see in here the young being quick to blame. The many factors they believe forced them to commit a sin they obviously committed, and those factors allow them to push away personal responsibility. But God says, no. We are to confess our sins as only our sins, and not the sins or faults of others We are to take full ownership of our sins and not to blame others as if their behavior forced our behavior. We are not even to hint at such things. As a young child, I remember vividly a confession forced upon me that I did not do, the behavior I did not do, and the forcing confession did not change my behavior. We had in our basement a large ironing machine. It was not an iron or an ironing board, but a machine operated by the person who would sit in front of it. It had a large roller that was covered with a large pad. It also had a heated piece of metal on which the roller would come down. The operator would move levers with his knees or her knees that brought the roller down and caused it to turn, forcing the clothes to run between the hot metal plate and the padded roller. Unfortunately, the iron would at times be turned on and left on when the roller was in the down position, causing the padded roller to burn. And it was costly to replace. One time when this happened, none of us four children, I being the youngest, Would confess the crime. My parents lined us up according to age for the interrogation, and it didn't take long for my oldest sister to cave and confess with these words I cannot tell a lie, and then pointing to me, said, he did it. Even as a five-year-old, I recognized this was a setup. If I was responsible, I had no recollection. Thankfully, we have a Savior who does not confess Our sins as our sins, but confesses our sins as his sins. He stands before the Heavenly Father with us and says that our guilt is his guilt He confesses as us. It does not take long when reading the New Testament to understand the importance of confession. We are told that if we confess Jesus as Lord and that God raised him from the dead, we will be saved. Jesus tells us that we are to be brave and confess him as our Savior before men, whether friend or enemy. And he warns, as you heard in our gospel reading, that if we deny him before men, then he will deny that he knows us before the Heavenly Father. This agreement is most reasonable because Jesus first confessed us by confessing our sins as his. In doing so, he was the offerer in the trespass offering. In confessing this way, he reasonably and passionately expects us to confess him. I anticipate that some of you might wonder that if Jesus confessed our sin as his sin And that all we have to do is confess Him as our Savior in order to be forgiven our sins, then why do we continue to confess our sins? The answer is in accord with St. John, who states in his first epistle that if we presently say that we have no sin, we are liars. And that it is our responsibility to confess our sins. And after we do so, God can cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What we are to understand is that as we confess our sins each day as individuals, and as we do so corporately each Sunday, We are to confess Jesus as the one who satisfied the trespass offering. We are confessing that the sins we commit now and in the future Are applied to the confession of Jesus as the offerer and the trespass offering. In fact, when we confess our sins to God, we are stating our faith that Jesus is all of the offerings. And as such, our confession is sufficient to be forgiven because Jesus was and is sufficient. Another distinction made in the trespass offering is that it was to include a restoration of what had been stolen. And it was to include one-fifth extra or one-fifth beyond the value of the estimated worth of that which was stolen or marred. Now about this there are many things to say and it would take too long to say it in this one sermon. I will summarize the first point, which speaks to the failure of our modern prison system. We say that when someone is incarcerated, that they are paying a debt to society. But that by that we no doubt mean that such a person is being humbled. And that such humility is a payment of a debt. The Bible, however, would differ. Payment of a debt is actual payment of a specific amount. How does a man being incarcerated for theft, for example, destruction of a car, for example, and being in prison at taxpayer expense, how does that pay a debt? He in no sense pays a debt to the victim. The great irony of our system is that the person whose car was stolen is a taxpayer. contributing to the incarceration or providing room and board for the man who stole his car What the Bible declares is that a wrong done is only made right when full payment has been made. Full payment has been made when all that has been put back, or all that was taken, is put back to its original condition. That, beloved, is what Jesus does for mankind. He is payment as the trespass offering And that means he can pay in full what mankind owes to God for corrupting the human condition and cursing the earth. It also means that Jesus set in motion the restoration of the earth and humanity so that all things will indeed pass away and all things will indeed become new. The proclamation is that Jesus, as trespass offering, did more than enable sins to be forgiven. He began the process of restoration of all the created order. That restoration will assuredly be completed. Now, another aspect to the trespass offering. Is the fact that it was the priest who decided the value or worth of what was owed by the man who was sinned against. This was a subjective judgment, and it was not a subjective judgment. The priest, you will remember, was chosen and anointed by God to decide the value. Therefore, he's not doing it on his own. God himself is helping him find that value. The final distinction we are to be made aware of is the requirement of a fifth of the offering returned That is above and beyond the original value of that which was marred or stolen. A fifth. To say it succinctly, With the trespass offering, the original wrong or evil was remedied by the value, the original value being given back, plus a fifth of the value added to it. To understand the meaning of the fifth of value, we must go back to Genesis. In the story of Joseph being elevated to the right hand of Pharaoh, you will remember. There was a great famine in the land, and because God had given Joseph a vision to warn him of the coming famine, he wisely set aside seven years of fruitful crops to be stored up the grain to be stored up. When the famine came and the people needed to buy the stored up grain from Pharaoh, Joseph bought their land and then allowed them to return to it to cultivate it. And then he required one-fifth of their profit to be returned to the Pharaoh each year. From that time on The one-fifth offering was an acknowledgement that all had been given over to the superior authority, and that one-fifth was an offering of acknowledgement of true ownership. An acknowledgement of true ownership. Mathematically, stay with me. Mathematically, we recognize that one-fifth is 20%, which is double tithe. Double tithe. Thus, within the context of the trespass offering, the offering of one fifth the value over and above what was owed Was not a free gift, but instead a debt that acknowledged who was the true superior, who was the true owner, and thus who was owed a double tithe. Jesus as the trespass offering was like what was just described. Jesus as the trespass offering was above and beyond the value of humanity He was above and beyond, therefore his offering acknowledged that the Triune God was the true owner of humanity. Jesus was a double tithe offering. And so Jesus, as the trespass offering, provides benefits above and beyond our value. We are saved from guilt of sin because Jesus was our trespass offering, and we are given the promise of heaven because Jesus double-tithhed. The earth is saved from the curse of man because Jesus was the trespass offering, and the whole heaven and earth is promised to be renewed because Jesus double-tithhed. We who believe are given the promise of the presence of God in our lives because Jesus was the trespass offering, and we are empowered from on high by the Holy Spirit To live lives of righteousness because Jesus double-tithhed. Beloved, I trust you are not hearing me say that you are to double-tithe. This is not a fundraising sermon. I am proclaiming that Jesus double tithed, and we are the benefactors. After covering much this morning, Let us take a step back. In summary, the trespass offering. First, it is an offering for specific sins known and unknown. Second, it required confession of the sins committed. Jesus as our mediator confessed our specific sins and still does. Well he requires us to confess our sins in his name. For in doing so we are confessing him as our trespass offering. Third, the trespass offering requires preparations There is a reparations. There is a value to every sin committed, and Jesus has met every value. Fourth and finally, the trespass offering required one-fifth the value of the reparations to be paid above and beyond what was owed, and Jesus paid that as well. So, how do we respond to such an offering? Well, we read from Romans 12 this morning, simply stated, St. Paul said. To give our lives as a sacrifice. And that is our reasonable service. Let us pray. God, we thank you for these revelations. Most of all, we thank you for Jesus as our trespass offering and all that that means. Deepen our understanding and thus deepen our faith, and may we never let it go. It's in Jesus' name we pray.