In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. That was a a new hymn to uh to us. Didn't quite know how to sing that one, but uh It it it it had two words to it anyway. Alright, we are in Revelation chapter twenty and uh we're starting at verse one and again I encourage you to follow along in your Bibles. It'd be quite helpful. During the Christmas season, our family used to put together a puzzle in the living room. We would place a card table in the living room and Whoever wished to join in gathered around and chose a section of the puzzle to put together. We would start each puzzle with a lot of family participation, but the number dwindled in about an hour It usually took a few days to a week before a puzzle was completed. On a few occasions it took longer because, well, some puzzles are just downright difficult. There are certain background scenes, such as those that are all white or all black or a mixture of colors that require numerous pieces, and each one looks like the other. In some cases, you have to make a stack of puzzle pieces that look alike and try one piece at a time until you have no more to try And yes, it usually ends up being the last one you try. There have been times, and I am sure it is because I am impatient. But there have been times when I thought for sure a puzzle piece fit when it did not After I placed it where I thought it should go, the rest of that particular part of the puzzle became all the more difficult. There are some pieces that you are confidently placing in the puzzle while ignoring the firmness, the extra firmness you need to get it in there. A forced puzzle piece is the best example I could come up with to describe what some writers As scholars have done with Revelation chapter 20, as they try to put together the puzzle of the end times. While this chapter, chapter 20, should fit well with the glorious message of John's vision, it has become the focus point of disagreement and division amongst Christians. A simple warning. The sermon this morning will consist more of teaching than preaching. The text and the controversies that relate to it necessitate such an approach. I hope you will bear with me. The title placed at the top of the chapter by Zombergan, not our Bible publisher, but the one who publishes the NIV, the New International Version, reads on the top, a thousand years. Such a title showcases what is controversial about this chapter, but I think it focuses on the wrong message of the chapter. While it is true that verses 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7 contain the phrase a thousand years, or the word millennium, And while it is true that this is the only place in Holy Scripture that that phrase is used The millennium or thousand-year reign of Christ is not the primary message of this vision. Before we get to that message, however, we must respectfully examine what others have focused on and see if there are any puzzle pieces that have been forced into position. In the educated circles, you will hear terms related to the end times, such as pre-millennialism, post-millennialism. Aw-millennialism and dispensational premillennialism. These are the labels given to the four primary interpretive perspectives of the end times. And, as you can see by the names given to each position, the identifying birthmarks are in relation to how they view the millennium. The thousand-year reign of Christ. The one that was most popular in the 20th and into the 21st century, being heard in most modern evangelical churches and In narrative form, and the very popular, once very popular Left Behind series, is dispensational premillennialism. Those who take such an approach to understanding the end times believe something similar to the following They believe all the promises the Lord made to Israel and the genetic line of King David in particular will be literally fulfilled. This means that the literal physical nation of Israel will receive back all the promised land that was originally promised to Abraham and his descendants. including the Temple Mount currently occupied by an Islamic mosque. Also A descendant of David will take the throne of Israel and re-establish a monarchy for that nation. After these events, the Israelites will receive a special revelation regarding Jesus as the Messiah, resulting in all that are of the Israelites' heritage being saved. In the meantime, or in another dispensation, hence where they get that name, the Christian Gentiles will be raptured from this earth at a secret return of Christ. That return will be followed by a great tribulation, where war and death will reign on earth. Wars will then cease at the announced second coming of Jesus. Which will be done in public and in dramatic fashion as he splits the eastern sky. He will next establish his throne on earth, and physically reign over all creation, along with those who had been raptured earlier, after his thousand-year reign, The final judgment will take place. Satan will be thrown into the lake of fire, and the believers of Jesus as Messiah will be given their heavenly reward. Those who believe such a scenario of the end times begin with Revelation chapter 20, verses 1 through 6. Understanding the reference to a thousand years. They also interpret the mention of a first resurrection literally and believe it to be referring to the rapture. With these verses, they include 1 Corinthians 15, verse 2, which describes Christians being changed in a twinkling of an eye. They also include 1 Thessalonians 4. 15, which describes Christians who are alive being caught up in the air to be with the Lord after the resurrection of those who are dead in Christ. They also include, and we will end with this one, they also include Jesus describing in Matthew 24 of two men being out in the field where one is taken and the other is left behind. With these pieces, those of this perspective put together a puzzle of the end times that is unlike any other Before it or after it. There are problems, however, with putting these pieces together. First, Israel forfeited the rights to God's promises when she went after other gods, as Deuteronomy 28, our Old Testament reading. Clearly warns against and the prophecies of Jeremiah and Isaiah. Second, the Apostle Paul teaches in the epistle to the Romans and Galatians. That those considered true Israelites are people who are of faith in Christ, just as Abraham was. This means that all who believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, whether Jew or Gentile, are considered a part of the true Israel. Third, the thousand-year reference can and needs to be interpreted symbolically rather than literally. Fourth, the first resurrection is referring to being made alive in Christ after being dead in sin, not to a first coming and then a second second coming of Christ. There is only one second coming. Fifth, the passages used to help understand Revelation 20 do not describe a rapture that occurs separately from the second coming of Christ. Thessalonians is merely describing to the church what will happen to the bodies of those who are already dead before the second coming of Jesus. And what will happen to those who are still alive at the second coming of Jesus. And in Matthew chapter 24, Jesus is actually describing judgment, not rapture. Those who will be taken from the field will be swept, Jesus says, swept up just like those in the flood in Noah's day. Where they go is to judgment, not the presence of the Lord. Although I have rejected the conclusions of such an approach to the end times My goal this morning is not to malign such an interpretation of this passage, but to explain why I disagree with what is predominantly taught in modern evangelical churches and to focus on what I believe is the true purpose of this point of the vision. To grasp the purpose, we must remember that we have just had described to us the final demise of both the false prophet and whom we previously called the harlot, and the beast, who we interpreted to represent all who persecute Christians. As both of them, it says in chapter 19, were thrown into the lake of fire. As John's vision has already revealed, the final judgment of those two, the harlot and the beast. Does mean that the presence of evil does mean that the present of evil is no longer upon the earth. Does not mean, excuse me, saying that wrong. Does not mean The devil has presented his nature as Trinitarian in order to mock the Godhead For he wants to be like God by making the beast like the Son, the harlot like the Holy Spirit, and the devil like the Father Christians have been encouraged by John's vision so far because they learn of the certain demise of the harlot and then the beast. There is still one judgment left, however. And the vision in chapter 20 provides us the scene of the devil's final days. That is the purpose of the vision. That is the message of this passage. The devil's end is ordained by God and it is seen by John. The first part of the vision describes an angel coming down that has the keys to the abyss. The abyss is not the lake of fire. It is the place of darkness and is also known as the bottomless pit where the devil and his angels direct their operations. The authority of this heavenly angel to be able to bind the devil, and the very act of binding him should remind us of Matthew chapter 12. Where Jesus explains the binding of the strongman. He said if a house is going to be plundered, the strongman, that is the man who is to protect the house, must be bound. Jesus was explaining that if he is able to plunder the devil's house by casting out demons, he must first bind the strongman, which he had done. In the gospel according to St. John, Jesus said, Now shall the prince of this world be cast out, and later the prince of this world has been judged. These were all statements in the present tense and applied to the time Jesus walked the earth. By resisting the devil in the desert and causing him to flee, Jesus achieved victory over the devil. Because of his sinlessness and authority received from the Godhead, the devil was bound by the will of Christ. After Jesus' death, resurrection, and ascension, his power then was over the devil both in life and in death. And that power is given to those who follow him. That is why the scriptures say, Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. That is why Jesus said, Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound, whatever you loose shall be loosed. That is why when we resist the devil, he will flee from us In summary, I am saying that the binding vision John sees is something that has already been done. It began when our Savior walked obediently on earth and after his resurrection, and it applies to those who follow him today. What is meant by the thousand years or millennium fits well in this interpretation When the phrase, the phrase is understood to symbolize a quality of time, not a quantity of time. We have already understood the number 10 as it is used in the revelation to symbolize completeness. The number 1000 is 10 to the third power. It is a Trinitarian ten. It means that Satan, the devil, the dragon, that old serpent, is bound for a time that is complete or perfect in terms of God's redemptive plan. You will also notice that the binding of the devil is not absolute. The devil is bound so that he cannot deceive the nations. Thus he is still prowling like a roaring lion. He is still a great deceiver. Yet he cannot carry out his great plan of deception entirely. For he is brought under the mighty reign of God and therefore cannot thwart the coming of the kingdom of God. While it is true that Satan is bound and is controlled by the will of God, it is also true that he will be loosed for a little season. The meaning is likely that he is allowed to work his will during that period. That period will be used to gather up the nations just as described in chapter 19. And just as chapter 19 describes, the battle is over the same time it begins. You remember it, fire comes down from heaven, and the war is over. And there is no casualties to count on God's side. After the battle, the devil himself will be thrown into the lake of fire, along with the harlot and the beast. Their end will be torment, and their torment will never end. For Christians who are being persecuted for their faith, And for Christian families who have lost loved ones because of their faith in Christ, the message is that those these things, excuse me. Though these things have to happen, it all comes under the sovereign will of God and is part of his redemptive work. The harlot will have her day, but she will be thrown in the lake of fire. The beast will have his day, but he too will be thrown in the lake of fire The devil will make his last stand, but his end will be the same. He will be thrown into the lake of fire. In the meantime, in the meantime, those who are alive in Christ have authority over the devil, for he cannot steal the soul of a man. If we resist him in the name of Christ, he has to flee. In the meantime, those who have died in the faith are given a place of honor and responsibility. Those of us who are still alive on this earth can be assured that the loved ones who have died in Christ are presently secure with Christ. And in the end, we must know that the day of judgment will come for all the enemies of God I use the following analogy because I think preachers of the gospel can never refer too much to C. S. Lewis. In the book The Silver Chair, which is part of the Narnia series, a little girl Named Jill comes face to face with the great lion named Aslan, who is a type of Christ in the stories. Jill was terribly thirsty, and needed a drink from the stream, but Aswan was in her way She asked him if he would promise not to do anything to her. He responded by saying that he makes no such promise. She then asked if he eats girls. He responds, I have swallowed up girls and boys, women and men, kings and emperors, cities and realms. Next, Lewis comments, the lion didn't say this as if it were boasting, nor as if it were sorry, nor as if it were angry, it just said it. And that is our God. To know what type of God He is shakes our knees and blesses our souls. Those who want a clear blueprint for the end times come away from Revelation with a belief that they have found what they are looking for, a piece of the of the puzzle that must fit. And yet, nowhere does the scripture promise such a blueprint or puzzle piece. For those who are in the battle, Who walk faithfully before God, who live every day as if it is the last day, a blueprint is not needed, nor is a puzzle piece. In the last installment of the Narnia series titled The Last Battle, there is a time of great sorrow when the small band of faithful Narnians. Realize that Narnia is no more. Quote I'm sorry. In response to that realizing that the unicorn Animals speak in Narnia. The unicorn says, nothing now remains for us but to go back to Stable Hill, proclaim the truth, and take the adventure that Aswan sends us. We would do well. We would do well to imitate such an attitude toward the end times We do not know what remains for us except to take the adventure God sends us. Knowing that the devil will be undone And the lake of fire is his destination, giving us the only puzzle piece we need. Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious and faithful God, we thank you for the hope of the devil's demise. We thank you that evil will be done away with. And we have that promise that we can cling to each and every day of our lives. Help us to look forward to that day every day, knowing that you are sovereign over all. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.