In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Recall with me The conversation Jesus had with the two men on the road to Emmaus after his death and resurrection. Remember that the two men did not know that they were talking to Jesus. From the Gospel according to St. Luke, the text reads And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus, explained to them what was said in all of the scriptures concerning himself. Of course, we are not told exactly what the passage of Scripture Jesus referred to, but those words of summary by Luke Should be devastating to any argument that would say that the Old Testament is irrelevant to Christians or even less important to Christians than the New Testament reveals. Consider, please, that when it reads in Luke the phrase all the scriptures, that there was no other scriptures at that time but the Old Testament. Thus, Jesus himself used the Old Testament to describe himself, which for me begs the question. What scriptures are best to describe the person of Jesus? And there is this question. If you were going to explain who Jesus was and is by only using the Old Testament, which ones, which verses would you choose? Now, before you attempt to answer that question, think in general how difficult it is to describe Jesus using any recourse you wish. When you say one thing about him, you also have to say something else, almost the opposite, because you don't want to convey that he is limited by any one description For example, we could say that Jesus is loving, which he is, but we should also be saying that he is a judge of righteousness. Which he is. And we should also say that he touches, converses, and socializes with the unholy Which he does. But we could say also that he is holiness itself, which he is Jesus was caring to those who wanted to be healed, and he was withdrawn from those of his own hometown who would not see him as the Messiah. Jesus spoke gently to the woman caught in adultery and harshly to the Greek woman who wanted her daughter released from demon possession. Jesus came to save his own people, but found greater joy in seeing the faith of the Gentiles. Generally stated, Jesus, knowing him and explaining him is like nailing jello to a wall. Jesus is difficult to describe. He is more than complex. He is eternally mysterious. His depth of character is, on the one hand, unsearchable And yet, on the other hand, he is very much searchable. He is, after all, eternal. He is Almighty God. He is the creator and sustainer of all creation. And yet we, in contrast, are finite. We are merely part of the creation. We are his created beings. What we can know and verify about Jesus in this life is only found in Holy Scripture. And it is even found in the Old Testament, the same passages Jesus used to teach the men on the road to Emmaus. When we look into the Old Testament, we discover that there are several layers to the stories that are told and the commands that are given. Looking at the stories and commands initially is like looking at the scenery provided by a green pasture that we look at from afar off. As a whole, we can take it in and we can enjoy its vastness and its greenery, but when we come closer and explore the pasture, we see the dips in the ground, the crevices, the burrows, the patches of grass, here and there, the rocks, both jagged and smooth, the trees and the bushes of several different species. Thus, we can realize that there is more to the pasture than we initially saw, than we initially understood. I thought about this from our plane ride home last week. I was blessed to have a window seat, and we flew over in clear skies the Cascade Mountains. And then the dry plains of eastern Washington and then Idaho and then flying over the Rocky Mountains What I was viewing was awe-inspiring, but only a general view from above without experiencing the many details that make up those mountain ranges and those vast plains and by the way the state of Wyoming is really ugly just for the record The point being that all of the details of that scenery make up the scenic beauty that is seen from afar off, but the details of that beauty matter. The details are what makes up the scenic pasture, the grand mountains, the vast plains. The details make it beautiful, even though you cannot see them. In the same manner, for Holy Scripture and for Jesus Himself, the details make up the beauty that is seen. Now many of you were trained as children to know the stories of the Bible, and that is our focus today in our parish school and in our Sunday school, our focus is that our children know the stories of the Bible. They should know who Abraham was, who Isaac was, who Jacob was, in chronological order. They should know the placing of Rehoboam and God's calling of the kings. They should know the era of the prophets and the messages of Micah and Isaiah. They should know the difference between Elijah and Elisha. They should know why Jeremiah preached the way he did, and why Ehud stabbed King Egon. It is important that both adults and children be biblically literate so that when we talk amongst ourselves and reference Biblical stories, we know what we are talking about so that we can build up one another. I am romantic about the story. of the British forces being trapped on the beaches of Dunkirk during World War II. As British officer as a British officer realized the possible devastation that could have occurred if the Germans attacked while they were gathered in masses, with little to shield them as they radioed London for rescue. When it was not clear how these 338,000 British and French troops were to were going to get off that island. A British officer at Dunkirk messaged back to the authorities in Britain three simple words. He radio to them, but if not. During that era in British history and culture, the message was immediately recognized as a reference to the book of Daniel. Lord Nebuchadnezzar was going to punish those three Hebrews, Shabbrach, Meshach, and Abednego, by throwing them into the furnace because they would not worship that golden image. They defied the king's command and professed that God would save them, and then they added, but if not Meaning that if God doesn't choose to save them from the fire, they still would not bow down and worship the image. The biblically literate officer. And Great Britain at large were encouraged and strengthened because they knew God's word and how it was to be applied in that historical moment. Oh, how we wish the same could be said today about our culture. But alas And just as it is beneficial to know the stories of the Bible, it is also beneficial to know the particulars of the stories or the details of the stories. It might be asked if it matters exactly what offering Cain gave to the Lord in worship. Does it matter that Esau was hairy? Does the number three have any significance when Peter denied Jesus? The answer to each of those questions is a loud yes. The details matter. But let us be honest with one another. Sometimes the Bible bogs us down with their details. If you have ever read through the entire Bible, you no doubt, and I'm going to confess to you, I'm there. I'm guilty. You no doubt have been tempted to skim over the names that are listed in the book of Numbers. Come on. We've all done it. You have likely concluded that it's not necessary to remember or even know who begat whom. But it does matter. The names matter. Each name listed confirms a lineage back to Abraham, which is aligned back to God's promises, and each of them confirms an inheritance which is directly linked to the promises of God. Each name also leads to and communicates, yes, communicates, Jesus. Summarily stated, Christ Jesus is the key to understanding all of Scripture. Consider how important Jesus is to understanding the story of Abraham offering Isaac as a sacrifice. Modern atheists use such a story to portray the God of the Old Testament as barbaric. And we can easily admit that expecting a man to sacrifice his own son is barbaric Until we know that God sacrificed his own son. It is from that sacrifice that we have an understanding of the faith and devotion God expected from Abraham. Without the revelation of Jesus, the Old Testament would be no more than moral tales, a sort of Hebrew version of Aesop's fables. Unfortunately, it is presented to many as being just that, a book of moral stories and no more. I cringe with clenched teeth, and I assume so do you, when you hear preachers tell the stories of Holy Scripture as if they are moral lessons and no more. Moral lessons such as Jacob teaches us that we shouldn't be deceived. King David teaches us that we should not lust. Gideon teaches us that we when we come to making a decision, well, we should pray about it. Even the New Testament stories are glossed over. From the woman at the well, we learn that we should not change the subject. From the woman caught in adultery, we learn to not judge. From Jesus, while hanging on the cross and telling John that Mary was now his mother, we learned there to care for widows. I trust you can hear my sarcasm. And I say, come on. Come on. You cannot be serious. Surely these preachers don't think that a moral lesson is all that we can get out of these biblical stories. We should hear, shouting from our memory banks, the words of Jesus, that the law and the prophets speak of him. We should be adhering to the admonishment of the preacher from the book of Hebrews, where he states, therefore, let us leave the elementary teachings about Christ and go on to maturity. Let us go on to maturity. Beloved, there is so much more of Jesus to see in Holy Scripture that is already available to us We're willing to dig into the gold mine to find those precious nuggets What I have been alluding to is the beneficial use of typology to study Scripture. The most obvious example of typology is found in the book of Genesis in the person of Joseph, the favorite son of Jacob. Joseph was envied by his brothers. Jesus was envied by his Jewish brethren. Joseph was cast down into the pit, left for dead. Jesus suffered, was dead, and buried. Joseph was raised from the pit and was seated at the right hand of Pharaoh. Jesus was raised from the pit of death and seated at the right hand of the Heavenly Father. Typology is exemplified in the New Testament by Saint Paul in his epistle to the Galatians, and we read that as our epistle lesson. In Galatians chapter 4, Paul uses the person of Sarah and Hagar as types of grace and law, respectively. You will remember that Sarah was Abraham's wife, and because she could not conceive a child, she initially gave her servant Hagar to Abraham so that a son could be born into their household. Because Hagar and her son Ishmael were born outside of the covenant promise, St. Paul describes them as types of the law that are bound by slavery. Sarah, her son to be born, and her son to be born Isaac were part of the covenant promise, and therefore a type of grace, receiving all the benefits that grace offers St. Paul's lesson taught that Christians who are born into grace are not subject to the law and therefore are not bound by the law. We also hear typology teaching from the preacher in the epistle to the Hebrews. In his example or explanation of Jesus being a great high priest. Greater than those who served in the tabernacle. He says this for if he, Jesus, were on earth, he would not be a priest, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law, who serve the copy. That's a word for typology. Copy and shadow of the heavenly things. The words copy and shadow are typological words. Later in the same epistle, it's described the earthly high priest's entrance into the holy as symbolic for the present time. Being a symbol is being a type. Although used in Holy Scripture, you should know that interpreting the Bible by way of typology is not popular among certain scholars. The main reason for this lack of popularity is the work of an early Christian scholar named Origen. Origen was a church leader from Alexandria, which is at the tip of North Africa. His approach to the Bible was more apologetic. He was trying to explain to non-believers why they should trust the Bible. Origen was concerned that the stories and the laws of the Old Testament were so gruesome and violent that it makes God to look to be an unjust savage. Because of this, he thought it best to explain such stories and laws as allegories. Allegory is a close relative to typology. Allegorical interpretation applied to a text such as Genesis 3, which describes Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden and God walking in their midst. He describes it as a made-up story to explain in a dumbed-down fashion how man is responsible for sin entering the world. In other words, it's not seen as a historical account. Origen rebuffed the literalists who believed, who he believed were distorting God's image. And as you are aware, liberals have followed Origen's example by questioning every story told in the Holy Scriptures, doubting everything from miracles, even the resurrection of Jesus. Because of this alliance of origin and liberals, conservatives have rejected Origen's approach, seeing no good outcome. What responsible typology does in comparison to Origen's allegorical interpretation is acknowledge the stories of the Bible to be historically accurate. As well as being an initial layer that can be peeled back, exposing deeper and deeper meaning My chosen example this morning to reveal how this works is from the book of Exodus. The main message of the book is the exodus of Israel from Egypt It is the exiting of Israel from Egypt where they were bound as slaves. And such exiting is a type of salvation. Each of us who have been saved by the truth of the gospel has left our state of bondage to sin and been given freedom and new life. Also, within the book of Exodus, there are various stories within the main story. There were ten plagues that were that we are to understand to be symbolic of God's sovereignty over the ten false gods of Egypt. There was the crossing through the waters of the Red Sea, which we are told later by Peter is representative or a type of our baptism. There were giants inhabiting the promised land. There were types of the fears that man has. There were enemies that need to be driven out from the promised land. And those enemies were types or shadows of our besetting sins that need to be driven out of our lives. There was the promised land itself, which is described as plentiful, providing all of Israel's needs, making it a type of our heavenly hope, where no man will be in want of anything, especially of peace and joy. Then there are smaller, seemingly less important stories, and yet they reveal the will of God. In Exodus, the incident at Mara is an example. Just after passing through the Red Sea, the people of Israel came to a water supply at Marah, but the water was bitter. The Israelites would be poisoned if they drank it. After Moses prayed, the Lord told him to place a certain tree in the water. Moses obeyed, and soon afterward the water was no longer bitter. In the New Testament, we read that we are to understand Jesus as the tree of life. We learn from the Psalms that water is symbolic of the Gentile nations. Putting the two together, we see that the tree Moses used to make the water sweet was a typology of Jesus who would convert the Gentile nations, making them sweet. In another instance, when the people complained to Moses about the lack of water, Moses sought the Lord. And the Lord told Moses to strike the rock, and after striking the rock, the water flowed. It should be obvious to our ears that because Jesus is referring to himself as the rock and a source of living water. That the rock struck was a type of Jesus who was struck so that we might receive water that will cause us to never thirst again. I hope you notice that none of these typologies identified, take away the historicity of the stories. There really was a Moses. There really was a Pharaoh who forgot Joseph and enslaved Israel. There really was an exiting from Egypt. In fact, I love this story. Archaeological finds include the Arama letters, which were written to an Egyptian pharaoh asking for help. As Palestinians were being overrun by what are called, what were called the Habiri people, H A B I R I. The Habiri are understood to be a name given to what we know as the Hebrew people. The date of those letters match the same time as Joseph's conquest in the Promised Land. My hope is that these examples of typology have piqued your interest and increased your appetite for more. Over the next few weeks, we will be examining how the offerings found in the book of Leviticus were types and shadows of the offering of Jesus on the cross The thinking is that the more we see Jesus in those offerings, the greater love and devotion we will have for him. And that will always be a good thing. Let us pray. Father, we would see Jesus. We want to see Jesus. And so as we go through this series of examining the offerings in Leviticus, help us to see Jesus. To know that all the time, since the time you promised that seed would crush the serpent's head, that you have been pointing to Jesus, may he be seen by us, and may our devotion to him increase. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.