In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We continue our series in the book of First Corinthians, so I encourage you to turn there. As an introduction, share with you how several years ago it dawned on me When my children were young, oldest in their early teens and the rest younger, that if they were to coordinate themselves They would have gotten away with a great deal of disobedience and mischief. If they had looked out for one another when it came to mom and dad finding out about their bad behavior If they had coordinated their stories so as to make plans so that mom and dad would not be aware, if they would have worked as a team to get what they wanted They could have easily outmaneuvered Bobby Lynn and I. But alas, they usually turned on one another There was always a tattletale in the bunch who wanted a sibling to get into trouble more than he or she wanted to get away with something. And the desire for a sibling to get into trouble was usually out of spite for a past wrong done to them, or simple jealousy not wanting to see a sibling get praise over them. I know this because I grew up in a household that had siblings close together in age. I know this because I too am a sinner. And when sinners live together and are immature in their character, spite and jealousy are commonplace. When spite and jealousy are present between family members, the result is a sin that God the Father has told us he particularly hates. In the book of Proverbs, you remember in chapter 6, we are told that there are six things the Lord hates, seven things that are detestable to him. Being his servants, followers, and being called his children, it seems wise that once we know what these seven things are, we should try to avoid them at all costs. Of course, each should be avoided with the same determination, but the seventh one is going to be our focus this morning. To understand the syntax better, we may condense the passage to say, the Lord detests a man who stirs up dissension among brothers. The words stir up are used in a metaphorical sense, in that the dissension is used as a pot or a meal. That is agreeable when at rest, but when it is stirred, it changes its relation. It's no longer edible. This proverb recognizes the possibility of dissension, even between God's people, that it is always a possibility. If the causes of dissension are left alone, we continue to be united. When another comes along and stirs us up The result is fight, jealousy, and anger. The reasons for someone stirring up dissension within God's family are numerous and varied according to personalities and problems with which an individual is dealing What occurs most often by my observation is that persons do not usually realize they are stirring up dissension. Yet that is exactly what they are doing. What are we doing, if not stirring up dissension, when we speak unkindly of a brother or sister in Christ? What are we doing, if not stirring up dissension, when we pass on an unfavorable story about a brother or sister in Christ? What are we doing if not stirring up dissension when we criticize the ministry of a person or that of a church? What are we doing, if not stirring up dissension, when we declare our spirituality to be superior to another? Our ability, it seems, to stir up dissension knows no bounds. This is why the apostle has spoken so very directly to the Corinthians about unity. We concluded from the first chapter that unity, our unity, is not to be based on our likes or dislikes Our personalities and backgrounds, or our preferences, even preferences in music, our unity is based on our confession. What we confess of Christ and the residing Spirit of God that lives within each of us, those are what unite us. In the passage read this morning, the apostle attacks a specific cause of Christian disunity. And he does so once again in a direct manner. But before I get to that, I need to smash an idol here and now. We must smash an idol of unity at all costs. Such is the priority of liberal churches that worship the idol of unity so devoutly that they will not call people the people of God to holy living. They worship unity over the moral purity of the people, leaving people comfortable in their sin. That idol is not of God and is to become fragments and discarded, which is to say smashed. Amen? In 1 Corinthians 3, St. Paul has gone from a deep description regarding both our dependency and freedom in the Spirit, that's chapter 2. to essentially chastising the Christians worshiping at this Corinthian church. I would even characterize the tone of this passage to be a lecture It is a lecture from a father figure to his children in Christ as he corrects them and directs them away from their immature behavior. No one knows how well the Corinthian Christians accepted these words from the apostle. But I think it is fair to speculate when considering our own personalities that some did not take too kindly to being referred to as babies who still need milk. When the apostle first ministered to them, of course he gave them milk, for they were naturally immature in their faith. The disappointment is caused by the discovery that the church has not matured and that they still need milk rather than meat. And the analogy of an infant growing to an adult can be offensive, but it can also be very effective It provides many truths with one picture. And the most obvious truth includes the need for milk at one stage and the need for solid foods at another stage. Each type of food furthers the maturation. Another truth, this is a good one, another truth is that we are always maturing. Life in the body of Christ does not consist of stunted growth. There is always more to learn, more to be challenged by, more to believe. As E. M. Bounds has stated, quote, all of life is but a preparation for what is to come after. The primer of faith is never closed for the child of God. Its lessons never end. No matter what circumstances may abode, we remain under the bar of instruction forever. Every incident builds upon the last and anticipates the next. Oh, how much more we need to live being aware of such a truth. We're always learning. The Christians at Corinth had to understand that truth, truth that they are always growing. is necessary to build upon the lessons of the past. They are a divided people here and and these divided people are identified by the fact that they still drink milk as a main course. And the evidence of their infantile stage is the jealousy and the quarreling among them. But feelings of jealousy and quarreling are not exclusive to the Christians at Corinth. I dare say that there is not a body of Christ. that comes together, that does not have the temptation to be jealous or quarrel amongst themselves. We can succumb to jealousy due to another's financial state compared to ours We can be jealous of another's education, their spouse, their children, their background, their heritage, their looks. Jealousy, of course, leads to quarrels, and this is what James said in his epistle. James asks, what causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle within you? You want something, but don't get it. You kill and covet, but you cannot have what you want. Seems here from James that the only motivation for quarrels is selfish, is self. One of the main causes of their quarreling and jealousy in Corinth is the spiritual pride certain parties have over others because of whose ministry they were converted under and whom they claim to still be following. Some said that they followed the ministry of Paul, some say Apollos, others say Peter. I can testify to you today that such speech has occurred in every circle of faith that I have been a part of. Growing up Roman Catholic gave me a sense of pride by the fact that I was baptized into the only true church. That's what they told me. That is what the Roman Catholics believe, that they are the only true church. I was taught that all Protestant churches were illegitimate wannabes. They were insufficient and lacked the keys of the kingdom that were only given to Peter and all those who followed after him in his papal office. I am of the true church, I could say. Yet after I had been born again, having a born-again experience, I was led to a non-denominational charismatic church And that group taught me to understand the difference between a common Christian and a spirit-filled Christian. The spirit-filled Christian was one who had been baptized in the Holy Spirit, evidence for speaking in tongues. It became part of our discussion with other Christians to question them, well, are you spirit-filled? If they were not, we would consider them to be inferior in the faith. The third group I joined was the Church of the Nazarene, which is part of the holiness tradition. That tradition believes that the entire sanctification of a person, entire sanctification, is possible in this life. And identifies Christians as either entirely sanctified or not entirely sanctified. And now I have entered a fourth group, which is of the Reformed Episcopal Church, and the Reformed Episcopal Church is a partner of Anglicanism. Anglicans are marked by their adherence to the liturgy found in the Book of Common Prayer. And Anglicans cannot only see their worship as superior to other churches. They can be uppity toward one another depending on what version of the Book of Common Prayer is followed. We, in case you didn't know, follow the 1662 version. So neener, neener, neener to those who don't All kidding aside, there are other respectable versions of the Book of Common Prayer, but but I want you to know my opinion about the 1979 version. That has been adopted by the Episcopal Church and is used today. And it is one of the worst versions ever printed. And the Church of England never recognized it as legitimate, and it should be avoided. The apostle's lecture continues as describing persons who are divided. He calls them, hear this, mere men. As mere men, they are no different than men of the world. Men of the world divide over personality and preferences. Men of the world allow jealousy to justify their intolerance. Men of the world choose another to follow in order to be different than the rest and raise their level of self-worth. Mere men do not recognize that the men they are following, the sides they are choosing, also consist of mere men. What is a minister, after all, but a man? And in accordance with the pecking order of society, a minister is lower, for he is to be a servant. Two men. See verse five. As a servant, a minister merely does what he is assigned to do, and by all accounts of Holy Scripture, it is not an enjoyable job. Even though we only work on Sunday. Look at the life of Moses. His own countrymen exiled him. When he returned, he was thought to be a zealot He was called of God to appear before mighty Pharaoh with a stick in hand and a message from God saying, Pharaoh, you are to obey me. Look at Aaron, a weak man, if there ever was one in Scripture, who had the people telling him what to do on one side and the voice of God on another. He was the one assigned to go into the Holy of Holies to offer an annual sacrifice to God. If he or the sacrifice were not found worthy, it would cost him his life on the spot. How many of you would want such a job? Then there is the likes of Samuel who had to speak the truth to an obstinate people. And Elijah, who had to confront an insane king and his wife, who was also insane, rebuking them for their sin. Then there are the likes of Jeremiah who was a single voice against numerous prophets. Those prophets told the king and the people Everything was perfectly fine. God was loving us. We're doing everything right. At the same time, Jeremiah had the true word of God burning in his heart. Burning in his heart so hot, it was necessary for him to either speak it or be consumed by it. When he spoke it, he was ridiculed, rejected, and even exiled, because it was not the message the people wanted. He told them God was not pleased. There was sin and it needed to be repented of, or they would be destroyed as a nation. The end result was Jeremiah being taken away and exiled to Egypt as a false prophet, and the false prophets being heeded. Men who speak the truth as God has revealed it do not revel in their calling. Such a calling has never been easy and it never will be. A minister, a true minister, does not speak on his own or come up with his own doctrine, but he gets it from God, from his holy word. To choose the side of one minister over another is to focus upon the man, not the message. And ministers also do not have the same responsibilities. And the Corinthians should have known this. Paul came introducing the gospel to the people at Corinth. Apollo followed by providing clarification and teaching as to what Paul introduced. If there were any results in what was if there were any results in both of their work, it was not due to what the person planted or what the person watered. It was due to God. Many of us, many of us will speak highly of ministers who have influenced our lives, and that is perfectly understandable. But we should be thankful to God for them and the reality that God used them, but in reality how effectual they were in our lives was actually God. Many have attributed godliness to the Reverend Billy Graham for his ministry. It is certainly necessary that we give God thanks for such a faithful servant. But as the Nixon tapes revealed, Graham was not a perfect man. The fruit of his ministry was not due to the greatness of Billy Graham, but the grace of God. God gave the increase. While the divided are drinking their milk as an entree and acting like mere men Paul says the united see God. The united are well aware that ministers are only men, and that God gives the increase. The United see that whatever has grown, whatever is fruitful, whatever remains, is because of God. Now I personally have never built anything lasting in my life, although as I s as I wrote that down, I remember as one time I tried to build a doghouse And I did such a terrible job on that doghouse using old lumber that when we went to move, I we couldn't move it out of its place, and the dog never slept in it. So I don't really think that's building anything. But I have hung sheet rocks, I have laid tresses, I have pounded shingles, but I did not build anything. I was just a laborer. And so I am today. So is any man who ministers the gospel. We are just laborers To see a man and to choose to follow or not follow him based on whether we like him or dislike him is to be blinded to God. I could be a definitive imbecile, hardly able to put two sentences together, and if God wanted to use me to bring people to Christ, then they are going to be brought to Christ. Unfortunately, if such a scenario existed, we would still have some people saying, I am a Paul, I am of Apollos, and I am of imbecile. This, of course, is the talk of mere men. The undivided, the united, say, I am of God. The primary doctrine of the Christian faith, as you know, is the doctrine of the Trinity. God in three persons, yet one God. There is difference and there is unity. We confess that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are separate persons and one substance. That unity we highlight this morning, for it was Jesus, as was read today, in the high priestly prayer, as recorded in John 17. It is there that Jesus prayed that his followers would be one, united, as he and the Father are united. The depth of that prayer cannot be overstated. We are to be united with the same unity, the same oneness of the Trinity. That is a high calling indeed. And until it happens, we continue to fall short of God's perfect will. It is on that convicting note that I wish to end this morning. Until Christ's prayer is answered, we continue to we need to continue to confess that we are in sin. For what is sin is falling short of God's perfect will. And what is God's perfect will, but that his people be not divided but united as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are united. And so may the Trinity be our example. May we settle for nothing less. When a brother speaks divisively, let us point him to the unity of the Trinity. When a sister acts divisively, let us point her to the unity of the Trinity. We are not followers of mere men, and we are not to be mere men. We are followers of the Trinity. And we are to be one. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the fervent message of the apostle now bringing twice in these first three chapters the issue the subject of the unity necessary of your people Father, may we heed it, may we be humbled by it, and may it be the goal of each one of us here. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.