In the name of the Father, and of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are continuing our summer series on the foundation stones as listed in the book of Hebrews, chapter six. I start with the following as a repeat analogy, identifying points of division amongst the followers of Jesus as described in the New Testament. There were two groups that had much in common. Most importantly, they were eyewitnesses to a miracle of Jesus healing a blind man. In John chapter 9, we are told the story of a man who was blind from birth, being brought to Jesus. The disciples were curious as to why the man was blind, thinking that such a curse was caused by either his sins or the sins of his parents. Jesus exclaimed, explained, excuse me, that neither was the cause, but only that Jesus might be revealed as the light of the world. Jesus then spit on the ground, made some mud from the ground, and his saliva, with his saliva, and placed the mud on the blind man's eyes. He then instructed the blind man to wash his face in the sacred pool of Siloam. The result was that the man was healed of blindness. Next, in Mark chapter 8, Jesus comes to the town of Bethshaizda, where some people brought a blind man to him, asking for him to be healed. Jesus took the man out of the village, spit on the man's eyes directly, and then put his hands on him At first, the man could see only outlines of the world until Jesus put his hands on him again, and the result was that his sight was fully restored. When the two stories of these blind men being healed were told separately, those who told the story of the first man Insisted that if a blind man is to be healed, he must have mud placed on his eyes. In contrast, those who told the story of the second man being healed insisted that hands must be laid upon a man who is blind in order to be healed. When the two groups heard the story of the other, they dug in, insisting that what must be done for a blind man to be healed is mud. No. Hands laid upon. Soon the side that insisted on mud being applied for a man to be healed of blindness, well they became known as the Mudites And the group that insisted only on the laying on of hands, they became known as the anti-Muddites. Such is the story of the first two Christian denominations. You don't believe that story, I trust. But all too soon the glory that was to be given to God for a miracle of healing the blind was ignored, and each focusing on mud or anti-mud I know that such a story is unfortunately easily believed among Christians because we have an embarrassing history of dividing from each other over ignorant and ridiculous reasons. But the story of the Mudites and the Anti-Muddites, even though it is not true, highlights the absurdity of Christian division among us. Now speaking about Christian division is most appropriate as we come to this third foundation stone as found in Hebrews 6, verse 2. For there we find the foundation stone of the doctrine of baptisms. Not surprisingly, there is a controversy, not only about the rite of baptisms, but about the passage itself. For scholars believe that the word doctrine is the focus of the verse and not the word baptisms. Well to cut short that discussion, you need only to know that I side with the traditional interpretation, which is to focus on the foundation stone of baptisms. And the first baptism we are looking at is by water. The second baptism of the baptism's plural is the baptism of the Holy Ghost. Consider and lament regarding the great irony that baptism and baptisms Are supposed to be the truths that unite the people of God, and yet they are what Christians use to separate from one another And overarching the separations Christians make with each other is the priestly prayer that Jesus prayed, that his followers would be united with each other as Jesus was united with the Father. The manner that Christians divide with one another is in direct defiance of that prayer. Let us not sugarcoat that truth. Christian baptisms. Allow us to see that every Christian is united in Jesus Christ. Because there is only one God to whom we are baptized, and we are baptized into only one family. And as his family, we are co-inheritors to his kingdom. All who have fulfilled the requirement to repent and be baptized are co-inheritors of God. Regardless of whether we like each other or whether we fully agree with one another. Let's get a brief history of baptism. The brief history of baptism in the Old Testament is that there were requirements from the law for ceremonial washings in order for a person to be clean, cleansed, and considered ceremonially clean The priests were required to go through a full washing before they could minister before the Lord as a priest. And this was done by the pouring of water, such as was done over Aaron and his sons. Others, that is the Levites, were sprinkled. It was commanded that all the Levites be sprinkled if they were to serve in the holy place or not. Other required washings were for men who had semenal emissions, women who had blood emissions Also, any person who came in physical contact with a dead animal or a human body were required to go through a ceremony of cleansing. And during the intertestament times, the Jewish people added to the ceremonial washings required of the Old Testament. Using bathing rites to symbolize all moments in which they were setting themselves aside for God. And our trip to Israel, we saw the unearthing of Israelite homes from the first century. And there they had bathing structures as part of the interior of their home. Not to take a bath as you and I would, but for the ritual of being cleansed before God. They were called mikbols. And thus, when John the Baptist and Jesus came along preaching repentance and using the symbol of baptism Well, that symbol was very familiar to the Jewish people in that era. And the accounts of specific baptisms described in the New Testament do not allow, and this is important Do not allow for any Christian group to insist that the mode of baptism be done in one particular manner. And that statement is important for Christian unity. When Jesus is baptized in the Jordan River, It was assumed by our Baptist friends that he must have been fully immersed. Nowhere in the Bible Does it say that Jesus was fully immersed? But the Baptist type churches and their teachers conclude that he was because of the word baptism in the Greek. Using it to refer to the dying of a cloth to change its color. And since the dyeing of a cloth needed to be immersed in order for it to be effective, they take that word and assume that all baptisms must be fully immersed. In fact, some Baptist groups are so adamant about this need that if a person is dumped in the water and one body part flies out, well that has to be done all over again. just in case one body part might be left out at the resurrection. And such groups also insist That anyone who has to be immersed and who has not been immersed is not truly baptized and thus not a Christian, and thus hellbound. And it does not matter to them that to believe such is to say that children born into Christian homes are hellbound until they are baptized. And then these groups are inconsistent when they teach their children to pray before they're baptized For such an inconsistency in their theology would actually say that that child's a sinner and shouldn't pray the Lord's Prayer or any other prayer until they are baptized The account of the jailer and his family being baptized as recorded in the book of Acts. Allows us to conclude that immersion is not necessary for a person to be baptized. Remember the story in Acts chapter 16. Paul and Silas are rotting in jail. Guilty of the crime of preaching the gospel of Jesus. And they sang and prayed to the glory of God. And when they sang and prayed, their chains fell off. They were loosened and the doors of the jail came open. And the jailer who was responsible for the prisoners saw what happened and concluded that he would be tried and hung for allowing these prisoners to escape. But instead he walks in, and there are Paul and Silas still sitting in their cell. And when Paul and Silas shared the good news of Jesus to this jailer, offering forgiveness of sins and eternal life, The jailer believed, Luke says. And then Luke writes this. The jailer took them, that is Paul and Silas, and washed their wounds. And without delay, he and all his household were baptized. Baptized in the jail cell Where's the Jordan River in that story? Where's the possibility of being immersed in that story? There was only water basins used for washing and drinking. And yet the whole household of the jailer was baptized. And such a scenario fits well with how priests were baptized or ceremonially washed before entering the temple. They were not immersed, but poured upon, sprinkled upon, as the law required. And so we, as part of the royal priesthood, are to be received. as being baptized whether water is poured upon us, sprinkled upon us, or covering us. And such a perspective is charity. Charity from one Christian to another. It is the same charity that Jesus affords us every day. But enough about the mode of baptism. The devil loves for Christians to debate about the mode of baptism: sprinkling, pouring, covering. And so we talk positively about baptism, what it is for every Christian. Notice from our reading in Colossians chapter 2. Baptism is the mark of the covenant that God places upon each of his people, proclaiming them to be his own. And we know that God commanded circumcision of all males born in the covenant of Abraham And it was commanded of the males because they were to be the covenant heads of their families. And the women who came under those covenant heads were also inheritors to the covenant of Abraham. And we learn later in the Old Testament that the act of male circumcision was a sign of something greater that God wanted to do for his people. What he wanted to do greater is circumcise the heart. And the circumcision of heart Is for every person necessary because every individual is born in sin and thus an enemy of God Enemies of God have hearts that are hardened by sin and hardened by the sin nature. The sin nature needs to be removed in order for an individual to love God. For that is what is required to love God with all of our heart. And so in Colossians we read Paul teaching Christians, that baptism in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost is the new circumcision, the sign of the covenant that God has with his people in Christ. Baptism replaces circumcision as a sign and a seal that God's people are marked by Him and they have new hearts to beat for Him. And such a sign is not just for males, but for females as well. And because it is related to circumcision. Christianity of the early church understood it as a right to include children born into a covenant home. If a child was circumcised according to the law of Moses in order to be a part of the covenant that God made with Abraham. And as baptism replaces circumcision as a sign and seal of the covenant God made in Jesus. So then children born in the homes of people who believe in Jesus ought to be baptized. In fact John Calvin, that studious reformer, argued that children born into covenant homes are owed, owed Christian baptism. It is their right as covenant children. The argument for infant baptism does not need to be more complicated than that explained. And as a side note, if I may, I encourage you not to be shy about using the sign of the cross. That is placed upon every person baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. And too often Protestants think, well, that's what Roman Catholics do. No, we ought not let the Roman Catholics steal everything that's good. To use the sign of the cross is to be reminded that we have been marked by God in baptism, we are his. And if you're going to do it properly, you need to do the three fingers to remind you of the Father, the Son, and of the Holy Ghost It is good to remind yourself with the sign of the cross that you have been marked by God and you are His. Now the next baptism that must be included in this doctrine of baptisms plural is the baptism of the Holy Spirit. And such a baptism was promised by Jesus, who taught his followers that a comforter would come and lead them into all truth. And he described it as power coming to them from on high It is the Holy Spirit who has promised to come upon and baptize every person who confesses Jesus as Lord and Savior and who have been baptized in water. And the Holy Spirit is to be the person of God who also brings unity to the people of God For he is one Spirit, and thus he dwells in the hearts and minds of Christians. He is the same Spirit dwelling in each of us. He is how God can be in all places at all times. Unfortunately, again, that which is to unite us as God's presence being shared by each of us has been another means That the devil has used to divide us. In the book of Acts, there was division Because people had been baptized in water, but had not yet received the external gifts of the Holy Spirit. Others had received spiritual gifts from the Holy Spirit and had not yet been baptized in water. And this gave Christians grounds to argue with one another and insist that their experience was the correct experience, just like the Mudites and the Anti-Muddites. And these opportunities for Christians to divide, well, these opportunities necessitated St. Paul. St. Peter, St. James, St. John, to write in their letters the importance of unity with brothers and sisters in Christ. It was a problem then and it's a problem now. Bobby Lynn and I Experience firsthand how Christians use the baptism of the Holy Spirit to divide Christians In our college days, we were part of an independent church that was making much of their Christian doctrine up as they went along. And part of what they insisted upon was that every person display a proof of being baptized in the Holy Spirit. And that act of proof was speaking in an unknown tongue. If that could not be done The church leadership concluded that such a person who couldn't speak in tongues was not baptized in the Holy Spirit. And this conclusion then allowed the leadership to describe themselves as spirit-filled Christians and all others as marginal Christians. And looking back on that experience makes us sad to this day. The simple truth is that a person who believes in Jesus can know he or she has the Holy Spirit, been baptized in the Holy Spirit, not by a special gift. But by simply the ability to confess Jesus as Lord and Savior. Hear this from St. Paul. No one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. And from St. John, by this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. No other test is necessary. Confession, sincere confession of Jesus as Savior and Lord is sufficient proof that the Holy Spirit dwells within you. Has baptized you, marked you. Hallelujah. Thanks be to God. Now there is much, much more to be said about the doctrine of baptisms. But what we have heard here this morning are the fundamentals, the foundation stone. And what stands out to me is how the fundamentals are to unite us, not divide us. Unity and peace amongst Christians has fallen on very hard times in this generation. Primarily Because of the liberals confessing to be Christian and yet having placed the priority of unity over correct doctrine And this we shall not do. For if we do, we no longer are Christian. If there is to be division among us, it is to be a division based on whether we believe Jesus to be the only Messiah or not. It is to be based on there being but one God, revealed as Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. If a teacher or church leader insists that Jesus was just a prophet or not God or that God, the God of Christianity is one of many revelations about God. Well, then we should separate ourselves from such blasphemy. But may it never be that we divide over the doctrine of baptisms. For baptism in water is where we all come together, identifying with what Jesus did. Baptism of the Holy Spirit, allowing us to confess Jesus as God is to unite us. Because we are all filled by the same Spirit, the very presence of God within each of us. I close with an important distinction regarding baptisms. A parishioner recently said to me, having come from a different background than Anglican, that he realized for the first time That baptism is not something he is to do for God, but something that God does and has done for him. For him, that was a profound realization. And it should be for all of us. God does the work in baptism. He does the work in the water, in the name of the Trinity, and in the faith of those who participate. And God does the work with the Spirit as He fills and enables his people to have faith and to confess the truth, a truth we could never confess on our own. The doctrine of baptism is to be laid in our hearts, in our lives, and we are to build upon it just as we do. As we build on faith towards God, as we leave dead works behind. Let us pray.