Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Join me in turning in your Bibles to Judges chapter 3. Covering the stories of Ehud and Shamgar I hope, thus far, in studying judges, that we have learned a little from the style of the writing of the author. Regarding what message he is trying to convey, not just what he tells the reader, but in the style that he tells it We can learn much from the details he gives us as well as the details that he does not give us. Last week we learned that the lack of details regarding the sin of Israel and the personality of their judge. is important for it calls us to focus on what the Lord has done. In the account of Ehud that we have here, there are details given, and they are of course important. For a reason. On the other hand, regarding the sin of Israel and the judge Shamgar, nothing more than a mention is given, which again The silence carries a message with it. The sin of Israel that placed them in need of another deliverer or judge is simply stated. Once again, the Israelites did evil in the eyes of the Lord. The lack of description regarding their sin. As well as taking into account the descriptions of idol worship mentioned previously, tells us that these are simply repeated offenses. It conveys an attitude we might have toward an alcoholic who continues to fall back into drunkenness after periods of sobriety. Or an adulterer who says he has changed his ways only to be found with another woman a week later. When behavior is repeated, we come to expect it. And the unfaithfulness of the sinner no longer surprises us and isn't even worth describing any longer. The description of the king of Eglom that is his oppression over Israel. That description is important for it explains that his victory was accordance to God's providence. Eglom, no doubt, did not see it this way. To him, the victory over Israel was proof of his strength and his good leadership. He is the one who created the coalition of the Ammonites and the Amalekites. He is the one who ordered and carried out the attack on Israel. From his vantage point, he is solely responsible for the victory. The writer of Judges, however, fills us in on the truth. The Lord gave Israel over to Eglon and the Moabites. None of this would have happened if Israel had remained faithful to the Lord, but of course they were not, and the result was 18 years of subjection. We would hope that the cry of Israel to the Lord was one of repentance, but alas it was not. This cry can be compared to a child who is caught with his hand in the cookie jar. A great way to escape inevitable punishment is for the child to begin to cry. In order to receive compassion from his parents rather than a rod. The child, of course, is not crying because he broke a house rule or that he dishonored his parents The child cries because he is afraid of the consequences. So it is with Israel. Their repeated sin and their repeated cries unto the Lord reveal that they are not so much upset that they have offended God. But rather that they did not like the consequences of their sin. 18 years of subjection. God, of course, is compassionate, slow to anger, abounding in love. He knows that if he delivers Israel from the oppression of Eglon, that they will fall back into their sinful ways, but that does not discourage him from delivering them as he promised he would. As I have stated, the details of this story are important. Ehud was a left-handed man, or better translated, ambidextrious. He originated his plan to kill the king by strapping a foot and a half long double-edged sword to his right thigh for a quick cross-draw. This reveals to the reader how he was able to get away with carrying the weapon into the king's presence Because most people were right-handed, a sword, even a dagger would have been placed on the left hip, and that's where the soldiers would have looked for a sword. Ehud, his sword was on his right thigh and hidden under his clothes. Also, the element of surprise was on Ehud's side for he was likely the only one who knew about his plan to assassinate the king. Ehud was sent to the king by Israel's leaders to give tribute or to give something in honor to the king Ehud is the one who had other plans. The details of the king are no less important in this story. Eglon was a fat man. Not like many of us, mind you, who battled the bulge, Iglon was grossly obese, hence rendered slow afoot. Obesity in Scripture symbolizes the sin of gluttony. To be obese, think of this, to be obese, obese around 1300 BC. In order to do that, a person had to have given himself over to the desires of the flesh. Having fed himself on the pleasures of this life off of the backs of others. Eglon symbolizes the nation that he rules And that they prosper off of the backs of the Israelites. Along with being obese, Eglon had become lazy of mind, For he agreed to hear of Ehud's secret without any protection from his guards. This was, of course, very unwise As a decision, but it reflects how slow Eglon had become of mind and body. Eglon is a sad character And in a sense, is being made fun of by the author of Judges, for there is nothing describing of him that is appealing physically or mentally. The blade, being described as double-edged, reminds us of how the writer of Hebrews describes holy scriptures. God's word is said to be a double-edged sword. To defeat the enemy, any enemy of God, his word is to be invoked, just as Jesus did in the desert. The manner that Eglon is assassinated is a metaphor for how the church is to slay the principalities, powers, and rulers of every age. God's word is to be embedded into the fatness of our culture. God's word is to be buried into the recesses of the world that has become obese by indulging in the flesh. Like Eglon's belly, the world swallows the Word of God up as if to overwhelm it with its fatness. But properly placed as Ehud's sword was, the word of God brings the world down. The manner that Ehud escapes is another description of the incompetence of Eglon's reign He is probably so unreasonably feared by his own protectors that they cannot even disturb him when he is on the toilet. By their reasoning to stay out for a long time, period, it appears to be a place where Eglon spent much of his time. The victory of Israel over the nation of Boab was swift following this assassination of Eglon by Ehud Verse 29 describes the striking down of ten thousand men, which is a large number for any battle. This all occurred in a manner that was truly spontaneous. People didn't know what Eglon, or excuse me, what Ehud was going to do. The men of Moab, Moab are described as in the NIV as vigorous, but that's an unfortunate translation, for the Hebrew word is synonymous with fact. The word also can be translated stout or stubborn as the New King James translates it. But considering the description of Eglon, it is very likely that the writer is describing an An army that is similar to the king. They were fat with their spoils of the land and in no manner ready to fight. The fattening of these people by the Lord made them ripe, as we say, for the picking. The defeat, we note, was complete. For we are told that peace reigned in Israel for 80 years afterward. 80 years. Such a peace is a true gift of God lasting two generations. Immediately following the description of peace for 80 years is the verse that might seem out of place. Shamgar is mentioned as the next judge, but nothing specifically is said about his person. His name, his name is a clue, and it is debated whether he was even an Israelite His victory is no less impressive than Ehud's, for he is given credit for striking down 600 Philistines with an ox goad. An ox goad is not much of a weapon. It is a stick to prod animals. It can be many sizes, but it is not made for battle Striking down 600 Philistines with a stick is even more impressive, shall we say, than Samson killing numerous Philistines with a jawbone of a donkey. The placement of this verse and the brief description of Shamgar's victory, preceded by a lengthier description of Eva's victory, communicates, I believe, two things. First, the people of God overestimate the enemy. The ease by which Ehud was able to approach Eglon and then kill him Allows us to ask why was this not done earlier? The ease at which Ehud was able to assassinate a foreign king Assemble an army to defeat an organized army and maintain peace for 80 years allows us to conclude that Israel was superior to their enemy For those eighteen years they were under oppression, and yet they did not exercise their superiority. Add to that story the one of Shamgar being able to kill 600 Philistines with a stick, and it is confirmed that the enemy cannot stand against the chosen people of God. It is then embarrassing when the people of God speak about an enemy, whether it be political or spiritual, as if any can stand against the anointed of the Lord. We know well and have quoted such passages as: I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And if God is for us, who can stand against us? And greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world. Applying these to life circumstances is more difficult than mere recitation. We have to believe and we have to live it out. There is no political party or leader, whether in this country or one foreign, that can stand against the anointed of God. There is no earthly army or terrorist organization that can take a single life of one of God's people without it being according to God's will. And regardless of what they do to the body, they can never touch the soul, especially the soul of those who have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. There is also no spiritual power, whether obviously demonic or disguised as an angel of light, that can cause us to do evil or threaten our salvation in any way. Such statements are in opposition to the great temptation of many to view the world in a dualistic manner. The battle of good versus evil is believed by some, even Christians, to keep the universe in balance. This Star Wars philosophy is carried into Christianity as some believe that the devil himself has similar, even equal power to our Godhead. And the two are thought to be in battle trying to win supremacy over this earth. One of the more horrid experiences of my childhood was when a neighborhood family took me and my brother to see the Exorcist in a drive-in theater Driving theaters when you're in a car, you're watching a movie. Unfortunately, I was not a Christian at the time and my my parents were ignorant about messages conveyed in such a movie. I remember cowering in the back seat of the car, wishing I did not have to watch. And wanting the camera to stay away from that room that held the girl supposedly possessed by the devil, the priest in the movie performing the exorcist practiced many rituals while invoking the name of Jesus, struggling to achieve victory. My mind, Young Mind, concluded from the movie that God had limited power over the devil. Scripture, of course, tells us something quite differently. Jesus needed to say a mere word, and the demons were gone. Those who spoke in his name were able to overcome the devil, and in some cases, Jesus simply approached a person demon-possessed, and the demons shuddered in submission. Realize, dear church, that Jesus has paid the debt of sin and overcome death itself. Such a victory was total. And the devil has no authority in the lives of those who call Jesus Lord and Savior. Although the devil prowls around like a roaring lion. For the people of God, it is as if he has no teeth. Let us not give him any more credit than he deserves or assume power he does not have. The second lesson communicated in these stories is that God uses means to accomplish His will. Although he could simply strike a man dead, he could have struck Eglon dead like he did Ananias in the book of Acts. He chooses men like Ehud to carry out his providence. This concept can be tricky, and rightfully so, for Christians struggle almost with the same question as non-Christians regarding Divine involvement in tragedies such as a terrorist attack or so-called natural disasters or pandemics Each time a natural disaster occurs or when there is an outbreak of a virus, there are unbelievers who take to the airways or write articles in newspapers or online That one that convinced everyone that there is no God, for no God would allow such suffering. That claim We Christians have they they claim excuse me they claim we Christians have no answer. But we do. They just choose not to listen. What happened in the case of Ehud and Shamgar, and what happens when disasters and pandemics occur are identified by theologians as examples of concursus. Concursus is a subdivision of the category under God's providence. The teaching of divine providence is that everything that happens in the world is ultimately ultimately according to the will and purpose of God. He has a plan. And everything that happens is according to that plan, even the number of hairs on your head at any given time. The doctrine of concursus is the teaching that God uses means, ways to accomplish His will. It may be that there can be a natural explanation for what has occurred, but God uses that natural explanation to accomplish His will. A natural disaster is both caused by God and caused by an earthquake under the ocean floor. A car fatality occurs because God has numbered our days and because a man was driving drunk. Chance is a part of this world, but it is a world God created and a world he controls. Spin the chambers of a gun, having only one out of six chambers filled, and pull the trigger. The odds are one in six that a bullet will be fired. Those odds must concur, however, with the will of God. As Proverbs 1:6 states, a lot is cast in the lap, but every decision is from the Lord. In the case of Ehud, he was the means by which God would deliver his people. Ehud was clever, he was brave, and God used those attributes Shamgar was brave and skillful, and God used those attributes. These skills concurred with God's will regarding timing and victory. We cannot achieve victory unless it is according to God's will. And He chooses to use us, His church. As a means to accomplish his victories. There is a very comforting and hopeful understanding of both tragedy and victory For all of it is according to God's will. On a side note, I would include that the doctrine of concursus helps us understand the importance of Bible study The importance of attending church, the importance of the sacraments of the church. For these are also means, ways by which God uses to give out his grace. Those who would convince themselves that these things are not necessary have failed to understand God's ways. He gives grace and the means of grace, God gives them both Combining these two lessons, we see that God uses means, he uses ways by which he achieves victory over evil and establishes his kingdom against an enemy. Any enemy that is no match for him or his people. When we experience tragedy or defeat, we must recognize the cause of consequences. or the cause of chance, or the cause of nature, along with the will of God. The will of God is always being fulfilled using another word, concursus. When experiencing good fortune and victory, the same elements are involved. During the bad times, may repentance take place and lessons be learned. During the good times, may all praise be given to God, for it all occurs according to his will. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. Our Father in Heaven, as much as we state these things to be true, we recognize that our minds and our hearts do not always go there. We trust in circumstance too often. We trust in chance too often. We don't readily see your hand in the moment. Increase our faith, Holy Spirit. Help us to be relieved of the blinders that we might see your will always being done, and that we might always trust in it. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.