The name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I really, really, really, really encourage you to turn to Revelation chapter 13 Picking up at verse eleven, it's going to be very important that you follow along with me in these verses to better understand them. Revelation 13 beginning verse eleven, and as you do that I do want to add to my comments about our uh general counsel. If you do have any questions, your your representatives were Diana Bowles and Bobby Lynn. Um they represented you at the cheapened our our trip there a little bit. Um but if you have any questions you can ask them or ask uh Father Bowles or myself of what's going on in the denomination. And if you're ever interested in a general council, three years from now, they've they've announced the the the diocese of the central states, which It's below us, Virginia and North Carolina and so on. They're hosting and they have chosen for three years from now, if you want to go, they've chosen Washington DC And I was the only dissenting vote of the whole when they approved it. I don't want to go to Washington DC, but other people do. So if you want to attend in three years from now Alright, Revelation 13, speaking up from verse eleven, before we examine the passage this passage from Revelation this morning, it is helpful for us to rehearse what we have concluded up until now. We have identified the woman who gives birth to a child as being and is being pursued by the dragon to be a metaphor of Mary giving birth to Jesus. And then a typology of the birth of the people of God, or we can call it the church. The dragon is the devil, as the scripture plainly states The beast who is given the power and authority from the dragon is both the Roman Emperor Empire and the Roman Emperor. I mentioned two weeks ago that we will later read in chapter 17 that the seven heads of the beasts are metaphors for the seven hills of the city of Rome, which was known as the city of the seven hills. The Emperor of Rome, who was a contemporary of John the Revelator, and the beast personified, was Nero Caesar. The number 666 will be more evidence for us to conclude that Nero is the first beast. We more easily identify the beast when we view these passages from the historical context in which John lived Because we believe the book of Revelation was written for the benefit of Christians living in the first century, I cannot emphasize that enough, under immediate persecution The identity of the beast had to be relevant to those Christians. Because we also believe that the Bible is a living book with truths that apply to Christians of every age We recognize Rome and Miro to be the first of many nations and leaders the devil uses to persecute even unto death children of the woman, or said differently, children of the church, or simply put, Christians. Every atrocity perpetrated upon Christians by governments and leaders of governments, whether it be a dictator, a king, or an emperor. Is a fulfillment of the symbolisms described by John, where the dragon uses a beast to do his bidding on earth In verse 11 of chapter 13, we are introduced to another beast. This now makes three creatures of evil, and the number is not by accident. Just as the beast of the sea attempts to take on messianic qualities, evil Evil in general tries to portray itself as having a Trinitarian nature just as the true Godhead has. The devil desperately desires to be considered a co-equal counterpart to God, so he attempts to be perceived as being three in one, just as the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are three in one. The devil is a desperate wise fool. The description of the third beast provides the clues we need to identify him. He was seen by John coming out of the earth. The first beast, you remember, was seen to be coming out of the sea. And the second now is coming out of the earth. What's the difference? As we pointed out two weeks ago, the sea represents the pagan nations, and the land represents God's people. Thus, Israel, God's chosen nation, received her identity in the land she was to inherit. The pagan nations were represented by the sea, you remember, that was parted, and the river that was held back so that the people of God could go into the promised land If the second beast comes up from the earth, then it is a beast that comes up from among God's people. The two horns on its head make it appear to be like a lamb And tells us that the second beast appears on the outside as if he is like Christ. For it is Christ Jesus in John's vision who first appears as a lamb. You remember that it was the Lamb alone that was able to open the book of the seven seals. It was the Lamb that was pronounced once dead but now risen. It was the Lamb alone that was worthy to be worshipped. The second beast appears to be a lamb as well, appearing that way to take away the glory from the true lamb and place it on itself. Yet while the second beast appears to be like a lamb, the lamb of God, his voice is like the dragon. It is like the devil. What he speaks is definitely different than how he looks. The authority of the second beast comes from the first beast Who we should remember received the authority from the dragon. The purpose of the second beast is to make the inhabitants of the earth worship the first beast. He is able to do this by his speech and his ability to perform miracles or miraculous signs. The signs he performs, such as calling fire down from heaven, confuses the people of the earth into thinking that he has power from Almighty God. His signs are awe-inspiring, and his power is great enough that the people of the earth fear him, and thus they do as he instructs. The second beast becomes like all of the evil leaders we have read about in the Old Testament, who set up false idols to be worshipped. An image of the first beast is made. The image or false idol was given breath so that it could speak. Its speech was the cause for all who refused to worship the image to be killed. To separate more clearly those who were on the side of the beast and those who were against the beast, the second beast forces men and women of every race, of every status, of every creed, to receive a mark. Representing the first beast on the right hand and on the forehead. Those who were given the mark were given the right to buy and sell goods. Those who refused could not buy or sell, making them social and economic outcasts. The obvious reason for this marking is ownership. But why specifically on the right hand and forehead? Well, that is answered in Deuteronomy chapter 6, all the way back in the Old Testament, where the people of God are told to place the law of God on their hands and on their forehead. To force the mark of the feast in these same locations is simply another way to mock God. The mark is placed on the false worshippers according to verse 17, and that mark is the name of the beast or the number of his name. I have read enough explanations of this passage to conclude that modern interpreters want to avoid doing exactly what verse 17 suggests. Apparently because the name that comes up doesn't fit within their interpretation. Both Greek and Hebrew cultures had a game known as gematria Where standard letters from the alphabet were assigned numerical value. For example, the letter resh in Hebrew, which looks in our to our eyes as a backward R in English, That letter is assigned the number, the value 200. A letter, the letter noon is assigned 50. A Bob is six, and a gophus is one hundred, and a Sami is sixty. Each of these letters is found in the words Neron Kaiser. Iwon Kaiser is the Hebrew spelling of Nero Caesar. Hence 666 is the number representing Nero's name and his title. Now, one objection to this interpretation is the unusual spelling of Caesar Kaiser. But one of the Dead Sea Scrolls has revealed that John's spelling was not unusual at all, for in the Dead Sea Scrolls we find Neron Kaiser for Nero Caesar. Thus, as we have discovered two weeks ago, there are many reasons why we can interpret the first beast to be Nero. And 666 simply adds to those reasons. What we don't want to get caught up with, however, is limiting the beast's identity to only being that of Nero. We again point out that the revelation was for the first century church that suffered under Rome and under Nero, but it is for every Christian that has followed the early church as well. This makes the identity of the second beast all the more compelling. So let us now summarize what the second beast does. In the first place, the second beast does great things, signs and wonders. The purpose of these signs is to deceive men. Signs and wonders are used to establish prophetic authority throughout Scripture. Moses performed them before Pharaoh. Elijah performed them before on Mount Carmel. And Christ Jesus performed them when he began his public ministry as the Messiah. Taking on that identity. It is understandable why the second beast would perform signs, for he is trying to follow in line with the prophets of God. The prophet Daniel warned that the Antichrist would perform marvelous things as did Christ himself. Who said that the false messiahs and false prophets would arise showing various signs and wonders? The question we all ask is what shall these powers do? And this is where interpreters get lost because they take it all in a literal sense. and claim that the beast will be like a magician. Some have even suggested that popular magicians today use demonic powers. I do not doubt the probability of such speculation, but magicians today are not like the false prophet described here. A sign or wonder can be anything that convinces people that the prophet is of God or a type of God. It could be a scientist, a psychologist, a sociologist Or even a humanitarian that does something so surprising, so wonderful according to the perception of a people that he is given the status of a prophet It could have even then the ability of a man to draw a large crowd Modern Christians, since the 20th century, have been enamored by men who can draw a crowd, as if the number of people gathered is a sign that God is at work. The second beast then uses his gain influence to convince people to make an image of the first beast. Notice, please, that the second beast does not make the image of himself or by himself. But men who are under his influence make the image. The image, we are told, is a representation of the first beast. Emperors of Rome, of course, had such images made of themselves. But these are not only leaders of history, but also leaders of today. We remember the Iraq War and the images of Saddam Hussein or Even today, the image of the North Korean dictator, reminding us that idol worship is alive and well today. So far, nothing is surprising until verse 15. But it seems preposterous to conclude that this can be taken literally. Imagining an idol made of metal, stone, or wood coming to life and speaking is both odd and curious But to say it should be taken literally is the easy part. Should we not be taken literally is the easy part. Concluding how it should be taken is more difficult. And I believe it is safe and necessary to say, when one comes to passages like this, that its meaning or fulfillment is not obvious, well, it's meant to be not obvious. This is one of those passages that are not found in a historical example or a personal experience. It is likely that such interpretation is for the church at a later date. But I think this idea that the idol speaks, that that that's the important clue Considering all that the second beast does, including forcing the mark of the first beast upon all who would worship it, we conclude that the purpose of the second beast is to serve the first beast. The second beast causes the inhabitants of the world to wonder, admire, and worship the first beast. The second beast exercises the power of the first, and the first works and exercises through the second. The identity of the second beast is found in his work for the first beast and in comparison to the first beast. In comparison to the first, the second beast does not force the masses, but convinces them. He does not command or issue laws, but instead influences the hearts of men. He does this by his charm, i. e. , signs and wonders, and by his speech. Remember if the idol speaks. In general, we can identify the second beast to be a false prophet. Not just any false prophet, mind you, but one that leads many people astray. This general identification is found later in the book of Revelation, specifically in chapter 19, verse 20, where we read, quote, And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet, the second beast. that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. Those both were cast alive into the lake of fire that burneth with brimstone. And then in Revelation chapter 20, verse 10, he is mentioned once more. Quote, and the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire. And brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are. The beast that is mentioned in these passages is unmistakable. The beast is the first beast, and the false prophet is none other than the second beast. Biblical prophets are those who speak forth God's message, and the message could be what is going on today, and how to apply God's word to today. or what is going to happen in the future. A false prophet speaks lies while saying he is speaking for God. He does not speak the truth. He speaks lies. His lies are not easily discerned either, for the false prophet looks like the lamb. He is gentle and even sacrificial in his behavior, but his words are those of the dragon. The dragon's words, because he is the great deceiver, appear to be truth, but only on the surface. The best deceptions are those that mix truth with lies. And the vulnerable, the ignorant, and the blind cannot tell the difference. Because the description of the second beast is general and thoroughly wrapped up in the identity of the first beast. It can be argued that the second beast is not a specific person, either in history or in the future, to be revealed. This is more difficult to conclude, however, when we identify the first beast to be a specific person, Nero Caesar. If he is specific, then it is natural to think that the second beast would be specific as well. But we remember also that the beast refers to the Roman Empire as well as the Roman Emperor. And thus it could represent all governments, all leaders and such that would persecute Christians If this identity of the beast is being referred to, then the second beast can be anyone who would use the name of God in the cloak of a prophet to influence people away from the true God And thus worship government rulers and government entities. How this looks in our contemporary context is not so easily determined, but then again it's not supposed to be. It is interesting to note that there are certain ministers who speak in God's name that are more linked to liberal lobbies than they are the Word of God. False prophets linked to government leaders, government agencies, or lobbies fit the description of the second beast quite well. False prophets were a repeated warning of Jesus and the apostles. Meek minds and desperate hearts are vulnerable to those who would speak in God's name but tell lies. As we look to the identity of the second beast, we are to be warned as Jesus and the apostles warned. There will be false prophets who come in Jesus' name to lead the people of God astray, if that were possible. Confusion and deception are an effective way to lead people away from the truth. The warning, the warning, however, is not for us to be scared, but wise. To note its presence when we see and hear false prophecy. I took a class in seminary which studied the book of Revelation. And a buddy of mine, as we're sitting in a lecture, a buddy of mine next to me started to chuckle when we were studying this very passage. He had accidentally grabbed his wife's Bible rushing to class, and she had innocently written in her side notes the number 666 she wrote, watch out for this And we laugh because getting the mark of the beast isn't just standing in the wrong line, but it's much more deceptive. It is heeding the wrong teachings. It is listening and heeding false prophets who say they speak for God, but are actually deceiving you to follow the first beast. For example, I recently heard an advertisement for a podcast, heard this on the radio, a podcast of a prominent pastor of a very large congregation in the state of Texas. I won't say his name Who proclaims that a positive attitude in life is what will give you a happy life? Beloved, that is not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. A multitude of preachers are teaching this very hour that God doesn't care about your moral living, but only cares that you live your own truth by expressing whatever sexuality you desire. Beloved, that is not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are preachers this very hour who are telling people who call themselves Christians that Jesus wants them to be wealthy and earthly prosperous. While Jesus himself said, Blessed are the poor and needy. Beloved, there are preachers this very hour. For treating the pulpits from which they preach as counseling couches, where they simply want to make the congregation comfortable. Beloved, this is not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is instead a message from the beast. Who comes from out of the land, which is to come from among God's people, to deceive them My closing point then is similar to the note from my buddy's wife. Watch out for this. But not for the stamp of 666 But for the false teachers who would lead you to that number. Watch out for false teachers who deceive and instead create instead of Listening to falsehood, instead crave the truth of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. For in that truth are hard words, and in those hard words are eternal life. Desire such words. Insist on such words. And live. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious God, we thank you for the warnings found in in these words of John the Revelator. And we thank you for what it points us to, to insist on the truth, to insist on it being preached and heard and believed and lived. May that occur in our lives and may we encourage it to one another. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen