Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I encourage you, as is typical in the book of Revelation, to follow along in your Bibles. You will be fed much more sufficiently if you follow along, the imagery is uh sometimes complicated You remember a number of years ago the popularizing of the song I Can Only Imagine? Even though it is clearly a Christian song, it was actually played on secular radio stations The song has been sung by a number of artists since, becoming popular in Christian, contemporary, and country music circles. A movie was even made about the writing of the song. The song's premise appealed to many as the writer of the song asks the Lord what his personal reaction is going to be. the day he stands in heaven before his Lord and Savior, Jesus. The chorus goes, you remember Will I stand in your glory, or to my knees will I fall? Will I dance for you, Jesus, or in awe of you be still? Like sing Hallelujah or be able to speak at all, I can only imagine. The song touches the souls of many and sparks the imagination. Because other Christians have likely asked similar questions. How will I respond? Christians anticipate that the sight of the glorified Savior and the unmerited position they will have before him will overwhelm their emotions and to their knees they will fall. But they also anticipate the possibility that they will want to dance while caring nothing of what others think about their dancing. They anticipate a freedom of their body and soul that they have never experienced in this life. While it is true that we can only imagine the scene in heaven, It is also true that our imaginations are not left to their own devices. The scene that is described to us in Revelation chapter 4 directs our imagination to what it is like to stand before Jesus. As I stated last week, it is not the best approach to study this chapter in two sections. What limits us each week is time. I know that I'd only have a short time to keep your attention. And when there is so much to discover from such passages, we can easily be overwhelmed with the information to the point of missing what is most important. Thus we have divided the chapter up into two parts. The first part taught us that the covenant of God was completed, being symbolized by the rainbow that is now a circle. And the elders who represent both tribes of Israel and the apostles who represent all of God's people. These symbols bring the new covenant and the old covenant together. Our emphasis last week was upon the crystal water before the throne. We learned that the water in Scripture represents troubled nations. And because the water is clear and crystal, we proclaim that Christ has brought peace to the nations. Our emphasis was that we get to peek into heaven with this vision, which provides us peace, peace available in every situation. What is described next is similar to stories in mythology or characters in a Tokian novel. There is a circle within the circle of the rainbow, and the elder is made by four living creatures. The eyes of these creatures are noted first. A creature covered with eyes obviously is responsible to see. Each of these creatures is responsible to see or watch over all of God's creation That there are four living creatures causes us to connect their duties with the entire world. The Bible in various places describes the earth as being four-cornered. It does not do so because the writers believed the earth was flat, but because the earth is understood to be an altar unto God. As an altar on which sacrificial worship is offered in the temple, that had four corners. And so the earth is described as having four corners. The earth is the Lord's. It is the place upon which God has offered praise. When there are mentioned four corners of the earth, or four winds, or four directions. or four rivers in Eden, we are to understand each to be a reference to an altar on which God is to be honored. Also, the four creatures are living as opposed to creatures of stone. The four living creatures are also correspond to the points of a compass. And the earth as an altar where God is worshipped. The numberless eyes of the four creatures represent their watchfulness over all parts of creation. We now next turn to examine their appearance. The first has an appearance like a lion. The second like an ox, the third, like a human being, and the fourth, like a flying eagle. These distinguishing characteristics represent the four animate powers of creation. The lion represents the beasts of the field. The ox represents the cattle or domestic animals. Man represents the intelligent creatures. And the eagle represents birds of the air. In summary, they represent creation in all the fullness of its power and of its talents. The numbered six wings also ties into creation for it symbolizes the six developments of creation or what we call days of creation. Once we understand that each creature represents, we must notice what they are doing. They are worshiping God. In fact, they never stop worshiping God. The words are repeated over and over again. That's why we sung them in our opening hymn. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. Verse 9 tells us that there is an antiphon to this saying given by the 24 elders who represent the covenants. An antiphon is a sung response. They respond by falling down before the one who sits on the throne, worshiping him forever and ever, by laying their crowns before him, crowns that were given to them by him. They lay those before the one on the throne and respond, you are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things, and by your will they were created to have their being. As we imagine this scene, in our minds it is quite common to be in awe. While at the same time wondering how these beasts and these elders could worship day and night saying the same thing and doing the same thing Verse 8 describes the worship as being done day and night, never ceasing. They say these words over and over again, and the elders respond to the words over and over again. Now before we focus on the worship emphasis, I know it is necessary to address what many of you are thinking. To worship in the manner described is monotonous, and monotony is boring. I remember my first ministry assignment was to college students at the Nazarene Church that we attended in Moscow, Idaho. Where I had recently graduated, a college-age girl to whom I was attempting to witness the Christian faith asked me directly, why should she want to go to heaven? I had never been asked that question directly, and it took me a moment to collect my thoughts. I answered in two ways, and neither of them helped her. First, I said that it was better than going to hell. I certainly believe that to be true, but such a statement doesn't say a whole lot about heaven. Living in a sewer is better than living in hell, but I would not compare a sewer to heaven. I then said that in heaven you will worship the Lord for eternity This, as I said, did not strike her as a selling point, and I can understand why. She did not know of God's mercy at the time and therefore was not moved emotionally or with gratefulness to worship God. Also, like most of us, she found that worship services in churches were not all that exciting In my younger days, I thought that worship should be exciting, so I was involved with churches that clapped and danced and played loud music and shouted every now and then What I came to experience from those worship scenes was a pumped-up excitement generated out of guilt or simply manipulation. For me, it was a desire to have worship exciting that caused me to excite myself. If I was not excited in worship, I thought there was something wrong with me. The problem with such worship is the point where you come down off of your self-generated high, and you are reminded once again how difficult it is to stay motivated while worshiping God. The guilt returns. I learned by experience and biblical example that life in this world is not a constant emotional high, and our flesh reminds us of that truth repeatedly. Liturgical worship, like our own, or happy clappy worship, like I just described, are both limited by our flesh. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. We have a hard time imagining ourselves worshiping God day and night because we get bored. And our flesh cries out for something different when we worship for an hour to an hour and a half on Sunday morning. Such a conclusion is caused by our misunderstanding about heaven and our present earthly condition. The elders and beasts around the throne are able to worship continually because they are not bound or restricted by flesh that is fallen. Our flesh, having been born of Adam, is dying and thus limited by time. Resurrected flesh does not have the same concerns, and in fact is fulfilling what it's created to do when it worships continually. That may be hard, a hard concept to grasp considering the dominance of our flesh in this life. But it can be proven when you think about what you are created to be. The purpose of each human is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. We are created for worship. In fact, I argue that we worship all of the time without realizing we are worshiping We worship our desire. We worship our self will. We worship our dreams, our aspirations, we worship our relationships, our emotions. My argument is that almost everything we do has an element of worship involved It just so happens that unregenerated people, people who are not Christians, worship falsely Christians, on the other hand, are to do all things in this life as an act of worship. When we do not, we are worshiping the wrong things, and yet we are still worshiping. It is that simple. We are built for worship, and those who follow Christ will spend eternity worshiping the true God. Not only are we created to worship, we are created to worship a certain way. And here is where much of modern Christendom has failed. For the vision that John has of the exalted Savior being worshipped is a model for us. What is occurring in the mega churches today, or the community churches that want to be mega churches, was exposed in a documentary series about Hillsong Church, which started in Australia while planting many churches in the United States. What made Hillsong scandalous was their celebrity focus and their sex scandals with their leadership. What stood out also was their documented knowledge. Of how to manipulate people with their music. Their praise and worship style was based on the distortion of Psalm 22, verse 3, which reads. Yet you are holy and thrown on the praises of Israel. From such a verse, they preach that God not only inhabits the places of the place of his people when they sing his praises, but that God actually rushes to them when he hears their singing. With God's presence ensured, the song leaders lead songs of uplifting sounds and words of thanksgiving. Which then leads to songs of love and then leads to songs of quiet contemplation, allowing the worshippers to feel an emotional presence of God without being able to know the difference between the true presence of God and their personal emotions. Such practice has been called musical sacramentalism, which says that God's presence is primarily in the singing of his people. rather than in the words read and preached and in the bread and wine. Unfortunately, the praise and worship approach sees God similar similar to a genie in a bottle. Who has to be conjured up before he can they can get what they wish for. What John is describing in Revelation is a worship service of a risen and glorified Savior of mankind in heaven. It is for us who are on earth to duplicate such reverence by our actions and words while we are here. Last week we spoke of the call to come up to worship and how that is to be duplicated in our services. We also mentioned the white robes which symbolize the office of an elder and his duty before the throne of God. Today we make note of the words spoken around the throne as the elders and the beasts worship. The beasts cry out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty The cry is Trinitarian. It recognizes the holiness of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. The cry is heavenly, for it contains words inspired by the presence of Almighty God. Because they are heavenly and inspired, these should be our words as we worship here on earth. We should use the words of heavenly worship. And as we do, we should humbly acknowledge that we are not starting this song of worship. And we are not alone in singing this song. In fact, whenever we sing or chant these words in our service which we do when we follow the Holy Communion service. We are joining in a course that has already begun and continues forever and ever. It is, I perceive, to be an ignorant act, to ignore the heavenly words of worship found in the prophets, the psalms Revelation in other places, and to replace those words with contemporary expressions. That does not say that contemporary or extemporaneous expressions are bad or inappropriate. These are helpful as long as they do not replace the heavenly words provided for us in Scripture. To acquiesce our preferences and personal expressions for the words of heavenly creatures and elders around the throne is one way we can Lay down our crowns upon the throne. After all, part of worship is surrender. We surrender ourselves unto God and say, Not my will, but thine be done We surrender by asking the Lord what he would prefer rather than what we prefer. The words of these constant songs speak of God's righteousness. He is holy. They speak of his power. He is almighty. They speak of his eternal nature. He was and is and is to come They speak of his work of salvation. He is worthy. They speak of his ultimate victory. He is to receive glory and honor and power. They speak of his creative and sustaining power. He created all things by his will, and in him they have their being. Such words should be the exact words and themes of our worship in this life, for they are inspired, and as is our worship to be inspired. With this scene, as described by John, it has allowed us, allowed us to do This imagining. Our imagining, however, is inspired. We have been able to peek in on a heavenly service What we find is the answer to why we exist. We exist to worship God, which is the one appropriate response His creation should have to His presence. Worship, true worship of God is wholehearted, awe-inspiring, and loving This scene in the throne room of God establishes a foundation from which the rest of the vision John describes is to flow. Every vision we see from here on out is related back to this scene in heaven of God's people worshiping him. One final thought. One final thought that relates to our purpose to be worshippers is necessary. Some of you have heard this point made. It was asked of me, not by a young college student, but by a mature male, why God would want to be worshipped? Does he have an ego problem? Implied, and the question is whether or not God is on an ego trip when he calls his people to worship him. Such a question reveals how we are limited to think about God in terms of ourselves. We need validation from others, so we speculate that by making his preachers worship him, God needs validation as well. By definition, God needs no validation. We worship God not because He needs it, but because we need it. We need to acknowledge the one who has saved us from ourselves. We need to be used for the purpose He made us. Just as a cup formed from a potter needs to be poured out or poured into, so we too must be worshippers of God. For in doing so we are fulfilling our purpose. What we are made to be. So join the chorus, brothers and sisters in Christ. Join the chorus. The service has already begun, and we are privileged to be a part of it. Sing the words inspired by heaven and fulfill your proper use. Amen. Let us pray.