We will be referencing Judges chapter 17 and chapter 18. If you want to turn there in your Bibles, follow along. It may or may not come as a surprise for you to learn that we have finished studying the main body of the book of Judges. Although there are five chapters remaining, what we have read from chapter 17 is part of an epilogue. These chapters just describe and explain the end result the end result of Israel's assimilation into pagan culture. As well as setting the reader in the right frame of mind for the kings of Israel to come. This can be said with confidence because Samson is the last judge mentioned in the book of Judges. There is no political, religious, or military leader after Samson. What we are about to study is a series of stories that contain very little good. Once again, I find it difficult to be cheery within a sermon While preaching from a biblical text that has very little to be cheery about, I understand that many of you like to leave here in a cheerful mood. Both focusing on the negative can bring down the emotions. I appreciate that desire, and I know how popular it is for there are well-attended community type churches that only preach and teach what is positive But please bear with me this morning and next week. It is going to be a challenge to keep the mood bubbly. But you are not the type of Christian people who always want bubbly. I know that because you are here listening to me, and I am not a bubbly preacher As you have already heard from the first reading, a story told in the text is not only sinful, it is very odd. We will be speaking of the story contained in both chapters 17 and 18, and these chapters have oddities and strangeness about them. It is therefore necessary to keep in the back of our minds, while we look at these strange stories that the people were doing that which was right in their own eyes. Their moral standards were their own, thus their behavior. Also consider that there are moments in our lives When odd or strange things happen and they leave us literally dumbfounded. What was that? What just happened A number of years ago, I went to bed late around midnight. My mistake was not placing a cup of water by my bed. For as circumstances would have it, I woke up a mere one hour after laying my head down with a parched palate. Knowing that Bobby Lynn had brought her usual cup of water to her bedside, I asked her for her water. What ensued was quite strange. By asking for her for a drink of her water, I woke her from one of those dead sleeps. She responded to my request with a surprise. What I repeated my request, and her mumbling made me believe that she understood me. As I lay there, I hear her fumbling around at her night table next to her next to her side of the bed. She made another mumbling sound as if she had what I wanted. I reached out and there was nothing there. I spoke more poignantly and I told her I wanted a drink of water That request was followed by much banging and clanging, and still no glass of water was handed to me. I got up in a huff, went to the kitchen, found my own cup of water, and went to sleep. The next morning I awoke to understand what had happened the night before. Bobby Lynn, having been woken in her dead sleep, had little or no knowledge of what I had requested What she had first tried to hand me, at my request of a cup of water, was the lamp on her night table. Unable to reach the lamp to me, to my side, because of the cord plugged into the wall, she then proceeded to unscrew the light bulb from the lamp Hence all the banging and claiming, only to be frustrated by me that I would not take the light bulb from her once she was successful. In all my 35 years of marriage, I do not know what category to place those actions into. Simply odd, simply strange, simply weird. And so are these stories at the end of Judges. With a few comments carefully placed by the author to inform the reader why he is repeating these stories to us. So, chapter 17 begins evidently in the middle of a story. A woman, obviously wealthy by the amount of money stolen from her, is given money back by her son, and his name is Micah. Micah admits that he was the guilty party who had stolen her money. We are not told when or why he stole it, and the omission means that we do not need to know Why he gives it back, that's important. He heard his mother place a curse on whoever was guilty, and he feared the curse. This tells us that Micah was a superstitious man. The mother is happy with her son when he confesses and returns the money, and I think that that's odd. And in her happiness she plans a religious dedication, which is also odd. And she sets aside part of the money that was stolen to make idols, which is not only odd but sinful. Micah is not only superstitious superstitious, he is a as strange as his mother. He takes the idols made from his mother's money and makes a shrine to display the idols, to honor and worship them. Adding insult to injury, he then makes one of his sons priest over his man-made temple. The next development in this story is the arrival of a Levite priest. Both Micah and the priest are men of opportunity. The Levite needs a place to stay, and Micah needs a real priest. Here is evidence that the law of God has been completely disregarded, for the law has specific instructions for the care of Levites and the proper federal worship God. These laws are either ignored or unknown by the Levi and by Micah. The result is a very strange setup Where Micah pays a man to preside over a man-made shrine containing carved silver-cast idols At this point, we could consider how many strange ways Christians have tried to worship God. Chapter 18, which we did not read, introduces the tribe of Dan into the story as some men of the tribe come into contact with Micah and the Levites. What the Spirit is showing us by telling the story in this way is how a family in Israel was corrupted by the assimilation of pagan ritual into their faith, into their faith in Yahweh. By describing the behavior of the tribe of Dan That follows, we learn how a whole tribe is then conquered, captured, corrupted by the assimilation into pagan worship. Although the tribe of Dan was originally given its own territory next to Judah, the people evidently were not satisfied, which is a breaking of the tenth commandment. And they go looking for more land. Representatives from the Danites recognize the Levite in Micah's house, which is odd for we are not told how they would recognize him, and they inquire of him a word from God regarding the overtaking of the new land that they desire. The exchange between the Levite and the Danites could be identified as divination or false prophecy. Either way, it was another violation of God's law. The Danites liked what they heard from the Levites, so on their way back they took Micah's idols. Why, we don't know, and they took his priest, and oddly the priest is glad to leave with them. When Micah's household caught up with the Danites, Micah was told not to argue with the tribe, or his family would lose their lives. So the Danites settled nicely into their new territory, worshiping false images of God, being led by four higher priests. After this overview of the story, let us go back and pay attention to some of the details the narrator, the writer, carefully includes. He describes the Sidonians, and he does it in a way that we should be jealous, or at least the Israelites should be jealous. He describes them as being at peace in their land and lacking nothing. And we are to understand that these pagan people, pagan people are at the point in their tribal life where Israel should be. Israel should be at peace. Israel should lack nothing, but instead they are bloodthirsty. They want more. The roles then have been reversed, as the Israelites have become exactly like the pagan nations around them, and the pagan nations have become like Israel could have been The sinful world has infiltrated, has infiltrated the people of God. So much, so much so that the unrighteous are more blessed than the once righteous. There is also a play-by-play given of a squabble over these carp images. Micah made them The Danites liked them and wanted them. The Danites steepled them, and when Micah chases the Danites down, wanting his idols back, he says to them, quote, You took the gods I made. Now think upon that statement. In his own words, Micah admits that the idols, these so-called gods, were man-made. What kind of gods are these that could be made by a man? And what kind of gods can be stolen? The scene is odd, is weird, it is ridiculous. The description of this squabble is embarrassing, and yet each party is blind to their own ridiculous behavior. The final description of the tribe of Dan was how they set up house in their new land. Their setup worship was, again, obviously a violation of God's law, which states that God was to be worshipped in a place of his choosing. Of course, the use of idols was a clear violation of the second commandment, but none of this seemed to matter to the people of the tribe of Dan. It did matter to God, however, and although it would be centuries later, we are given God's ominous verdict of the Danites They would be wiped out by the Assyrians in the 8th century BC. And as it turns out, we will never hear about them as a single tribe again. What brought families like Micah and the tribe like Dan to worship false idols? is not complicated. And it's actually stated plainly in the text. The first thing was assimilation of pagan idols and rituals into Israel's faith and their worship of God You will remember that when we began our study of Judges, we labeled the sin syncretism, which is the assimilation of other religions into Israel's faith in God. Such sin is obviously repeated over and over again in Israel's history. Israel does not seem to be able to escape the trappings of each of the ages in which they lived. They do not reject Yahweh altogether, and they even at times do all that God requires while adding more in terms of the worship of false gods and sinful rituals. The Christian Church, both Roman Catholic and Protestant alike, have been guilty of doing the same down through history and in our contemporary expressions. Roman Catholics placed tradition and evolved dogma on an equal level with Holy Scripture. Examples are dogmas such as the teaching of the existence of purgatory. As Article 22 of our 39 articles states Purgatory is a fond thing vainly invented and grounded upon no warranty in the scripture. Protestants in like manner place emotion and personal preferences also on the same level of Holy Scripture. Which is actually closer to acting like the Israelites in the book of Judges, as everyone did what was right in their own eyes. The following quote is from a thesis paper done by Dr. Elizabeth Cook. It is titled The McDonald's of the Megachurch. This quote sums up the reality of what is going on today. Quote, the content of worship in these megachurches is aimed at a target consumer. Mega churches take many approaches with this. Some pick a particular population segment, and all services are aimed at that particular social group. A contemporary approach complete with guitar and drums is often the case if a church desires to attract Generation Xers or younger. To attract the baby boomer generation and their more conventional parents, traditional four-count hymns with traditional sermons are a possible or a possible, but a less probable drawing card. Mega larger, most mega larger churches, however, try to broaden their appeal to satisfy several social groups using one of two approaches. The first approach is to offer different types of services with different messages, music, and general worship styles. End quote. And I simply say to that, beloved, the gospel is not a product to sell. And people made in God's image are not to be consumers of worship styles. The second thing, which can actually be labeled the first thing, because it leads to assimilation or leads to syncretism, is that Israel had no king. And the result was that everyone did what was right in his or her own eyes. From the statement that Israel had no king It is not for us to conclude that once they have a king, they will behave differently. To say that Israel had no king is to say that they had no godly leadership. There was no one to point them in the right direction, to lead them into the right battles, or to live out a life by example for the rest to follow. As we learn in the book of 1 Samuel, Israel had a king. They had a king to lead them in all that was necessary, but he was rejected. That king was God himself. God wanted to be Israel's sole king, but he was rejected and replaced by got by the gods of other nations. Or for men who could be seen on earth in their thrones, but certainly not in heaven. That Jesus was given the title King of Kings and Lord of Lords is for us who know Israel's past to compare the men of Israel And recognize that Jesus, even he, was rejected, a man without sin, sacrificing for their lives. Jesus, who is now seated at the right hand of the Father. Today, we may describe unbelievers as those who have no king. If they do not acknowledge Jesus as King of Kings and Lord of Lords, they have no king, for all other kings are false imitators. The only person on the throne of the life of an unbeliever is the unbeliever himself. The byproduct of or fruit of men being kings unto themselves or men doing that which is right in their own eyes is all around us. Consider that the American Medical Association just last week began debating whether they should recommend states removing the category of sex from birth certificates Consider that secular classrooms are allowing teachers to teach very young students that their gender is a choice. Consider that public school boards are outwardly proclaiming that parents should not have the last say when it comes to raising their children. Consider how we continue to hear from secular media that babies in wombs are choices rather than human. How does the culture get to such a state of confusion? The answer is we have no king. We do not have the king of kings. A people who are not led by Jesus have a fool for their leader. Truth itself is defined by those who have no king as what an individual wants it to be. What is spoken to authorities, the courts, the government Spoken to a spouse, spoken to children, does not have to be factual, but simply in accord with the one who is speaking. For those who have no king, truth is subjective. Truth is elusive. Life is defined by those who have no king as personal. Each person who can carry an infant in her womb can decide whether the child lives or dies. Each person who is facing serious illness or injury can decide whether he or she will live or die. Each person in a depressed state is understood to be capable of deciding whether her life is now worth living. There is no creator to be accountable to for life because there is no king. These are just a few examples of how people live with no king. There are many minor things like manners, etiquette, courtesy, and decency. That are unknown because men without God only do that which is right in their own eyes While Israel lived in a state of odd, weird, and strange confusion, as if they have no king, there was a king. There was and still is the same king who is willing to reign over the hearts of men. And not, mind you, in order to control people or oppress people, but to help them to live the life he intended for them. That king of course is the king of kings. He is the Alpha and Omega. He was in the beginning. He is the only one who can bring calm to chaos and peace to contention. You need that king. I need that king. Our culture needs that king. Remember what God wants, what he is after. He wants to be our king and for us to be his people. That is his heart. And what his heart wants is for our greatest benefit. So it starts with each of us individually. Each of us must choose Jesus as our personal king. And you might say to someone, well I've already done that. Beloved, choosing Jesus as your King is something you must do each day, every day. And as a church, we need to agree to choose Jesus as our corporate king. And we need to invite as many as we know to join us in choosing Jesus as our king. And if God wills it, then maybe our community will choose him as king. Maybe our county, maybe our state, maybe our country, maybe our culture. Can we imagine turning our culture around? Having a culture that chooses Jesus as their King of Kings. Is that possible? Why not find out? Let us pray. We thank you for this challenging message to make Jesus our King every day, in each moment of every day. And we ask that you might increase our faith to believe that if we make Jesus our King individually in our families and in our church, that it might spread That it will spread to our community, to our county, to our state, to our entire culture. Increase our faith, Heavenly Father. May your will be done. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.