In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I not only encourage you, but I implore you to turn in your Bibles to Judges chapter 19 As we are going to be reading from the text, starting at Judges 19, before we, as you do that, I Saw something on social media that struck me as I, Bobby Lind and I have been reflecting on what it was twenty years ago that happened. and all that's transpired since. But I saw on social media someone posted, I long for the spirit of nine twelve. I thought that's rather poignant to uh to say. Um on nine eleven I was actually in school here with the students and we were watching the events on television and I had to go to the hospital to visit one of the parishioners and uh on my way the second tower fell. It was all quite dramatic on the uh radio. And then as I got out of my car I was wearing my clerics. And every person I passed on that street, I I usually park on the street at Johns Hopkins and walk over a couple of blocks, and every person that passed me either bowed to me or said, please pray for us It was quite a spirit in response to the clergy in a moment of crisis. And it struck me how necessary it is to take a humble position before you're able to learn, before you're able to receive. And so it is that we were humbled on that day, and as a nation we were ready to receive, receive the mercies of God May we pray that we could return as a people back to that humility and be ready to receive what God has for us. Amen. As I said, turn with me to Judges 19. We have described these final chapters in Judges as odd and strange. What we have read and will cover today will verify that description. There is a progression we are to notice. of how ungodliness of pagan people has affected the ungodliness of God's people First, it has negatively affected a family, who we know through the person of Micah. Then it affected a whole tribe, the tribe of Dan. And now at the end of the book of Judges, we realize that the whole nation of Israel is in confusion about acceptable worship unto God, and they are in confusion about their morality. This is another piece of evidence showing a connection between our worship and our morality. We will see in these passages that Israel is so confused as a people that even when they try to get it right, they get it wrong. This sermon, as I said, will be different than I have done before. We will be covering three chapters today I will read large sections of the text and follow up each section read with summary comments. Once we get all passages read, we will highlight the primary lesson. Now, verses 1 through 10 of chapter 19 has already been read, so I'm not going to do that again. But two points are worthy to mention. First, what we learn from this passage as it immediately follows the narrative of Micah's household and the tribe of Dan. Is that public good cannot be divorced from private virtue? I'll say that again. The public good cannot be divorced from private virtue. Individual behavior has an effect upon the family and society. Second, all of the characters in this story remain anonymous. The purpose is for the reader, you and me, not to focus on individuals. But to understand that the concubine here could be any concubine, the Levite priest could be any Levite priest, that the concubine was not the wife of the Levite sets the moral climate of the time. And I would also say it should remind you of another story, the father-in-law not allowing his son-in-law and wife to leave. Goes back to Jacob and Laban. As I said, verses one through fifteen has already been read, so eleven through fifteen we have the Levite and his concubine. Not able to find hospitality. And that is a continuing description of the moral climate of the day Hospitality is a virtue in most parts of the world, but especially for the Israelites. You remember that God uses hospitality to explain to them how He treated them. He took them in. They were strangers, and he brought them into his household, and so he expects the Israelites to bring in strangers into their households. Then we have sixteen through thirty. Sixteen through thirty Just then an old man came in from his work in the field at evening, who also was from the mountains of Ephraim. He was staying in Gibeah, whereas the men of the place were Benjamites And when he raised his eyes, he saw the traveler in the open square of the city, and the old man said, Where are you going, and where do you come from? And he said to him, We are passing from Bethlehem to Judah, toward the remote mountains of Ephraim. I am from there. I went to Bethlehem in Judah. Now I am going to the house of the Lord. But there is no one who will take me into his house, although we have both straw and fodder for our donkey, and bread and wine for myself and your female servant And for the young man who is with your servant, there is no lack of anything. And the old man said, Peace be with you. However, let all your needs be my responsibility. Only do not spend the night in the open square. So he brought him into his house and gave fodder to the donkeys, and they washed their feet and ate and drank. As they were enjoying themselves, suddenly a certain men from the city, perverted men surrounded the house and beat on the door. They spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring out the man who came to your house that we may know him carnally. But the man, the master of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brethren, I beg you, do not act so wickedly. Seeing this man has come into my house, do not commit this outrage. Look, here is my virgin daughter and the man's concubine. Let me bring them out now. Humble them and do with them what as you please But to this man do not do do not do such a vile thing. But the men would not heed him. So the man took his concubine and brought her out to them, and they knew her and abused her all night until the morning And when the day began to break, they let her go. Then the woman came as the day was dawning, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her master was, till it was light. When her master arose in the morning and opened the doors of the house and went out to go his way, there was the concubine, fallen at the f at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold. And he said to her, Get up, let us be going. But there was no answer. So the man lifted her on to the donkey, and the man got up and went to his place. When he entered his house he took a knife, and lay hold of his concubine, and divided her into twelve pieces, limb by limb. And sent her throughout the territory of Israel, and so it was that all who saw it said, No such deed has been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came Up from the land of Egypt until this day, consider it, confer, and speak up. The reader should recall the scene of Sodom and Gomorrah as we read these verses. The NIV calls the men wicked. The literal translation from the Hebrew is men of the sons of Belial, which is the devil's men. These men are not from Sodom and Gomorrah, but are instead Israelites who are evil enough to be called the devil's men. The old man and the Levite do not see with any moral clarity whatsoever. The old man settles for what he considers a lesser sin, the corruption of his daughter. The Levite certainly appears heartless, for not only does he give his concubine over to the devil's men, but after she is used and abused, he expects her to get up and travel as if nothing has happened. Both these men exhibit a loss of chivalry and a disregard for covenantal male headship Which calls for a man to protect a woman, not throw her to abusers. The cutting up of the concubine is a gruesome act, indeed. Obviously, the Levite wanted a dramatic response from all of Israel, and that is what he received. There is a depth in truth not often discussed or acknowledged here, the sending out pieces of the concubine to each tribe in Israel communicates that all are responsible to see that justice is done. There is in Scripture an awareness of corporate sin as well as individual sin When the sin of some, corporate sin, is not addressed, it becomes the sin of all. Chapter 20, verses 1 through 11. So all the children of Israel came out from Dan to Beersheba, as well as the land of Gilead. And the congregation gathered together as one man before the Lord at Mizpah. And the leaders of all the people and all the tribes of Israel presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God Four hundred thousand foot soldiers who drew the sword. Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mitzpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how did this wicked deed happen? So the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered and said, My concubine and I went into Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin, to spend the night. And the men of Gibeah rose against me and surrounded the house at night because of me They intended to kill me, but instead they ravished my concubine so that she died. So I took hold of my concubine, cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the territory of the inheritance of Israel. Because they committed lewdness and outrage in Israel. Look, all of you are children of Israel. Give your advice and counsel here and now So all the people arose as one man saying, None of us will go to his tent, nor will any turn back to his house, but now this is the thing which we will do to give to Gibeah. We will go up against it by lot. We will take ten men out of every hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of every thousand, and a thousand out of every ten thousand, to make provisions for the people That when they come to Gibeah in Benjamin, they may repay all the vileness that they have done in Israel. So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, united together as one man The call to the response of the entire nation is a good sign. They're responding, they want to have justice done. Although the account told to the tribes by the Levite, notice that it leaves out any culpability by the Levite himself, as if he did nothing to contribute to her demise. 12-23. Then the tribes of Israel sent men through the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this wickedness that has occurred among you? Now therefore deliver up the men, the perverted men who are in Gibeah, that they may put them to death and remove the evil from Israel But the children of Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel. Instead the children of Benjamin gathered together from the city to Gibeah to go to battle against the children of Israel. And from the cities at that time the children of Benjamin numbered twenty-six thousand men who drew the sword. Besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who numbered seven hundred select men Among all those people were seven hundred and select men who were left-handed. Every one could sling a stone at a hair's breadth and not miss. Now besides Benjamin, the men of Israel numbered four hundred thousand men who drew the sword. All of these were men of war. Then the children of Israel arose and went up to the house of God to inquire of God. They said, Which of us shall go up first to battle against the children of Benjamin? The Lord said, Judah first So the children of Israel arose in the morning and encamped against Gibeah. And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel put themselves in battle array to fight against them at Gibeah Then the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on the day cut down to the ground twenty-two thousand men of Israel, of the Israelites And the people, that is, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves again, formed the battle line at the place where they had put themselves in array on the first day. Then the children of Israel went up and wept before the Lord until evening, and asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shall I again draw near for battle against the children of my brother, the Benjamin? And the Lord said, Go up against them. So here is described a very bad sign for the state of the people as the Benjamites cover up the sin of the men who are guilty. It is seen by the tribe as more virtuous to protect evil men from the consequences of their actions than to see that justice is done. Verse 24 through 36. So the children of Israel approached the children of Benjamin on the second day And the Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day, and cut down to the ground eighteen thousand more of the children of Israel. All these drew the sword. Then all the children of Israel, that is all the people, went up and came to the house of God and wept. They sat there before the Lord and fasted that day until evening, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. So the children of Israel inquired of the Lord. The ark of the covenant of God was there in those days And Phineas, Phineas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of my brother Benjamin, or shall I cease And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will deliver them into your hand. Then Israel sent men in ambush all around Gibeah And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in battle array against Gibeah, as at the other times. So the children of Benjamin went out against the people and were drawn away from the city. They began to strike down and kill some of the people, as at the other times in the highways, one of which goes up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah. And in the field about thirty men of Israel. And the children of Benjamin said, They are defeated before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee and draw them away from the city to the to the highways. So all the men of Israel rose from their place and put themselves in battle array at Baal Tamar Then Israel Israel's men in ambush burst forth from the position in the plain of Gebah, and the ten thousand select men from all Israel came against Gibeah, and the battle was fierce. But the Benjamites did not know that disaster was upon them. The Lord defeated Benjamin before Israel, and the children of Israel destroyed that day twenty five thousand one hundred Benjamites. All these drew the sword So the children of Benjamin saw that they were defeated. The men of Israel had given ground to the Benjamites because they relied on the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah. That the tribe of Benjamin experienced the first two victories probably surprises us. It is a lesson testifying to the confusion that Israel was in. Who is in the right is not clear. As is usually the case in a civil war, when each part of a nation carries guilt. The eventual victory over the Benjamites was the Lord's victory. And that is made obvious because of the two prior defeats. That God is responsible for the judgment of the tribe of Benjamin is clear in these passages. Verses 37 through 48. And the men in ambush quickly rushed upon Gibeah. The men in ambush spread out and struck the whole city with the edge of the sword. Now the appointed signal between the men of Israel and the men of ambush was that they would make a great cloud of smoke rise up from the city, whereupon the men of Israel would turn in battle. Now the Benjamin had begun to strike and kill about thirty of the men of Israel, for they said, Surely they are defeated before us as in the first battle But when the cloud began to rise from the city in a column of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and there was the whole city going up in smoke into heaven. And when the men of Israel turned back, the men of Benjamin panicked, for they saw that disaster had come upon them. Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel in the direction of the wilderness, but the battle overtook them, and whoever came out of the cities they destroyed in their midst. They surrounded the Benjamites and chased them and easily trampled them down as far as in front of Gibeah toward the east. And eighteen thousand men from Benjamin fell, all these were men of valor Then they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Ramon, and they cut down five thousand of them on the highways, and they pursued them Relentlessly up to Gidam and killed two thousand of them. So all who fell to Benjamin that day were twenty-five thousand men who drew the sword. And all these were men of valor. But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Ramon, and they stayed at the rock of Ramon for four months And the men of Israel turned back against the children of Benjamin and struck them down with the edge of the sword. From every city, men of beasts, and all who were found, they also set fire to all the cities they came to So the remains of the tribe of Benjamin are minimal. The tribe is almost wiped out Ironically, this was the type of destruction to be made upon the Canaanites when Israel first entered the Promised Land. Now it is being made upon God's people. By God's people. The punishment inflicted upon the women and children of Benjamin was excessive. And is once again a sign of the moral confusion among the Israelites. The behavior that follows Can be called total moral confusion. Chapter 21, verses 1 through 14 Now the men of Israel had sworn an oath at Mitzpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to the Benjamin as a wife. Then the people came to the house of God and remained there before God till evening. They lifted up their voices and wept bitterly, and said, O Lord God of Israel, why has this come to pass in Israel, that today there should be one tribe missing in Israel? So it was on the next morning that the people rose early and built an altar there, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. The children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who did not come up with the assembly to the Lord? For they had made a great oath concerning anyone who had not come up to the Lord at Mitzpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death. And the children of Israel grieved for the Benjamin, for Benjamin, their brother, and said, One tribe is cut off from Israel today. What shall we do for wives for those who remain? Seeing we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them our daughters as wives. And they said, What one is there from the tribes of Israel who did not come up to Mispah to the Lord? And in fact, no one had come up to the camp from Jabash Gilead to the assembly. For when the people were counted, indeed, not one of the inhabitants of Jabash Gilead was there. So the congregation set out there twelve thousand of their most valiant men and commanded them, saying, Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, including the women and children. And this is the thing that you shall do. You shall utterly destroy every male and every woman who has known a man intimately So they found among the inhabitants of Jabash Gilead four hundred young virgins who had not known a man intimately, and they brought them to the camp of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan. Then the whole congregation sent word to the children of Benjamin, who were at the rock of Ramon, and announced peace to them. So Benjamin came back at that time, and they gave them the women whom they saved alive of the women of Jabez Gilead and they had no y and then yet had not found enough for them So the oath made was to create unity among the different tribes. The irony of the oath is that the law forbids an intermarrying between Canaanite nations and Israel. There was not a law that forbid intermarrying between the tribes of Israel. Thus, here we have the beginning of good intentions, but again, a lack of a moral compass. The weeping is caused by the realization of what that has been done to a tribe in Israel. The solution is to pass judgment on others The behavior of the elders has been described as a comedy of correctness. Unfortunately, the virgins of Jabez Gilead are not enough, actually, 200 short. Verses fifteen through twenty-five. And the people grieved for Benjamin because the Lord had made a void in the tribes of Israel. Then the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for wives for those who remain, since the women of Benjamin have been destroyed? And they said, There must be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, that a tribe may not be destroyed from Israel. However, we cannot give them wives from our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn an oath, saying, Cursed be the one who gives a wife to Benjamin Then they said, In fact, there is a yearly feast of the Lord in Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, south of Labonah. Therefore they instructed the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in wait in the vineyards, and watch, and just when the daughters of Shiloh come out to perform their dances Then come out from the vineyards, and every man catch a wife for himself from the daughters of Shiloh, then go to the land of Benjamin. Then it shall be, when their fathers or their brothers come to us and complain, that we will say to them, Be kind to them for our sakes, because we did not take a wife for any of them in the war. For it is not as though you have given the women to them at this time, making yourself guilty of your oath. And the children of Benjamin did so. They took enough wives for their number from those who danced, whom they caught Then they went and returned to their inheritance, and they rebuilt the cities and dwelt and dwelt in them. So the children of Israel departed from there at that time, every man to his tribe and family They went out from there, every man to his inheritance. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. So the answer to the need for more women is to force the other other young women into marriage. We, the readers, are supposed to notice the hypocrisy. These men are giving the daughters of Israel away in the harshest and cruelest of fashions. The end result is that the punishment for one woman being raped is to allow the rape of 600 women. As usual, when men have lost their moral compass, women take the brunt of the repercussions. One of the great ironies of our modern struggles is that as women accept that there is no distinction between male and female, The quicker female influence fades into obscurity, and the abuse of women increases What happened in Israel at the end of Judges has served as a deep lesson for the people of God. The prophet Hosea refers to this story that we have read when he describes the judgment to come of the northern tribes. Hosea 9 9 says. They have sunk deep into corruption, the people of God, as in the days of Gibeah. God will remember their wickedness and punish them for their sins. Thus, the sin of Israel at Gibeah, recorded in these last three chapters of Judges, the chapters we just read, is a watermark for the sin of Israel. It becomes an example to God's people as to what happens to them when they forsake the one true God and then assimilate into their worship the ethic, the ritual, the morals of the pagan world. The primary sin of Israel in these stories is not the sexual perversions displayed by these devil's men. And enacted on the concubine of the Levite. It is not the Benjamites harboring the guilty. The primary sin is not the irrational vow made at Mitzvah. It is not the giving away of Israel's daughters to undeserving men. All of these are sins, of course. But what causes these sins, what is at the root, is having other gods before the one true God. From the breaking of the first commandment Folllows all the rest. Be reminded as you reflect on these stories of St. Paul's letter to the Romans In the first chapter of that epistle, he explains how God turns people over to their primal lusts, and men become attracted to men and women to women. God gives people over to such lust because they have first and foremost abandoned him as their king. Sexual perversion is not the greatest of sins. It seems to be the most interesting, but it is not the greatest. It is actually a byproduct of removing God from the throne of our hearts, from the throne of our families, from the throne of our churches, from the throne of our communities. Another byproduct of removing God from his rightful throne is the mistreatment of women. Remember Adam placing blame on Eve. Remember Abraham giving his wife over to a stranger. Women have been mistreated down through the ages simply because men have dethroned God from their personal lives. And society, resulting in women being treated as mere objects of lust or as property to buy and to sell. And woe to any man. Woe to any man who uses the Christian faith to force his wife into a submissive role. where he can be served and she can be mistreated. Such is not loving a wife as Christ loved his church. Such men should be outed and shamed until they repent. There are many well-meaning Christians in our country that believe that sexual sins can be overcome by legislation and court rulings There are well-meaning feminists who believe that women will be properly respected if there is legislation passed and court rulings made in favor of equal rights. Of course, both groups missed the mark. The answer is God reigning as king in the hearts of men. And the only way that that will happen is if men confess Jesus as their Lord and Savior. This sermon is sounding an awful lot like last week's sermon. It should. The point is still being made. The lesson from the last five chapters in Judges is how a people become corrupt. And confused when God is not their king and they do that which is right in their own eyes. The solution to this is what has always been. Repent and confess Jesus as King and Lord. Do so individually, do so corporately. Excuse me I remember after my conversion to Christianity, a saying that was used That was a challenge to people who were claiming to be Christian, but were not living as if Jesus was their king. It was a challenge something like You have to accept Jesus as your Savior and accept him as your Lord. It's clever. But it misses the point that if Jesus is your Savior, he is automatically your Lord, your King. If Jesus is not your King, he is not your Savior. Make him your Savior, which is making him your King. And do so every day of your life. And as we do, may we continue to pray that his kingdom will come and his will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Let us pray Our gracious and merciful Father. Once again, we are confronted with the reality of what happens to men who do not make you their king. And so we are once again challenged to do so individually, to do so corporately, and to pray that your kingdom will come. And so we pray this once again. And Father helped us to be people of honor, making you our King each and every day. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.