In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. May be seated. We are looking at Exodus 32, as usual, encourage you to turn in your few Bibles there to Exodus 32, but I begin with a few stories At the end of November 2011, five years ago, a high school student in Sacramento, California, or high school student, in Sacramento, California, experienced a loud explosion that was heard throughout the entire building The source? Two student boys ages 16 and 15 lit an M80 firework and threw it into a toilet bowl. And shattered the light fixture, blowing the entire toilet to pieces On a history test question, a high school student was asked, what ended in 1896? Knowing only one answer, the student wrote 1895. On a math question, a student was given a right triangle And told to find the X. The only answer the student knew was to circle the X and write, here it is A mother confessed to receiving a note from her daughter's kindergarten teacher informing her that her daughter had brought her baby brother's dried-up umbilical cord That had just fallen off to show and tell and passed it around. Another parent confessed that he received a phone call from his son's teacher who informed him that his son had brought dog poop to school to show for show and tell, explaining that he thought it was cool because it had carrots in it. I share these true stories with you because they are proof that a parent is a fool Who says something like, my child would never do that? Our children are capable of most any action that would embarrass us. But what do you think you are capable of doing? What are we, as grown-ups, capable of doing Too many Christians hear or read for themselves the story of Israel worshipping the Golden Bull and conclude that they would never do such a thing. They would never turn away from God so quickly after witnessing the ten plagues, the parted sea, the fallen mamma, the water from rocks, and the giving of the Ten Commandments. But how do we know we would not worship that golden bull? The truth is we don't know, and we cannot know until we are faced with such a temptation. The theme for this sermon is St. Paul's words to the Corinthians, who after describing the very sin that we read about in Exodus 32, Paul gave this following admonishment. After describing the sin of Israel in the desert Worshiping a false idol. Paul says, whoever thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall. In the context, it is saying that whoever thinks he or she would not have committed the same sin of idolatry as Israel did, as recorded in Exodus 32, such a person is to receive a warning that too much confidence in self may be the cause of your ultimate downfall I've chosen to preach from Exodus 32, which means we're jumping 10 chapters here. Because last week we discussed the placement of the minor laws, which are commentaries on the general Ten Commandments. Now we're not going to go through all of those minor laws, but I am cherry-picking passages that I believe will be the most useful for us from Exodus. And so we are here in Exodus 32. Moses had been gone, by the time this is written, almost forty days. From what the people could see, the top of the mountain was alive with lightning and thunder With the power of God on display and the weakness of man realized, the people could easily have concluded that Moses was dead. If Moses was dead, the people had no leader, no visible leader, no visible representation of God. And it is difficult to read what Aaron did next. Some suggest that Aaron was stalling. Because Moses had to plead later for Aaron's life, we can say that God certainly held him culpable. And we should note that what is sometimes translated calf, you've heard me say a young bull, which means the idol would have been a full-grown animal. Now, one defense of Aaron is that some pagan worshipers would use golden bulls, statues, as a seat. for the God they worship to sit upon. Thus Aaron perhaps was trying to compromise by believing that he was only making a throne for the one true God. The text suggests that the idol was first rough cast in solid gold and then finished with some sort of tool. When Aaron presents the finished idol, he says, these are your gods. And this causes us to question, why would he use the plural form? The New King James Version translates it as God, singular, but the original Hebrew is plural. And it matches what the people requested. They requested of Aaron, make us gods. But the idol was one. Some commentators say that it is worded in the plural because the first of the Ten Commandments is worded in the plural. No other gods before me. Aaron could very well be referring to that commandment when he says, Here are your gods. Adding more to not fully condemning Aaron, we hear him say that the worship at the feet of the idol was to be a feast to the Lord. He uses the word Yahweh. in that text. The behavior described while the people are worshiping is truly what condemns them. It reveals what was truly in their hearts. They wanted to express themselves in the manner that they did. They behaved like the tribes around them as they mixed their understanding of God with their desires of the flesh. But we we would never give in to the desires of the flesh, right? We would never do that When God reveals to Moses what the people are doing, we hear a bit of sarcasm as he calls the people Moses people. God does not want to take ownership of them while they are reveling. God then calls the people stiff-necked. Which is a farmer's metaphor for an ox or a horse that won't respond to the rope being tugged. It means stubborn and willful But we we would never be stubborn or willful, right? When Moses pleads for the people, he reveals his heart. And his reasoning, notice his reasoning that he states back to the Lord, why not to kill all of these people? His reasoning is not to save the people foremost, but to save the reputation of God. And Moses makes no excuse for the behavior of the people. He is so very different than leaders of today who find every reason under the sun to explain away their own evil behavior or the evil behavior of others. In verse 14, where the New King James uses the word relented, it is actually literally repented. The Lord repented. That God repented is not as if he was surprised by what was happening or that he literally changed his mind. Bad theologians make a great deal out of such a passage. The description of God repenting is an anthropomorphic description It is the action of God being described in human terms so that you and I can understand. It means here that God was going in a different direction than he originally said he would go. And we must remember that God's covenant with his people is conditional. When the people sin, well plans change. Moses next makes his way down the mountain, and we read for the first and last time that the law was written on both sides of the tablets. The emphasis on the divine origin of the writing is important as to what's going to happen next. As Moses comes down the mountain, he meets up with Joshua, who had been waiting all those forty days at a distance from Moses and up on the mountain away from the unfaithful people below. When Moses comes an eyewitness to the sin of the people that they were committing, it seems that it overwhelmed him. We should consider that he was with the Lord all those days. He was coming from the very essence of holiness. Coming from the essence of holiness to next being a witness to actions so vile and offensive that Moses had to act emotionally. Moses showed righteous indignation as he broke the tablets. Moses does what we would have done, right? He is offended by sins of the flesh just as we would be, and we are, right? Of course, the breaking of the tablets was not simply an act of unbridled anger. It was also a symbolic act representing the fact that Moses was a witness to Israel breaking her covenant with God. Breaking it by breaking most of the Ten Commandments in one day. After Moses broke the tablets, he next destroyed the idol itself. As he had the gold ground into powder, poured it out over water, and forced the Israelites to drink it. The irony in that is in the fact that they could drink, they could consume the idol that they were worshiping. It was to impress upon them the powerlessness that such idols have. And this is what we would do, right? We would do that Grind that idol down. We would be wise to show sinful people the error of their ways. Right? Our sadness regarding Aaron's actions is doubled when he gives a lame description of how this idle bull was cast. He sounds very much like an adolescent making up a lie when he says the gold was thrown into the fire and a golden bull popped out. We would never do that, right? We would never make an excuse for what we did Or tell a story about how things actually didn't happen as if they actually happened, right? We would never do that. In fact, we would never sin to begin with. So we wouldn't have to lie about it. Right? St. Paul's warning to the Corinthians is to humble every believer that has ears to hear. Whoever thinks he stands, take heed lest he fall The fall is in the same manner, the same way Israel fell. It is doing something we think we would never do. It is to think too highly of our constitutions and our own wills, as if we ourselves can ward off sin by our own wisdom and our own strength. From the writings of Polycarp, a second-century Christian bishop, we hear of a man named Quintus. He is a mere footnote in the history of Christianity, but he is an important footnote. As he is noted as one of the first apostates. His story is told in brief. Quintus was a new convert to Christianity in the midst of great persecution by the Romans upon the Christians. Quintus made a big show of himself originally as he volunteered himself and a few others to be put on trial for his faith. But when the Roman Procouncil showed the wild beasts he would be thrown to, well, Quintus turned. He renounced his faith and made an offering to the Roman gods. But that is not what we would have done. We would not have cowered at the sight of beasts. We would have been faithful, even as the beasts were devouring us. Right? There's not a quintess among us, right? In the fourth century, a young boy named Julian was grandson to Constantine. Who, as we know, was the first Roman emperor to claim a faith in Jesus as his Savior and who made the expression of Christian worship lawful within the Roman Empire, the great Constantine. Julian had a chance to build upon the faith of his grandfather, but because of the infighting of his family for the throne of the Roman Empire. After the death of Constantine, Julian wanted nothing more to do with Christianity, for he never saw the faith lived out by his parents. So instead of helping Christianity spread, Julian became its greatest enemy. He even tried to restore the pagan practices of early Rome. He thus became known as Julian the Apostate. But we we would have understood what Julian was doing. You and I would never go apostate. We would have seen the gospel of Jesus Christ from the scriptures, not having to worry about whether our family was living out the faith. Right? Thomas Krabner in 1533, chosen to be Archbishop of Canterbury. Once his appointment was approved by the Pope, Cramner declared King Henry's marriage to Catherine Boyd. Four months later, he married him to Anne Boleyn. With Thomas Cromwell, he supported the translation of the Bible into English. In 1545, he wrote a litany that is still used in the church. Under the reign of Edward VI, Cramner was allowed to make the doctrinal changes that he thought necessary for the church. In 1549, he helped complete the Book of Common Prayer. During the reign of Edward VI, son of Henry VIII, Cramber returned to the Church of England, and truly established it as Protestant. And after Edward's death, Cramner supported Lady Jane Grade as successor. Her nine-day reign was followed by the Roman Catholic Mary. Who tried him for treason. After a long trial and imprisonment, Cramner became weak in the faith, weak in his resolve to stand for the gospel truth. In his weakened state, he signed a declaration that rescinded his previous beliefs, thinking that if he did so, it would save him from the death penalty. But that was not the manner of Queen Mary, who ordered Cramner to be burned at a stake. Having realized his foolish weaknesses, Cramner rescinded his rescinding and dramatically stuck his right hand that signed that declaration, stuck that in the fire first. That it would burn first, claiming again the gospel. We can now see that Cramler was a weak man. We would not have weakened in prison. We would have stared the death sentence down, stood up to bloody Mary. All of us would have. Right? Frankie Schaefer is the son of Francis Schaefer, the well-known evangelist and Christian apologist from the 1970s and 80s. Francis Schaefer was as influential in the Christian church during those two decades as Billy Graham was. Frankie Schaefer grew up in a home that held the gospel of Jesus Christ as central to all of life. But Frankie became a bitter man after his parents died. He didn't appreciate how he was raised as he came to think it was some sort of brainwashing. He has, in his adult life, renounced most of what his parents have taught him, and now he calls himself an atheist who believes in God, but not Jesus as God. And we say, what a waste. He threw away a Christian heritage we would have loved to have had. We would have appreciated everything about our parents and our faith heritage. Right? George Perdiccas was an original member of the News Boys. The News Boys is a band that has produced Christian pop rock since the 1980s. Perdiccas, although he left the band a number of years ago, came out publicly as an atheist last year. While proclaiming his atheism, he also tried to expose the Christian pop music industry as being full of hypocrites who only care about making money. Perdiccas claims that one in ten persons in Christian pop music industry is actually a Christian. I am glad none of us has been hypocritical in living out our faith. We would never claim Jesus and not be a true believer. And we would never make false claims about the sins of others, right? Whoever thinks he stands, take heed, lest he fall. Israel turning so quickly to false idols is a sad story, but it is a story of the human condition. It is a story of how far from glory we all are, and how much our souls need to be made holy and made secure in the love of God. Remember, a repeated message in the book of Revelation is for all Christians to hold on. To hold on. And whenever someone tells you to hold on, something's come. Hold on. We are told to hold on to the truths of the gospel. We are told to hold on to the faith we have been given and to grow in that faith, holding on. We have to live our lives with the confession that we too could fall away, turn away, no longer believe, or be fooled. to believe what is false. And that knowledge is to make us humble. And when we are humble, God lifts us up. When St. Paul uses the story of Israel worshipping a golden calf as a warning to Christians, it is not to make them insecure. But only to humble them. This is the perfect lesson for the first Sunday in Advent Where we take the time to consider our preparation for the coming of Jesus. Because Jesus is coming, we need to take heed Thus we fall. Right? Let us pray.