In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Turn if you would to first Timothy chapter three. Picking up at verse 14. First Timothy three, picking up at verse fourteen We are all aware, having learned from our social studies class, or civics class, that in the United States there are three branches of government You have your executive branch, which is the president and his cabinet. Next is the legislative, which consists of the Senate and the House of Representatives, also known as the Congress. And finally there is the judicial, which at the top is the Supreme Court, with lower federal and state courts below. But I should not have said finally regarding the judicial, for there is one more branch of our government. That is not official, meaning that it has no constitutional power, but it is just as powerful as the other three branches. And that fourth branch is the media. I watched a documentary this week. That showed a climate change activist, I think her first name was Greta, staging an arrest for her activism. That was reported by the mainstream media with no mention that the whole matter was staged for the purpose of publicity. The documentary showed the police and the person being arrested waiting patiently for the media to get in place so the propaganda could ensue. The same happened with congresswomen who call themselves the Squad, who were protesting in favor of abortion. And when they were moved from blocking an intersection in Washington, DC, they placed their own hands behind their backs as if they were being handcuffed, with no handcuffs were on them. And again, that part of the story was ignored by the media. This documentary showed how news sources use pictures and videos that depict a story they want to tell when the pictures and videos themselves are not actually supposed to be the same news story that they said it was. But such deception by the media and outright propaganda has been going on for a long time. In the 1980s, there was a supposed serious effort to eliminate the federal deficit centered on the Graham-Rudmond Hullings Amendment. For several years, newspapers, magazines, and television newscasts ran stories, hundreds of stories, on the debates over Graham Rudman The views of all sorts of experts on the urgent need for deficit reduction and eventual enactment of the legislation, politicians postured and were described as working diligently to get a grip on the deficit Anyone who read a newspaper or watched television news received the message that Congress and the Reagan administration were heroically and painfully struggling to contain the government spending and reduce the deficit. Behind the smoke and screen, however, congressional committees and federal officials were increasing spending and adding new programs in the routine annual budget appropriations process. Of course they were. Journalists conspired with politicians to create an image of a government fighting to the end of the deficit crisis, but they ignored the routine procedures that increased the deficit. And listen to this quote. Quote, the U. S. press, like the United States government, is a corrupt and troubled institution. Corrupt not so much in the sense that it accepts bribes, but in a systematic sense. It fails to do what it claims to do, what it should do, and what society expects it to do So said Paul H. Weaver, a political science professor at Harvard back in 1995, almost 30 years ago. And things have gotten worse. It is all real trouble because we don't know who to trust. We don't know who is telling us the whole truth. We don't know what the agendas are of those who are feeding us the information. But here is a quote I hope you will not forget. Stanford journalism professor Ted Glasser stated this in 2020 that journalism needed to, quote, free itself from this notion of objectivity. To develop a sense of social justice. He then added, journalists need to be overt and candid advocates of social justice, and it's hard to do so under the constraints of objectivity. Beloved, objectivity is the enemy of liars and false teachers, but it is a friend to those who want to handle the truth. Timothy. The primary audience for this pastoral letter from the Apostle Paul was dealing with false teachers within the church at Ephesus And false teachers were being used then, and were being are being used today by the devil with the same strategy. The devil never changes his strategy. And that strategy is to take a truth that has been produced by God. And to twist it, and twist it enough, so that it not only is a lie, but a lie that leads away from God and toward evil. Understand that the devil has no original ideas. He is limited. He is incapable of creating anything new. That is why he takes what God has created and he distorts it. Examples are everywhere. The examples I choose are some of the most controversial in the history of our country. Slavery in the Bible is caused by circumstances that could not be avoided. If a man himself or his entire family was in debt, a debt that could not be paid in any reasonable time He could sell himself, a family member, or his entire family into slavery, or what was more comfortably titled servanthood, until the debt was paid off In some instances, the debt was paid off, but the family in slavery found themselves so much better off financially than they were before that they chose to remain servants. Another form of slavery occurred when a nation would go to be at war, and when an army was defeated on the battlefield, the men who were still alive on the side of the enemy were either to be killed or made slaves. There was no other alternative, for if they simply let him go, or them go, to go back to their homes, they would surely rise up again and go to war again in the near future. Under such circumstances, slavery was understandable and even humane. But the devil twisted it and made it corrupt and evil by convincing men who even claimed to fear God And be Christian to enslave another race by man stealing and then keeping them by force because they thought the race to be inferior. And those same men would use Bible verses, verses I explained they have a completely different context, and claim what they were doing by hating and enslaving a different race was being defended by the Bible. Some ignorant teachers today condemn the Bible for what it says about slavery without knowing the context in which such passages are used and how men have distorted it over the years. Another example is the subject of abortion. We know that the womb in every culture, in every age, has been considered the safest place on earth. Until the devil takes. Takes what God created, the ability for a man and a woman to conceive and for a child to grow inside its mother. The devil has taken that and relabeled it so that the child, the infant, the baby, is none of those, but is instead a fetus which is supposedly a non-person. And the act of abortion is no longer the killing of a baby, but is said to be a part of reproductive rights. Making the act of abortion a right places it in the political category rather than the moral category. Where there was once a clear objectivity that the evil of taking the life of an unborn child is now twisted to be seen only as a right and a choice. Of course, the child has no rights and has no choice. And so, as we know the ways and means of the devil, We can more easily, readily, and wisely fight the lies of the devil, as Timothy was being instructed to do. In verse 14 of chapter 3, Paul makes a personal remark to Timothy about his hope and attempt to be where Timothy is, and the hope is to do a short-time ministry. Ministry, Paul knows, is most effective when done in person. In verse 15, we have what some consider the most succinct reason for Paul writing this letter He is writing it because he is delayed in coming to Ephesus and because he wants Timothy and those Christians under Timothy to know how to conduct themselves within the house of God, which he says is the church. I remind you that the word church in the Greek is ekklesia, which means gathering, and it is used in a formal manner, which is to say it is not a kumbaya around the campfire gathering. But is a formal gathering where persons have specific duties to perform and roles to fulfill. This is why so much time was taken up describing what is expected of the leaders of the church. And it should be underlined that for Paul to refer to what ought to be conducted in the house of God means there is an objective manner That was and is to be followed within the church. Man has certain and specific roles in the church, and women do as well. And specific men have specific duties to practice in the church and specific standards to be seen in their lives. There are no alternatives to these roles or these standards And this is where the Protestants and more precisely the American Christian Church has been deceived We Americans already have a spirit of independence built in us. It comes from our history, and we call it freedom. But such freedom and independence does not include remodeling the Christian faith to fit our own definitions of what it means to conduct ourselves in the house of God. We cannot ignore the office of a priest, bishop, and deacon as some have done, even getting rid of the practice of ordination altogether. We cannot be locked in what is required of men in their personal lives to hold these offices we have studied these past few weeks And we most certainly cannot throw away moral standards, allowing clergy to sleep with other men, or unlawfully be divorced, or to covet money. Beloved, here is the truth as I plainly can say it. Either all the Bible is God's word, or none of it is. We can't pick and choose which parts we will believe and follow and which parts we will not. For frankly, to do so, we'll be making ourselves our own God. For we would be the interpreter and gatekeeper of truth and falsehood, making us only accountable to ourselves. And that fits perfectly within the will and strategy of the devil. At the end of verse 15, Paul says that the church of the living God is a pillar and ground of truth. Once again, the devil has used such a statement to divide Christians by having some interpret Paul to mean that the church comes first, and it comes first over God's Word. But the church is only the instrument God has chosen to defend and proclaim objective truth, the objective truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that is seen in verse 16, where he lists what the church is to believe and proclaim. And so he starts. God was manifested in the flesh. Jesus became man and dwelt among us. Believing God became man is absolutely essential to understanding the Christian faith And especially since the devil has tried to convince false teachers to teach that it isn't true. Some said he only appeared to be a man. Some said it was impossible for God to be a man Some said if he was a man, he was in no sense God. But the fact that he was fully man and fully God confounds not only the understanding of men, but the wisdom of the devil also Such is the mystery of godliness, as verse 16 states. God manifested in the flesh is why Christmas is so important to celebrate. Not in terms of lights, colors, and trees, although those can be fun to enjoy. That a true celebration of Christmas is to worship Jesus as Savior in the house of God. Next, we are to believe and proclaim that Jesus was justified by the Spirit. This statement speaks to the obedience of Jesus. And the obedience of Jesus is how he was tempted in the desert and did not sin. And how he lived amidst brethren and did not sin. And how he faced the whipping, crown of thorns, the being nailed to a cross, the shame of being naked The death on the cross and facing it without sin. Next, we are to believe and proclaim that he was seen by the angels. Which speaks to them caring for him after he was in the desert being tempted. And it also speaks to them knowing his origin and being a witness to both his divinity and his humanity. Next, we are to believe and proclaim that the salvation offered by and through Jesus as the Messiah is also offered to the Gentiles Who were always, always a part of God's plan of salvation. And why Epiphany is so important to celebrate to celebrate it in being in the house of God, worshiping Jesus Next, we are to believe and proclaim the effectiveness of the gospel of Jesus, for not only has it spread throughout the world, it has literally changed nations and reformed cultures. And finally, we are to believe and proclaim that Jesus was received into glory, which is when he sat down at the right hand of the Heavenly Father to take his place as Judge of the world and as our intercessor. He sits so that we can stand. Stand and be confident that we are his people and he is our God. It is also why it is important to celebrate the ascension and celebrate it in the house of God. All of what we are to believe and proclaim, having been listed, leads Paul to remind Timothy and those in his charge. But there will be times when some will say they are Christian, but they will depart from the faith, and they will also do so because they listen which is to heed, they heed the deceiving spirits. and doctrines of demons. Now we started off talking about how difficult it is to know who to trust with the news And then he talks the strategy of the devil as he twists truth. Next week we will get into what those twisted truths specifically were and what they are today. But I want you and I to go away today with the confidence that there are objective truths and that those truths do not change. I have pointed out before from this pulpit that there are laws of logic that must be identified and followed if truth is going to be known. One of those laws you might remember is the law of identity. The law of identity states that the truth value of a statement never changes. A simple example is that if 2 plus 2 is 4, is a true statement, that it was always true, it is always true, and will forever be true. And it doesn't matter the culture it is stated, it doesn't matter the year it is stated, it doesn't matter with any other changing factors. Its value of being true remains the same. Adding to that example, if it is said that 2 plus 2 equals 5, Such a statement is false, and the identity of that false statement always was false, is false, and will be false. The identity of an emphatic statement does not change. Thus, we can say that God becoming flesh and dwelling among us, and his name being Jesus. And his obedience being complete, and the angels being witnesses to his identity, and the gospel is believed throughout the world, And that he is seated at the right hand of the Heavenly Father, saying all of that to be true, that it is always true, never to be changed or altered or twisted. And whoever does try to change it, alter it, or twist it is to be an anthem, which is to be cursed. May God give each of us to never deny these truths. Amen. Let us pray. Our merciful God, we thank you for the revelation of these truths. We thank you for the strength that you give us to hold on to these truths. As was stated in the sermon, may we each have the courage all the days of our life to hold on to them. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.