In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. While in seminary back in nineteen ninety-four In Kansas City, Missouri, as they like to say. After putting the kids down, Bobby Lynn and I turned on the television. And lo and behold, the Christmas special was playing. A Christmas special hosted by Kathy Lee Gifford. It was the sappiest Christmas special we had ever seen, but it was like a car wreck in that you find yourself not being able to turn away The next three years, and I say this honestly, we happened upon that Christmas special by Kathy Lee Gifford. Every year it was stumbling on, happened to, turn it on, and there it is, and you can't turn away. Every year it was a car wreck. In one of those years, we heard the song for the first time, Mary Did You Know? It was sung by an opera singer and I must say, quite well done. Bobby, Lynn, and I were moved by the performance, by the words of the song. And soon after, Kenny Rogers recorded a duet with Winona Judd of that same song, and it was well done, and again we enjoyed the message. But in the next year, another Kathy Lee Gifford Christmas special, Kathy Lee sang the same song with Kenny Rogers And I lost all enjoyment. Nothing personal against Kathy Lee. She seems like a fine person. But the singing was subpar. The song has since been recorded by a number of artists, including the Pentatonics, and I have regained an appreciation for it. What I want us to realize about the song Mary, did you know, is that we who are liturgical in our worship should be able to answer that repeated question in the song because we sing things like the Magnificant The Magnificant was a song of praise sung by Mary as she was inspired by the Holy Spirit after the angel announced she would be with child and after she visited with Elizabeth confirming the words of the angel The repeated question is, Mary, did you know? And the simple answer is yes. Yes. Mary knew because the angel told her. Now let us examine the questions as they are sung in the song Mary Did You Know. First, Mary, did you know that your baby boy would one day walk on water? The answer, well, yes, she did. She was told by the angel that the son she would give birth to would have a kingdom that would have no end. And we learned from lessons and sermons on the gospel according to St. John last year that Jesus walking on water. was in part symbolic of him having power over all nations, as restless waters in Holy Scripture represent nations in rebellion. And by Jesus walking on water, he symbolized that he had authority over all nations. So yes, she knew Jesus would walk on water. The next question, Larry, did you know that your baby boy would save our sons and daughters? Well, in Mary's song Back to the Lord the Magnificant, Mary sings these words. His mercy is on them that fear him throughout all generations. And He, remembering his mercy, hath opened his servant Israel, as he promised to our forefathers Abraham and his seed forever. Thus, Mary understood, at least within these words, that we are saved by God's mercy. It is by his mercy that Jesus died in our place, and we are saved by being made Abraham's seed. For we are his offspring by faith, as we have the same faith as Abraham. So yes, Mary knew that Jesus would save us as sons and daughters. The next question. Mary, did you know that your baby boy has come to make you new? This child that you delivered will soon deliver you. The answer? Well, like the previous explanations, making people new and delivering people from sin and death is saving them. So yes, Mary knew. Now, the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox traditions have Mary as sinless and therefore having no need to be saved like the rest of us who have such a need. But since we are Protestant, we won't worry too much about that. The next question, Mary, did you know that your baby boy will give sight to a blind man? The answer? Well, being blind can be both physical and spiritual, and when it is physical, it is symbolic of being spiritually blind. So being given sight is like being saved and delivered. So stated, as stated previous, yes, Mary knew. But even she knew in the physical realm, Mary knew for the handicapped are the meek Of this world. And Mary saying, He hath put down the mighty from their seat and hath exalted the humble and the meek. Exalting the meek includes healing the blind. So, yes, Mary knew. The next question. Mary, did you know that your baby boy will calm the storm with his hand? The answer? Well, walking on water and calming the storm occurred at the same time, and we said that the storm represents raging nations And we already pointed out that Jesus would be the king of a kingdom that would have no end. So yes, Jesus knew he would calm the storm. Or Mary knew, excuse me. And he calms the storms of hearts, does he not? And the lives of sinners. And Mary also saying, he hath showed strength with his arm. So yes, Mary knew he would calm the storm with his hand. Many, many storms, unlimited storms he would calm. The next question. Mary, did you know that your baby boy has walked where angels trod? When you kiss your little baby, you kiss the face of God. The answer She was told by the angel Gabriel that the son she would give birth to was the son of the highest. And that he would be great, and that he would reign forever. And since the divine only has sons that are divine And only God can reign forever. Mary did in fact know that when she kissed the face of her baby, she kissed the face of God. The song then asks in rapid fire, the blind will see, the deaf will hear, the dead will live again. The lame will leap, the dumb will speak, the praises of the Lamb. Mary, did you know? As in, did you know Jesus could do and would do all such miracles? The answers. Well, just as we can say that Mary understood her son giving sight to the blind, so we can conclude that he would give sound to the deaf. Life to the dead, strength to the lame, and voice to the silent. So Mary knew a whole lot more than she has been given credit for. And then there is that one verse in Luke 2 verse 19. But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. She helped us realize that what she was giving birth to was quite profound. even more profound than her words could express. And yet they reveal a great deal to us. And so we have answered the many questions of that song. Mary, did you know? Questions from what the angel told Mary and what Mary praised in, again called the Magnificat. The magnificat is a collage of holy scripture taken from the Old Testament. The words in such praises reveal a woman who was steeped in Holy Scripture. It reveals a woman who had profound understanding to what God's plan of salvation was and how he would go about implementing that plan. Mary's song is called the Magnificat after the first word of the hymn in the Latin translation of the Bible. The song begins with a message of grace, extraordinary grace as it was, that God had shown to her. And she realized and rejoiced that it was a grace to many more than just herself. Her gift was theirs. Her happiness would be theirs. Her salvation would be for the world's salvation. And she seems genuine in her happiness for the blessings of others as well as those of her own. Mary perhaps was the first to understand Christmas. She loved God And loved the people of God. And therefore loved what God was giving to his people She felt deeply about the oppressed circumstances in her own times, and she longed for that day of deliverance. She was, like Simeon later, the old man she would meet in eight days, waiting. She was waiting also for the consolation of Israel. And she could never be really happy if her own circumstances were favorable and those of the Church of God, the people of God, were not. What God was doing, she realized, was helping his servant Israel, his people. That's what made all of this so immensely wonderful and important. And this is a great example for us. I pray you remember this from this day. True humility and godliness is interested in greater things than our own salvation. Than our own salvation. A godly person who has the Holy Spirit is concerned for the kingdom of God in this world. What we have from Mary then is a deep understanding of how revolutionary It was for God to send his one and only Son into the world in the manner that He chose. What Mary knew was that by sending the Savior through the womb of a lowly handmaiden, the world's thinking was being turned upside down. Consider that the world thinks that what the rich have is security and pleasure, and it's what everybody else wants That is why their money is so important to them, and that is why many envy them. They don't have to worry seemingly about their jobs. They don't have to worry about their bills They don't have to worry about whether they can afford medical treatment for themselves or their children. They are even seemingly more beautiful, or they can buy the most expensive clothes and afford plastic surgery. But these secure, pleasurable, and beautiful people, God has sent them empty away. And instead exalted the lowly. Mary, in her poverty and hunger, revels in the greatness of God. And only those who understand what God has done on the day we celebrate, this day, by giving his only son by way of a virgin born and a lowly stable, only those who Know the greatness of God. And that is what we are to focus upon, what we know about the greatness of God because of Christmas Day Please, please, do not hear in this sermon a criticism of the song Mary Did You Know. Mark Lowry, the writer of the song, communicates quite well how profound God becoming man is, and challenges all of us to think upon the great mystery. And wondered of Jesus being God and yet being cradled in his mother's arms. We have heard how Mary knew quite a bit, but not all of it. No one actually can. No one actually can because it is so profound But what Mary knew is what we know, what you and I know. We know that Jesus is the great I am. And thus it is for us to do what Mary did next, to treasure up all of these things and ponder them in our hearts. Let us pray.