In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 9. Ecclesiastes chapter 9. I will be walking through each of the ten verses, and I'm not going to read them, but but commentary have commentary on them So you'll want to follow along in your Bibles. Our approach for this chapter will be in two parts. We will begin with notes concerning the interpretation of the verses we are covering, and then focus our attention on a particular message I believe the Lord has for us. So beginning with verse 1 Here is a carry-over from chapter 8. Even though we are limited in what we can control and what we can know, we can still make observations. We can still observe. The love and hate description means that God finds favor and displeasure. with the behaviors of men. Verse 2. The good are good morally The clean are clean ceremonially, as in worship. The sacrifices are done to God alone, and as the law prescribes And the one who fears an oath is compared to a man who makes an oath rashly with no intention to comply. The observation made in this verse should be noted by all. The most obvious example we have is the attack on our nation in 2001. People who put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation died that day, along with people who were atheists, backsliders, Muslims, and likely of other faiths. We know that accidents and injuries and murders and disease come upon all walks of life. The devil will tempt us to discern why tragedies befall one person as opposed to another. And the judgment is usually a speculation that such persons have done something wrong and therefore God is punishing them. But the book of Job and the accusations of his friends teach us that this is not the case. We must be careful. We must be most careful to not make such accusations For to say that a person experienced tragedy because God is displeased is to think that we earn his labor and earn his displeasure. If it is by grace through faith that we are saved and not by our own works, then we can contribute nothing to God's favor toward us. It is by grace alone. Also, to say a person has deserved their tragedy is to say that we don't deserve the same fate. If I am in an auto accident with another person and that person dies, do I have any right to conclude that I deserved to live and he did not? And I know that sounds horrible to say out loud, but it is. It is the preacher's job to say what men can be faking. And thus to challenge that thinking when it is unbiblical and unrighteous. The lesson from the Tower of Siloem, if you remember that in Luke chapter 13, the Gospel of Luke chapter 13. That there repeats the point. People came and questioned Jesus. What they spoke out loud is what all of us think. They wanted to know if the Galileans who were killed by Pontius Pilate while they worshiped, they wanted to know from Jesus if those people who were killed deserved it. What Jesus taught them by referring to a particular tower falling on 18 people and 18 people dying, a tragic death, Jesus taught them that that can happen to anyone. What Jesus is most concerned about is that people repent and that people believe. Men need to repent because we are all sinners. And if we truly received what we deserved, we would all die tragically without hope. Verse 3. The evil referred to may as well be translated curse. For it is the result of the fall of men that tragedies befall the righteous as well as the wicked. It is the consequence of man disobeying God and death being brought into the world. With sin and death as part of the world, there is also madness in the heart of many men For Christians, these verses can seem outdated, for they do not describe what Jesus can do to the heart of a man and how he can heal both the spirit and the body. But the wisdom of the preacher here cannot be denied. Yes, Jesus gives new life to the soul of a man. And Jesus can heal a man or a woman of any disease. But even if those alive in Christ, and even those who have been healed, all of them go to the dead, as the phrase says. A Christian is not required to be an optimist, a pessimist, or a realist when it comes to matters of health, wealth, and healing or disease, tragedy and death. There is both in Scripture. We are called to believe what the Bible says. Does it say that by the stripes of Jesus we are healed? Indeed it does. Does it say that all go to the dead? Indeed it does. As always, as always, thanks be to God, the scriptures do not leave us to focus solely on death. Verse four. We can say yet to him, for this is a change of perspective. And we should know to the Eastern mind that dogs were not domesticated but contemptible. They were dirty grounders who depended upon the scraps of others This is compared to the lion who was considered grand and powerful. And if you have ever been near a lion, even a tamed lion. When he roars, you understand why such are looked upon as something to fear. Verse 5 This is not an insightful revelation regarding what happens to people after they die. It is a simple observation. That what you can know when you are alive is not to be compared to what you know when you are dead, at least as far as what goes on in the world. Perhaps such a statement destroys the idea that our dead loved ones are looking down upon us as we go through our lives. But to think such a thing is only emotional reasoning, for it is only God who can know all things and be in all places. Verse 6. Here is a sobering thought that does not provide much comfort for people who mourn the death of a loved one. It is truth, but it is hard truth. Verse 7. The joy described is by choice. The wine, yes, it's fermented. Drinking wine and being merry or happy is never a problem biblically. Drinking wine and being angry, abusive, belligerent, or committing debauchery is always sinful. Verse 8. White, white was usually worn for a celebration and represented to the Eastern mind both joy and purity. Oil was used lavishly to provide a softness to the skin that could not otherwise be attained. and to provide a fragrance that was otherworldly as compared to the odor of daily Eastern living Verse nine. Some Bible versions do a great disservice to this verse Some translations say to enjoy life with your wife, as if the author wants you to enjoy life and be sure to include your wife. Instead, what it instructs is for a man to enjoy life by means of his wife, and for him to have his wife enjoy life by means of him. As we understood when beginning our study of this book, the word translated meaningless in the NIB and vanity in the New King James is best translated to be vapor. Life is vapor. Vapor communicates the shortness of a human life and the inability of a person to capture it. Verse 10. Whatever your hand finds to do is that which you can accomplish. It is understood that what you can accomplish would fit under what God would have you do. And here again is a comparison of what we can do while you are alive, as opposed to what cannot be done when you are in the grave. Now in this next section of the sermon, I'm going to be an advocate for Christian freedom. However, considering the political landscape of the day, I must qualify what I am about to preach. Some modern politicians are currently promoting themselves as a candidate for freedom. But their definition of freedom is much, much different than what the Bible teaches and what I'm about to preach. Their definition of freedom is to be able to live sexually immoral lives with no consequences. Their definition of freedom is to kill babies in the womb. Their definition of freedom is to live lives of debauchery with no social condemnation. Beloved, such is not freedom, that is actually imprisonment. Imprisonment that leads to eternal hellfire. And the devil knows it. So let us set about understanding what freedom actually is. From the perspective of those outside of the Christian faith looking in, it can easily appear that Christians don't have fun. This is especially true when we face when the when the buffets of Christianity are fringe groups Who emphasize a particular lifestyle to be necessary in order for a person to call him or herself a Christian? Having personally been a member of such a group, I have been provided a perspective that I have needed in order to find true freedom in Christ Jesus. I was once within a denomination that required its members to refrain from smoking, dancing, drinking alcohol, and going to movies. Why these four restrictions were specifically chosen were because of their association with the lascivious living. Dancing and movies were considered vehicles, vehicles by which the devil tempted the flesh. Alcohol broke down inhibitions of the flesh And smoking was done by all people who went to dances, movies, and drank alcohol. It is helpful to know That most Christian groups that prohibit such living came out of the suffrage movement, which also contributed to the prohibition laws that we have in our history. What so easily happens when emphasis is placed upon a restriction of certain types of behavior is how the refrain from those behaviors become the identity. The identity for what it means to be called Christian. And so it becomes embedded in the minds of some that Christians look a certain way. Eat a certain way, act a certain way, and behave in a certain way. For those on the outside it looks like oppressive living. And for those on the inside it becomes, it becomes legalism. And the irony, from my vantage point, of such groups is how far they are, they try to remove themselves from the apparent dangers of Roman Catholicism. claiming that the Roman Catholicism is a works-oriented religion, while at the same time making their own legalism a type of works doctrine What the preacher hones in on in this section of scripture is the response God's people are to have to the reality That there are things that occur in life that are according to God's dispensation and sovereign will that we cannot understand. Even though the things we observe are grave and troubling, our ability to fathom all of God's reasoning and plans is simply not possible. And considering the length of a man's days and the fact that our days will come to an end, it is both reasonable and from the directive of the preacher necessary, and here's the point. Necessary for us to enjoy each and every moment we are given. The instruction to eat, drink, and be merry is not often repeated in the Bible. And it is not often preached in pulpits. The reason is obvious, for we are all well aware of the tendency for mankind to abuse what is enjoyed by the flesh. We can take anything that is fun, that feels good, that is enjoyable, and make it an obsession With that admission, we are to still embrace the wisdom of enjoying life to the fullest enjoyment possible. Let us then think upon our eating and our drinking with the understanding that the principle of moderation is understood. It underlines everything. We don't need a lecture this morning about what not to do. This text tells us what we should be doing, and we should be enjoying what we eat and what we drink. The power of an individual contributes to what is aesthetically pleasing. What is aesthetically pleasing is one of the highest expressions of experiencing God that we can have in this life. What I mean by that is that as we mature in our faith, our relationship with God becomes less and less about what we should be doing, what we should not be doing And more about experiencing the beauty that is all around us. As a child We think as a child, which means that we focus on what is immediate and most pleasing. We focus on what we like to eat, what we like to play with, what entertains us, and what satisfies us. It is a rare child who looks up and sees the blueness of the sky or notices the greenness of the grass. It is the rare child that notices how awe-inspiring mountain ranges can be Or how a painting can capture the meaning of life better than a photograph. Or how a song can move the soul because of the serenity it expresses. As we mature, as we mature, we understand the importance of beauty. In beautiful aesthetics, we can see God. And the palate, the palate contributes to us experiencing God. The scripture says: O, taste, and see. That the Lord is good. Taste! Of course, we taste the Lord in a particular way when we receive the bread and wine each Sunday. But we also taste him in a good steak, or good bread, or well prepared salmon. Or pasta with a tangy sauce, or sweet chocolate, or whatever is carefully prepared. God wants us to enjoy such things and not feel guilty about it. When the food melts in our mouth and we savor each bite as if it is our last In good food and good drink, we experience a satisfaction the eternal soul longs for. When food nears perfection, it makes us long for heavenly food. And then there is the instruction for us to concern ourselves with what we wear, and this surprised me a bit. Again, we know that being obsessed with what one wears is an abuse, but that is not what this is being not talking about. How a person appears is to be enjoyed as well. As was stated earlier, white, for the Easterner, was what was worn to celebrate and represent purity. And there are no other persons who should be able to wear white but those who have been forgiven of their sins and had their sins washed by the blood of the Lamb. There are no people more worthy to enjoy being well-dressed and well groomed than those who are fitted for heavenly garments. And next, we are instructed to enjoy our spouse. And while the world struggles with understanding the definition of marriage, The people of God are to participate in the institution of marriage with freedom and uninhibited joy. While it is true, while it is true that men tend to look forward to the marital bed more than women, It is the husband's responsibility to ensure that his wife finds intimacy mutually satisfying. It is not often that intimacy is discussed from the pulpit, and that is to the shame of preachers. There is likely nothing more needed in marriages than an appreciation for the satisfaction that can be enjoyed in marital intimacy. The lack of mutual enjoyment and marital intimacy is most certainly a contributor to the high divorce rate and the use of pornography among Christians. What needs to be understood is the pleasure that can be experienced by a married couple that learns to be intimate with one another. The years that pass by are to be filled with memories of learning from and enjoying one another The beauty that develops from years of intimacy defines what it means by the phrase love making And the final instruction from verse ten is simply summarize enjoy life. It is a simple instruction to do whatever is placed before us to do. Enjoy life Such a simple instruction, but difficult when our faith in God and our following of Jesus has consisted mostly of understanding what we cannot and should not do. The best description I have been given to understand how we are to view God's commandments is to enjoy life. With and in that commandment, to treat God's commandments as a fence, a fence that protects us from the dangers that are on the outside. Within the fence, within the boundaries, there is plenty of room to run around. For example, as I just gave. We are commanded not to commit adultery. But there is plenty of running around that can be done inside the fence of marriage. We are commanded not to covet, but there is much that we can enjoy within the things God has given us. The point is, there is much to enjoy about life. And the wisdom of the preacher is to tell us to enjoy it. It is given to us to enjoy. God wants us to enjoy it. Jesus died and rose again and went to the Father so that we can enjoy life Yes. Yes, our lives are vapor. They are here and they are gone But the preacher instructs us that because they are vapor, we are to enjoy every moment possible. Such a direction we can all willingly obey. Enjoy life. That is what our Savior wants us to do. Let us pray. A gracious God, we confess how much we hear from the pulpit and even what we read in your holy word of what we shouldn't be doing. We should not get into And so we thank you for this that encourages us to enjoy what we've been blessed to enjoy. And may we do that in the freedom that only Christ Jesus can give. This we pray in his name. Homet