In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I very much encourage you to turn in your Bibles to 1 Timothy chapter 6. The reading was verses 1 through 10, but I'm actually going to be covering the whole chapter. We're going to be walking through the whole chapter of 1 Timothy 6. What should I say to you if this was my last sermon to preach to you? Because partings between loved ones is most difficult, you want to say something that is memorable Recall the dramatic scene described in the book of Acts, chapter 20, where Paul is leaving the Christians at Ephesus. Paul reminds them in his closing remarks, he reminds them of the dangers he encountered while ministering to them, and how often he prayed in tears for their salvation. He recanted how he went door to door to minister to them the gospel, both the Jews and the Greeks. Regardless of the tribulations he faced, he counted his calling as joy to his soul because of the privilege of testifying about the gospel of grace in Christ Jesus. Paul next assured them that although they will not see his face again, that he had labored to present to them the whole counsel of God. He then warns them to protect the church as a good shepherd would protect his sheep. This is necessary. For he told them false teachers, whom are called wolves, would come among them to draw them away. To draw the believers from the gospel. And in fact, Paul warned them of this attack for three years. For all three years, he was with them. He closes with commending them to the grace of God, and that he has been an example to them of self-sacrifice. And then he quotes Jesus, who said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Luke then describes the scene after Paul's address, again from Acts chapter 20. And when po when he, Paul, had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. Then they all wept freely and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him. sorrowing most of all for the words which he spoke, that they would see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship. Such a narrative reminds me of the great quote from the Muppets Christmas Carol, where Kermit the Frog, who is playing the part of Bob Cratchit, And the scene is Scrooge being shown a possible future Christmas where Tiny Tim has died. And Kermit's character says to the other children It's all right, children. Life is made up of meetings and partings. That is the way of it. I am sure that we shall never forget Tiny Tim or this first parting That there was among us. It's that line. Life is made up of meetings and partings that has stayed with me from the first time I heard it. So profound and yet stated so simply. So if I were parting from this pulpit, what would I say to you? Well perhaps I would start off by addressing a particular problem I was aware of. Perhaps like Paul, I became aware of there being strife amidst certain groups in the church. In Paul's case, he was aware that slaves in the church were rebelling against their masters. Of course, I must qualify my remarks because slavery in the ancient Near East, as I addressed a few weeks back, wasn't anything like the enslavement of Africans in the West. Slavery in the ancient Near East was likely a business transaction where a person or a family were was in debt. And they sold themselves or part of their family into servanthood to pay off the debt. Hence why we use the word bond servant. And it was certainly understandable for a person who is a slave in such a situation to think that their freedom in becoming a Christian should apply to all aspects of their life After all, their debt of sin had been paid. Why not their debt financially to be paid as well? But Paul recognizes how important it is to maintain a good witness for Christ. And that means by staying in a business agreement and pay what is owed. And he qualifies his statement with recognizing there could be a situation Where a slave owner is also a Christian, which would make the slave and the slave owner brothers in Christ, thus equal in Christ. But still, Paul wants that which is the greater witness to the world. That is what Paul cares most about. He cares about how we look to the world, how Christians look to the world, because he remembers the words of Jesus, who said that the world will know we are Christians by our love for one another. Such love the world cannot have unless they come to Jesus. The second subject I might address, if this was my last sermon to preach to you, Is the presence of the stubborn within the church who don't want to accept or hear sound doctrine, sound doctrine that leads to godliness. Unfortunately, there have been and always are people in the local church who would rather argue than learn. Such persons would find it easier to dispute a teaching as opposed to submitting to a teaching. Such persons are all about, but what if? Or, but what about? For such persons, exceptions discount the rule, any rule. No truth can be in place because there are too many variables to consider. So landing on truth for them is impossible and frankly quite annoying. For such persons, disputes are the motivation for being in church in the first place. But disputes are a means of avoiding self-examination. To address doctrines of godliness requires a look, a look into the inner man and to face what is being seen. It is to accept moral absolutes that require a level of self-discipline that most persons want to avoid. I chuckle at Paul's instruction for Timothy to withdraw from such people because he doesn't mention what to do if such persons won't withdraw themselves. Thankfully, if a minister is faithful to preach the Word of God, such persons will withdraw themselves because the truth is being heard and their chance for disputes is decreased to the point of falling on. deaf ears. The third subject I might address in my last sermon might be about being content. and the importance of contentment as opposed to the love of money. In this I would likely address more to younger men I see discontentment as a serious issue in our culture today, and that includes with Christians. Young men today seem irritable and anxious. They want more in life and thus are discontent with what they have been blessed to receive. And here again we point to the tenth commandment regarding coveting. And coveting is difficult to resist, even though the middle class in America are one percenters when compared to the rest of the world. It is the devil who says you need more, you deserve more. It is the Holy Spirit who says the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. And yes, we notice that the saying is that the love of money is a root, not the root. And it says that the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, not the root of all evil. But Paul's point is important. For he knows of people, he knows of people personally who have left the faith because of their love for money. And when that happens, such persons have not understood that they truly brought nothing into the world and certainly And will certainly carry nothing out when their days on earth have ended. Jesus called such persons fools, for they thought their lives would go on and on. And when the truth is there, they will be there will come a day where their days will end, and a reckoning will occur as it will for all of us. The fourth subject I would want to address, if this was my last sermon, would be speaking on a positive side. Being corrected, we all know, can be difficult upon the psyche as we want to think in a positive direction, even though the negatives addressed are accurate. But we all need encouragement. And so I would say that as you flee the negative of being discontent, pursue the positive, which is righteousness. godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness. Such, you will note, are very similar to the listing Paul gives to the Galatians regarding the fruits of the Spirit. Such things come out of a believer who is filled with the Holy Spirit and is listening to the direction the Holy Spirit is pointing. I'll give you an example. Let us imagine that a friend of yours wants to meet with you. You have no specific idea what the meeting is going to be about, so you're not worried. The meeting starts out cordial, and then the friend pulls out a list of grievances this person has with you. You think to yourself that the Bible says that love keeps no record of wrongs, so this person is in violation of the scriptures, and I don't need to listen to his grievances. Another thought in your head is saying, don't get angry, listen to what is being said, and be humble. Can you next decipher which thought is of the Holy Spirit and which is of the devil or your own flesh? I can guarantee you that the devil is never going to tell you or encourage you to be humble. Such a thought only comes from God. Listening to such thoughts is pursuing righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and gentleness. Well in being positive, I would also want to be a coach for you, and that I would want you to get fired up for the battle you are going to face. I would say fight the good fight, as Paul does in verse 12. And the encouragement to fight requires the adjective good. For fighting to fight is the same as the description of persons who want to dispute. No doubt. That after this past cycle of elections, you became weary of reading and listening to pundits who care more about disputing than settling disputes Whether it be the personality of the pundit that likes to dispute, or the fact that the disputes get more clicks, the end goal is the dispute. Those are bad fights. But there are good fights. There are good fights. And those are to be engaged with fists ready to fly. Paul calls the good fight the fight of faith that will eventually lay hold of eternal life. Such include right doctrine and moral standards that do not break or bend. The right doctrine includes the full divinity and full humanity of Jesus. The moral standards include being sexually moral and protecting the least among us. Included in my positive remarks, if this was the last sermon I was to preach to you, would also be a charge. Charges are what preachers give at ordinations or consecrations or installations and weddings. They sound more like a challenge, such as to live up to your calling, take the challenge of your position, never compromise, and so on. Paul called Timothy to live up to his confession, which apparently was a confession Timothy made in public. And perhaps he's referring to the day of his ordination, where each minister pledges a faith in Christ and a commitment to the church. But all faith, all of us who have faith, it's a confession. We are saved by saying Jesus is Lord. The more difficult part is to live up to the level of your confession. Now remember Hearing the testimony of Dr. Jordan Peterson, who was asked if he was a Christian, and he shared with tears That he was scared to be one because he didn't think he could live up to the standards of what a Christian should be. I suspect we all can relate to such apprehension, but that is where faith comes in. We are saved by grace through faith and not by our works. And we work, we work to get our lives to match up to what we say we believe. And we keep on working We keep on working until we are no more in this life. For that is what servants do. They keep working. And you will want God to say to you, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter into your rest. The fifth subject I would preach on if this was my last sermon to you is to be sure that Jesus received all the glory in my words. I would say, as Paul does here in 1 Timothy 6, I would say that Jesus is the blessed and only potentate Which is ruler over all, which is why we call him King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus alone has immortality dwelling in unapproachable light. Whom no man has seen or can see, and to him only is honor and everlasting power given. Amen. And my closing remarks, if this was my last sermon to you, would be to return to the warning against the pursuit of money. It is, of course, no sin to be wealthy. Some come by it naturally, and others by inheritance. But it is the love of money that is dangerous to the soul Money may be likened to the idol such as Molech, who has the spirit of the devil and the substance of being empty inside. Paul tells Timothy to warn the rich and then to help protect them from making wealth an idol. Instruct them instead to be ready to give For it is again more blessed to for it is a again more blessed to give than to receive My final words to you, if this were my last sermon to you, would be for you to guard what has been entrusted to you. There is a need to guard, because the devil is indeed prowling around as a lion, as a lion seeking whom he may devour. And he devours more easily inside the church than he does outside. For when he is inside, people think that what they hear can be trusted, and so they are not on guard. And so when the preacher tells them that the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah was not being hospitable instead of sexual immorality. There is a temptation to trust the preacher because we know him. We have known him for years, and so we trust him. He wouldn't lead us astray, right? And then you hear the preacher say that the letters of Paul are tainted because Paul was a misogynist, a racist, a homophobic. You think that the preacher must know more than you because after all he went to seminary We all know that if a person has a degree, they're likely right about most things, right? And once again I remind you of the saying that we shouldn't fear the uneducated, but the poorly educated. And when the preacher says that Jesus didn't really rise from the dead bodily, but that Easter is a celebration of his spirit rising. And thus our hope is also our spirits rising. And you think that because you didn't actually see Jesus' body, and it does sound like an unbelievable miracle, and the preacher is not the only one denying such a resurrection He may be right. Such is what some people call knowledge, and thus some have strayed concerning the faith. And this is why Christians need to be on guard The enemy without can also be the enemy within, and we must fight him off wherever he is found. Beloved, Lord willing, this is not my last sermon I will preach to you. But it is the end of the first letter Paul wrote to Timothy. I told Bobby Lynn how I was going to approach this sermon, and she said, Well, if it was your last sermon, I know what you would say. And I said, What is that? And she said, fight the good fight. She knows me well. And so I close with these statements. Hold on, stand firm, keep the faith, fight the good fight until he comes. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you for these final words of Paul to Timothy. We thank you for the correction that's needed, and we thank you for the encouragement that is also needed. May we take heed and fight that good fight and hold on and be on guard. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.