Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I highly, highly, highly, highly, highly encourage you to turn in your Bibles, your pew Bibles, your personal Bible. To Revelation chapter 2, beginning at verse 12. It's going to make more sense if you follow along. I realize even hearing what was read this morning for the epistle lesson, it can be very confusing. So we're gonna clear it up. There are a number of mysterious references in this letter to the church at Pergamum. So you know Pergamum lay just north of Smyrna, which was just north of Ephesus. It may appear that a compass pattern is developing with these letters, but that will change with the next letter. With so many mysterious or initially unknown references in this letter, it is my perspective that we should address each of them first Before we get to the primary message Jesus had for the church at Pergamum and what he has for us. Well, so we begin with the mention of the double-edged sword. That takes us back to the description of the risen Savior in chapter 1, verse 16. The sword comes out of the Savior's mouth, giving us an obvious reference to his word, or as we say, the word of God, the word spoken of God. You will remember the writer to the Hebrews uses the same imagery in chapter 4, verse 12 of that epistle. There, the word of God is said to be a double-edged sword used to divide between the bone and morrow of man. It is likened to a surgeon's scalpel. God cuts into a man with his word, having the ability to mend and heal Like a surgeon, or harm and mane like a warrior. The Word of God, His law, and His revelation is our standard We are judged by it for heaven or condemned to it or by it for hell. The description then has a positive and a negative aspect The Word of God is positive because it can be used to justify, sanctify, and defend us, or it can be a testimony against us. Next is mentioned Satan's throne. That is a unique description and no doubt a unique place. Because Pergamum was a seat of government for the Roman province of Asia, the description may be a jab at Rome. The city was also the center of worship for the serpent god Aslepius, who was said to save people from diseases. The city was also the site of the first temple of the imperial cult, a cult that worshipped the present and former Caesars as gods. This temple was built among a cluster of other temples for Zeus, Apollo, Athena, Dionysius, Aphrodite, and others These all lay together in a beautiful grove. With all of the idolatry surrounding these Christians in this city, we can see, can imagine why it was called Satan's Throne. Of the person of Antipas mentioned, mentioned as being a martyr Nothing is known other than he was esteemed by his church for suffering unto death for the truth of the gospel. There may be a link between describing the area as Satan's throne and the death of Antipas, meaning that Antipas died at the judgment throne of the devil residing in Pergamon. The description next of the teachings of Balaam to that of Balach leads us back to the book of Numbers. And reminds us how important it is to have a full knowledge of Scripture. We cannot understand what we should about the New Testament, including the book of Revelation Unless we know the Old Testament. Balaam was a prophet for hire, with a reputation for having heavenly authority in his words. He started off, you remember in Numbers, planning to curse Israel, only to end up speaking forth a blessing when the Spirit of Almighty God intervened. His story unfortunately continues, for he counsels Balach, the king of Moab, to entice the Israelites to commit fornication. Which they did, as recorded in the book of Numbers, chapter 31. Balaam does this for a price. He sells his prophetic gift, his influential power to the highest bidder. He is corrupted by fame, money, and sex. Sounds as if he comes from Hollywood or professional sports. The influence of Balaam is similar to the sins of the Nicolatians You will remember them being mentioned in the letter to the church at Ephesus. The Nicolatians are believed to have been given the name because they followed the teachings of a disciple who is mentioned in the book of Acts. Tradition has him following the heresy of Gnosticism, which when united with Christianity taught that freedom in Christ placed men above the moral law. It taught that not only were Christians not subject to the condemnation of the law, Christians were taught to be able to disobey the law with no consequences. What you did in the flesh didn't matter. The last two mysterious references in the letter are in the context of heaven To those who overcome hidden manna is promised. This is likely a reference to the manna that is stored up in the Ark of the Holy of Holies. This is also connected to the true bread that came down from heaven to be revealed on the last day There is a theme throughout the New Covenant that the glory of the heavenly promise is a mystery to be revealed Such as stated in 1 Corinthians by St. Paul, he said, No eye has seen, no ear has heard, no mind has conceived what God has prepared for those who love Him. Next, we are promised a new name upon a white stone. Nowhere else in Scripture can we find reference to such a stone. There were stones upon the breastplate of the high priest, and two of those stones, possibly like diamonds, hidden behind the twelve stones representing the twelve tribes. Another reference is the description of God's people as being like stones within the temple of God, being built in the heavenly realm, Jesus as the cornerstone. This is most likely the reference as white represents our purity in Christ, and the new name is that which is given to us because we have been born anew of the Spirit. The themes of new and white are abundant in the New Covenant. This letter to the church in Pergamum is similar to the ones to Ephesus and to Smyrna, as each begins with a with a positive, encouraging word. The people of the church in Pergamum have stayed true to the name of Christ in the midst of an extremely hostile environment. As we have discovered, the environment was hostile politically because it was the seat of a government authority of the Roman Empire It was hostile religiously because of the number of gods given a place of honor by the non-Christians of the area. In the midst of such pressures, the Christians of Pergamum did not deny their faith in Christ. For this, they are commended. Jesus warned, you will remember that if his followers did not acknowledge him before men, he would not acknowledge them before God. And once again we had that reference to do not fear The ones who can harm the body, but fear him who can harm the body and soul by casting them into hell. It is no small thing to overcome the fear of men. Many have shrunk for fear of suffering at the hands of men. The shrinking can be caused by a threat of physical torture. It was Bishop Cramner, the author of our Book of Common Prayer, during the reign of Queen Mary, who being left alone for days to consider his fate. sinned by signing a letter of recantation of his Protestant beliefs because of the physical suffering he faced. In our circles, it is more likely that shrinking will be caused by peer pressure. Teenagers know well the intensity of peer pressure. It's one thing to have just a few friends and quite another to be laughed at and ridiculed because you are different. The insecurities that come along with puberty are volatile. Add to that being ostracized by peer groups, and you have a young boy or girl who walks around with a heavy heart. And such fear does not end after puberty, as so many a man has fallen at the heels of stronger influences. Behaving in an immoral and immature manner because he wants to be just one of the guys. Many young women have dressed themselves in styles inappropriate and misleading, as well as participated in gossip and slander in order to fit in with the crowd. When a person is able to stand against such pressure, it is to be commended. Standing up in and for the name of Christ is what God expects of all of us. In spite of what is commended among the Christians at Pergamum, there are also serious problems. There are two problems, none of which is less serious than the other. The two sins are having people in the midst of the church who hold to the teaching of Balaam, and also having among them those who hold to the teachings of the Nicolaitians. The two sins are actually the same sin. And the same sin is actually two sins. The first sin is allowing false teachers to remain in their midst. Whether they are teaching the ways of Balaam or the Nicolaitans, the sin is allowing false teachers in the church. And teachers and the teachers do not have to be formal teachers. Their informal influence upon other members of the church places them among false teachers. Allowing such influences is the opposite of what the Christians at Ephesus did. You will remember how Ephesus was commended for not allowing false teachers to remain among them. With this same concern, the Epistle of Jude calls for Christians to contend for the faith against men who have rushed for the sake of financial profit into Balaam's error. I find by personal observation that there are certain people who strive to be in confrontation with their fellow man, and others who avoid it at all cost. Most of us fall somewhere in between. The personalities who strive to be in confrontation are looking for a fight. They love to draw lines in the sand and dare someone to step over. Others want peace at all costs and will compromise the very core of their convictions to keep that peace. There is, of course, a necessary middle ground. Those who live for confrontation tend to live alone because every issue is as important as the next And most do not want to be around such persons because we do not have the energy to fight over everything Those who want peace at all costs, and with nothing meaningful to show in their lives, as every belief system or moral stance has been compromised, garnering no respect from their fellow man For Christians, our breaking point is clearly defined. It is revealed in the Holy Scriptures Which defines who Jesus was, what he did for the sins of men, and what men are to do in response, and the laws that are to govern our lives as followers of the same Jesus. When anyone purple shirted, that means he's a bishop, or in blue jeans, because he's a cool pastor When anyone purple shirted or in blue jeans tells us differently, we are to stand against such teaching and stand for the truth as it is in Jesus. This may mean casting him out. Casting him out may mean bringing him up on charges before the church, barring him from the Lord's table. It may mean politely asking him to leave the premises, or it may mean picking him up and literally throwing him out. The point being is that we have standards. We have a breaking point that cannot be compromised. There are a myriad of reasons, cowardly reasons, why persons are allowed to remain in the church even though their life or doctrine is heretical. The leadership of the church may not want the publicity caused by casting out a false teacher. The leadership may fear the extended family of the false teacher The leadership may have their own sins they are covering up, and so they choose not to expose others. They also may not care enough about the truth to preserve it. Whatever the reason, it is not good enough, and unless the church rid herself of false teachers or false influencers, then Jesus will rid himself of the church, placing Outside of the lampstands. The second sin included in the one sin is called syncretism. Syncretism was a sin committed by Balaam and by the Nicolaitans, and by Israel, who committed it repeatedly. Moreover, it is as prevalent today as it was then. Syncretism is an attempt to reconcile two different Opposite belief systems and make them one. In the case of the teachings of Balaam, it was the combining of idol worship with a belief in one God in three persons. In the case of the teaching of the Nicolaitans, it was the combining of immoral behavior with the purity of Christ. In the case of Israel, it was the combining of any other tribe or nation's gods with their worship of the only true God. The Sino Syncretism was part of Israel's identity shortly after they entered the Promised Land, and was the primary cause of them being taken into exile less than a millennium later. Syncretism is perhaps the most deceptive of sins and is used by cults because of its effectiveness. In simple terms, it takes truth and mixes it just with a little lie, resulting in the corruption of the whole. Christianity with a little lie is no longer Christianity. When the Apostle Paul wrote to the church at Galatia. His clear edict was for them to turn away from any other gospel. And adding to the gospel is another gospel. Most of the syncretism we know is identified as such because it is formally presented. In other words, it is a formal teaching. When a certain group claims Jesus as their Savior and includes in that belief the requirement of dietary or ritual laws We can say that such is a sin of syncretism. When a religion claims Jesus to be a son of God, And includes other sons of God, such as Joseph Smith, we again easily identify the sin of syncretism. But what about secretism that is not formal? What if the teachings or understandings are in our heads, in our consciences? It is quite possible that we could mix occultist practices with our faith in Christ if we read and follow horoscopes. It is likely that we follow humanistic philosophies about sexuality and abnormal behavior if we turn to psychologists before we turn to Scripture for guidance. That is syncretism. A number of years ago, I was exposed to the film series and book How Shall We Then Live by Dr. Francis Schaeffer. It was an eye-opening moment for me to recognize how many of my views on life had been influenced by philosophies of the world. They had seeped into the core beliefs, my core beliefs, and I did not recognize them to be contrary to Scripture. Examples are in the way we raise our children. Pragmatism is present when we think that because we were raised a certain way and we turned out all right. Then we should raise our children in the same manner. And why anyone would conclude that they turned out all right is beyond me. Behaviorism, a worldly philosophy, is present when we try to change the behavior in our children rather than change their hearts, where sin is harbored. Examples are also in the way we worship. Individualism is present when I care first and foremost about what I like and what is right for me. Existentialism is present when I base truth upon my experience and I evaluate others in terms of my experience. I ask, dear church, how different are we from the church at Pergamum if we combine the philosophies of men with the gospel of Christ? When Jesus tells us, tells the church to hear what the Spirit is saying, that is a warning. To hear, in the manner he is describing, we must examine all the ways in which the sin he identifies might apply to us. Thus, this is not the type of message that we should respond to immediately. We must allow the Spirit to speak to us regarding the many ways we have put up with and even embraced false teachings, placing them alongside the gospel The implied joy he mentions in such a letter is that it is not too late. Like Pergamon, we can be commended for not denying Christ in the midst of hostility. We can be encouraged that Jesus will reward us before our Heavenly Father for not denying our faith in him before men. Like Pergamam, we can also be challenged to identify areas where we have allowed systems of thought and practice that are contrary to Scripture to be a part of our faith. May this prayer be our prayer as individuals and as a church. Heavenly Father, search our hearts and know us. Try us if there be any belief or practice among us that is contrary to your gospel. Reveal it and purge it out of us so that we might be the church you long for, a church without spot or wrinkle. Amen and amen. Better.