In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated I want to start off by thanking Father Bill for filling in so ably. One of the warnings of going on a sabbatical is that the congregation might be or get used to you being gone and they don't think they need you anymore And uh Bill gives us that sense, to be sure. It became fairly clear to Bobby Lynn and I before we left for England That our oldest child did not have confidence in our traveling acumen, having the question unspoken, how are they going to get there? Having traveled with us to Greece a few years ago and believing in our inability to communicate effectively, he anticipated some costly mistakes along the way. And a few did happen. But thankfully, they were not costly. For instance, our first meal in London was fish and chips in a pub. In those scenarios, you order at the bar, and they bring the food to you. So I ordered at the bar, and the woman taking my order said No paid my paid stop and I froze, I didn't know how to respond Seeing my look, she got a little upset and said the same faster and more terse. The pays by pays out Still looking puzzled, she said, You get a side. So pays my page or south. I didn't realize she was giving me side options Which I did not expect because in America the chips are the side. I chose the peas because I wasn't sure what the rest of the options were. When I told Bobby Lynn what had happened, she told me that about mashed peas, mashed peas, and that she was encouraged to try them The next time we had lunch, we did try them and guess what they they taste like peas The next instance was in Paris, where they are truly rude to you if you don't speak French. Bob Lin was frightened to speak to anyone, so I did most of the communicating because I am used to not being liked. When I engaged a French person, I did as I was told. I said bonjour, and I ended with merci. With the rest of my communication being hand gestures, you know, nodding, shaking my hand, shaking my head. And that works. Until we got back to London, directly from Paris. And I went to order at the Hotel Café while we waited for our room. And I was still in Paris mode. So I ordered using hand gestures. And the woman stopped me. She said, are you trying to use sign language? I then spoke in the English that I know And finally this last example, when I arrived when we arrived in Iceland on our way home, that's where our stopover was. We were waiting to deplane and I asked Bobby Lynn what our next connecting number, flight number was Understand that when we are in public, we don't like other people hearing our conversation, and so we speak in quiet voices. Problem is we can't hear each other. So this is how the conversation went. Me. What number is our connecting flight? Her answer, 1463. Me, I hear, 4063. As we get off the plane and make our way to the gate, she asks Did I say our flight number was 1461? I say, no, 4063. And she says, okay. Thankfully, there are reader boards that confirm how ridiculous we can be. So I suppose it is understandable. That there would be questions as to how are they going to get there. After the first few visits to cathedrals in England There was a similar reoccurring question that I kept asking myself, which is how have we gotten here? The we, I am referring to in the question, is modern Christians. And the here is the manner we express our faith as compared to how Christians expressed their faith thousands of years ago and even prior to the 1980s. I am aware that I have addressed similar types of questions in the past, especially being influenced by the likes of Dr. Carl Truman. Who correctly diagnosed our age as the therapeutic age, which means that we want to solve our spiritual problems By way of professional counseling, positive thinking, pharmaceuticals, and personal acceptance for love. In other words, it is having faith that our personal struggles that used to be called sins are healed by those who know Freud without knowing Jesus And who are adept at writing new prescriptions. That being understood, I want to broaden our diagnosis of ourselves and the rest of the modern Christian church. With that question, how did we get where we are, considering where we have been? And yes, I begin with my experience at viewing several cathedrals When considering the work necessary to build such structures, and the time to build them, and the sacrifices made by the builders and those who contributed but never even saw the completed structure. How did we go from that to Kathagymus sanctatorius? Cafetym is sanctatoriums. I am referring to those structures that can be a cafeteria for lunch, a gym after school, a sanctuary on Sundays, and an all-purpose room for other gatherings. It appears that no thought when designing and building these buildings included what is beautiful and most honoring to God. What appears to govern the thoughts of those who are responsible for such structures is what is most practical. And making what is practical as a priority is following the idol of pragmatism Pragmatism says that what works, what works is most important. What is the easiest is the thing to do. Pragmatism tells the builder that knows the material he is using is some far to use it anyway. Pragmatism has parents bowing to it when they choose to buy a large home instead of paying to ensure that their children have a Christian education. Pragmatism is followed when a young couple decides to live together to save money. And even Christian couples deciding to have sexual relations outside of marriage because they are going to get married someday So pragmatism is one reason we have gotten to where we are now. It is the philosophy for those who are compromisers. In sticking with the theme of isms, I am making this next one up. We have gotten where we are, because too many bow to happy ism Happyism is believing that God, first and foremost, wants me to be happy in this life. The number of times I have heard the justification of behavior practiced and decisions made that go directly against Holy Scripture because people believe that God wants them to be happy Would astound you. First, there is no agreement as to what is meant by happy. And second, there is not one scripture that backs such thinking. Happy defined by Scripture would be to be at peace with God and your fellow man And to be at peace with God, you have to be in obedience to God, having your sins forgiven. To be at peace with your fellow man is to forgive him his wrongs Toward you, and to live in such a way that expresses the love of God toward him. Thirdly No martyr, no martyr would know what you are talking about when you say that God wants his people to be happy. And that means in this life happy. And that means to enjoy desires of the flesh and movements of emotions. They are the ones, the martyrs who cry out even now, how long, O Lord? How long? Because the happiness they know is when death is defeated in finality and the devil is thrown into the lake of fire, and they see God face to face, having having received New bodies that will last for eternity. So another answer to the question, how do we get here? Is the idol of happierism. The next answer to the same question is a better known ism, and that is subjectivism This is another example also of Christians following the culture and its norms instead of walking in the kingdom of God. Subjectivism says that truth is an oppressive concept that can only be experienced by the individual who defines what truth is. And so Christians mimic phrases such as, my truth, or speak your truth. Of course, there is no such thing as individual truth. There is truth and nothing else but falsehood. Subjectivism, when bowed to, makes you call one person they and them Subjectivism when worship forces girls to compete with boys and to agree that anatomy is a social construct rather than a most ugly protrusion So another answer to the question, how do we get here, is the idol of subjectivism. And finally, for this sermon, anyways, is the idol of individualism. Individualism is closely related to subjectivism with a special emphasis on the individual and what the individual likes. A poster child for individualism would be Veruga Salt. in Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, who wanted what she wanted without exception, and she wanted it now Some preachers decades ago tried to point out the selfishness in individualism that had Christians making choices on how they wanted to worship God by insisting on what they like. And didn't life in music, prayers, service flank, even sermon topics But many Christians didn't stop, and soon churches became like corner stores that create an inventory based on what consumers would buy. And conversations after church services continued to consist of statements such as, I didn't like that chorus we sang, but I enjoyed the first one. And did you like the sermon? I thought his last point was weak, but he told a funny story. And preachers like myself Keep saying, what's the difference if you liked anything in the service? It's not supposed to be about you, and especially not about what you like. But the comments about what it's like continue. And so another answer to the question, how do we get here, is the idol of individualism. You will be thankful to know, I trust, that I know my job is not to be simply pointing out what is wrong within the Christian church. But it is also to have answers for what we can do about what is wrong. And so I point us to a passage of scripture that was read in a worship service here during my absence It was from 2 Timothy chapter 3, where Paul lists to Timothy characteristics of the ungodly, characteristics that people will display near the end of time. He says that they will be lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents. ungrateful, unholy, unloving, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, without love of good Traitorous, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, and then he says this about them They will have a form of godliness, but deny its power But what is it to have a form of godliness? A form of godliness is to outwardly portray oneself as godly Without actually believing that how you behave outwardly has anything that results in the power of God being displayed. And add this next point to the mix. To be able to outwardly portray oneself as godly, you have to know what godliness is. And even non-professing Christians can know what godliness is and deny its power. Years ago, I witnessed an atheist debating a Christian, and the atheist tried to make the point. That the evolution of man came up with the idea of loving your neighbor as yourself And even though the Christian in the debate pointed out that such a statement was first made in the Bible, the atheist still insisted that evolving man would eventually come to the same conclusion. But what he didn't know is that there is inherent spiritual power in the godly act of loving your neighbor as yourself. What I am ultimately saying is that Christians need to repent. Repent of the sin of not having faith in the power of godliness. And then we need to start having faith that when we choose to live godly lives, God effectively moves in our lives and in the lives of those we touch. That spiritually awakens, spiritually teaches, encourages, and improves our trust, our faith in Him. That is what is meant by the power of godliness. Let me use an example I have already mentioned. The Christian couple who is fornicating together with the justification that they are going to be married someday, so that makes their behavior acceptable. Consider that they become convicted about their sin and confess it as sin and vow to remain celibate until they are married. What we are to believe about such choices and following through with such choices is that God brings power to such godliness. So that their consciences are clear and they are able to be more freely loving to each other and have respect for each other. And they are more free to bear up other people's burdens because their yoke has become light. And they are able to be more easily to forgive others, the wrongdoings done to them because they have been forgiven much. That beloved is power in godliness. Consider how many Christians, how many Christians deny the power of godliness? Christian couples become convinced that their differences cannot be overcome and divorce is unavoidable. To come to such a conclusion is to deny the power of godliness, which is to deny the power of forgiveness. The power of unconditional love, the power of keeping your vows, the power of dying the self, the power of putting other people's needs before your own. Let us go back to our isms. We discussed the dangers of the idol of pragmatism But what can make pragmatism fall like the idol of Degon fell before the Ark of the Covenant is caring about aesthetics, which is pursuing beauty. Beloved, the sanctuary we are beautifying will carry godly power In it, we are communicating to God and to ourselves and to anyone who visits us that beauty matters when we worship God corporately. And that we want to give him the best room we can afford so that we honor him in every way we know how. Believe that there is godly power and beauty, and then pursue it. The idol of happyism Can also fall when we choose to pursue the kingdom of God first and not pursue personal happiness in this life. I realize, in saying such, that the devil, if you are willing to listen to him, will tell you that I just said that God doesn't want you to be happy in this life. But I most certainly did not. I simply said that such is not to be our pursuit, and in fact, I am simply quoting Jesus. And we must believe that there is great power in pursuing first the kingdom of God, and there is great power in being willing to sacrifice our lives for the sake of the gospel spreading. That power, that power is revealed in saying that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. The idol of subjectivism was next, and can also fall when we live by truth, which is speaking truth and never lying. Even when speaking will reveal our own sins. It is accepting truth even when it is uncomfortable and goes against our emotions We must believe that there is power in preaching, teaching, and praying of truth, even when, even when but a few are listening. We must believe that truth is worth losing friends for, worth losing our job for, worth losing our status, because Jesus Himself is the truth. And finally, the idol of individualism. The idol of individualism will fall When we believe in the power of living as the apostle described when he said, It is no longer I that live, but Christ that lives in me, and the life I now live, I live for him. Such is the proper standard for how Christians should use the pronoun I. For in each instance, Paul is not the focus, but instead the focus is Jesus first and last. And so there is power, power in dying to self, in picking up one's cross. And not caring for how other people perceive me, treat me, speak of me, or provoke me, because it is not me, but Christ. Beloved, do not doubt the power of social sacrifice. When people witness it, they know how it influences, and they either admire it or hate it. They hate it because they can't do it. And so the answer to the question, how do we get here? now shifts. It shifts to how do we get to where not only do we know the form of godliness, but that we also believe in its power. Lord Jesus, give us faith to know the power of godliness. Amen.