The name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated and grab your Bibles and turn to Ecclesiastes 7. It is very important that you follow along this morning Ecclesiastes 7, we'll be working through the whole chapter. And as you turn there, I do want to give thanks to all those who participated in our vacation Bible school this past week It was uh quite a successful time of ministry for the children that attended. It was so well done, well put together, the teachers and the and the helpers were so proficient And what they did and sincere, and so we give the Lord thanks for all who served and all the children that were affected by last week. Since the preacher of Ecclesiastes is changing up his style a bit in chapter 7, it is appropriate for this preacher to change as well. Chapter 7 extols a certain virtue. The four cardinal virtues of history are justice, prudence, temperance, and fortitude. These virtues are listed that listed date back to the most well-known Greek philosophers and were believed to be sufficient guides for moral living in every culture. Our own Benjamin Franklin felt the need to add to the list with the following additions: silence. Order, resolution, frugality, industry, sincerity Moderation, cleanliness, tranquility, chastity, and humility These can be considered wise additions, but I argue that each of these added can find a home as a subdivision of one of the first four. For example, silence can fall under the category of temperance, and resolution can fall under the category of fortitude. Now, regarding the four cardinal virtues, I speculate that the most neglected of all, now I mind you I can't prove this point completely. But I speculate that the most neglected of all is prudence. Prudence can also be defined simply as wisdom. I speculate that prudence is the most neglected because of my own personal failings, and I speculate it as a pastor. Who has viewed many a life and many a relationship that have become strained because of the lack of prudence And I speculate it because the Bible spends a great deal of time helping us to apply basic wisdom to various circumstances of life. I thought it interesting to review the gifts of the Holy Spirit as listed in the book of Galatians, chapter 5. And those begin with love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, and the rest. But what is noticeably lacking in the list of gifts of the Holy Spirit Is wisdom. Wisdom, prudence is not then a gift of the Holy Spirit Now that does not mean that the Holy Spirit doesn't provide wisdom in a given moment, but as far as gifts simply given by God's grace without any work on our part, wisdom is not included. This led me back to realize that one the one book of the Bible that speaks most to the subject of wisdom, the book of Proverbs. is a book of instruction to help us be wise because well because it is not a gift and therefore it is something we need to work at It is something we need to learn to apply to the many situations in life that occur without us being able to anticipate them. If you consider how many situations we find ourselves in that are disappointing or heart-wrenching or heartbreaking, and consider how much we contributed to our own troubles, it becomes quite humbling. For instance, and I have used these examples before, think about how much blame God has received over the years for the devastation caused by hurricanes. Hurricanes such as Hurricane Katrina. People still ask, how can we say that God is love if he would let such suffering happen to so many people? But think about it for a moment from God's perspective, if that is at all possible. Man built a city below sea level. What else can be expected when there is a violent storm? If the sea rises, the city will flood. God has not hid such wisdom from men. It is available to us. If an area is below sea level and the sea rises, the area referred to will be covered in water. Let's look at another example of a more personal nature. If a person smokes cigarettes and gets lung cancer, it is not God's punishment. But a natural reaction to the susceptibility of the human condition and cigarette smoke. I will be even more personal I smoke a pipe now and then. And even though pipe tobacco doesn't have the same dangers as cigarettes. If I overindulge and end up getting mouth cancer, I have no one to blame but myself Wisdom tells me the possibility of getting sick, and thus I should not be surprised with the outcome. Dare I venture into the example of the homosexual lifestyle, if I could be so bold. Is it not obvious that the male body was not created to have sexual intimacy with another male body? And if that does occur, and there are communicable diseases as a consequence, if a communicable disease is a consequence, should we be surprised? No, we should not be surprised because wisdom tells us so. I mentioned wisdom and relationships, so I want to give two examples there. If I gossip about and then slander another person, And then find that the same person is uncomfortable and even awkward around me, and frankly doesn't want to be around me, it is not fair to think I have, is it not fair, excuse me, to think that I have reaped what I have sown? If I call a person a foul name and criticize him repeatedly, it seems fair to assume that I will not be getting any love or affection in return. Believe it or not, some people don't connect such cause and effect dots and go day to day wondering why people don't like them. They do not apply wisdom. What I have given are more extreme examples. There are more common ones that will be touched on as we walk through chapter 7. So let us begin at verse 1, reading each verse and commenting. Now, I want you to notice, please, also, that there are provocative statements made here, to be sure, and then there is a given explanation. Verse 1. A good name is better than precious ointment, and the day of death than the day of one's birth. A good name over precious ointment. The idea of a good name is not understood until the rest of the verse, which references death. A good name, at the end of one's life, is better than precious ointment. Alabaster was an ointment used at death. The provocative statement of death versus birth can trip us up. I can testify that pastoral visits after a birth are much better than those of visiting a house of mourning. Verse 2 Better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. The point is made again and expounded upon. The first part is provocative and not relatable in terms of personal experience. If you were invited to such parties, to which one would you go? All would go to the house of feasting versus the house of mourning. But that is not the preacher's point. The point is that there is an end of all men. All men will die. Hebrews 9 reads, it is appointed for men to die once, and then judgment. The end of the verse reads: All the living will take it to heart. Here is the main point. This is where it matters. I have come to suspect that the most important sermons we can hear are eulogies. I wrote my dissertation. on the structure of a proper eulogy because God had visited my ministry with many deaths and funerals during my early years here at St. Stephen's. In my first six months of a small parish, I presided over the funerals of Ruth Montgomery, Greg Ladke, Evelyn Gray, and Lucille Chapman. Adding to those, one of the saddest funerals was for a 13-year-old boy dying of cancer. The father came to me in tears, desperate to find some solace with God and his son, as he was dying, and he had nowhere else to turn. Ten years after his son's death, I received a call from the funeral home asking me if I would do the service of the father, as he had recently died. And they had no other minister that they knew but me. As you can imagine, I have many more stories of funerals that were very difficult to preside over because the deaths were so hopeless. Death brings about a sober reality. And those moments are indeed more important and more opportunistic for us, and opportunistic for anyone who has ears to hear Hear the gospel, the truth, the truth that God loves us and wants to save us from sin and death At a feast, at a feast, such contemplation does not occur. At a house of mourning, in contrast, we are given the opportunity to face our need to be saved from sin. And from death. Verse 3. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by a sad countenance the heart is made better. The main point of verse 2 is now driven home by these observations. The first part is troublesome, but it is explained in the second statement. When is sorrow better? Sorrow brings us to the point of understanding what matters most in life. Sorrow helps us evaluate the meaning of our lives. by contemplating, considerating, considering, excuse me, and evaluating. Verse 4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. Here is the same said again, in case it was not understood. Author Lucy Bregman argues that we are coming out of an age of silence When death and its pain was not talked about in Western culture. It is popular today to refer to funerals as a celebration of life. That is all well and good, but it can never deny that death has occurred. Take inventory about your own conversation regarding death as you grew up and even now As Christians, we should be a people who talk of dying well. The death of a Christian should be a testimony of God's mercy and love to all who know you. Let us read verses 5 and 7 through 7 together. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For the lack of crackling of the thorns under a pot, so in the laugh is the laughter of the fool, this also is vanity. Surely oppression destroys a wise man's reason, and a bribe debases the heart. Because fools prefer mirth or partying to serious contemplation, the thought continues in regards to honesty. A rebuke by a wise man is to be preferred to a man who sings praises. That famous Hollywood line, you can't handle the truth, should never be said about the God fearing. We can and should handle the truth. In verse 6, here it has us preferring the truth as opposed to what would make us laugh. Is this speaking against laughter? No. But when is laughter good? Laughter is good when seriousness is not needed. What is to be preferred to laughter, however, is when honesty, truth, and the reality of human mortality need to be accepted and not avoided. What happens when you burn thorns? Is there any heat generated? It is only noise. Useless noise. Entertaining, perhaps, but of no use. It is vapor. We see it, in this case, hear it. But we cannot grasp it or control it or use it for any good. It is here and then gone without achieving any purpose or good end. And then in verse 7, we hear the preacher responsible in recognizing how easy it can be to be distracted by oppression, or as translated elsewhere, affliction. And with it comes a heart that gives in to bribes, the bribes of a fool. This understanding, however, is then rebuked in verses 8 through 10, which we read again together. The end of a thing is better than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Do not hasten in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. Do not say why were the former days better than these, for you do not inquire wisely concerning this. So the end of a thing is what we strive to experience. A person gives in to a bribe in the moment because of difficulties occurring in a short period of time instead of seeing the greater purpose in life. Being patient for the end of things is the wisdom given here. How many unfortunate young men and young women have given into a moment of lust in the back seat of a car without seeing the end? How many have allowed their emotions to carry the day without considering the consequences? And that brings us to verse 9. The wisdom here is repeated in the book of James and is obviously needed advice because it is a widespread problem. The fool lets anger Rest. It lets anger sit within the heart without rebuke or resistance. And anger, like a shaken bottle of soda, has pressure that needs to be released. And when it does release, because it has been inside for so long, it blows. And woe to those who experience the aftermath of it. Verse 10, the result of anger kept inside is complaining, or better said, whining A whiner wonders why life is not as good as it used to be. He wonders why bad things keep happening to him. She wonders why others have it better. And can we reason with the preacher why such considerations are not wise? It is because we look at the past with blind eyes Not seeing how they were with their own problems and not as rosy as we think they were. Here is an honest assessment. If we cannot make sense of the present, how can we make sense of the past? And finally, verses 11 and 12. Wisdom is good with an inheritance and profitable to those who see the sun. For wisdom is a defense as money is a defense. But the excellence of knowledge is that wisdom gives life to those who have it. And so, what is our duty in all of this contemplation? Is it simply honesty and truth? Is it to extol wisdom for what it can provide us in this life? We know from the life of Solomon, our preacher, that wisdom cannot save the soul. Only Jesus can save a man's soul from sin and death. Only Jesus What wisdom can provide is some profit in life for those who live looking up at the sun, you and me? Verse 12 ends with, Wisdom gives life to those who have it. From what we have expounded upon in these verses, we can conclude that the life referred to is a better life. But what is a better life? It is a life of peace with God and peace with our fellow man. A better life is when we avoid troubles that can be avoided. And all of this is good, very good, but it must be qualified. A failure of modern preaching and thus modern Christianity is seeing the Holy Scriptures as a self-help book. And that faith itself as a way to avoid hardship in life. That is not what this wisdom is about. This wisdom is not a recipe Do this, and this is what you will get automatically. No. Wisdom as it is described here does two things First, it teaches us what it means to live in the tensions of two worlds. The tension of the first world is that we live in a fallen world, and thus we are suspect to all the that curse. That it brings upon us because of Adam. Disease, misunderstanding, limitations. The tension of the second world is that we are victors in Christ Jesus Sin and death do not reign over us. We have victory in the name of Jesus The tension between these two realities will be with us until Jesus comes again or we go to be with him. And second, the wisdom here points us to the cross, to the cross of Jesus. That is because the greatest wisdom a man can have is to believe in the person who is truth, who defines truth, and that is Jesus. Wisdom that does not acknowledge Jesus as Lord and Savior is not eternal wisdom. Consider that our preacher, none other than Solomon himself. who when he was told by God that he could ask for anything of this world, and he asked for wisdom. And so he ruled with the greatest gift of wisdom man had ever known up to his day. And yet he strayed from God and pursued sins of the flesh, even falling into idol worship. So no, wisdom did not and cannot save a soul In chapters 5 and 6 of Ecclesiastes, he explained how earthly wealth could not save his soul. Now we know that wisdom also cannot save his soul. And so what have we learned? Money is nice, nice to have, but it does not lead to eternal life. Wisdom is nice to have. In fact, wisdom is better, better than money. But it must lead somewhere other than itself. To be meaningful, to be eternally useful, wisdom, money, anything that we have, worked for, or get been given must lead to Jesus the Christ. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. Gracious Father, we thank you for the gift of wisdom. And we sorely need it. Need it in our individual lives, need it in our relationships, need it for the rest of our days. But most importantly, we want it to lead to Jesus, whom you gave. as our truth. May it be so in Jesus' name. Amen