In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We are in the John chapter 2, the gospel according to St. John chapter 2, our gospel reading this morning. One might ask Why this story is told? Why do we need to read about Jesus turning water into wine? The answer to that is threefold at least. The first twofolds are Number one, the miracle was for the disciples of Jesus to more firmly and deeply believe in him as the Messiah. That is what verse eleven of chapter two plainly states. The second reason for telling this story Is that it is the first of the seven miracles that John records Remember from our introduction, we noted that John was going about this telling of the gospel much differently than Matthew, Mark, or Luke. John is being emotionally poetic in telling his account And so he only tells seven miracles. For seven is the perfect number, and that number confirms Jesus and his life to be perfect. Many more things John could have written. He explains that in the latter part of his gospel. But he chose only seven. And the first of the seven is this wedding at Cana. The first miracle at a wedding. And the mentioning of a wedding leads us to recognize All of the typologies that are occurring in this story. Read along with me from John chapter 2. We'll read verse 1. On the third day, there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. Now, since chapters are were not original to John's writing of the gospel, we can understand the third day to be a reference. To after Nathaniel spoke to Jesus, which we talked about last week, the third day is after Nathaniel spoke to Jesus in chapter 1. The manner that the Jews counted the days, we might have said, well, it was two days later. But we can also see that the mention of it being the third day is not by accident. And of course, John knows what the third day means. For Christians, the third day is always the day of resurrection. And this miracle that's about to be told is the beginning of a new era, a day of new revelation. And so let's identify it as the third day. Verse 2 and 3 together. Now both Jesus and his disciples were invited to the wedding. And when they ran out of wine, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. It is not illegal to understand that Jesus was related to the wedding party. Family was naturally invited to Jewish weddings. It is also not a leap to understand that his mother Mary was part of the wedding preparations, for she has intimate knowledge of the catering arrangements. And this is all very common, even for us today, as we can imagine a family member putting on a wedding celebration. and catering it themselves while being helped out by other family members who love them and want the whole celebration to go off well. We can imagine ourselves, perhaps we've even been there ourselves. The fact that it was a wedding in which Jesus began his public ministry should not be lost on us. He begins and he consummates his ministry toward mankind with weddings This wedding and everything Jesus does publicly points to that final wedding when Jesus welcomes his church, his bride, into the mansions of glory. That's what we're all looking toward. Now there are a lot of customs going on in the story that we need to be privy to. In Jewish culture in the first century, running out of wine, being unable to provide for the guests that you invited And thus guests that were expecting to be well fed, to run out, was greatly embarrassing. There is even more evidence to suggest that a bridegroom's family could have been sued in certain circumstances for inadequate provisions at a wedding. So this was important. In order to avoid embarrassment, Mary does what any loving family member would do, which is to try to solve the problem. Again, talking about customs, that she approaches Jesus likely tells us that Joseph, her husband, was now deceased. For it would have been more appropriate for her to approach Joseph first before Jesus Mary instead approaches Jesus, her firstborn son, which again, according to custom, was the thing to do, because Jesus, being the firstborn son, would have been the head of Mary's household. In her words to Jesus, Mary says they've run out of wine. Wine. Now let us be clear. Regardless of what Mr. Welsh would have us believe, the word wine meant what it means today. A fermented drink produced from grapes that has the potential to intoxicate There have been teetotalers for a long time who have sought to argue that the word wine in the Bible is only grape juice. I used to dwell in circles that heard men yelling from pulpits that the drinking of wine was a sin. And such men would never accept that Jesus would provide wine to intoxicate, nor that Jesus would ever drink wine that would intoxicate. And such preachers, I will say kindly, are poor in their Greek and even poorer in their history. When in verse 10 the steward speaks of people at such a feast as to have well drunk, as the New King James says He uses the word that refers to inebriation. Now Paul did not say to the Ephesians, do not be drunk on grape juice, as we just heard. Nor did he rebuke those who were abusing the Lord's table for drinking too much grape juice. No, what they ran out of was wine that intoxicates. But in making the point, let it be clear that there is no justification for being intoxicated. Just because wine is provided, there's not requirement for anyone to drink too much of it. That point we made on to verse 4. Jesus said to her, Woman, what does your concern have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. Well, this reply by Jesus to his mother has received all sorts of unnecessary speculations regarding the relationship that Jesus had with Mary. Because of this manner, it seems that he speaks to her. But the title woman, here Woman is not used in the same manner as the brothers Grim use the word in Anselm Gretel that we heard last week The title woman by itself was not a harsh greeting as it might sound, and we simply need to consider that Jesus addressed his mother And with the same words, woman, when he was hanging on the cross and commending her to John, the writer of our gospel, that he might take care of her. He called her there, woman. And because of this, we can hear the term as one of respect or one of affection. But what we can also hear Is that by not calling her mother, his public ministry had begun. And this caused him to put a bit of personal distance from his mother, as he becomes more a man of the people than her son. And we are to make no mistake that his next words, what does your concern have to do with me? That is a measured rebuke. That is a measured rebuke. His mother is his mother. And she could have easily taken advantage of that relationship, and he wants her to know that he knows that, and that there is a definite change that is happening between them. And Jesus next gives his explanation for the rebuke. He says, my hour or my time is not yet come. And this is the first in a series of similar remarks throughout John's Gospel Here he says, my hour is not yet. He says the same thing in chapter seven, verse six. In chapter 8, verse 30, the Jews were not able to seize Jesus. And John explains to the reader, he says, because his hour had not yet come. It is only when the cross is immediately in sight that we hear Jesus say, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Thus, we are to hear that Jesus is telling his mother that the time for him to be revealed so that men might believe or deny him. is not upon them, and she was not to hurry it along. Verse 5. His mother said to the servants, Whatever he says to you, do it. Interestingly, that is similar language to when the famine struck in Egypt. And Pharaoh, having Joseph at his right hand, told the Egyptians, Go to Joseph and do whatever he tells you. Same language. For Mary, it is a statement of faith in her son. And we will see this interaction pattern happen again in other places of the gospel. Here we have Jesus At first refusing a request, and then proceeding to help in a manner that is more fitting to God's timing, not man's. Verse six. Now there were set there six water pots of stone, according to the manner of purification of the Jews, containing twenty or or thirty gallons apiece. Now the number six can be understood to be parallel to the six days of creation, when God made and then filled. Remember the first three days God creates, and then the next three He fills with that which He creates for those days. We've been studying this on Wednesday, Wednesday study. So pots are made, but not filled. And the purpose of them we know to be part of the Jewish custom of ceremonial washing, to present themselves as pure before God and before men. These washings we learned from Jesus went beyond what the law required. Verse 7 and 8 Jesus said to them, Fill the water pots with water, and they filled them up to the brim. And he said to them, Draw some out now, and take it to the master of the feast. And they took it Now this is all very natural. Servants are told what to do, and they do it. No questions asked, it was not their place. Verse nine. When the master of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and did not know where it came from, but the servants who had drawn the water knew, the master of the feast called the bridegroom. And we realize that John does not tell us how this miracle occurred. He doesn't tell us when the water was turned into wine. He simply mentions it. And we are not told precisely how much, we're to assume that it was all of the water pots To realize that this is a substantial gift. Jesus is giving this wedding party a substantial gift. Verse 10. And he said to him, Every man at the beginning sets out the good wine, and when the guests have well drunk, then the inferior. You have kept the good wine until now. Well the logic here is evident. The host starts off with better quality wine. And when faces are happy and voices are raised, the lesser quality wine is introduced, the less expensive wine is passed around because the taste buds are not as sharp anymore. But Jesus does not go cheap. Jesus does not do a miracle halfway. Jesus did not turn water into box wine. Jesus gave the best, for he is the best given. Verse eleven This beginning of signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him. Well, the mention of the miracle having been done in Cana of Galilee is to put a frame around this story, the beginning and the end. John said that he along with the other apostles beheld the glory of Jesus. And now he has just finished giving us an example of what he meant. Jesus manifested his glory here, John says. Now for unbelieving years This story of the first miracle could easily be dismissed as a sleight-of-hand trick. It could be dismissed as a magician's trick. Just like pouring the milk into a rolled up newspaper, only having the milk leave no wet mark. So too seemingly can a magician have an audience first see water and then see wine But Jesus did more than perform a trick. Jesus gave. And in giving revealed his true identity, who he really was. Jesus manifested his glory by turning water into wine in, I believe, at least three ways, and here they are. The first way that Jesus is revealing his glory is most obvious. Jesus marked his public ministry by increasing the celebration. Increasing the celebration. And the revelation that God became man and was now dwelling among mankind and had started speaking words of eternal life, that is something to celebrate indeed. Perhaps it cannot be emphasized enough that drunkenness is a sin. It always has been. Drunks are fools. They do foolish things and therefore reveal their sinful hearts. But drinking wine to make the heart glad is not automatically equal to drunkenness Consider Psalm 104. Wine gladdens the human heart. And from Ecclesiastes, go eat your food with gladness and drink your wine with a joyful heart. For God has already approved what you do. You know, one of the goals of our annual winter ball is to demonstrate to our young generation That Christians can celebrate responsibly. And as it has been said from this pulpit before, Christians of all people should know how to celebrate. Amen? For Christians have the best reasons to celebrate and the freest of spirits to celebrate. The people who attended that wedding in Cana were celebrating much more than they knew. And Jesus wanted them to celebrate. The second way Jesus manifested his glory by turning water into wine. was by marking the beginning of the new covenant. Marking the beginning of the new covenant. This is as contrasted to how Moses marked the old covenant Consider when the plague of blood struck Egypt by Aaron holding Moses' rod over the Nile. All water, including drinking water, turned to blood Such was fitting, for under the old covenant, that blood was repeatedly being spilled to atone for the sins of God's people. But the new covenant only needs one blood offering, and that is the blood of Jesus. And so, what represents that blood is wine. For wine makes the heart of men glad, and is a type of what the blood of Jesus does for the heart of every person who calls upon the name that will save them. Wine is also imagery used in the Old Testament to describe a messianic age. Consider these passages. Jacob from Genesis 49, 11, pronouncing upon Judah what will happen to him and his seed. Judah's royal descendants, Jacob said, would bring in an age in which wine was so abundant that they could wash their clothes in it. Amos speaks of the great day of salvation as the day when new wine will drip from the mountains and flow from all the hills. Jeremiah the prophet looks forward to a day when, quote, they will come and shout for joy on the heights of Zion. They will rejoice in the bounty of the Lord, the grain, the new wine, and the oil. The days of the wedding at Cana were days that were described by the prophets here And the third and final way to see the glory of Jesus manifested in this miracle is actually related to the first in terms of celebration. Jesus with the gift of wine shows us, shows us how to look forward to heaven. How to look forward to heaven. The gift of wine is a glimpse of heaven. Now, full disclosure time here. I am not a wine expert I have attended wine-tasting venues. I have spoken to Somaliers. I have tasted high-tier wine, expensive wine. And I get that there is a difference between highly regarded vintages and, say, the Sutter Home brand, but a love for wine I do not have People with more sophisticated palates love wine. They love swirling it around in their glass, smelling it Tasting a little bit and talking about what might be in it. Those type of people are above me. They appreciate the beauty of it. They enjoy it. Jesus is giving something that people can enjoy. A taste, a bit, just a taste of that which we will enjoy forever. Whether people appreciate it or not, God gives us moments, just moments Of heaven. Just little tastes of those things that we will look forward to to share for eternity. I vividly remember riding a lift chair to the top of Crystal Mountain, which sits on the end of the Cascade Mountains in the state of Washington. And I remember riding that chair on a beautiful blue and sunny day, and coming over a ridge, and there standing in all its glory, 15,000 feet of Mount Rainier Majestic. With a blue, bright sky behind it. It was the most glorious thing I had ever seen on this earth. That is a heaven moment. I remember, although not vividly enough, the first time I tasted a Ruth Crisp Steakhouse steak. I knew at that moment that what I was was served was how steaks should be cooked. But I get a lot of amens on that one. And I also concluded that this must be what steaks taste like in heaven. Although there's no animals in heaven, right? So never never mind, we'll not go there. There have been times In our home living room, when Bobby Lynn and I have sat with all the children, talking freely, laughing freely, enjoying the conversation so very much. That I imagine heaven must bring such joy, more such joy. I've had more times than I can count when I look at my beloved's eyes. See that she loves me and I love her and it literally touches my soul. That most certainly is a heavenly moment Jesus gives those to us. And we need to count them more, don't we? He gave them to a wedding party in Canaan. And he gives them to us. Jesus gives our heavenly hope. Let us pray