In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I begin with comments from our first reading, First Corinthians chapter three. I have thought in the past that the Apostle Paul got away with a great deal that I myself have not nor could not get away with. An example of what I am describing is from 1 Corinthians chapter 3, where he describes the Christians at that church. as babies in the faith, of whom he had to feed milk only, because they were not mature enough for solid food. But I now realize that Paul actually didn't get away with anything, and that I actually have had it much easier The Christians at Corinth were highly critical of Paul, and one reason was for this character That they believed had that they believed Paul had given them that there's a character of being immature. But that is not our focus this morning. Paul explains further that they are not ready for solid food because he says they are carnal. The word carnal means flesh. Therefore, Paul is saying that the Christians who are part of the church at Corinth live their faith by being ruled by their flesh. Evidence for living by their flesh is that there are behaviors that reveal envy, strife, and divisions between people in the church. Evidence to that is that one group says they are of Paul, and another that says they are of Apollos. Evidently, to say you are of someone is to say that I follow that person and in doing so I have a particular identity that is separate from my identity with anyone else even though we all are to be one in Christ Jesus. Paul next reveals why saying you are of someone is a gross misunderstanding of what it means to be Christian. It is because the men that are being divided over are only ministers used by God, so that the people of Corinth would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. A minister is simply a person who does the bidding of someone higher. Paul next uses the metaphor of growing a plant. Paul is the planter, because he first told the Corinthians about the gospel of Jesus Christ Apollos watered by following up while teaching in greater depth what it meant to be Christian. And while the two ministers were serving these people, God was working within them, within their hearts, their souls, their minds, establishing their identity as His people. Next, Paul uses the metaphor of a building where different people contribute to raising the building. But make no mistake, with each building God makes, and buildings that represent converted persons, Jesus is the cornerstone of each and every person, of you and me. The focus then is to be on the unity, what unites Christians in Corinth, not upon what is different about them. I use these passages to answer a question. As I stated a few weeks ago, I'm using the summer months. By interrupting our series on the book of Judges to interject some questions that I anticipate need to be answered. The question I am answering today is why Anglicanism? Or why be an Anglican? There can be unfortunate but real parallels between the scenario Paul was addressing within the Corinthian church and what we know today as denominationalism. Before I address the issue of denominationalism, I need to tell you what this sermon is not about. I do so because the subject can be so broad as to be daunting, both in scope and in the time needed to address it. This is not a sermon that looks at Anglicanism as opposed to Roman Catholicism or Eastern Orthodoxy. The history and issues with those wings of Christ Church are too grand to be helpful to us today. I am also not looking at Anglicanism as opposed to the mainline denominations who have denied the authority of Holy Scripture and have instead aligned themselves with progressive and liberal theologies. I, for the most part, do not see us as having the same gospel as them, therefore it would be a fruitless examination. Instead, what I am addressing in this sermon is the why of Anglicanism versus Presbyterian groups like the PCA or the OPC. Lutheran churches like Missouri City, Baptist churches like those that are part of the Southern Baptist Convention or independent churches who usually have Baptist-like doctrine but want to be labeled as a community church. And finally, some Methodists, some Methodists, Who have hung on to most of the gospel message. So I'm asking the question: why Anglicanism as opposed to any of the others that I have just mentioned? And let's get into some full disclosure. I am aware that there are faithful people among us. who do not identify as Anglican in your Christian expression, and that you are here worshiping and serving at St. Stephen's for a variety of reasons that are not essentially connected to being Anglican. I'm also aware that there are some here, or some who are listening to this sermon. Who dislike identifiers or labels that convey a distinctive look or perspective of Christianity that would separate you from other looks or perspectives In other words, you just want to be Christian. The spirit behind that desire is true and it is noble It is part of what St. Paul was teaching the Corinthians. The reality behind that desire is that you and I have to make decisions Decisions like baptizing babies, or no. You need to decide about communion, such as how frequent What type of bread? How is it to be received? What type of wine? How is it to be received? And what about your statements of faith? Where do they come from? And what about your government structure? Bishops or no? Women priests or no? And there are many more decisions to make, and once you have made them, you then can see who you line up with, what denominations you are most like that already exist That are following the same look as you just chose. Hence we are all something Some identify identity, we are all some identity or label that falls under a more general category of being Christian. We may not like it, we might not like the labels, but they cannot be avoided in this life. But again, the spirit behind wanting to be just Christian or being a mere Christian, as C. S. Lewis put it, is still true, it's still noble. Therefore, regardless of the decisions we make regarding the many issues before us to organize a church They are not to pit us against one another, and we are most certainly not to look down upon one another when we cho choose differently. I have been guilty of doing so in the past, and I announce publicly that I am committed to not do so in the future. I will still agree with my decisions, but I am in no position to think less of those who make different ones. We truly are all one in Christ, even when we don't admit it. So we now get to the meat of the answer to the question, why Anglican? First, Anglicanism provides a connection with the historic church while living in the present age. This is related to the point made by G. K. Chesterton when he said the following, quote, Traditions mean giving a vote to the most obscure of all classes, our ancestors. It is the democracy of the dead. He went on to say, quote, tradition refuses to submit to the small and arrogant oligarchy of those who merely happen to be walking about. All Democrats object to men being disqualified by the accident of their birth. Tradition objects to their being disqualified by the accident of their death. Democracy tells us not to neglect a good man's opinion, even if he is our groom. Tradition asks us not to neglect a good man's opinion, even if he is our father. The informal fallacy of chronological snobbery is ever present today And is especially practiced by those who are young, who have concluded that all that is older is asleep. But Anglicanism answers that the church triumphant is a living body of believers who are waiting for Jesus to return. So that they can receive their eternal forms and live forever in the presence of God, both in body and in spirit, just as the Heavenly Father desires and has planned. Anglicanism orders its worship services according to the scriptures that describe 24 elders around the throne, 12 from the old 12 from the New, singing praises of holy, holy, holy. A chorus that continues when we worship and when we start our worship services We join into a service that has already started and never ends. Within the ideal of tradition Anglicanism orders its worship services according to what has been handed down to us, both in structure and in content. When Bishop Cramner wrote out the daily services of morning and evening prayer, he borrowed from what early Christians practiced. And from the principles established in the morning and evening sacrifices offered to God in the Old Testament. In other words, traditions. When he wrote out the main worship service of Holy Communion, he based it off of the practices of Christians who were first generation followers of the apostles. One of his principles followed the axiom, what is closest to the source of water is the purest. Hence, what is closest to the practice and teachings of the apostles is the purest form of worship He used sources such as the Apostolic Constitutions, which were collections of writings from the Apostles and their followers Writings that describe liturgies used in Christian worship, even the very words used by the priest in presiding over Holy Communion. The vestments that are worn by bishops, priests, and deacons today are all influenced by the priests of the Old Testament and priests of the early church. What we wear today is not comfortable. It may be aesthetically appealing to some, not to me. I sweat a great deal in these garments, which is ironic because they became more commonly used in places like England, where priests liked to wear them because they kept them warm. But priests are not to wear vestments because of what is liked or not liked. The vestments instead are to point to that which is greater than self, who is Christ Jesus. For the white symbolizes his perfection, and the colors are to symbolize the church seasons, and the church seasons are to point to the works of Christ, the works for the salvation of his people. It is to be all about Jesus. This is in contrast to those who wear jeans Sit in schools, excuse me, sit in stools to preach, who refer to their elevated platform as a stage? And all of it to cause attention to self. And that is not a criticism, it's a mere description. I conceive that such an approach can help bring unbelievers to Jesus, but I am not convinced that the same can sanctify disciples. I believe Anglicanism can and does sanctify disciples by reliving the traditions of the historic church. A second reason for why Anglicanism is that it provides a solid answer to the most prevalent heresy of our time, which is Gnosticism. I remind you that Gnosticism is derived from the Greek word gnosis, which means knowledge. It was a disorganized heresy in the early church that seems to rise up again, at least every other generation. Today, it is a term that covers a great deal of definitions, so we will focus on one particular definition, which is the belief that the spiritual world is good while the physical world is evil. This belief resulted in a bifurcated approach to the physical world, where many Gnostic teachers taught that the physical world and any pleasure derived from that world is to be avoided. But not because a belief in right or wrong, but a belief that to enjoy the physical world was to give power to what was called a demi-urge or a lesser God. There was, however, another approach to Gnosticism that viewed the physical world as of no consequence. Resulting in its teachers and followers enjoying all the pleasures of the flesh because the flesh was useless and powerless. What both camps within Gnosticism believed was that only the spiritual world mattered. Of course, as I have argued from this pulpit several times before, to care only for the spiritual world is to deny the importance of Jesus becoming flesh and dwelling among us. It is to deny that the resurrection of the flesh mattered. It is, beloved Foundational to the Christian faith, that both the physical and the spiritual are to be believed as of the same importance. But again, modern-day Christians struggle to believe in the importance of the flesh. They say it doesn't matter how you dress for worship They say it doesn't matter what postures you take while you worship. They say that the aesthetics of a building inside and out are of no value. They say the need for weekly communion is not there. It's not necessary. And what is at the root of all such conclusions? What do they say matters more? They say it is the spirit that matters more. They say what is most important is how a person feels, which is an aspect of the human spirit. Anglicanism in comparison says that the physical world matters. And so we arrange our sanctuaries in a cruciform manner to point to the gospel. Crosses are boldly displayed. Communion tables are central We have symbols on all of our walls and windows to point to different aspects of our salvation and how it was won and how we are to live it out. We take postures that are to lead our hearts, as for St. Paul said to the Corinthians, first the flesh, then the Spirit. For the Spirit follows the postures of the flesh. I could go on, for the physical is before you each and every Sunday, giving us an opportunity to hope for a new heaven and a new earth. Which is to hope for victory in the spirit and victory in the physical world. Finally, my last answer for this sermon as to why Anglicanism Is how our form of government and our form of worship provide the opportunity to form a level of reverence That is so deep desperately needed today and is definitely owed to God. A few weeks ago within our Wednesday Bible study Where we are answering objections to God, we discussed the various ways God motivates his people. We noted that the two most frequent motivations in Scripture are God's love and a fear of God. The Hebrew and Greek words for fear range from great reverence to great terror. A positive of fearing God is it can immediately dissuade us from doing what is wrong or from continuing to do what is wrong Fear of God can also humble us, which is an internal state of being that God requires of us. Fear also gives us a desire to warn others about God's wrath unless they repent. But the majority of Christians today are not motivated by a fear of God. And that is because the church and its prophets, its preachers, do not preach today for people to fear God. It doesn't sell. What was revealed this past year is that too many people fear viruses. Fear politicians, fear bad media, more than they fear God. Fearing God is not something that comes naturally, but is instead something that is learned. And we can learn by respecting the authority of the church. And the governing authority of the church. Bishops truly are men ordained by God for specific tasks that only they can perform. When we respect them, we have greater reverence/slash fear for God. Hearing God's law and of his punishments for breaking those laws is also needed. And it is something we Anglicans do when we recite the Ten Commandments and then pledge to keep them. And to learn a proper fear of God, we need to hear how God punishes his people when they sin. just as we have been doing when we have studied the book of Judges. Another way to to grow our fear of God, having nothing to do with Anglicanism is to look at the world and its results. What not fearing the Lord brings is chaos culturally and morally. And cultural and moral chaos brings great pain and suffering. And so I have answered the question: why Anglicanism I did not say it was entirely better. I did not say that what we practice is altogether better. I simply said that it is better in certain areas of our Christian expression. When Paul addressed the divisions in Corinth, he was witnessing men giving praise, praise to men, that was to go to God alone. No one should give praise to what is Anglican or Presbyterian or Baptist or name your church here. Anglicanism is a branch of Christ Church that provides things some other branches of Christ's Church do not. That is why. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the traditions. We thank you for the challenge to Gnosticism. We thank you, Heavenly Father, that you grant us a fear that is most desperately needed. Continue to bless us in our attempt to honor you and all that we do. And may we always love other branches of Christ's Church. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.