Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we have to be here this morning to sing your praises, to partake of your table. To fellowship with one another and to hear your word. We pray that the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in thy sight And we pray all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please be seated. John Tolly Hood Worthington was born on November 1, 1788 at Shawan, near Baltimore, Maryland. He was the son of Walter Tolly Worthington and Sarah Hood, daughter of John Hood, by Hannah Barnes. Worthington was elected as a Jacksonian to the 22nd Congress in 1831. He was also elected as a Democrat to the 25th and 26th Congresses, where he served from March of 1837 to March of 1841. After Congress, he resumed. Agricultural pursuits. Worthington died at Shawnee in Baltimore County, Maryland, and was interred in a private cemetery on his farm. He was reinterred in St. John's Episcopal Churchyard in Worthington Valley, Maryland. So last evening I was sitting in that churchyard, one of my favorite graveyards. Preaching through my notes, preaching out loud to see what actually sounds like with or without my hearing aid, but alas, my words fell on deaf ears because everybody is dead. Seeing John Tolly's Memorial Stone, though, I hoped he lived a life of love and accomplishment. But more so I hoped he listened and loved hearing God's word, and that he persevered to the end. May you and I, as living stones, as Peter would tell us, listen and take to heart all that God says to us, not only this morning but each day of the week. And picking up on verse 22 as we go through the end of the chapter, a chapter that's very long and detailed, a chapter that has a lot of information that can be put into 10 sermons, about an hour each, you're going to Get in one sermon less than an hour. But it begins with let us. Let us, you and I, draw near to God. And that'll be the first let us In these passages. In your English translations, let us is only mentioned three times, but in the Greek there is five opportunities for us to read let us. So let us approach him Get close to him, let us draw near, many of your translations say. You know, we see that same word used in the wilderness temptation of Jesus. On the front end of the temptation, we are told that Satan drew nearer. Came to him. And on the back end of the temptation, where we are told, angels then came or draw near to him to minister to him. And yet Satan and the angels eventually departed from him. Which is the case even among ourselves. Each day we draw near to one another physically, and yet eventually we do depart. And we go our separate ways. And this is in the physical realm. It happens all the time, coming and going, drawing near and drawing apart. But this drawing near in this passage is not a physical act. It is an invisible act of the heart Hebrews 4, 16, let us draw near with the confidence to the throne of grace. Hebrews 7, 25. He is able to save forever those who draw near to God. Hebrews 11, 6, which passes Jorgens. And we'll teach on next week. Without faith it is impossible to please him, for he who draws near to God must believe that he is, and that he is reward of those who seek him. The great passion Of this writer to the Hebrews is that you and I draw near to God. That we come to his throne to find all the help that we need. That we come to him confident that he will reward us. With all that he is for us in Jesus. The great aim of this writer is that we get near to God, that we have fellowship with him, that we not settle for a Christian life at a distance from the world. From God, that God would not be a distant thought, but a near and present reality that we experience, what the old Puritans called communion with God A communion with God, first of all, in our hearts, but a close second would be a communion with God in the context of worship. And in order to draw near to God, we must go through his Son's body and blood. We must go through the cross of Jesus Christ. He is not only our great high priest, which we've learned over the weeks We come to him and he ministers to us, intercedes for us, but he is that cross in that way that we finally get to the Father. You know, in the same way that the curtain of the temple was torn asunder at the hour of Christ's crucifixion And thereby allowing access to the Holy of Holies, if only for a short period of time before they sewed it back together. Now we are given access to the throne of God's presence through the torn body of Jesus Christ on. Calvary's tree. And this not for a short period of time, but for all eternity. Christ is the only way to the Father. All other religions are dead ends. So let us draw near, the writer says. Let us draw near to God through his word and through his church. The second, let us hold fast. Let us hold fast unswervingly to the hope we profess. To hold fast means keep a firm grip. Come into full possession. Hold down and not let go. What sport comes to mind when you think of a firm grip holding down and not letting go? Any Sport of wrestling. It's all about a firm grit. It's all about speed. It's all about strength and the ability to hold down and pin your opponent. I don't think I'm alone. I hated wrestling in high school, junior high school, gymnasium. Why? Well because I I would lose When you play baseball, you can throw a ball at somebody, hit them with the bat, hit the ball, but in wrestling you got a grip and hold and all this stuff and I didn't like it. We hated it Well, at least I did. But it's all about a firm grip, holding down. But it's all it's right there in the Bible, is it not? Genesis 32. Look at a striking picture of this in Genesis thirty two of the story of Jacob. The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabak. He took them and sent them across the stream and everything else that he had. And then it said, and Jacob was left alone Whenever you read in the Bible that a man is left alone, you know there's going to be a struggle here. With David on the hilltop or on the top of his fortress, his palace, he struggled with temptation. Temptation got a firm grip on him, and he fell. Peter was left alone in the courtyard. He was tempted, was he not, by even the words of the maid in the courtyards to let go of his grip on Jesus? He failed, but not Jacob. Jacob is left alone And a man wrestled with him, we read, until the breaking of the day. When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him Then he said, let me go, for the door, for the day is broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go Unless you bless me. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. And then he said, Your name should no longer be called Jacob But Israel, for you have striven with God and with men, and have prevailed. Jacob's steadfast grip led to his blessing. He encountered the angel of the Lord and would not let him Let him go. You know, in the same way, the writer to the Hebrews was exhorting his readers, and you and I this morning to hold on to the hope that we have in Jesus Christ. And based on the psalm. foundation of that hope, our confession as a church stands. God's word never wavers His confession is sure. God is not man that he should lie or son of man that he should change his mind. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not fulfill it? Numbers 23, 19. Our hope is in him. Our confession is his Hold fast to that hope. Hold fast to that confession. And that grip, the blessing of assurance. comes. So let us draw near. Let us hold fast. And then he says, and let us consider how to stir up one another in love and good works. How to not neglect meet meeting together as is a habit of sin. Let us encourage one another all the more as the day draws near. Let us, let us, let us. This is a communion message, a corporate message for the people of God Here he stresses Christian fellowship and the church's role in helping believers persevere until the end. We cannot have confidence and full assurance of faith apart from the church. We cannot endure in isolation. Each Christian desperately needs the body of believers for encouragement, to obtain assurance, for continual reminding from other saints. The older in the church to mentor to the younger, the younger in the church to To model the older. Each Christian needs one another, do they not? You need each other. I need you. We need to be encouraged Question, why are so few men in church nowadays? Well, on any given Sunday Is a 1999 American sports film directed by Oliver Stone, who actually makes things up as he goes along in his life, depicting a fictional professional American football team. It's partly based though on a novel, any given. Sunday by famed NFL defensive player Pat Tumey. Some of you gentlemen may remember Pat Tumey. The title, on any given Sunday, is derived from a line in the book, but it's also used in the film that a team can win or lose on any given Sunday. But then again, on any given Sunday, all across the world, churches are likely to have more women in the pews than men. Some estimates place the gender gap as 61% women versus 39% men. That means that on any given Sunday, there are millions more women attending church than men. Many theories have been put forward for that, why so few men attend church. As I read a few of these theories, I I was just commenting out loud all the time through some of these, and I will refrain from those kind of comments now. One theory is that church's teachings emphasizing humility, holiness, and introspection are seen by some men as weak and as somehow less than masculine. So because of that, men don't come to church. Men are looking to be challenged with a bold message of adventure, danger, and aggressiveness. Not me when I go to church, but some people must. Find the right activities to attract men is also a challenge for many churches. Some congregations make an effort to provide times of fellowship and bonding for men by adding Hunting expeditions. I could do that. Fishing trips. Larry, you could plan that. Sports to their schedules. Another theory is that many churches knowingly or unknowingly create a feminine atmosphere with their decor. Did you know that? Men stay away because I guess of colors and decorations and I guess. Another explanation for why there are so few men in church has to do with the stereotypical masculine ego. Men are naturally self-reliant, headstrong, and proud. The theory goes, and are therefore naturally more resistant to the divine call to humility and submission. The gospel confronts are need, and men are often averse to admitting neediness So there are many hypotheses, such as upbringing, men were reared by fathers who did not attend church services, and so have no role model for masculine involvement in a church. There might be a grain of truth in many of these, especially in that one, but none of them fully explain the gender gap in modern churches. Men avoid church for a variety of reasons. Church leaders should be aware of those possible reasons and they should reach out to young men, husbands, and fathers. And that is why men need each other to challenge and to encourage one another. And so do you men sitting here today? It was so great to see that insert in the bulletin about the beginning of men's ministries. So for you men sitting here today, this message isn't necessarily for you, is it? The message is for those who are not here today. And so I'm all for going hunting. Let's go hunting. Hunting for other men. And the rewards of Tokens, Lord of the Rings, and out of the mouths of the orcs We need man flesh in the church. Guys, you're an instrument of reconciliation in the lives and family of the men you know who are neglecting worship. Maybe that's one of the biggest reasons men don't go to church. Other men don't pursue them. They want to be pursued themselves, but they won't pursue others. Men whom you know need the presence of Christ and the fellowship of the saints. Men who need you. And you, by the way, need them. Ladies know this. I just thought I would bring it up in the context of encouragement. Men we need to be encouraged, do we not? So all of us though must n not neglect gathering together for corporate worship. Times of prayer and encouragement. Those who neglect assembling together cut themselves off from the very means whereby Christ feeds and assures and protects his people To say I can do this alone is to defy the very command of Jesus Christ. Some may claim that they can hear better preaching on the internet. But that they're too busy to attend church. But these excuses reveal the reality, men, women of our disobedient hearts. Instead of searching for an excuse We should be doing everything within our power to meet together. Not only because we need to be fed by the preaching of God's Word, but also because it's part of the faith to stir one another up as believers to loving good works. And so the challenge would be not to forget that many out there need to be encouraged and brought back to the fold. And then we get to verse 26. Does Hebrews 26 mean that a believer can lose salvation? You've been ready for this one? You all excited about this one? Can the believer lose salvation? I must say, when I looked at this passage last week, I thought to myself Pastor Jorgensen's going on vacation. We're going to talk about apostasy. And I get that opportunity to talk about apostasy That's alright. The time will come and other passages will delve upon other men. And so I did a lot of reading on apostasy. It's only used two times in the scripture, but we'll make a big deal out of it But it's only used two times in the Bible. So does Hebrews ten twenty six mean that a believer can lose salvation Willful sinning, deliberate sinning maybe you have. Willful sinning in this passage carries the idea of consciously, deliberately, rejecting Christ. I've been using that word a couple of times. Deliberately, deliberately, consciously rejecting Christ. To know God's way, to hear it preached, to study it, to count oneself among the faithful, and then turn away is to become apostate. Sinning willfully carries with it the idea of sinning continuously and deliberately Such a person does not sin because of ignorance, nor is he carried away by m momentary temptations. He is too weak to resist. It's not that. The worldful sinner sins because of an established way of thinking and acting, which he has no desire to give up. The true believer, on the other hand, is one who lapses of his sin, loses temporary fellowship with God, but he will eventually Come back to God in repentance. Why? Because his Heavenly Father will continue to woo him and convict him until he can't stay away any longer. The true apostate will continue to sin Deliberately, willingly, and with abandon. John tells us, John tells us in 1 John, no one is born of God, practices sin because his seed abides in him. And he cannot sin because he is able to be in the world. is born of God. Apostates have knowledge but no application of the truth. Judas Iscariot is the perfect example. He had knowledge but he lacked true faith No other rejector of the truth had more or better exposure to the love and the grace of Jesus Christ than Judas. He was a part of Judas's, Jesus' inner circle of disciples. He ate with them, he slept with them, he traveled with them for several years. He saw the miracles and heard the words of God from Jesus' own lips, and yet he not only turned away, but was instrumental in the plot to kill Jesus. Having turned his back on the truth, with full knowledge, choosing to willfully and continually sin, the apostate is then beyond salvation. Why? Because he has rejected the one true sacrifice for sin, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. To turn away willfully from this sacrifice leaves no sacrifice. It leaves only sin, the penalty for which is eternal death. This passage is not speaking of a believer who falls away, who stumbles, who doubts, etc. Many things that we experience. But rather someone who may claim to be a believer, but truly is not. And that is ultimately between God and that person. Whether it be your son or my son, your daughter, my daughter, my father, your father, your mother, my mother. It is ultimately between God Between God and that person. First John two tells us, you know, they went on from us, but they were not of us So if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, then it might be plain that they are not of us. But our hearts and our minds and our prayers should not be focused on that. And directed to this. We should be directing our hearts and minds and prayers to the gloriously inspired certain words That out of the mouth of Jesus and his apostles. First John 5. 13, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. Philippians 1, 6. And I am sure of this that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. John 10, 27. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life. And they will never perish, and no Everyone will snatch them out of my hand. This last verse tells us and promises that Jesus' hold on us is as strong as the angel of the Lord's grip was on Jacob and Jacob's was on his. It's a nice parallel, actually, between the first Israel, Jacob, and the theophany of Christ in the Old Testament, and we, the spiritual children of Israel today, in the grip of Christ today. And in his grip, in the grip of Jesus Christ, the blessing of assurance will come. So no, a true believer cannot lose their salvation because those who are truly in Christ will persevere because of the keeping presence and the keeping power of God. And if you want some extra reading, you go ahead and read number 17 of the Articles of Religion, and we'll talk about the predestination of God's And now to summarize the rest of the passage, because there's so much here It does close with the last few verses, 32 through 39, with an exhortation to fidelity and perseverance. The writer reminds those who he wrote that they've already endured. He encourages them by the commendation by what they've already been through. He says that they need to be patient. That the time of their deliverance from all trial was not far off For that he who was to come would one day come. Having thus the close of this chapter eludes the subject of faith, he will proceed in the following chapter, chapter eleven, to illustrate the value and the strength of that faith. The object of the whole is to encourage and exhort them to bear their trials with patience and with submission to the will of God. But my righteous will live by faith. We read that in Habakkuk. It's also here in the end of Hebrews chapter 10. The righteousness. They should live by continued confidence in God. They should pass their lives not in doubt, in fear, in trembling apprehension, but in the exercise of a calm trust in God He is exhorting the Christians whom he addresses to persevere in their religion, even in the midst of the persecution, the same lesson and the promise we can hear today in the midst of our trials and tribulations. So therefore, let us draw nearer to God. Let us hold fast to our hope and confession. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. Let us not neglect to meet together as is the habit of some. Let us encourage one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. This fabulous five is needed in the church today. And where Christ is preached, they shall be found. And speaking of the preaching of Christ, I could not end but read you a short blurb from Spurgeon. He says the doctrine of Christ crucified is always with me. As the Roman sentinel and Pompey stood at his post even when the city was destroyed, so do I stand for the truth of the atonement, though the church is being buried Beneath the boiling mud showers of modern heresy. Everything else can wait, but this one truth must be proclaimed with a voice of thunder. Others may preach what they like. But as for this pulpit, it shall always resound with the substitution of Christ for our sins on the cross. God forbid that I should glory save on the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Some may continually preach Christ as an example, and others may perpetually speak upon his sec second coming to glory. We also preach both of these things. But mainly we preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block. And the Greeks foolishness But to them that are being saved, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. And Jude knew this in his one-chapter book when he says, to him who is able to keep you. From stumbling and to present you before his glorious presence without fault and with great joy, to the only God our Savior, be glory, majesty, power, and authority through Jesus Christ our Lord. Lord, before all ages, now and forevermore. Amen. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you do keep on keeping on us. Father, thank you that your true children will not wander away forever. Thank you too, Father, that you know those who belong to you. And to our eyes, if we know people who seem to be Avoiding you, departing from you, deserting you. You know the hearts. May we focus on the encouragement and the exhortation that you call the church to do. And we leave to you, Father. Thank you, Father, for the writer to the Hebrews That he reminds us of the corporate fellowship we have in Christ. And we pray in his name. Amen.