In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. As promised last week, in interrupting our series in the book of Judges To answer some difficult questions, questions posed by so many, those in the church and those outside the church. And perhaps this one question is the most prominent and yet not so easy to answer. The question is, why does evil exist? This general question has its siblings, such as why do bad things happen to good people? And if God is all good, why does he allow the devil to exist? These and others can be summarized by that question, why does evil exist? What concerns me most about such questions are the hearts of those who ask it. It has been my experience that many people who ask such questions, whether they are within the church or outside the church, They seem to already believe that they have an airtight argument against either the existence of God or they are in a position to condemn God. And they want to deny God's existence or condemn God because they want to live in sin without guilt. And because God is the source of guilt for sinners, they either want God to not exist, or they want to see themselves as morally superior to God. Whatever the reason, such persons use the existence of evil to reject having faith in God. I realize that I cannot reach such people. Their hearts are not open to hearing answers to their questions. And although I cannot know their hearts fully, I can see parts of their hearts by the fact that they do not want to stay around to hear answers to their questions. As I have stated to those involved in our Wednesday Bible study, it is not a virtue to ask tough questions. But it is a virtue to hear tough answers. My preaching this morning is not for those outside the church. I realize that the Holy Spirit can use this sermon to awaken a dead soul, and I hope that such happens. But my focus is on all of you. As I stated last week, my primary role in your life is to help you get from this world to the next. And to help do so, I need to engage along with you against the devil, against your conscience To do battle with your conscience and the devil and his minions when they try to put doubt in your mind by questioning the purpose of evil. That is what I'm trying to do this morning. The question, why does evil exist, falls under the philosophical category labeled by philosophers and theologians as the problem of evil. The category recognizes that God is defined as all good, and yet he allows evil to not only exist. But to cause pain and heartache upon those he created in his own image. The logic goes as follows If God is good, which we say he is, and if he is all-powerful, which by definition he is, then he would naturally prevent evil and only do what is good for his people, the people he created. It is a good argument on the surface. After all, if we were all powerful, we would assure that all good things were done for our children and nothing bad. But we should question whether doing good and not allowing anything painful or hurtful to happen to our children If that is actually good for our children. We wrestled last week with the reality that Struggling and suffering consequences for actions in this life is necessary. Because if struggles and sufferings were not present, we would deny a need for God. However, to simply conclude that evil exists, that is existing in the form of suffering and struggling, just so that we do not forget God. That does not get to the heart of why good why God would allow the evil of us having the ability to forget God. That's still present. And I frame the argument in such a manner because I believe it should be confessed by all, even the greatest of minds. That we cannot know fully in this life why God has chosen to do what he has done in terms of creating us in the manner that he did To placing humanity in the Garden of Eden, to allowing the devil to be present in that garden, taking on the form of a serpent? Because God has been defined as that by which nothing greater can be conceived, or as he describes himself, the I am. With either definition, we must conclude that there are things about God and ways about God that we cannot know, at least in this life. Realize, please, that if we could know all about God, then he would not, by definition, be God. Because by definition God is greater than what the human mind can conceive. And so we accept that we may never know God fully, even when we are with Him for eternity. That being said, there are some things that we can know. Helpful things. As we can be confident that God wants us to know these certain things. And so let us look at what we can know. In brief, we can know that God created Adam and Eve with the ability to make choices. We should not, however, call it free will. Don't use that term, that phrase. Because the word free can simply can imply that all choices are available. And having all choices is not possible. The ability to make choices means that there are at least two things that we can choose from. When I taught philosophy at the university, I would use a random student to demonstrate that free will As in having all choices before you is not a reality. I would ask a chosen student, how many colleges did you get accepted into? And they would usually say something like three. So the choices to go to college were limited to three. Not all. I would then ask why they chose Stevenson. They would usually say because of the financial package and the programs offered, it's what they could afford, it's what they wanted. So actually, because of other circumstances, the student really only had one college to choose. So in reality, when we consider other choices we make in life, it usually comes down to choosing between two things and not an unlimited number of things. So God gave humanity via Adam and Eve the means to make choices. Humanity, in his innocency, chose evil. Knowing the warning that if they did, death would enter the world. So death, because of their choice, entered the world, along with the earth being cursed. And I must pause here to embellish what it means for the earth to be cursed. Weeds and plants poisonous to humans grow because the earth is cursed. Weather patterns causing dangerous flooding, powerful winds, dangerous avalanches, freezing temperatures, droughts, lightning that ignites forest fires. Waves that swallow inhabited shorelines, rivers that wash away villages, are all present because the earth is cursed I believe that one of the most underrated results of the fall of humanity, underestimated in the Western with Western Christians, Is the earth being cursed? And understanding what that means for us. Too many Christians today speak of what is natural. Being more godly than what is unnatural, when the natural is actually cursed and in need of redemption. When Jesus said, if the people did not praise him, that the rocks would cry out. It is because the earth is in need of being born again. Just as we humans are in need of being born again. This is why the Bible describes our final redemption in terms of a new heaven and a new earth. So death entered the world, but God did not leave humanity to ourselves but made a promise that a seed, a son, would be born to a woman and eventually destroy, crush. The devil. He did not need to do so. He was not obligated to do so. But God loved the human species so much that he set in motion his plan to redeem his people. Meanwhile, we still have the ability to make choices Again, it is not a free will. We cannot choose to believe in God or follow Him or obey Him out of the recesses of our own consciences. And that is because we are dead in sin. As all who are born into the covenant of Adam are spiritually dead. But we do have the ability to choose, and many, many times people choose to do evil. Consider all the evil that falls upon human beings, and you will notice That a great deal of evil and suffering that we experience, we do to one another. Even the sickness we experience like a pandemic, some say humanity did it to himself in a laboratory Consider the many wars that we were started by humanity. Even the crusades, which were done in the name of Christ. Were not done because they were commanded by God, although some had godly motive, but rather by men who insisted they were speaking for God. but base their call to arms on political and emotional appeals rather than appeals from the Word of God. Some of you remember the disaster that we know of as Katrina, when so many lives were lost in the city of New Orleans, because of that hurricane And some prominent people at that time spoke out against God for allowing such a catastrophe. Instead of examining humanity and questioning the arrogance of the citizens of Louisiana, For building and living in a city below sea level. Simply question what natural disaster prominently occurs in the Gulf of Mexico? Answer? Hurricanes. And what happens to cities built below sea level when hit by a hurricane? Answer. Flooding And yet arrogant humans denounce the existence of God because of suffering caused by man that could have been and still could be avoided. Another aspect of this question of the existence of evil is to consider what type of relationship we would have with God and with one another. If God saved us from the repercussions of the evil we commit. As we discussed last week. We know ourselves well enough to know that we would continue purposefully to sin because we would not need to be concerned about the consequences. But sin corrupts, and sin ends in death. And God, who loves us, will not allow us to wallow in corruption and death. And so He allows us to suffer consequences. For we need to, in order to give us an opportunity to turn away from that sin and to turn to God. I am aware of an objection lurking within the back of our minds That questions why give us any ability to choose in the first place? Why not make the why not make humanity Robotic, rather than give him the possibility to fall, to choose evil rather than good. The answer cannot be fully known in this life, but we can know that the answer lies in what we call relational. God's ultimate end, you remember, is for him to be our God and for us to be his people And it appears that for us to be relational with God, we must choose to love Him just as He has chosen to love us. Consider the following. We would not know love if evil were not present. Because love is a choice requiring a great deal of vulnerability and humility. Now I need to be careful here because there is most certainly a way to know love without evil being present. We know this because God the Father loves the Son and the Holy Spirit, as does the Spirit love the Son and the Father, as does the Son love the Father and the Spirit. And there is no sin amidst between or within them. And I believe Adam and Eve could have loved, could have chosen love before they chose to sin. But because they chose death, God had to act. What God has done with the presence of evil within his creation is to use it. He uses it to redeem us only from the side of pain and suffering as opposed to the side of perfection. Thus, the ability for humanity to make choices gets to the heart of what it means to love in a fallen world. When we choose to love someone, we choose to suffer for them. We choose to be kind. We choose to be humble. We choose to think no evil of them. We choose to bear all things, to believe all things, to endure all things for someone besides ourselves. And because we choose to love another person, the relationships we have that are based on love go so much deeper into our psyche, into our souls, and matter to us so much more. Than other relationships that are merely cordial when it comes to blaming God for tragedies such as natural disasters, Pandemics, grave illness, and even man-made tragedies such as planes flying into buildings Let us take a moment to consider how many tragedies do not befall upon us. I recall a night when a son, whom shall not be named, had received his driver's license. And his older brothers forced him to run the errand that mom requested. And thus, not wanting to, he was driving in a foul mood. It was winter and so the roads were slick. He decided to take the right turn too quickly between lice, or then food lion, and fairy queen And the family van slid across the road, hit the curb, and slid down into the small ravine on its side. When I was contacted, I quickly went to the scene where I found this particular son standing outside the driver's side of the van as it laid on its side. He was physically fine, but emotionally, understandably shaken. What I noted next was a telephone pole, maybe three feet from the curb area where he had slid into. Meaning that three feet more, he would have smashed himself into a telephone pole instead of sliding down a shallow ravine. Where was God? He was right there. How many natural disasters God has saved people from is not known. How many illnesses God has protected you from, you cannot know in your lifetime. How many accidents have we been spared from can only be imagined. What this point gets back to is the wisdom that Joseph, son of Jacob, the wisdom that he had when he finally confronted his brothers who had sold him into slavery. A slavery that God used to raise him to the second highest position in Egypt. Remember what he said to his brothers. What you meant for evil, God meant for good. Let us have faith and let us give our praise and thanksgiving to God that we have been spared the consequences from the many stupid and thoughtless and careless things that we have done. Instead of noting that God could have prevented evil from entering the world or concluding that he should have done something to stop it, We should instead consider how God uses evil to achieve his redemptive plan. Simply examine the last days of Jesus. And see how God used evil to redeem his people. He used the evil of Jewish plotters to capture and place Jesus on trial. He used Satan's prompting to betray Jesus and the will and character of Judas to carry it through. God used Roman injustice to capture and try an innocent man. He used the cowardice of Pilate to give in to the will of the masses. God used the brutality of the soldiers to make Jesus that suffering servant. Of course, the Jewish leaders, Satan, Judas, Pilate, and the soldiers were all ignorant of the role they played. In fulfilling the divinely prophesied redemptive purpose of the cross of Christ. God is the one responsible. Which leads us to the most helpful passage of Scripture that should be highlighted and memorized by every Christian. It is from Romans 8. 28. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose, all things work together for the good. Next is a quote that helped Bobby Lynn and I get through some difficult days. It is as follows. Quote, hope is being convinced that you are surrounded and pursued by the goodness of God. That he works all things for good in the end. So if it is not good, it is not the end. And that there is no story or tragedy or grief where he won't have the last word. So instead of taking a posture of questioning God's existence or his goodness or simply seeing ourselves as more righteous than God, because we would do it all so very differently Let us be humbled that a great deal of evil in this world is by our own doing, and that God uses that evil to redeem us. And to redeem this world until we are perfect and fit for eternity. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truths spoken in your Holy Word that lead us to these conclusions. That it is us that needs to repent for evil, and it is you that we need to turn to for the good. May that truth be ever in our hearts. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.