In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. We are looking at Revelation chapter nine It's always good to follow along in your Pew Bible or your personal Bible. Revelation chapter nine. It is common in our vernacular to give evil a personal identity. We speak of evil as if we know who it is, where it is, or what it does. We might say that is evil. Or there is evil in that man. And our speech makes it sound as if evil has its own existence outside of the man who practices it. Speaking about evil in this way is helpful because we generally understand what the speaker means Technically, however, evil does not exist outside of the people who practice that evil. Thus the existence of evil is relationally connected to those who practice it. There are different types of people who practice evil. For the sake of time, I am placing them in only three categories. There are those who are purely evil. The motives and behaviors of such people have no redeeming value. Their hearts are closed to God, and they follow the devil's lead. Then there are those who play with evil. It excites them to sin, and such sin is usually done in private or secret While the rest of their lives they are embracing the common moral standards of the society around them The third group abores evil and attempts to cling to what is good while confessing that they participate in evil when they follow the desires of their own heart. These people are like the Apostle Paul, who confessed to the, in his epistle to the Romans, that he does the very thing he does not want to do. In response to recognizing their internal hypocrisy, the people cry out for a savior. Within all the symbolism and dramatic imagery of Revelation chapter 9, within all of that is the simple message That evil is practiced by men and spiritual powers of the first type, that which loves evil. Because such evil, because such evil men will suffer at the hand of God. When reading passages like Revelation 9, we can get caught up in all the strangeness and drama of what John is describing, and try to understand it using what we know about the contemporary world while failing to see the message given and the lessons learned. Today we will start with an image described and come back to what we must learn. As we read what happens when the fifth angel sounds his trumpet, We have to remember that all of this is taking place in the context of the seventh seal being broken. When the seventh seal is broken, the seven trumpets are blown. We are taking the position that the events revealed of the blowing of each trumpet run concurrently with the events revealed at the breaking of the previous seals. John describes a star falling from heaven when the fifth trumpet is blown, causing us to remember the stars he saw falling from heaven onto the earth with the breaking of the sixth seal. The obvious difference is that this is one star, and it is revealed that the star is a being. The star that fell from heaven was given the key to the bottomless pit. What does that mean? Stars are used to describe those who are in high positions in the Old Testament. Stars can be men. Stars can be angels. Satan, you remember, in Isaiah, is referred to as the son of the morning and having fallen from heaven. Which is consistent with the description of our Lord that he gave to his disciples when they came back. He sent them out, you recall, and they came back. Finding miracles done by their own hands and success in preaching the gospel. And Jesus says, I beheld Satan as lightning falling from heaven. Because Satan is given the keys to the abyss, we next recall that Jesus revealed himself in chapter 1 of Revelation as being the owner of the keys of heaven and hell. For Satan to be given the keys means it had to be given to him by Jesus. It appears that they were given to him for a specific time so that he could perpetuate evil. God does judge like that, allowing evil men to practice evil. Without hesitation, Satan does just that, for he is one of those who are evil continuously There is no hope within him, for he has fully rebelled against God. The opening of the abyss causes smoke to rise out. Allowing us to be reminded of the inferno that suffers all beings that have rebelled against God, both fallen angels and men. The smoke darkens the sun, causing an atmosphere of blindness and confusion. What comes next out of the pit are locusts. Only these are not insects. Locust, do you remember, was a plague on Egypt, and after Pharaoh suffered it, he initially allowed the people to go and then reneged on the promise. Pharaoh, like the devil, clung to evil. The instruction given to the locusts not to hurt any green things, but only men. Tells the faithful that these locusts are not like the locusts released upon the land in Egypt. These locusts are blood seekers. The description of the locusts tells us that they are creatures specially equipped for the task they are released to do. Suck blood. Their faces, like men, tell us that they can be like any of us. Their hair, being like women, tells us that they can be deceptive, as they appear to be something they are not. Their teeth, like a lion that sting like a scorpion, tells us that they are deadly. Some scholars believe that these locusts are symbols of heretics and infidels. Some have even identified them as Muslims. Such identity made sense to Christians who fought followers of Islam in Spain and Turkey and in Jerusalem in the Middle Ages. The followers of Muhammad wore long hair and carried a great sting with their swords. However We reject that interpretation because John's vision is not limited to one moment in history. An important instruction that should help us identify the locusts is that they should only hurt those men who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. We spoke earlier about such a seal, and I explained how the seal is not something that one sees, but what only God knows. And we as a church represent that seal at baptism, just as we did this morning, giving each baptized child the sign of the cross cannot be seen But it is God marking his own people. Because the locust cannot hurt those with such a seal, and we know by experience That many Christians, too numerous to count, have been killed by the sword. It is wise to understand the sting of these locusts to be spiritual in nature. In other words, they are given the charge to hurt men spiritually. They cannot hurt those that God has redeemed, but they can torment those who are dead in their sin. They blind them by smoke and poison, poison by their sting of their tails, which means they delude their minds. To lose their minds to thinking there is no God, and if there is, he certainly is not Jesus Christ, and thus I do not need to repent, and I do not need to cry out for mercy. Deception and not physical strength is the greatest weapon wielded by the devil and his angels. The subversive tactics of the devil are covert. The devil and his demons convince men that religion is for the weak or the ignorant or both. Other men are convinced that all religions are the same. Still others are convinced that religion is the cause of the woes of mankind. And others masquerading in the church are deceiving into being puppets in the devil's play as they spread gossip, slander, and false teachings amongst God's people, convinced all the time. That God is actually using them. Of course, the devil does not openly reveal himself as the devil. He does not pass out his card before he deceives. Demons do not identify themselves as having come from the abyss. The only time the devil is overt is when he knows men will dress up in funny costumes or display him as a cartoon character. He then becomes something to laugh at rather than something to resist. He can make himself like us or an angel of light, but his teeth and his sting are deadly. Evil is practiced by the devil and his demons, beloved, and it is used to harm the souls of men. What is released from the abyss has true power, true power to deceive and destroy men Napollyon and his locust demons are not fictitious characters or symbols of private struggles within our psyche. They are real and they are hell-bent on destroying souls. Graciously, a reprieve to the badness is part of the instruction given to the demons as they wreak havoc upon men. The hordes from the abyss are given authority to torment God, to torment men, but not kill them. And the torment is for only five months. The five-month period refers to the locust season that lasts five months. Interestingly, usually from April to September. The result of the spiritual torment is great anguish among men who desire death. They would rather die than experience the torment. They become bitter of the soul. Souls that do not have God are souls that ultimately fill with bitterness. Life becomes a series of depressing moments, and soon meaning for today or hope for tomorrow is lost. Such men wish to die. Such men seek a right to die. They think there is no virtue in living, nor especially is there any virtue in suffering. So the only alternative is death. The hope we have for a reprieve is that the assigned work of the devil and his demons To deceive men has a particular time in God's plan and will not go beyond that time. The five-month reference simply means that there will be a season and that season will end. Verse 12 confirms the five months is a season of woe and gives warning of two woes to come. The blowing of the sixth trumpet reveals a voice from the altar in heaven, commanding four angels to be let loose to perform the specific tasks of judgment that have been planned for them. The altar described as the altar of incense that was before the curtain of the Holy of Holies, you remember, in the earthly temple. The horns of the corners of the altar that pointed up toward heaven were part of that. Because the four angels are let loose, they come from Euphrates. Why Euphrates? Well, that's in the north. And all of Israel's enemies came from the north. So Euphrates represents their enemies. Their breastplate reveals evil as well as the colors of fire, deep purple, and brimstone. These angels are the embodiment of fire and brimstone preaching. Their brushplate and configuration communicate judgment as they kill a third of the men that live on earth Once again, we must decide whether we are to understand the deaths of a third of mankind to be literal. This is especially difficult considering the specific time frame in which the prophecy was to occur. Because the judgment occurs by the powers of their mouths And their tail, which were like serpents, we may understand it to be both literal and spiritual. Literally, men are judged physically by the powerful tail of an evil being. Every generation gives birth to men who torture and kill even their own kind. But we can also take it spiritually, understanding that the power of the mouth leads men astray, leads the spirit of men astray. Oftentimes, as in the case of Historical figures like Hitler and Mussolini, men are killed by the power of false speech and the power of physical force. This is the second law, and thus the chapter ends with the described fate of those who were not killed, but in seeing what had happened to their fellow man, still this is the important point. Still, watching all of this, still chose not to repent of their sins. The judgment of a third of men Is their chance to confess their sin and to cry out for a Savior that their hearts are hardened? When men give themselves to evil, when they insist on following its immediate gratification, they find that evil practices soon control them. This is why there is a thin line between those who play at evil and those who are given over to it. Too often. Men think they can play with evil and always come back. Many do not come back. Because the men marked by God are not a part of the evil that take vengeance, or those that will be judged because of the evil they commit. It is curious to me why this vision is given to us. Why do we need to know what's going to happen to other people? Why do Christians need to be exposed to this vision in John chapter 9? I believe the answer lies once again in Jesus' words regarding the end of time. When Jesus warned of false Christs and false prophets that would appear, he said they would even deceive the elect if that were possible. But it's not possible. Christ has died for the elect. Christ has marked his own. They will not fall away. But the devil doesn't know that. And the devil doesn't stop trying. God protects those who are His, and although we may be harmed in body We are to be confident that our souls are protected by our Heavenly Father. But the devil still keeps trying What God does with such a vision as Revelation 9, such a vision of evil and its destruction, is to wake up the elect from complacency. That is to wake you up from complacency. Although we are told that those who have been marked will be spared from the scorpion's sting, the events revealed to us are here so that we might know the outcome. Might know the outcome of those who cling to evil. Might know the results Giving us the motivation to resist the devil again and to cling to what is good Also, we are to be scared into staying away from playing with the devil and believing we can walk in and out of evil practices with no harm to the soul. There is always endangerment of the soul when evil is practiced. When we read of men who refuse to repent We become troubled by the fact that they would cling to their sin when confronted by the judgment of God. But we should not be surprised. Drug addicts continually return to their supplier, even though they have lost their children, their home, and their livelihood. Men continue to debase themselves in sexual sin, even though their marriage is in shambles. Others continue to chase after material wealth, leaving behind children who are troubled. From such lives we can clearly see that giving over to evil has a price, and the price is truly greater than anyone can understand in this life. I was asked several years ago while looking at Psalm 51, the psalm that David praised after being confronted with his sin with Bathsheba. And the person asked me, they said, David prays that the Holy Spirit would not be taken from him, and yet God has already promised that he would not, that David would forever be in his line. Why would David praise such a prayer? And that question is essentially what I have described in reading why we need to hear the vision of Revelation chapter 9. The base answer is that God uses such a vision to wake us up. To wake us up to the evil that is hell-bent on stealing your soul. And being fully awake and paying attention to evil, that allows us to resist and to repent. Beloved, God's people are a people that repent. We look for opportunities to repent. And here today, he gives us another. Amen and Amen. Let us pray. Our gracious God for this vision of hell, this vision of Judgment, this vision of nasty, painful judgment. We pray that our souls would be awakened to realize The seriousness of evil, and how we must flee from it, and how we must be a people that repent, and how we must cling to the good. May it be so. In Jesus' name.