He is brilliant for the power of the Lord. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We begin this Lord's day starting on a new journey. We're going to be hearing sermons from the book of Exodus. You may wonder why we are not finishing John and the Gospel of John after chapter 17 that we heard from last week. We are told about the Passion of Christ and his resurrection. Since we have recently come out of Holy Week and Easter Sunday and Ascension Day and Pentecost I conclude that we can wait another cycle year before we rehearse it all again. So I have chosen the book of Exodus. Now I call it a book, but it is really a continuation of Genesis. They are one story continuing But historically, they have been broken up for the sake of keeping shorter scrolls in order to make it more easily to preserve them. Our introduction for this Exodus is actually going to begin in Luke 9, verse 31. Strange place to begin, but that's where we're off, where we are. For there in Luke chapter 9 is the story of the transfiguration of Jesus. And you remember that with him was Elijah and Moses. And Luke tells us what Jesus, Elijah, and Moses were talking about. Again, what a privilege to know what they were saying. The New King James says that they spoke to one another about the decease of Jesus. The decease. That is an awkward translation for me. The New American Standard translates deceased to be departure. They talked about the departure of Jesus, and the NIV uses the same. These words are chosen for understanding, but Bible readers are robbed a bit by the great insight and irony of the word that Luke actually chose. The word Luke used for decease, for departure, was Exodus. Not the concept of Exodus or the idea of Exodus, but the actual word Exodus. Moses and Elijah spoke to Jesus about his Exodus. Yes, Exodus can refer to one leaving this life and thus refer to a person's death. And it can refer to a departure as in leaving this world. But the word Exodus for the Bible student allows for so much more meaning. For we know Exodus to be meaning free from bondage. We know it as being given the moral law as a standard for living under God's covenant We know Exodus as a word that describes what a Christian experiences when his or her sins are forever forgiven, and he or she is freed from the bonds of sin and eternal death. As we study the book of Exodus, we are going to be pointing and hopefully better understanding and thus building our faith up. Regarding what Jesus has accomplished by providing for our Exodus. Let's look at the text. Exodus chapter 1, beginning at verse 1. And as I said We could treat this as actually Genesis chapter 50, verse 27, for it is a continuation of the stories previous. And where Genesis left us off was the death of Joseph, the son of Jacob. That Joseph had secured the lives of his family, Israel, by serving Pharaoh for many years. And so we are given the names of the tribal leaders who have built up a large household and each generation having more and more children. And the heads of those tribes were the sons of Jacob as red, which we know to be twelve in number. Only the names of the sons are listed because, as we know, the sons were the inheritors of their father's wealth. But women ought not feel slighted in the least, for in the New Testament, under the covenant procured by Jesus Both genders are one, and both are referred to as sons, for all are inheritors of eternal life from Christ Jesus. Now the number given to us of the family of Jacob is 70. And we don't need to read that literally. You can if you want to. But understand that you have a combination in that number of perfection and completion. And 7 times 10 is 70, so the number could very well be being used as symbolic. It is a number that communicates that these are all the people that God had intended there to be before he moves his people on to another chapter, another book, another stage to make them his people. Now, the increase of the number of family members, as it describes in verses 6 and 7, is to be understood as a blessing. I'm grateful to serve in a parish that understands offspring, growing families, children to be a blessing. Bobby Lynn and I have a few stories of people who responded quite ungraciously when we announced that she was once again pregnant. The first parish I served as a youth minister, the congregation gasped when we announced that she was pregnant with our third child. We have even had family members who would show their disapproval with our announcement with a sigh. And some who would say, Well, if if that's what you want And strangers would even chime in one day at in a mall. For those of you who are younger, that's a big building. It's got a lot of different stores in it. One day in a mall we lost track of Joel, who had wandered a bit. He was with a young man who was holding his hand and Bobby Lynn thanked the man and he thought he needed to tell her that she had too many kids. Such a sentiment cannot be found in Holy Scripture. Children, all children are a gift from the Lord. And as believers, they are to be as arrows in a quiver that we shoot out into the world for the glory of God. Bear with me, for I need to stay on that topic a little longer because of the times in which we live. Every young Christian couple needs to do their part in having children and raising them in the Christian faith. And by children I mean more than the replacement rate. The replacement rate is obviously two, and actually more, when you consider childhood mortality. Statistics say a couple should have at least three children in order to replace themselves But the birth rate in the United States is below two per family, and is significantly lower in Europe. The greatest cause of population growth, and I checked this out twice, in the US and Europe, is immigration. And I don't have a problem with that. Only the immigration consists of a large number of number of people who are not Christian. And I don't have a problem with that. If the church is able to reach out to them, present to them the gospel. But that is the problem. The Christian population is shrinking in both America and in Europe as families are smaller and the faith is not carefully passed on. Young families need to have more children to increase the size of the church and thus increase the workers in the church to be able to convert the many immigrants To have large families and worship a different God. And that means that it is not virtuous by itself to have three or more children He must be willing to work at training them in the Christian faith, which takes a great deal of effort, sacrifice, sincerity, and of course faith All of this is why young Christian families need to be supported by older generations. We are told that Israel as a people were fruitful and multiplied, and that made a difference. Their numbers alone made them formidable. And that cannot be said for the Christian church today. We are not formidable because of our numbers. But we can work to get there. The population of Israel, the growing population of Israel is what started the exodus. Perhaps when the number of Christians multiplies exceedingly, our final exodus will begin. Now, because of the population of the Israelites, the new king, the new Pharaoh, who didn't know Joseph, became afraid. To say he did not know Joseph is not to say that he did not know of him, but that he did not consider what authority and influence Joseph once had. It didn't matter to him. And that is natural for a new dynasty. Remnants of the old dynasty would be thrown out and even discredited. Now it says here that they dealt truly, or the Pharaoh dealt truthly, and that's a nice way of saying dishonestly. And we see that this type of politicking is not old. In studying ethics and sociology They've come to realize how easy it is for politicians to justify their behavior of being dishonest. It's called act utilitarianism. And it believes in the greater good. But it believes that you can get to the greater good by whatever means possible And so you have politicians just politicians justifying their lying, their cheating, their stealing, because they believe at least they're getting after the greater good. Of course, what the greater good is actually is debatable. For the Egyptians, the greater good was not to be overrun by the Israelites. The shrewdest plan was to make the lives of the average Israelites miserable, as they were to work as slaves to build cities where their taskmasters would rule over them. The problem was it didn't work. At least it didn't work in slowing down the population growth. The more they were afflicted, the more fruitful they became. Historically, that's usually what happens in the church. The more we are afflicted, the more fruitful we are. But the Egyptians continued thinking that they were not making life hard enough The New King James uses the word rigor twice. And the Hebrew word rigor means to break, to fracture with severity. They wanted the Israelites to be a people with broken spirits, losing even the will to live. Now the other part of the plan was to kill all male infants at birth Do we not see that the devil's methods have not changed as he continues to lie to women, having them conclude that abortion is better than life? As Matthew Henry summarized, the enmity that is in the seed of the serpent against the seed of the woman makes men forget all pity. It most certainly does. But what Pharaoh did not anticipate, because he had no understanding about what it meant to have devotion to the one true God He did not understand the midwives who had been ordered to kill these infant sons, for they were women who feared God over the Pharaoh. He did not anticipate it and it did not make sense to him when they did not carry out his instructions. And we should consider how courageous these women were to defy the king's orders. Their lives would mean nothing to Pharaoh and his henchmen. They could have been easily cut down and replaced. But they feared God And the midwives were shrewd themselves, for they told a believable lie to Pharaoh in order to continue to save the babies and to preserve themselves. And this elaborate lie, the idea of the Hebrew women giving birth so vigorously that they gave birth too quickly before the midwives could arrive That was a guess easily believed by the Pharaoh because the women were having so many babies. But it was still a lie, right? And lies are bad all the time, right? How can a person be said to fear God and tell a bold faced lie? Well, much has been discussed and debated about such instances, and I'll only mention a few points here. You will remember that Rahab hid the spies in the book of Joshua. And not only was she not rebuked, By the Lord for doing so, but she was instead saved from death and is labeled in the book of Hebrews as a hero of the faith. Such lying has been labeled by some to be dutiful lie. A dutiful lie. And that seems to soften it a bit. But the reasoning behind the acceptance of such lies is actually simple. People who are looking to do evil are not deserving of the truth. The wisdom, courage, and faith of those midwives and of Grey Hab and the family of Corey Tenboom Who did not allow the Jews to find the Nazis they were hiding in their home? The Kurds was a Those who were bent on evil did not deserve the truth to be told, and thus these people would not contribute to the evil intent. Such wisdom we too can follow. God, being pleased with the midwives, is said to deal with them, which is to say he ministered to them according to their faith. Verse 21 says that God provided households for them, meaning that he gave them husbands and he gave them children for their own. Realize that these women were slaves to the orders of Pharaoh's court. They had no hope in having their own families, but only to help others have children. But God overcame whatever man-made obstacles were in place in front of them, and God rewarded them, making them contributors to the fruit of Israel. And why? Why did God reward them? It wasn't for the lie. The midwives feared God. Now the Hebrew word feared has two essential meanings. The first is what we would call being scared, and the second is being reverent or in awe. The ear-tickling preacher doesn't mention the first part, being scared of God. That doesn't fit his narrative. He does not want it heard, he does not want it understood. God is our friend. God is all-loving. God is safe. And to be sure, he is all of that and more. And the more includes a God before whom we ought to be scared. It is the preacher to the Hebrews that said, It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. It is Jesus who said, Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Instead, fear the one who can destroy both the soul and body in hell. It was St. Paul who said, therefore, since we know what it means to fear God, we try to persuade men. We are to fear God because He is the final judge of each of us. We are to fear God because by ourselves we have no justification. We are to fear God because He is holy, pure, righteous, and we are not, but by the blood of Jesus. And because of the blood of Jesus, we live in the tension of fearing God, actually being scared of him. While at the same time calling him our Savior, even our friend, our beloved, benevolent God. In this story in Exodus, we hear for the first time in Holy Scripture people being rewarded by God because they feared him Now in Genesis, people fear other people. And when someone fears God, they do so in a convoluted manner. Remember that story of Abraham denying that Sarah was his wife. He gives the justification that he feared the king of Abimelech. And so he lied about Sarah. And then when he was confronted, he said that he knew that he was amongst the people that didn't fear God. But in doing so, Abraham's actions showed that he did not fear God, as he should have. The fear of God should have been his motivating factor to protect his wife, to shield her from those who would steal her away. Fear of God is to be a motivating factor in deciding our behavior, our actions. The Hebrew midwives feared God, and that caused them to place themselves in danger of their lives being taken from them to save babies being born. This story causes us to pray, O dear God of heaven and earth, give us more women like these Hebrew wit midwives. Who would risk their lives, their own lives, to save children born and unborn I couldn't help but think and considering the events this past week that are being aired all over our televisions and Our computers. What would happen in every situation that was tragic if the people involved feared God first? We know everything would be changed. And this story of these midwives is a cause us to ask, where in our lives. Do we need to fear God more than we fear men? And thus use that fear to act as God would have us act. Where in our individual lives do we need to behave in such a manner that distinctively shows that we fear God first and foremost? I've been speaking of the Hebrew midwives in general, when in full disclosure there is but two of them mentioned. Shifra and Pua in verse 15 identify. Shifra means beautiful, and Pua means one who cries out. Let us consider as motivation that each of our lives might be used to the glory of God. That the Exodus, one of the greatest events in the history of humanity, began with two women who feared God and acted accordingly. Two women, starting the Exodus. Dare we imagine the great things God will do in our lives and in the lives of people that we care for. If we foremost fear him and live according to that fear. As stated at the beginning of this sermon, We all have our own exoduses. The first is our exodus from the sins that bind us, which Jesus provides for us, forgiveness. And the second is our exodus from this world, where Jesus waits for us. In between those times, there are a lot of lives that need their own exodus from sin, from eternal death. Let us then fear God and do what is right, and let Him lead the way for our excellence. Let us pray.