Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Be seated. We are in the middle of a series of sermons on corporate worship, Christian corporate worship. And thus far we have established that God does indeed, does indeed reject certain forms of worship. We learn that there is a preferred order of worship by God Himself established in Holy Scripture. And we saw how our Anglican traditions follow what God established, making our Anglican traditions heavenly relevant. In this sermon, we will look at the power of symbolism and how God has used symbols in the context of how his people worship him. But first, a joke. A Jewish father was very troubled by the way his son turned out, and he went to see his rabbi about it. Rabbi, I brought my son up in the faith, gave him a very expensive bar mitzvah, and it cost me a fortune to educate him. Then he tells me last week he's decided to be a Christian. Rabbi, where did I go wrong? The rabbi strokes his beard and says, Funny you should come to me. I too brought up my son as a boy in the faith, sent him to university, and it cost me a fortune. And then one day he comes to me and tells me he wants to be a Christian What did you do? asked the man of the rabbi. I turned to God for the answer, replied the rabbi. And what did he say? Asked the man. He said, Funny, you should come to me Some of you it takes a little bit longer. I like the joke because it mixes together the old covenant and the new covenant. In Bishop N. T. Wright's book titled Paul, a biography, his argument that I so much appreciate is that the Apostle Paul did not have a conversion experience to Christianity on the road to Damascus when Jesus appeared to him in that blinding light, but it was was instead a right progression. For it was God's plan all along for the Jewish people to follow Jesus as their Messiah. God promised a Messiah to the Jewish people within his covenant promises. And Jesus was and is that Messiah. To believe in Jesus was to believe in the covenant God made with Adam. And then Noah, and then Abraham, and through Isaac, and Jacob and Judah, and then Moses, and then David, and then Jesus. That Jesus is the fulfillment of what it meant to believe in God's covenant with the people of Israel is dramatically stated in the book of Revelation. Where Jesus calls Jewish people who reject him, who reject him as being members of the synagogue of Satan. This oneness of the Old and New Testaments allows us to glean from the Old Testament principles regarding how God prefers to be worshipped And we did that extensively last week looking at Exodus chapter 24. Now we peek into the tabernacle. And into the temple and their worship to understand just how powerful symbols can be while God's people worship him. To appreciate symbolism, we must first address the second commandment, which condemns the making of graven images, so that such images can be bowed to and worshipped. And here I remind you of that commandment in full. It reads, You shall not make for yourself carved images. Or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth, you shall not bow down to them Nor serve them. For I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. The middle part of the commandment is important. For some Christians have interpreted the first part to so strivantly that they believe it is a grave sin. For a Christian to make any image at all of anything in the likeness in heaven or on earth Historically, such people have been called iconoclasts, for they were of the conviction that it was their duty to destroy images that Christians would use to worship God. It would not be useful for us or possible for us to address all the issues regarding sacred images, for the issues continue to divide the Christian Church. What we can know for sure is that God was not commanding that no images of any kind should be made. And we can know this because God Himself God himself commanded that images of cherubim should be made of gold and placed on top of the Ark of the Covenant, with their wings pointing to one another. Also, the curtains for the tabernacle were to be decorated with elaborate embroidery, also depicting heavenly cherubim, which were angelic-like creatures, symbolizing God's protection. God therefore was not hypocritically commanding that there be no graven images whatsoever, and next commanding that the images of cherubim be used in his holy tabernacle, and then in the temple worship. So, God allows for images, symbols to be used for us to worship Him. And we underline worship Him. As opposed to worshiping an image. Consider how God uses images, symbols for his people to worship him The Ark of the Covenant, as mentioned, was a profound symbol for God's people, as it represented God's presence amidst the people. It also contained the Ten Commandments as the central document of God's covenant with his people. It contained Aaron's rod that budded so that God's wrath would be turned away It contained a pot of manna to remind God's people of how God provided for them in the desert. Each item was a reminder, a symbol of God establishing covenant with his people, Israel. as a whole. Now regarding other furnishings that served also as symbols, there was the outer wash bin in the temple court that was used for ceremonial cleansing So that the priest could properly present the offerings. It also pointed to the washing that God would give believers at their baptism when Jesus the Messiah was revealed. There was also the altar where the chosen animals were sacrificed because of the wages of sin is death. And that altar was pointing to the cross. Inside the curtains of the temple and later the temple was, oh excuse me, inside the curtains of the tabernacle and later the temple. was the table of showbread that contained twelve loaves representing the twelve tribes of Israel. It was an offering of thanks to God for grain. Grain, as well as representing God's presence amidst his people as their provider. It also pointed Israel to the Messiah to come, who would offer himself as the bread of life. The lampstand across from the showbread table served as a source of light while also representing God's presence as he went before the Israelites at night in the form of a heavenly flame It also refers to God revealing himself to Moses as a fire that burns but does not consume. And most importantly, it pointed to the Messiah who would be called the light of the world. Then there were the garments to be worn by the priests, and especially the high priest, who wore a breastplate of precious stones that were symbols according to God's commandments, representing both God and the people, and especially the beauty of God and how beautiful He wanted to make His people. All of these reference symbols are related to what God had done, was doing, and was bringing about, which was the salvation of his people. The use of symbols representing God bringing salvation to his people is tenfold in the book of Revelation There, Jesus is exalted with feet of brass, eyes like fire, upholding the seven churches as they surrounded him like lampstands. Next, we find ourselves in a throne room where Jesus is on a throne and also appears as a lamb before the throne. Then there are the 24 elders surrounding the throne representing the old covenant and the new covenant while singing holy, holy, holy, the Trinitarian praise. While they throw their crowns at the feet of their Christ, their Savior, their God. In the scriptures, a violet sea is a symbol of a troubled nation In heaven, in Revelation, the sea is as smooth as glass, dressed before the throne of the exalted Christ, telling us that Jesus brings peace to the nations. Also, there is a rainbow. And it can be seen only the rainbow is not a half-circle as we view them on earth, but is a full circle meaning that God has fulfilled his promises to his created order. Each depiction of Heavenly scenes tells a portion of the story of how God saved and is saving his people All of these symbols from the tabernacle worship to the throne of Christ Jesus are heavenly relevant. And the question remains, are we heavenly relevant? Remember, I quoted a proverb of sorts in the first sermon in this series that says that a grandfather's conviction Can become a son's tradition and eventually his grandson's elimination. An example is a trend within contemporary Christian worship that has pastors wearing casual clothes while standing on a stage speaking to the congregation like Tony Robbins at a you can do it positive mental attitudes seminar And we ask, how did that happen? Notice that the traditional setting of chancel furniture has the pulpit on one side of the sanctuary, the lectron on the opposite side, with the Holy Communion table in the center and back in the chancel. That is purposeful, for it gives a cruciform shape, a shape of a cross, more clearly seen from a bird's eye view. The shape of the cross is thoughtfully made, for it is the cross that enables us to call upon the name of our God. The central position of the Holy Communion table communicates the primary importance of the Holy Meal. The holy meal to be consumed each week to commemorate the covenant God made with his people, and where God manifests himself as we eat his flesh and drink his blood. As an overreaction against the Roman Catholic tradition and the doctrine of transubstantiation Certain Christian gatherings from the time of the Reformation decided that the Holy Communion table should not be central, focused, but instead it should be the preaching of the Bible. The result was placing the pulpit at the center of the chancel. Such placing of the pulpit communicates priority, the priority of preaching. With some modern churches, the pulpit is removed, communicating a different priority. What or who is the priority? When a man stands on a chancel that they call a stage, Alone with his microphone headset, his blue jeans, his untucked shirt, and his talking points. What is the focus? The answer is the focal point is the man himself. We should be asking Is the priority of a preacher's personality heavenly relevant? I submit that it is not. But it sells, right? It markets well. There are even Christian gatherings that display a video of a man who is in another city and maybe even another state. Wearing his blue jeans, his untucked shirt, cordless microphone, and displaying his talking points. It is modern church on the big screen. Thousands of professing Christians appear to prefer such a setup, for they attend most Sundays to watch their church service. These things have happened because nobody knew why the pulpit was placed in the middle of the chancel, because no one remembered that the preaching of the Word of God was the priority. And the pulpit was placed in the center because people didn't understand why Holy Communion was so important. Because they didn't hear it taught that God preferred to end his time with his people with eating and drinking. I submit also that the Holy Communion table was removed from the center of the chancel and the focal point of the worship service. Because people stopped believing that Jesus was uniquely present among his people when they broke bread and shared a cup. An absence of faith and the real presence of Jesus at the Holy Communion table has resulted in placing the personality of a man center stage. And we can call it a stage because it is not treated as a chancel. The word chancel is from the Latin meaning crossbars. It describes the barriers that were used in the Middle Ages to distinguish the area that the clergy and the choir worshipped. Distinguish it from the nave where the congregation worshipped. And it also distinguished it from the altar where the bread and wine were consecrated and consumed In the Anglican tradition, the chancel is a type of the holy place in the temple, and the altar or communion table is a type of the holy of holies. What was done in the chancel area was the leading of worship for God's people with the utmost reverence. Because the clergy pursued reverence, it was necessary that their vestments not represent themselves, but rather represent the office they held, and more specifically the God they worshipped. Clergy in the Middle Ages learned how effectual their vestments could be at helping the worshippers see God. Wearing two cloaks for warmth turned into wearing a cassock that is black to symbolize the sinfulness of the man. With a surplus over the cassock that is white to symbolize the purity given to us by Jesus. The tippet or stole Worn over the surplus came to represent a yoke like that was placed on the oxen to plow a field It was and is to help the clergy know he is first and last a servant. For some clergy When leading a full Holy Communion service, a white robe called an alb became the clear choice, for it symbolized the presence of Jesus as the people break bread and drink wine. I have instructed you as a parish many times before that Holy Communion proper has Jesus offering us the bread and offering us the wine And the white being worn by the clergy, symbolizing that reality. Now I mentioned the nave, which is where the congregation worships. The word nave comes from the Latin word navis, which means ship. Traditionally, Christian sanctuaries lined their naves with rows of seats or pews to replicate a galley of a ship. Where the servants would row in unison to keep to keep the ship moving toward the heavenly shore The concept of a sanctuary being like a ship comes from Noah's Ark, which was the vessel God used to save his chosen people from his condemnation. of humanity by way of the flood. The church then serves just as the Ark of Noah did, for each are vessels by which God saves his people. Consider that if you remember each time you enter a sanctuary, that you are on this journey toward the heavenly shore together with other Christians You are less likely to be selfish, to be unkind, to be unforgiving, etc. , because you can't row alone. We need one another, and we need to stay in the boat. There are other important symbols. That when understood, add to our appreciation for what God has done for us to receive His salvation The fine linen cloth on the communion table is to remind us of the cloth that was used to cover the body of Jesus at his burial The veiling of the chalice or covering of the chalice and placing of the patent are symbolic of the clothes that once covered Jesus in the grave And were next found folded and placed to the side because he was no longer there. He had risen from the dead. And if you pay close attention, you will see water being poured into the communion wine. That symbolizes that at the suffering of Jesus on the cross Both water and blood poured from his side after being pierced by that spear. It's interesting and it has been speculated. That the water that poured out of Jesus was from the pericardium sac that surrounds the heart, meaning that Jesus did indeed die of a broken heart. There are other symbols and movements you might witness the clergy performing that are part of Anglican custom, that are not prescribed in any book of the church or in the book of common prayer. They include crossing oneself, bowing while professing the names of the Trinity. You might see clergy and lady striking their chest while confessing their sin As a reminder that we are the same as the publican in the story Jesus told about the Pharisee who stood before God with a self-righteous heart, while the publican stayed in the back of the room while pounding his chest. in recognition that he was a sinner in need of God's forgiveness. There are other symbols that are too numerous to review in this one sermon But the point of it all remains that each contribute to telling the story of how God has redeemed, His redeeming, and will redeem his people. Are they necessary for worship? No. Are we better Christians for using such symbols? No, for there is no such thing as a better Christian. Can they be useful tools to heighten our attention while we worship? Well, God thought so. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the traditions that have been handed down, some written, some not. But all of them help us to focus our attention on what you have done, what you are doing and will do to save us And for these traditions, we thank you. May we never bow down to them, but may we use them to bow down to you. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.