In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. He be seated. One of the characteristics my wife Bobby Lynn and I tried to instill in our all of our children. Was to embrace being peculiar. And by peculiar, I do not mean socially awkward I mean peculiar in the sense of standing out because they did not follow the crowd in terms of what was popular or expected. I wanted them to get used to being thought of and treated as different or odd because as Christians living in a secular world If we are being faithful to the Holy Scriptures in our day-to-day living, we are going to stand out. We are going to be seen as being different. When you don't join the mob think, people notice and pass judgment. When you don't curse or gossip or slander or complain, people will notice, and they may even accuse you of being arrogant. When you bow your head in public prayer before each meal, people will notice and murmur about your piety. As a teen or young adult, when you simply obey your parents, people will notice, and some will think you are a suck-up. When you don't smoke weed, don't do drugs, don't get drunk, don't commit adultery, people will notice And conclude you are either under the thumb of your parents, dying to get away from them, or you are self-righteous and will soon be a hypocrite. That is what my children faced when they attended a private but secular high school, and I wanted them to be prepared for it. I prepared them by telling them how different Christians are to be and how people will notice and by standing out in the manners I just described, they could be a witness, could be a witness to the truth of Jesus Christ without uttering a word. By my children embracing being peculiar They were able to park with pride a rusted-out $300 pickup truck next to the Mercedes, Lexus, and Jaguars their school peers drove. The younger ones, when it was their time to attend high school, were able with humor to drive a 25-year-old Cadillac that drove like a boat and could not go in reverse. They were able to laugh at peers who would ask them what they thought were trapping questions such as, What would your dad do if you told him you were gay? They were able to say yes when peers would ask, hey, if I die and don't believe in Jesus, am I going to hell? And when you know you are different, you expect others to treat you differently It keeps reality before you and it helps you stay different. Mind you, yes, there is a danger in being different because people can be different just for the purpose of being different. But Christians are different because of our nature. We are awake, which has a different meaning than it used to We are no longer dead in our trespasses and sins, but instead awake by the life-giving Holy Spirit to better able know God, love God, and love our fellow man. We have God in us, animating our spiritual selves, while those who do not believe remain spiritually crippled and, yes, dead. My premises are that we are different by our nature, and that we are to embrace being different, leading to the conclusion that our worship of God should be different as well. In this series of sermons on worship, and for this sermon, I am espousing a very simple point, which is that our worship should embrace being peculiar. The logic from the opposite view I am espousing goes something like the following: Christians need to corporately worship God. Many Christians do not attend church services to corporately worship God. Many Christians don't attend because church services are boring. The church then needs to make services exciting. Church services are more exciting when the people are entertained. No one knows entertainment better than the secular world, so the church should replicate what the secular world does, only make it Christian, so that it is Christian worship with a secular style. Fundamentally, the logic of this approach to corporate worship is not flawed. Worship as entertainment can and does attract a crowd. The problem with this type of reasoning and worship is not the logic applied, but the question it fails to address. Which is whether or not God is pleased with worship that is entertaining. We know that God would not be pleased by worship that is entertaining if it contains something barbarous, pornographic, or salacious or heretical? But what about circus-type stunts or or special effects? Such things don't break any of God's commandments, do they? What some people are not questioning is whether such questions should even be asked. The point is not whether God would allow circus stunts and special effects in a Christian corporate worship service It isn't spent to determine whether what is being done in Christian corporate worship is heavenly relevant. In previous sermons in this series, we have established that God does indeed reject certain types of worship We have concluded that our worship of God must include obeying Him and loving our fellow man. We have learned that God has given us an order of worship in Exodus chapter 24. Which is the very first time Israel worshiped as a people, and we have seen how our Anglican traditions follow that same given order. What I want to convince Christians is for all of us young and old to embrace what it means to worship as a peculiar people. So let us examine where this is spoken about, where Christians are described as peculiar. It is from St. Peter's first epistle, his first letter, so 1 Peter chapter 2 is where we are coming from this morning. And in 1 Peter 2, he exhorts Christians to lead lives that are morally separate from the unbelieving world. Christians are to put aside, he says, malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy And slander for all are sins of their former lives and sins of the people around them. What they are to replace with such sins is the Word of God. To further implore Christians to live a different kind of life, Peter uses several metaphors, such as Christians being as babies longing for pure milk. Or hungry so as to want to taste the kindness of the Lord. And because Jesus is the cornerstone, he is to be approached by us as a living stone. that although rejected by men is precious before God. And as Jesus is a living stone, so too are Christians to see themselves as stones who are being used by God To build a spiritual house in order to offer up spiritual sacrifices in the name of Jesus. Jesus as the cornerstone of all that is built up is either the rock upon which all earthly and heavenly lives will be built, or a rock upon which all who do not believe will stumble over or crash into. So after mentioning those who do not believe and therefore stumble and crash upon the eternal rock who is Jesus, Peter wants to get back to the reason why Christians are to live separate moral lives away from the unbelievers around them by identifying them as God's chosen people. According to Peter, Christians are to identify themselves with Israel, for he quotes Exodus 19, verse 5. Where God called Israel out of bondage in Egypt to be his very own people. They are chosen by God, just as God chose Abraham and credited Abraham's faith as righteousness In the same manner, God has chosen an entire people to be his very own. It is God's choice and no one else's. Christians are next called royal priesthood, a royal priesthood. As royals, Christians belong to the one kingdom. As priests, Christians have been washed clean of sin and are able to stand before God as clean and are able to hear God speak and are able to serve God as his representative. Christians are next called a holy nation. The term holy is to be consecrated or set aside to be used by God for his glory. The term nation reminds us that Christians are not believers separate from other believers, but are instead an entire people who must love one another to continue as God's people. We are chosen, we are part of the royal priesthood, and we are holy and a nation only if we are a body and not mere individuals. Christians are next, and finally called a peculiar people. Now that word peculiar is from the King James Version translation. The phrase literally means a people of special reservation. A people of special reservation. It is a most personal phrase to describe what God owns for his own personal care. It is saying he will not share us with anything else. And what are Christians to do with this unique identification given by St. Peter? The why question needs to be answered. Why see ourselves in this manner? What is the point of being chosen, royal, priestly, a holy nation, and peculiar people? The answer is in the next phrase. To declare the praises of God. To proclaim the excellencies of him who called you. In other words, it is to worship God. So if Christians are chosen, royal, priestly, a holy nation, and peculiar, it follows that the worship of Christians should reflect who we are. To put it another way, Christian corporate worship should reflect the people God has made us to be It should reflect that we are chosen. It should reflect that we are royal, priestly, a holy nation. It should reflect that we are peculiar. To put it another way, Christian worship shouldn't reflect who we are not. We are not unbelievers. And therefore, our corporate worship shouldn't look like we are unbelievers. A glaring flaw of the Christian Church for at least the last four decades has been an inability to differentiate between Christian corporate worship and outreach. Modern Christian churches have made times of Christian corporate worship a time of outreach to justify worship styles and times of recharching professing Christians and sharing the gospel with of Jesus Christ with unbelievers They have done so because they understand the purpose of the church. It's to grow its membership. It's to evangelize, to get to be a large church. And yet, while evangelism is a responsibility of the church, it is not the why, it is not the purpose of the church. I say again, the purpose of the church, the end goal of the chosen people of God is to glorify God. To glorify God and enjoy Him forever, it is to worship God. Christians from every tradition, East or West, Should not have a problem whatsoever with Christian bands playing music that sounds like secular music only with words devoted to Christ when it is played and used for outreach to unbelievers Who might like such music? Christians from every tradition should not have a problem with a pastor wearing a cordless microphone, blue jeans, and an untucked shirt and talking points When it is in the context of outreach. There are indeed unbelievers who are more apt to attend a gathering of people who play rock music and speak in a casual manner and entertain. That seems to be true. But when such settings are called Christian corporate worship, the Bible does not know of such worship, and the church historic does not know of such worship. And those are only the only sources of authority that can teach us what proper Christian corporate worship is to be. Let us consider the words Saint Peter has chosen for God's people to worship. Being chosen means that we are going to have a security in our salvation and a trust in God that an unbeliever is not going to have. But chosen means we are able to celebrate that our salvation, our very salvation, is not determined by our ability to keep a promise, but it's determined by God's ability to keep a promise. Being a royal priesthood means that we are going to take our corporate worship seriously by behaving in a manner proportionate to our status. A royal does not behave like a pauper, because the privilege demands more. The priesthood, with its privilege, calls for dignity to be shown and seriousness to be maintained. As St. Paul has said when addressing Christian corporate worship, but all things should be done decently and in order. As a peculiar people, we are going to have a verbiage that only we use when we gather together. This is one of the reasons why we use an older text for our Book of Common Prayer. Those who prefer a modern language version have put forth a purpose That no one today uses the language used in the old prayer books. The fact is, no one used said language when the prayer book was first written For no one used it as a common vernacular. The formal language of the prayer book was originally chosen because it reflected corporate worship as a unique time For God's people to gather. And it communicated the formality the church believed was needed for such gatherings. Now, admittedly, some of the words are quite archaic to us, and some sound strange and even funny. Do you hear the word sucker and chuckle because the way it is pronounced, and then wonder what it means? It means to give assistance or aid to someone. How about the phrase, dissemble nor cloak? The simple means to hide true motives, and cloak is to cover rather than reveal. How about absolution and remission? Absolution is a declaration of God's forgiveness, and remission is a canceling of debt owed. How about inestimable It means too great, too great, too large to calculate. What about the use of thou so often when reading the Ten Commandments? To be sure, thou is an archaic form of the more simple word you, but when it is used in the context of God's God's founding document for his covenant with his people And is expected to be followed without excuse, thou is most appropriate. And what about the word oblation? It refers to the thing that is being offered by, or excuse me, the thing being offered to God. And the mouthful word, propitiation, what does that mean? The word propitiation is a mouthful word, and yet there is not another word in the English language that can express that God was in Christ. Reconciling the world to himself, appeasing his own wrath. Yes, there are certain words that Anglicans use in corporate worship that unbelievers have a hard time understanding, as do Christians who are not a part of the tradition. The hope is, the hope is That an unbeliever who participates using Anglican worship traditions will at least know that those who are familiar with the traditions have their attention upon God. And if the unbeliever is seeking God, if he is seeking God, he will find him, for the liturgy points to him. I recall an advertisement in the local newspaper here several years ago now where a church was starting up and meeting at the local Freedom Hall just as St. Stevens did many years ago. The advertisement showed a cartoon drawing of a church setting where a man was asleep in a pew And the caption read something like, If this is what you think church is, come visit us where you will never know you are in church. Now, any reasonable person could or should respond that there is no purpose in going to church if you don't know you are in church. Obviously, I am taking the position that when Christian worship, when in Christian worship, they should know they are attending church. Because we do what we do in worship is altogether different than what we do at any other time and any any other place each day of the week. Sundays are for worship and it's different. What we do in worship is to reflect That we have been chosen, made royal priests, and made a holy nation, and made a peculiar, a peculiar people. I began these sermons warning that if we do not pass on the justification of why we worship in the manner we do, the matter will be lost. And replaced by the practical. And what is what is practical will be less and less meaningful The following quote summarizes the burden I believe God has laid upon my heart. It is from the Reverend Dr. Kerr Marquette, a Lutheran theologian, who has since passed on. But he said the following If the liturgy is boring to children, it is usually because the parents do not find it interesting either. If children saw adults treating the Sunday service as the most important activity of their lives, they would respect it also, and would never dream of treating it as a pop event. to be tinkered with by every Tom, Dick, and Harry. A church which has won a conscientious loyalty of parents, particularly fathers, will have the devotion of their children also But a church which objectively capitulates to the whims and tastes of the adolescents will have and deserve neither. In these sermons, I strive to gain the consciousness, loyalty of parents, so that they would pass on the principles of proper Christian corporate worship to the next generation. So that a standard can be maintained that is received by God because it is heavenly relevant. What I put forth is the best I have, for it is to be passed on. Let what is true and what I have said be established in the hearts of God's people, and let what is manufactured Burn with the chaff. Let us pray. Our gracious God, we thank you that you have made us A people identified by our peculiarities. That you have made us specific, given us an identity, granted us a picture of what it is to be different through Christ our Lord. May we not be afraid to be different in the world and certainly not of it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.