And wonders of you done, and wonders of his love, and wonderful. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. Last week I started A series of sermons that I've preached before, but the importance repeats itself over and over again. My main message last week was to say that our traditions need to become our convictions Otherwise, they will be tossed aside. Having established that God, that the God of Holy Scripture Does not accept just any form of worship, but instead is insistent that worship be by first his commandments What he has ordered us to do in worship, but also including a heart that loves him, and also including a heart that loves our fellow man. Any worship that falls short of said standards, any one of those three said standards, is rejected worship. A number of years ago, I visited a home of a parishioner who attended this parish, but her husband did not. I visited the home because I wanted to see if I could convince this husband to believe in Jesus and next to become a part of St. Stephen's For the sake of his own soul and the soul of his wife, who so desperately wanted her husband to be a Christian and attend worship with her The husband thought himself a good thinker, and so he posed to me this question: why does God need to be worshipped? It appears, he said, that God has an ego problem when he commands that he be worshipped Up to that time I had not been asked such a question, but I surmise since that many people who struggle to have faith Have asked or thought something similar. Certainly, if any human were to demand to be worshipped We as Christians would be appalled and see it as a sinful ego expressed. And as we look back at the pharaohs in Egypt, the Caesars of Rome, and the likes of Hitler and Mussolini, We righteously disdain their egos and their insistence on being praised by their followers, and then we make the mistake of thinking That God might be worthy of similar disdain because of his commandments to be worshipped. That type of thinking is a very serious problem. For it reveals that we are tempted by the devil to understand God in the same categories as understanding ourselves and understanding our fellow man. It is a struggle for human beings to comprehend that God is holy, W-H-O-L-L-Y, and Holy H-O-L-Y, different from humanity. And in being wholly different, he is beyond our comprehension, the comprehension of humans, because being beyond our comprehension is part of what it means to be God It fits the definition. If we who are finite could understand, fully understand God, then he would have to be finite as well. For the finite cannot fully comprehend the infinite. To realize God in his totality is beyond our comprehension Helps our faith to increase as we contemplate his revelations to us, which at the center is his glorious incarnation, which we celebrate Christmas season. Christian apologists have rightly described God as separate from his creation by explaining that everything that has existence Either exist as being caused by something else, known as causality, or by the necessity of its own nature. I say it again. Everything exists, has come into being by the cause of another thing, or it exists by the necessity of its own nature. Thus it is argued that while all things that exist require an outside agent that caused its existence. There is the possibility of God, because God exists by the necessity of his nature, which is an eternal nature. To put it another way, God does not have to have a beginning, because the word beginning implies the existence of time. And it was God who created time, making God before time. And we only say that to help us comprehend God's eternal existence, since there could not have been a before. before time, because the word before only makes sense in the context of time. And yes, what you just heard makes sense Only you might have to listen to it or read it again a few times to follow the track of logic. But my point to go on In such a manner is to show how difficult it is for finite minds like ours to understand the full nature of God. The great mind of Saint Anselm of Canterbury, a twelfth century theologian Put forth his famous ontological argument for the existence of God by defining God as that by which nothing greater can be conceived. Such a definition works well within the ontological argument, but it has a flaw, in that it seems that God's existence is based on what man cannot fully comprehend. Of course, God's existence isn't dependent upon anything that humanity can or cannot understand, but the definition of God being that by which nothing greater can be conceived At least gets to the point that to compare God to humanity or any one man ever besides Jesus Is to fall embarrassingly, shamefully short of coming close to knowing God. It is only after we try to comprehend just how much we cannot comprehend God That we can reasonably see why it is necessary for us, who are created beings, to worship the one who created us. So God is beyond our comprehension, and yet there are truths that God has revealed to us that He wants us to focus upon. But we find it difficult to focus upon what God has revealed to us about Himself because as we are worshippers by nature, we are also sinful due to our fallen nature. Having established the argument that God, because of his nature, is worthy of praise, worthy of our praise, it is next necessary for us to examine the nature of humanity in particular. In particular, examine our nature as compared to God. God reveals to us that we are worshipers by nature by telling us of our first parents, Adam and Eve. Who were placed in a perfect environment where food was plenty, the temperature was such that no clothing was necessary And because there was no sin, there was no need for shame, requiring nothing to be hidden All that was given by God, and therefore God was to be thanked, honored for his giving of such gifts that required no toil of humanity But only to enjoy the fruits of the garden, except one fruit, the fruit of the knowledge of the tree of good and evil. The fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil was the only fruit God instructed Adam and Eve not to eat, and with that instruction they were placed in a position of possible failure. To not eat said fruit would require them to fully love God, as He would reign supreme in the hearts of Adam and Eve, and to disobey by eating said fruit would of course bring about what God promised, which was the curse of death. From the choice of our two parents that they made, it was revealed that they loved something other than God. And we know from the previous sermon that disobedience excuse me, back up From the previous sermon, that obedience is an act of worship, and disobedience is refusing to practice proper worship. When God curses Adam and Eve because of their disobedience, he reveals what is meant for Adam and Eve to know good and evil. Now, no one to my knowledge has better explained what it meant for Adam and Eve to know good and evil after their sin better than C. S. Lewis. In his second installment of his space trilogy titled Paralandra, Lewis describes a planet that has been recently occupied by two human-like creatures, a male and a female, who are given the duty by God to procreate and fill the new planet with their own kind. But they were not alone. For a demon-possessed man who on earth, on earth was a scientist named Weston, had created a ship that enabled him to land on Peralandra. With the goal of corrupting the undefiled creatures and eventually the whole planet. This plan for corruption is interrupted by another scientist named Ransom who is the hero of the story, working diligently to expose Dr. Weston to the innocent creatures for what he truly was While helping the new creatures resist the temptation to disobey God. Just like the biblical story, The possessed Dr. Weston tempts the female creature while she is unwillingly separated from her mate. The story is more complex than I am able to describe in this sermon, but what Lewis brilliantly shows from the conversations the female creature has with both the possessed Dr. Weston and the hero Dr. Ransom. Is the difference, the difference between knowing good and evil from the devil's perspective versus God's perspective. From the biblical narrative of the fall of Adam and Eve, some have interpreted that God did not want humanity to know good and evil at all, or ever. What Lewis explains is that God did and does want us to know good and evil only from the side of obedience. And holiness rather than from the side of disobedience and sin. Because of the choice of our first parents All of us know good and evil from the side of disobedience and sinfulness. And that perspective makes our knowledge distorted, limited, and corrupt. When the Hebrew preacher teaches us that Jesus knew our weaknesses because he was tempted in all ways like us, yet without sin. We learn from that that Jesus as a human being is the first to know good and evil as God intended, which is again from the side of obedience and holiness. From such aside, it can be said that Jesus is the only person to ever truly know good and evil. For the devil himself only knows it from the say from the side that we are on, from the side of disobedience and sin. Because we know good and evil from the wrong side, the distorted, limited, and corrupted side, everything we do. Every act we perform, thought that we have, project we complete, relationships we have, motives we use, all of it is tainted by sin. This is the same as where it says in the Bible that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Romans 3:23. This, as I have described, is confirmed by the prophet Isaiah, who said that all we, like sheep, have gone astray. Isaiah 53, 6 The Apostle Paul said of humanity that there is none righteous, no, not one. Romans 3:10 If reminding you of the fallen state of humanity is depressing, I must interrupt your thoughts to say that it is not my goal, not the goal of my words, but the goal of scripture to depress. But rather to awaken our conscience to our need for God's forgiveness. Every time we are reminded of our fallen condition, our sinful condition, it is to awaken our souls. So that we might utter the same words spoken by the crowd after St. Peter's sermon in the book of Acts, when they shouted, What then shall we do? If you are not a Christian, then you need to know that the answer is to repent and be baptized. And if you are a Christian Then you have been baptized, so then it is your next duty to repent. The Christian life is indeed a life of repentance. Thus, repentance should play a central role in Christian worship. If you go to a Christian worship service and there is no confession of sin, that is no Christian worship. And after we repent of our sin, we are to believe that God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. It is when we have believed that God has forgiven us that we must next give thanks, give Him thanks, give Him praise, give Him our worship. And we must give him our worship because if we do not, then we will give it to something other than God. Guaranteed. To be convinced that we humans are, by our natures, beings that must worship. Allow history to teach us For there is no civilization civilization known to history that does not have some form of worship of some form of God or gods. If history is not enough, then examine people you know and observe their obsessions. If a person is not a follower of Jesus, he or she is a follower of something else. People give themselves over to anything to serve as their God. Substances we refer to in the context of addictions are worshipped. Money is worshipped Fads are worshipped. Material goods are worshipped. Social causes are worshipped. Family is worshipped. Politicians are worshipped. Sports, athletes, celebrities are worshipped. Even recreation is worshipped, and even laziness is worshipped, as there are people who work hard for the purpose of avoiding work. We can also see how emotions are worshipped as people on one end of the emotion expression pursue the high of joyfulness while others pursue the high of anger and bitterness. And if history and observation and observation is not enough, then be convinced by Bob Dylan. Who famously sang, you've got to serve somebody. It may be the devil, it may be the Lord, but you have to serve somebody I've been told I'd do a good imitation of him, so putting the puzzle pieces of the sermon together you need to see that The peace that shows that the nature of God is naturally to be worshipped and the need for humans to worship go together. The troubled piece that doesn't seem to fit is that we are sinful because we have fallen natures. The missing piece that helps our fallen natures to fit with the creator of the universe. Is that Jesus fits perfectly between us so that we are no longer estranged from God, even while we have not yet received heavenly holiness? Before we do, we are to be acting out the task of worshiping God. The question that remains is: how? How are we to worship God That question is going to be answered more fully in the next sermon. What I want all of us to realize is how modern worship has failed to answer the question, how is God to be worshipped? There is a British satire television series called Yes Minister that performs dialogue, skits, giving humorous insights into British culture, including politics. In one particular scene, the Prime Minister is to appoint a new bishop, but is having trouble choosing from the candidates. He discovers that all of the political all of the politically acceptable candidates are not true churchmen, but rather politicians. He learns that the primary candidates For bishop no longer dress for their position as Christian ministers, but rather for social steps. The Prime Minister is told that their modern dress is for the purpose of relevance. The Prime Minister responds to this by asking, relevant to God? The answer comes back, no, of course not, Prime Minister. I meant relevant as a sociological term. It is that term, relevant, that has dogged the modern church as many bodies of believers have worked hard to be socially relevant. There is the attempt to be relevant in terms of society, resulting in what are called liberal Christian churches. These churches have abandoned the Judeo-Christian morals set forth in Holy Scripture and instead have adopted moral standards that set no standards at all except the virtue of tolerance And even that virtue is rejected if it is tolerance for those who still uphold Christian morals The other Christian group that wants to be relevant is made up of the independent Christian gatherings who confess to abide by Judeo-Christian morals. but who worship in the manner that they think is appealing to the greater masses of people, especially younger people. And so these groups replicate popular music styles while placing Jesus in the lyrics. Some even use light shows and fog because, well, such staging is thought to make worship more relevant. The vagin question is, relevant to who? Relevant to God? No. And there lies a very serious problem. I submit that the more relevant Christian worship becomes to humanity, particularly Western humanity, the more God begins to look like Western humanity, and such a picture is not worthy of any worship. I also submit that if you examine the worship as commanded by God for both the tabernacle and temple and the worship described in the book of Revelation. You will realize that corporate worship of the one true God is to be heavenly relevant, not earthly relevant. Christian worship is only relevant when it ascends into heaven, where the Father and the Son reign. I also submit that we are only relevant to the kingdom of God when our worship is relevant to heaven. That should be our goal, that should be our standard, and nothing less. When it comes to worshiping the only, true, and everlasting God, there should be no compromise. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God As we recognize the standards of your word regarding our worship to you and our need to worship you and you to be rightfully worshipped May we continue, continue to raise our standards that it might be heavenly relevant. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.