Imagine a little bit and over the In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. I preached this series of sermons several years ago. And I made a booklet out of it and handed those booklets out to each family in the church. So some of you have heard what I am about to preach today and the next four weeks, although modified. I was visiting with um Howard Mosier Who I told him I was going to be repeating a series and he said well a sermon isn't good until it's been preached a hundred times. So take that advice But what I'm about to preach, I believe, is very important, and perhaps I'll preach it every three years. I have preached and taught many times the warning that a man's conviction can become his son's tradition, which can become his grandson's elimination. This usually occurs because the first man did not pass down well enough the basis for his convictions. The common example is a man's patriotism. Imagine a grandfather who loved his country and expressed said love by flying his U. S. flag on Flag Day, Veterans Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day. He hosted a family picnic every year on the 4th of July. He prayed to God to bless the United States and its citizens. He was proud to vote in every election and he rooted heartily for the United States of America every Olympic Games. And his son did the same. His son loved the traditions of his father, and so when he had a family Of his own, he displayed the U. S. flag on all the days his father did. He hosted his own 4th of July picnics, and he prayed for his country and called himself blessed to be living in the greatest country in the world. But his son, who is the first man's grandson, isn't so sure about how great this country is He hears from his teachers that the history of the United States is not honest, and that generations before him overlooked the sins of their forefathers. Our forefathers' treatment of Africans and Native Americans was abusive at best and murderous at worst When this son asks his father about why he thinks the United States is the greatest country in the world when it has such terrible sins in its founding, his father cannot answer Because in truth he loves the country because his father loved the country. And his father never explained what foundation Of that love was beyond the way he displayed it, that love. Conviction to elimination happens quickly. Second generation, third generation, and it's gone Of course, there is nothing wrong with being upfront and honest about the sins of our forefathers. I have preached about our culture's failures to address the sins of our forefathers. But we can only address the sins of our forefathers with an understanding of the Christian gospel. The sins of our forefathers teach us how to apply the gospel and how the gospel is to permeate all aspects of our lives and our culture. But I turn back to passing on convictions. Passing on convictions requires explanation, cogent explanation for the traditions you have. For without understanding traditions, they become dead on arrival to the next generation. That reality is very easily seen in Christian traditions examined, examined in the context of how we worship. Take a quiz. Why do older churches use pews for sitting? And why are they placed in rows one behind the other? Don't know? Change it. Why is the pulpit on one side and the lectern on the other? Don't know? Change it. No, don't just change it. Get rid of them both. Why is the communion table in the middle? Why is it back behind the lector and pulpit? Why do ministers wear dresses? Why is everyone so somber and serious when they receive the bread and the wine? And what really is the Lord's Supper You don't get your hunger or thirst satisfied, so what good is it really? You don't know? You don't have answers to these questions? Then change them. Get rid of them. Do what is most practical. After all, God doesn't care how he is worshipped. He only cares if we are sincere and honest when we worship. Stop. And there it is. There it is. The understanding that reveals why everything is questioned regarding traditions of the church. It is the belief that God doesn't care how he is worshiped, but only that he is worshiped in sincerity of heart and mind. The problem with this belief about God is still that it doesn't have biblical merit. God never says that it does not matter how he is worshipped. And he never said that he is only concerned about sincere hearts and minds. Such an interpretation of God is reading into Scripture what some want it to say rather than what it actually says. People have argued that God does not care how we worship, but only that we do so in sincerity of heart and mind. They point to passages such as David saying to God in Psalm 51, verse 16 For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You would not be pleased with a burnt offering The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. For some people, these words teach that God doesn't delight in any sacrifice at all. But that conclusion doesn't wrestle with the reality that God is the one who commanded who commanded the offered sacrifices for sin. For some people, the latter part of the verse reveals that God actually wants, which is a broken spirit and a contrite heart. But that conclusion doesn't take into account what David says next in the same psalm, which is the following. Then Then you will delight in right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings. Then bulls will be offered on your altar. This last verse makes it clear that it is not sacrifices that God is displeased, but sacrifices made without a broken and contrite heart. God wants both from his people. He wants sacrifices as he commanded them in his law, and he wants hearts of the people as they obey. The problem with Israel is that they either repeatedly trusted in the rituals without their hearts being given to God, or they did not obey the rituals as commanded. Another passage often quoted by those who think that God does not care about the form in which his people worship is from Hosea chapter 6. Which says, For I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice, the knowledge of God rather than burnt offering. To conclude from that that God does not like the very thing He has commanded is simply illogical And it fails to take onto account what God is truly after with the sacrifices He had commanded to be performed. His end goal has always been for the people of Israel to be his people and for him to be their God. And what that looks like is that the people would love him. And accept his love, and that would be expressed by obeying the law, not out of the trust in the law itself, but a trust in the giver of the law, which we you and I call faith. In case you are being tempted to think that such is my own interpretation, listen to these words from the prophet Jeremiah. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices and eat the flesh. For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices. But I command the command I gave them, obey my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people, and walk in all the way I command you, that it may be well with you. Of course, the offerings were essential to worshiping God, because they all point to the fulfillment, which is the sacrifice of Jesus upon the cross, which of course is essential to our Christian worship. Their faith pointed forward. Our faith points backward, and yet it's the same thing. The Christian life is to be what God wanted for the Israelites, which is forgiveness of sin, and that includes sacrifice. In obedience to his will, and that means that the Christian life is a life of worship. Another biblical argument against the worship of God In any matter we choose, is the number of times God rejects worship not commanded We learn quickly in Holy Scripture that God does not indiscriminately accept all forms of worship. Recalled a lesson about faith in the book of Hebrews About how God accepted the offering of Abel, but not that of Cain. Cain did not bring forth the first fruits, and it was because he lacked faith that he did not bring them. Abel brought the firstborn of his flock to worship God, and yet it wasn't that fact alone that he brought forth the firstborn, but that he did so in faith. In faith that God would receive it and forgive. And this example teaches us that God does discriminate when it comes to worship, worship that he will accept. Interestingly, the offerings of Cain and Abel can be considered both private worship and corporate worship. They're private because each brought separate offerings. They're corporate because they were the only family worshiping God. The next example comes from the book of Leviticus, where the Israelites received commandments primarily regarding corporate worship And from Leviticus 10, we read, now Aaron's sons, Nadab, and Abihu, took their censors. Put fire in them, placed incense on them, and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, contrary to his command. So fire came out of the presence of the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. There are several points of information we are to identify. from these two verses that were violations of the law, the law just given to them regarding corporate worship. First They each took his own censor rather than the sacred utensil that was to be used in the sanctuary. Second, they both offered their censors together, whereas the incense was only to be given by one person. Third, they performed an action that was only to be performed by the high priest, who was their father. Fourth, they offered incense at an unauthorized time. Fifth and finally, they offered these incense offerings as worship directly in front of the Holy of Holies, which was a breaking of a specific commandment. In summary, Nadab and Abihu worship in a manner that they were not instructed to do, and in a manner they were specifically instructed not to do. But they were worshiping, so that should be to their favor, right? They were calling upon the right God, so that should count for something, right? Apparently not. You see, by worshiping in a manner that God did not command, they were presuming upon God. That any way God is approached is a sufficient and acceptable manner. It wasn't, and it still isn't. If you are still convinced that sincerity of heart and mind is what God is most concerned about when it comes to the worship of Him, let us reflect on the story of King Saul and Israel's victory over the Amalekites. At the beginning of 1 Samuel chapter 15, God speaks to King Saul through the prophet Samuel, telling him to go and fight against the Amalekites. To avenge the manner that Israel was attacked after Israel had been freed from bondage while escaping Egypt. God instructs Saul to kill every Amalekite, as well as the oxen, sheep, camels, and donkeys. Nothing of the people was to be left. The directive was clearly stated and agreed to. And yet after God gave Israel a resounding victory, We read that the people took the plunder they were to destroy, particularly taking the sheep and oxen, and then used them as sacrifices to worship their God And let that be underlined. The people use the best of the livestock from the plunder of the Amalekites to worship God. That sounds like a good thing they were doing. They were praising God for their victory. They acknowledged that God was responsible for their victory It all seemed so very right because they were worshiping God in sincerity. But here is what Samuel the prophet says to them after discovering what the people had done. Samuel said to King Saul, Has the Lord great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams. For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption Presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king. From that example in 1 Samuel, let us not next make the mistake of thinking that God must only be concerned about obedience when it comes to corporate worship. The prophet Malachi brought forth God's word to the Israelites while the temple was being built, rebuilt by Ezra and Nehemiah. He began his prophecy by condemning the priests of Israel for their defiled offerings. But the offerings were defiled not because the priests were worshiping an idol or a false god. No, they were worshiping Yahweh. And they were worshiping in the right location and were offering the sacrifices according to the law. All was good. But all was not good because the poor were being oppressed. The starving were not being fed. The widows were not being cared for. The lame and the sick were being ignored. Thus the rituals of corporate worship being followed, but the laws of loving God and loving one's neighbor were forgotten. Corporate worship had become ritual for the sake of ritual, which can happen to any form of worship that does not include loving God and loving your neighbor. I anticipate that by now some of you might be frustrated at the points I have made, because it can appear that there is no way to please God when it comes to corporate worship. If God is concerned about our hearts and minds as we worship, but not to the point that they are what is most important, and then he cares about obedience. But that that is what is not his only concern. And then that obedience is not just in what we do in worship, but what we do outside the temple, i. e. feeding the hungry Then it appears that he is easily offended if we lean too far one way as opposed to another And if you perceive God to be easily offended when it comes to worship of his people, I can emphatically say that he is not. But getting you to that point of questioning whether God is easily offended has actually been one of my goals The very least I want you to conclude is that God does not accept any and all worship that uses his name. That should be clear enough from the examples in Scripture. I can say that God is not easily offended by the worship of his people because our worship, our corporate worship, is not for God. It's for us. God is concerned about our manner of corporate worship because He cares for us. How we worship God is how we think about God. And how we think about God is in what and where and how we put our faith. If we view God as only concerned about our hearts and not our obedience, then we worship God by the way of our emotions. If we view God as being most concerned about obedience, then we put our faith in ritual. If we view God as only concerned with what we do within the walls of his sanctuary, we fail to love our fellow man. So we have spent a lot of time in the Old Testament this morning, but remember the point made from the book of Hebrews Which is that Jesus is in all of the Old Testament, and therefore he is our model for worshiping God. He is the epitome of sincerity of heart and mind, while being fully obedient, while loving his fellow man. So we look to him first in our worship, and we look to him in this series of sermons regarding how Christians are to properly worship. Now I started by describing a grandfather's conviction becoming his son's tradition, becoming his grandson's elimination. Because I'm concerned that such will occur in my own family and in the families of St. Stephen's. I've started by trying to convince you that sincerity and effort to worship God is not enough. My end goal is to convince you that the traditions we have been given within the Anglican way, which is part of the great tradition, are actually convictions and worthy to be passed on. Traditions can actually be convictions if we understand and remember why we do what we do. Let us pray. O gracious and heavenly Father, we put forth this word, hoping it is received and spoken to by the Holy Spirit. That all that is true might be convicting and might motivate us to move in action, to move in worshiping you in spirit and in truth, in faith and love. And so bless us in this day and bless us in this series. May it be helpful to passing on conviction. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.