Name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Please be seated. We're going to be looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 12. So it would be well for you to turn there, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, our reading, starting at verse 4 Just how bad is it out in the world right now? Terrible, right? I mean the mass shootings one this morning, right up. Look at the headlines, another shooting in Philadelphia. The shootings, the viruses, the unrest, the hate. Wow, it's bad. But is it? We as fallen creatures, we humans, are drawn to hear bad news and to be pessimistic. And bad news sells. And each of us is buying. News organizations would not lead with bad news if bad news didn't sell. And the worse the news is, the better. News organizations have loved COVID-19 pandemic. Loved it Initially, you and I wanted to know if we were going to die. And they wanted us to depend on them for that news. Shootings, they love shootings, especially if they are racially motivated. The more they can divide the general public the more they want to tell the story, even if they don't have all the facts. Can you tell how I perceive the news business? But I am trying to make another point. The world right now is not terrible In fact, this may be the best time in the history of the world to live. The best time to live. Consider the data. Battle deaths, people dying from state-to-state conflict has declined significantly since 1946, which as you know was the end of the Second World War. Since 1994, large-scale violence around the world is down significantly. And while human population grows, there are fewer famine deaths in the last decade than any time in recorded history. Extreme poverty is being tracked and said to be declining nearly every day. And what about terrorism? I couldn't believe this when I read it. Terrorism, really bad, right? More people are dying each year by bee stings, you know, business stings. Than they are by terrorism. What about heart disease, the top killer in the West? Actually, the number of people dying from heart disease has been declining in number since 1978. Even chances of dying of cancer are less than ever before in history. Outside of death and overall health, consider how wealthy we are in the West. I eat better than any king before the 20th century. I can order what I want to eat from a variety of different menus and cuisines, more than any sultan prior to the 21st century. And I don't just have one chef, I have multiple chefs at my disposal. And I can have the food delivered, I can pick it up myself, or I can visit my chefs in person. While being served at a table, I do not have to clear or clean. And if my transportation fails, I can pay any number of quality mechanics to help me And considering what the internet provides and what delivery services do, if I want something, almost anything, I can buy it, have it delivered without even standing up. And if you live in Eldersburg, you have access to auto stores and pizza parlors on every corner. And entertainment. You want to watch a Broadway show? Click. You want to watch a popular movie? Click. You want to binge watch a documentary? Click. You want to listen to lectures on World War I? Click. There is no better time to be alive. And can we say the same about being Christian? I say there is no better time in the history of man to be a Christian. You say, but what about the moral corrosion of our culture? What about the public schools that have deserted Christian principles Yeah. Compared to when I went to school, it is certainly more secular and even more so than it was, say, 70 years ago. But there was a lot of problems 70 years ago, hypocrisy amongst Christians being a main problem. And those problems resulted in what we see in our culture today. What is positive about being a Christian, at least in the United States, I I can't say the West because Canada is going off the rails, so we have to disclude them But in the United States, you still have freedoms that are maintained that allow us to meet, to organize, to read, to hear. Teach and learn what the Bible says, and the many, many resources that allow us to know the Bible better than any generation before our own. And because our secular culture is making the battle lines clearer for us, there is no better time to stand up to be a Christian and not lose your life. You have it good. We all do. And that is part of what St. Paul was saying to the Corinthians When he was describing to them the diversity of gifts given to them, given to the church by the Holy Spirit. Our reading picked up at verse four of First Corinthians chapter twelve. In the previous chapter The Apostle Paul addressed some problems that were occurring in the church when the people gathered for worship. This is other evidence that shows there were serious problems in the first century Christian church, and they therefore should not be idolized as if that was the best time for Christians to be alive. The new faith had a lot of growing pains to experience. For the Corinthians, it was getting together and sharing a meal before formal worship. And when doing so, food was not shared equally. As likely the poor and the widows were being neglected as was common in cultures in the ancient Near East. Also, people were coming to the Lord's table, Holy Communion, in an unworthy manner. And God was judging them for it. That is the background of the comments Paul makes about spiritual gifts. He says in verse 1 of chapter 12 that he did not want them to be ignorant about such gifts. For such gifts were to be applied when the people gathered for worship. Because of their past lives of idol worship, Paul first sets them straight. That no one can mix Christianity with the false religions that they left behind. And the Holy Spirit enables each person who confesses Jesus to make such a confession. Which verifies that everyone who does confess Jesus has the Holy Spirit within them But with the Holy Spirit present in a Christian's life, that presence is going to manifest itself differently in each person. So verse 4 begins by stating that although there is a diversity of gifts, it is the same Holy Spirit that empowers each person. Differences in ministry, but the having of the same God is similar to having different gifts, but the same spirit. Verse 5 mentions activities, which are events that occur as a result of the working of gifts, which are a result of the Holy Spirit's presence being manifested. For example, let us imagine a scenario where a married couple is struggling to get along With no counsel, helping, but a minister prays with them and learns from them that the wife is harboring bitterness for the past sins of her husband. The bitterness being revealed, the husband becomes contrite. The husband asks for forgiveness. The wife forgives. The relationship is restored. Such is an activity by the Holy Spirit to move a couple towards reconciliation. But we can be more dramatic. Let us say a couple is in a dire situation financially. They pray for God to bring help. They receive an anonymous donation because the Holy Spirit moved on the heart of a person who could help. The activity is receiving money desperately needed, and the gift was hearing the Holy Spirit speak knowledge previously unknown. Do I believe such activity of the Holy Spirit happens? I do indeed I do because the Lord has allowed me to witness such activity, and I do because of passages such as this. God, Paul says, works all in all. God works all in all. And that is an expression Meaning that when it is good, God is involved, and when God is involved, it is good, and even when it is bad, God is still working to make it good. And therefore it if it is not good, then God is not done. That's a place for an amen. Amen What verse 7 does is remind us what the diversity of gifts is for. It is for the benefit of all. Thus, thus, no gift is for the individual. No gift is for the person who has the gift. And this is a much different teaching than the charismatic world that I dwelt in for a time in my college years. The focus in my circles, as I remember it, was upon the person with the gift, and what that gift can give that person rather than give to those in need or even give to God. Next is the listing of the gifts that are for others. That are for others. The first is a word, is a word of wisdom. The second is a word of knowledge. One commentator I read this week said that no one really knows the difference between the two. I have always thought that a word of wisdom was similar to The scenario I described that had a minister who was able to find bitterness in the heart of the wife not previously found. A word of knowledge might be slightly different, as it could be coming to know something or someone without any investigation, such as A person of financial means who thinks he hears the Holy Spirit tell him that a couple he knows is in financial need without actually knowing their financial records. Whatever the difference, it is insight of a people, of a person, of a situation not previously known, but come to light for the purpose of helping another. Next is the listing of faith as a gift. In general, faith is always a gift For everyone who has faith in Jesus Christ, that faith has been given to said persons. And we know this because the only thing we inherited from Adam and Eve Our souls that are dead to God. We are all born dead in our trespasses And sins, because our first parents broke the first covenant, and that means we inherit the repercussions of that broken covenant, which is having dead souls. For our souls to have life, they must be made alive by God. As St. Paul summed up To the Ephesians, by grace, through faith, each Christian is saved. And that grace, and that faith Not being from ourselves, but they are both instead gifts given to us by God. We think that our salvation is due to us believing in Jesus by our own volition as if we just figured it out while others have not Then we would boast about having faith. And that would be giving glory to self as opposed to where it must go, which is to God and God alone. And unfortunately, there are some Christians who do boast about their faith with testimonies Such as I chose to follow Jesus, or I became a Christian when I understood my sins and the gospel. Beloved, the opposite is true. It is never what I did or what I do, but only what God did, what he does, and what he will do. The point is that the faith I have been describing is a saving faith. And that is not the faith that Paul is describing here in verse 9. We can be assured of this because these gifts are for others and not for ourselves, whereas my saving faith is for myself. This faith, being for others, we all have experienced, even if we have not identified it as such. For example, if you and your spouse are going through a difficult time that may or not be your fault, and you don't see a way out of your pain, You don't see a future. And your wife can. She can see a way out. She can see a future. She can encourage you that there is a way out, that there is a future that God wants for you. That is practicing the gift of faith. It is a faith that is present within a person or persons when most people don't see any hope. It is a faith that overcomes odds. It slays giants with one rock. It calms lions in a den. It walks amidst a fiery furnace. It walks on water. The next two gifts may seem like they overlap, like wisdom and knowledge. The gift of healing is a gift of miracles, and yet the gift of miracles does not have to be a gift of healing. And St. Paul participated in the miracle of healing, such as healing the crippled man and Lystra. And he had experienced miracles such as casting out evil spirits. Having the gift of healing does not need to be a miracle for today. There are many Christian doctors who have the gift of diagnosing health and prescribing for the sake of better health. Along with having a thorough education about healing, the miracle aspect of healing does not occur today as it did during the ministry of Jesus and the apostles, and that includes Paul. I say that only because the evidence is clear. And I am not a cessationist, which is someone who believes that miracles have completely stopped when the gospel was established. It is clear again by the way of biblical accounts and church history that there was a change in the manner the Holy Spirit worked in the church after the apostles. And I have been a part of churches that claimed the opposite, that claimed there had been no change, while insisting on miracles still occurring, and yet they did not. What I have witnessed, of course, is limited. So I make no claim of what the Holy Spirit will or will not do. And I still pray for miracles Because I trust the Holy Spirit will always do what is right. And if He wants to do a miracle, by all means let us witness a miracle. Next is the gift of prophecy, which most make the mistake of interpreting as speaking forth what is to come, speaking about the future. But the prophets of Scripture primarily, primarily spoke forth the word of God to the people of their day, showing how God's word is to be applied to their lives. Such as Nathan rebuking King David about his murder and adultery. So any man who has been called to speak God's word to his contemporaries is a man gifted With prophecy. Next is the gift of discerning spirits, which is someone who can see through another person's words and hear the truth. And it is more than a feeling, although it can be that way sometimes. But it has to be more than a feeling because feelings are subjective. It is noticing gestures, reading into lines spoken, sizing up posture or handshake. It is seeing a false teacher for what he is, false, even though he is cunning in his words. Next is speaking in tongues and the interpretation of tongues, and I am not going to get into that topic and end up in the weeds. I wrestled with the topic throughout the 1980s and I am done wrestling. Today, tongues and interpreting tongues is being able to speak and interpret different languages. in order to communicate the gospel to different cultures. It is for others. Remember, the gifts are for others rather than being for a person who wants to speak the language of angels. The variety of gifts listed here by Paul does not exhaust the list of gifts that people can receive from the Holy Spirit. What it does is promote these two things. The gift of the Holy Spirit are for others as established. And are sufficient for overcoming sin and remaining faithful until our days are ended. You, Christian, live in great days. But here is my beginning point. You and I are prone, pre-programmed Inheritors of Adam, to focus on the bad, to play the Eeyore, to think the worst. Remember these words from St. Paul to the Ephesians. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. All spiritual blessings. Whatever your past sins Whatever past sins have been done to you, whatever the devil has told you that you have to pay for, the gifts of God via the Holy Spirit are sufficient for you to overcome. And know this final point. The gifts to overcome are scattered throughout the church, so you must stay in the church. Such gifts are for others. So whatever you have to offer, give it. And what others have to offer, receive it. For that is how God has ordained it. Let us pray. A gracious and merciful God, how grateful we are for the coming of the Holy Spirit. How it empowers us, not only as individuals, but in the church, that all things are before us, that all things can be overcome. May we practice these gifts, and may we receive the benefit of others and their gifts, that all in all the church might function as your bride. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.