The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, there is uh something that's right about recognizing uh God, uh especially at the end of uh of a year. We actually read in the book of Genesis in chapter 1, verse 14, it says, Then God said, let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens. To separate the day from the night and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years. So God is the one who orchestrated uh the cycle of the earth, uh the cycle of the earth spinning around the sun, uh to recognize the passage of time and even the passage of years. And we recognize that uh every year that we have, uh that uh our lives belong to Him, and uh every year is uh is a year closer to the day of Christ's return, too. Amen. And uh who knows if it could even be uh this year, we should live in that state of expectancy uh that the Lord could come back at any moment. So uh we're grateful for uh the times that we have and uh even as uh our brother Chuck said a little bit earlier, uh this has been a year that's been uh filled with uh trials and difficulties, uh but it all has also been filled with uh uh triumph as well, the triumph of hope, uh the faith that we have in in our Savior. And uh he's the one that helps us to continue to press forward. Uh so we look to him uh for uh grace for each uh new day, and uh we're grateful that the Lord uh gives us uh a way to persevere uh even in the midst of uh sadness and affliction. And uh we're grateful that we uh continue to have the Spirit who dwells within us uh who 's promised uh to be with us until the day of redemption. And uh we're grateful that uh God has given us everything that we need for life and godliness. Amen. Uh New Year's is actually one of the times that I look forward to even as a uh as a as a young child. Uh it was actually one of the the only um kind of holidays that our church celebrated uh growing up. So uh you guys get off easy because we start at seven. I think our church started at twelve uh at ten o'clock and uh prayed right through into the to the new year singing and and praying and then we ate afterwards and you know it was a late late night. Uh but I actually looked forward to it 'cause uh it was one of the only times I got to stay up that late and it was encouraged. uh for me to stay up past midnight. So uh I was grateful for that. But uh we won't keep you that long uh tonight, uh but we do want to make sure that we're giving uh some attention to the word of God. So take your copy of God's Word. and open to the book of Philippians, the book of Philippians as we prepare uh to enter into a new year. I thought it would be appropriate uh to remind us of a goal that we should have for this year. For next year, for every year of our lives, and that goal is to pursue after Jesus Christ. This is more than a New Year's resolution. This is the new life's resolution. For all those who have a new life, we should all be pursuing after Jesus Christ. And one of the places where we find that kind of resolution is in the book of Philippians, Philippians chapter 3. And I'll start at verse twelve and as uh our uh uh Pastor Glenn already uh mentioned, uh you know we kind of uh overlapped. Uh he was thinking Philippians 3. I was thinking Philippians 3. Uh even uh our brother Chuck and some of the comments that he mentioned referenced Philippians 3. So this is a a Philippians 3 kind of night. But Philippians 3, and we'll go ahead and start at verse 12. Philippians 3, verse 12. So it's not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect. But I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. But one thing I do Forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus Let us, therefore, as many as are perfect, have this attitude. And if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by that same standard to which we have attained. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, Lord. We're just so grateful for another opportunity that we have to gather together as your people, uh, to hear your word, to be encouraged by Scripture. Uh Father, I pray that uh Scripture would uh set the trajectory for our lives. Father, that we would get the direction for our lives by your word. Father, that we wouldn't come up with our own plans, our own ideas of what we desire our lives to be, how we desire our lives to be shaped. Now, Father, I pray that we would be shaped by your word for our lives. Father, that Jesus Christ would be the goal of our lives. And Father, that you would be glorified in all that we say and do. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Philippians chapter 3 and uh really starting at verse 12 is a it's a transition from the section that came before it and really points points forward to the section that's ahead of it. In the immediate context before Philippians 3 and verse 12, Paul was reminding uh the Philippian church of all the rich blessings uh that belonged to him uh after turning from confidence in himself to place his confidence fully in Jesus Christ for his salvation. And uh because of his salvation, Paul entered into a rich storehouse of God's blessings. And just to summarize what Paul has mentioned before, I'll just give you five categories of the glories of our salvation that Paul is celebrating. Number one, he gained Christ. He gained Christ. He counted all as lost for the sake of Christ. Verse 7. But whatever things were gained to me, those things I've counted as loss for the sake of Christ. I gain Christ. In verse 9, he says, so that I may gain Christ. We're told in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 17 that Christ dwells in our hearts by faith. That we receive Jesus the moment that we enter into salvation. Colossians chapter 1, verse 27 lets us know that God willed to make known what are the riches of his glory, this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory The moment that we enter into a relationship with Jesus Christ, Christ enters our hearts by faith. And Paul highlighted this as one of the blessings of his salvation, that I have Christ. I've gained Christ. The treasure of our justification is that we became Christ's belonging to him and that Christ also became ours. That we belong to him and he belongs to us. That he is the treasure that we seek, and now we've gained that treasure. We have gained Jesus Christ. Number two, he says that he knew Christ. In verse 8, it talks about in the view of surpassing value of knowing Christ. And in verse ten he also speaks about knowing him that I might know him. One of the rich metaphors of salvation is knowing Jesus. Not only do we have a knowledge of who he is, not just information about him, but we also enter into a relationship with him. We can say that we know Jesus. We know him. We have a personal relationship with him. In John chapter 17 and verse 3, it says, this is eternal life that they may know you. The only true God and Jesus Christ whom you've sent. We enter into a relationship with Jesus Christ, and that's a relationship that will never be broken. Number three, we're also Told in verse 9 that we have found him and we've been found in him. Verse 9, and may be found in him. Not having a righteousness of my own, but that which comes through faith in Jesus Christ. I am found in him. I am united to Jesus Christ. Found in Jesus Christ. And the righteousness that we now have is not our own. It comes through faith in him. Second Corinthians 5 21, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God. But where In him. It's united to him that I'm united to Jesus Christ. Because of my union with Jesus Christ, I now also possess the righteousness of Jesus Christ. I'm found in him in union with him. Really looking forward to exploring that more as we uh dive uh further into the book of Romans. But we have a union with Jesus Christ. We've been connected to him. And this is one of the blessings that Paul again is thanking God for. Not only that, he says that I know the power of his resurrection. In verse 10, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. There's something that we've received as we've entered into this relationship with Jesus Christ and its power. That we have resurrection power in Ephesians chapter 1. Verses 19 and 20, it talks about the surpassing greatness of the power toward us who believe. And that's the present-day reality. For those of us who belong to Jesus Christ, that God's power is at work in us who believe. What kind of power? How powerful is this power? It's the same power that raised Jesus Christ from the dead. That's the kind of power that is at work in you as a believer. Don't tell me that you you you know hey, I just can't do it. I can't live the Christian life. Oh, these things are too hard for me to live. Do you know that you have the same power that raised Christ from the dead active in your life right now? Like what are you telling me that you can't do? Like it's it's that I'm not relying on his power. I'm relying on my own strength. That's why I fall. But it's not because I'm relying on his strength that I fall. His power is the same power that raised Christ from the dead. And it's at work in you who believe. These are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might, which he brought about in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly places. the same power that was at work in Christ is at work in you if you believe. Incredible. These are the blessings that Paul is just celebrating. And he says, I've also been associated with the sufferings. Not only do I have this resurrection power, but I've also been associated with the sufferings of Jesus Christ. He says that I may know him in the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. I've been brought into the fellowship of the sufferings of Jesus Christ. Even in Acts chapter 5, we learn that the apostles counted themselves uh uh consider themselves worthy of suffering shame for his name. That this is this is something that I celebrate That Lord, I've been brought into the sufferings of Christ, that I've been so united with Christ that people would see me and they would see Christ in me, and they can't get to Christ so they can get to me, and that I would actually suffer for his sake. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18, it says, For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to those of us who are being saved, it is the power of God. The word of the cross, the sufferings of Christ, that we come alongside of Christ even in his sufferings. And these are the riches that became our possession when we abandoned hope in ourselves. Placed our faith in Jesus Christ. And Paul says, now I've even been associated with Jesus and his death, his sufferings. I know his power. I've been found in him. I know him. I've gained Christ. But as Paul gloried in these riches of his salvation, he didn't say, well, we just need to be happy that we have salvation and that's it. You know, we we've entered into this relationship with Christ, and you know, that's it. You know, we're we're we're done. You know, as long as long as you're you're in the race, you know, don't worry about running it. I like what Jerry Bridges said. He says there is yet one more truth to grapple with as we seek to realize our identity in Christ. That is the obvious tension between who we are in Christ and what we see ourselves to be in our daily lives. What he's saying is like you've now entered into this union with Christ. Positionally, I'm in Christ. Positionally, I've been given the righteousness of Jesus Christ Positionally, like this is who I am. I'm united to him. I have that resurrection power in my life. But there sometimes seems to be this disconnect between who we are positionally and how we live practically. There's a gap between who we are and who we know we should be. And even though in Christ we stand perfectly righteous before God, in our daily lives, sometimes there's still much that's remaining of sin. And if you've battled with stubborn temptations for any length of time, you can relate to what Paul says in Romans chapter 7 and verse 24, oh wretched man that I am. Who will set me free from the body of this death? How many times am I going to fall to that temptation? How many times am I going to have to repent of that? Like Lord, there's this gap between who I know I am in Jesus Christ and often how I live. Even though we're adopted as sons, in our experience, sometimes we can feel like we're still orphans. Even though we are a new creation, sometimes it feels like the old hasn't passed away. And as Jerry Bridges goes on to say, we still sin daily in thought, word, deed, motive, and sometimes we sin miserably. We have not yet been set free from the body of this death, and as much as we glory in our justification, the finish line is at the other end of the track. But sometimes in our thinking we can be satisfied with just resting in the starting blocks. Can you imagine a runner who 's poised on the starting blocks at the beginning of a race? And then the gun goes off and everybody else starts running, but he's still perched on the starting blacks and just saying, I'm just happy that I'm I'm just happy I got a number on my shirt. Look at this, I'm in the race. Looking around, like isn't isn't this grace? I'm I'm in, guys. I'm in. If you don't start moving one foot in front of the other, you've missed the point of the race. Like there's something that you've been called to do now that you're a Christian. But sometimes that's how Christians can treat their salvation Sometimes we can give people the impression that, you know, all we're supposed to do is just be happy that we're saved. You know, I'm in, and that's that's all that I'm I I 'm concerned about. And just remind yourself of the gospel, but if you don't pick up one foot in front of the other, you've missed the point of the race. I actually remember talking to one preacher. Who told me that he wasn't so concerned with his sanctification because God is always pleased with us. God is always pleased with us. I'm like, well, what do you mean by that? What do you mean that God is always pleased with us? If you mean by that that that Christ satisfies God's demands for righteousness, like I 'm I can follow you. Christ satisfies all the demands for righteousness. There's nothing else that I have to do in order to be accepted by God. That's been taken care of. Praise God. Hallelujah. Right? Like everything that needs to be done for me to enter into heaven, into eternal life, that's been taken care of. When Jesus hung on the cross, he said, it is finished. Not it has begun. You know, hey, I did my part, now you do yours. Like that's not what he said. It is finished. It's complete. So if you're talking about that all that you have to do in order to be accepted by God has been taken care of when you place your faith in Christ. I understand what you mean. But that doesn't mean that God is pleased with everything that we do. 2 Corinthians 5. 9 says, Therefore we also have as our ambition Whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. That's our ambition. That's my goal. I want to please God in what I do. Ephesians 5, verse 10. It says we're trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord. Colossians chapter 1, verse 10, Paul exhorts the church to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord to please him in all respects. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 1, Paul says, finally then, brethren, we request and exhort you in the Lord Jesus. That as you receive from us instruction as to how you ought to walk and please God, that you excel still more. But this one preacher said, Well, I'm always pleasing to God. Later on, I found out that that same preacher was also committing adultery on his wife with some woman that he was supposed to be supposedly counseling with. If you're not concerned about your sanctification, I'm not sure that you really understand your justification. What do you mean you're not concerned about your sanctification? And I think for him it was just the cover-up for his making excuses for his sin. Justification is not the finish line That's just the beginning of the race. We have a whole race to run, and it's our ambition to please God. Again, Bridges says this: God is pleased when we seek to please him. God is pleased when we seek to please him. And Paul lets us know in this passage that we haven't arrived at that final place of practical experiential righteousness. We've got a goal that we're also focused on. And what's that goal? Verse 12. Paul calls it becoming perfect or reaching completion. Says that's the very reason that Christ laid hold of us. He laid hold of us so that he'd bring us all the way to glory. Down in verse 13, he tells us that this is what lies ahead. We're reaching forward to what lies ahead. Verse 14, he describes it as the prize we receive when we're called upward. And what's the prize? What's ahead of us? Why did Christ lay hold of us? What does it look like to become perfect, to reach completion? It's the end goal of the Christian life, and it's the same goal that we should have every year. From here until we die, and that goal is that we would look like Jesus. Christ's likeness is the goal of the Christian life. That I would be like him That's the goal that's found all over Scripture. Ephesians 4, verse 15. But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him. Who is to him? Jesus. We're to grow up to look like Jesus. Second Corinthians 3. 18. But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image. What's that image? The image of Jesus Christ. The image of the Lord. I'm to be growing up, to be transformed into his image. First John chapter 3, verse 2, beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet appeared what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be what? We'll be like him. That's what I should want as a believer. That I want to be like Jesus. Yeah, we used to sing that song, you know, just to be like Jesus, just to be like Jesus. How I long to be like him. I want to look like him I want to be like him. That's why I was saved, so that I could be transformed into this image of Christ, that I could reflect him This is what pleases God. And when will that happen? When will I fully be transformed into the likeness of Christ? It's when we're called up, right? First of all, when you die, when you transition from this life into the next, the Bible says that your spirits are perfected. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 22 calls those in heaven the assembly of the spirits made perfect, spirits of the just made perfect. Your spirit spirit is instantly perfected when you pass from this life into the next. For those of us who know Jesus Christ, instantly perfect. So our spirits will be perfected in heaven, but that's not it. Even our bodies will be perfected in the resurrection. Romans chapter 8, verse 23, it says, and not only this. But also we ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we are ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting eagerly for the adoption of sons, the redemption of our body. And that comes at the resurrection of the dead. Our perfected spirits are joined to our glorified bodies and fit for eternity. And that happens when Christ. returns, and the saints go marching in, which is exciting to think about. In uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 16, it says, For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a shout with the voice of the archangel, with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. I was uh recently at the grave side uh with our brother Mac Holloway and uh I think it was Kevin Hurt said he says, you know, this this is this is going to be a a celebration one day. You know, looking out at all the graves around, he says, one day this is just going to be a celebration to be here to see all these graves bust open of everyone who believes in Jesus Christ. I mean, it's going to be a glorious day. And then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall always be with the Lord. And if you're starting to put this together, what Paul says that he's reaching forward to and he's longing for and he's striving for is actually something that we'll never reach in this lifetime. We're not going to reach that here. We're not going to have those perfected spirits here. We're not going to have glorified bodies here on this side of eternity. We're not going to have that. So the question you might be asking is, why would I expend all of my energy pursuing a goal that I'll never reach in this lifetime? I'm not going to get there So so so why should I like be exerting all of this this energy to try to reach that? I mean isn't that frustrating? You know, isn't that like putting you know the hamster on the little wheel and just seeing him spin around like he's he's always reaching for something that he can't get You know, like you know, they put the carrot in front of the horse or whatever, and it's like he keeps going after it, but he's never able to taste it. I mean, what's enjoyable about pursuing a grow a goal that you won't reach until you die? Why not just wait till I'm dead? That would be to completely miss the point. If Jesus is really the goal of your life, if he is the treasure at the end of the race, don't you want as much of him now as you can possibly get? If he's truly the goal, I want as much of Christ now. Like whatever I can taste of him now. Whatever aspects that I can imitate him now, like like all of my life should be to pursue that, because that's the end goal of my life That everything is all about Jesus Christ, and I'm longing to be transformed into his image, and I can start that now No, I won't reach the final destination, but I can start that now, because this is what we long for as Christians And we can enjoy Jesus to increase in increasing measures even now. So it's true that we will only know a degree Of what we'll know about Christ when we get to heaven. We only know a degree about that, just in small measure. 1 Corinthians 13, 12 says, For now we see in a mirror dimly. But that doesn't mean that we can't grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ now. You can be growing in that. 2 Peter 3. 18, grow in the grace. and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be all the glory, both now and to the day of eternity. And it's true that we will not experience the complete eradication of sin in this life. 1 John 1. 8 says, if we say that we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be growing in holiness now. 1 John 3. 3, and everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. If you really have a desire for Christ, you want to look as much like him now as you can possibly, as you possibly can. And it's true that we won't experience the resurrection of our bodies until the Lord descends with a shout, but that doesn't mean that we can't experience Some of that same power that raised Christ from the dead in our lives to a greater degree now. And again, if if Christ is the goal of your Christian life, why wouldn't you want as much of Jesus as you could possibly get? When we get to the end of the journey, we'll get the full view and the full experience of Christ, but all along the way we can experience greater and greater degrees of what we will have in the end, and we don't want to miss any of it. A few years ago I took our family to see uh uh the Niagara Falls, and uh we got to see it from the Canadian side, which is a spectacular view. The the best view of the falls is on the Canadian side. But I remind my Canadian friends that what they're looking at is actually the American side. But uh we took a uh took a a trip over to the Canadian side. It was just spectacular seeing the seeing the falls And there's certain locations where you can, you know, take in like these greater views of the falls as you're kind of walking around, and then there's a boat ride that you can take. and go right up to the to the bottom and kind of see the falls as they're cascading down. Just just spectacular views of the falls. And when I was On the boat ride, it's not like I closed my eyes until we got right up to the to the bottom of the falls. It's like, hey, you know, wake me up when we get to the bottom so I can get the full view. It's like, no. Like if you're really there for the falls, you're looking at every angle It's like you're looking at that view, that view spectacular. You're looking at that view, that view spectacular. Then you see the the full thing, it's like oh my goodness, I'm like right underneath it. Like this is incredible But you you're there to see the falls and take it all in. And if you're really here for Christ, you want to take all of it in. You're not just waiting until the end It's like, no, it's like all along the way I'm getting greater and greater views of who Jesus Christ is. I'm experiencing him to a greater and greater degree, and I want to take it all in. And that should be true for us spiritually. If Jesus is the goal of your life, we want all that we can of Jesus Christ, but some of us might still have our eyes shut. Waiting until the end, when we can know Christ to greater and greater degrees. So what does that look like? Looks like uh having a greater appetite for the Bible Greater appetite for scripture where we find Christ. Little appetite for reading, little appetite for sermons. You know, is he really going to take fifty minutes again like he does on Sunday? It's like like but but this is this is to get a greater view of Christ. We're digging into God's word together. I mean that's that's that's one of the reasons we come together. We want to hear from him. Like I want more of that. We can experience a greater degree of eradication of sin in our lives now. We don't get comfortable with our sins. We don't excuse our sins, like, hey, that's just my personality. You know, you got to deal with it. It's just who I am. You know, just because I'm a Christian doesn't mean I have to get rid of all the, you know, all the excitement in my life or having a good time, but you invite sin to the party with you. I mean you you don't have to live that way as a believer Don't make excuses for your sins. We could experience more of the more of the power of Christ in our daily lives. Again, if Christ is our goal, we want as much of him as we can possibly get. And he rewards those who pursue after him now with a greater degree of glory in the future. I don't know if you know, understand that, but The present labor gives future rewards. You know, the the more that we're longing and pressing forward into Christ now, it's the greater capacity that we'll have. in the future, more more crowns that you'll have to cast down at his feet in the in the future. Greater capacity to enjoy Christ for eternity. I mean that that's what we're doing now. I remember when I was in like fifth or sixth grade, uh we had one of those walk-a-thons as a fundraiser for our school. Anybody ever had one of those? And I remember uh talking to this one deacon in our church and, you know, told him I was gonna do a walk-a-thon and you know, asked him if he'd be able to sponsor me, you know, for every mile that I walked, and you know, he must have thought I was only gonna walk one or two miles. Because he said, uh yeah, I'll give you twenty dollars a mile. It's like twenty dollars a mile? That's that's a lot of money. I walked twenty miles. I walked twenty miles and I came back and asked him for four hundred dollars He had no idea that I was going to walk that far, and he was not able to reward me for my labor But Christ, on the other hand, has no problem rewarding us for our labor. No problem at all rewarding us for like this. As far as you want to press forward now, it's like the greater degree of reward. in the future. He has no problem rewarding us for our label labor. You will not outpace Christ. You will never outpace Christ. And Paul says, knowing all this, I press on. Which brings us to our first point, okay? And don't worry, this is an overview, so I won't take long with this. But having that as a background, we can really move forward in this text. Take a look at Philippians chapter 3 and verse 12 again. He says, Not that I have already obtained it, or I've already become perfect. But I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. When he says I I press on. That word for press, it's used in verse 12. It's also used again in verse 14. It's the Greek word dioko, which means I pursue It's the same word that was used for persecution back in verse 6 where Paul says, Estesil, I was a persecutor of the church. And the idea is that I run after something in order to overtake it, to apprehend it, pursue something zealously. I rapidly move towards this. So Paul used it of zealously pursuing after Christians to persecute them. But now that Paul is transformed, he says, now I zealously pursue after Jesus Christ. I moved decisively towards Christ's likeness. And this is why Jesus laid hold of me. Look at verse 13. How does Paul press forward? Verse 13. He says, Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward. I'm reaching forward to what lies ahead, and I do this by forgetting what's behind me. What does he mean by forgetting what's behind me? Does Paul mean that he's forgetting about his sins as a Pharisee? Or does he mean that I'm forgetting about my accomplishments as an apostle? How about both? How about both? Of course Paul remembers what he was like as a as a Pharisee. I mean he just detailed that back in You know, verses five and six, circumcised the eighth day of the nation of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of the Hebrews, that's the law of Pharisee. He remembers what he was. But he does not let who he was stop him from moving forward. He's not chained by his past failures And some of you might be letting what is what what you've done in the past to prevent you from moving forward now. You you don't have to drag your background around like, you know, a ball and chain. You know, slowing you down for moving forward because you, oh well, I remember how I used to be, or you know, my friends remember what I used to do, or my family, they they remember how I used to act. That doesn't matter anymore Don't allow your past to prevent you from moving forward now. Don't drag your past around. Of course Paul knew what he achieved as an apostle. In 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 10, he says, I labored more than all of them. That I labor hard as an apostle, but I'm not even allowing my past accomplishments to prevent me from moving forward. Some people can get stuck not by their past sins, but by their past successes. Oh, I remember all that I used to do. Remember all that I I did for Christ? Uh I found it interesting. You ever heard that term rusting on your laurels? Rusting on your laurels. I found it interesting, it it's a phrase that came from the the Greco-Roman world, a practice where they used to award athletes and military victors with a laurel wreath. You know, basically you know, leaves around your head, a crown of leaves that they put on your head to say, like, hey, this is this is a symbol symbol of your victory. So they give them this laurel wreath. And for those that had many victories, they'd have many laurels. Many laurels that they could rest on. Look at all my past accomplishments, all that I've achieved. Resting on your laurels, leaning back on your past accomplishments. I remember talking to this one pastor uh who was still active in ministry, and all he could talk about was what he did fifteen, twenty years ago. And I had to wonder, it's like, well what what what about now? Where is your present pursuit of Jesus Christ? You can't rest on your past victories. This is what I used to do for the Lord. This is how I used to serve the Lord. Like, no, you need to be serving the Lord now. So don't allow your past to prevent you from moving forward now. Whether it's your past sins or your past successes. Don't allow your past to prevent you from moving forward now. You need to pursue, you need to reach forward, forgetting what lies behind. Reaching forward to what lies ahead. The word for reaching forward, uh epek painomai, it's uh it's a word that's used for runners extending themselves by leaning forward to the goal. Back in uh twenty sixteen, the twenty sixteen Olympics, there was a four hundred meter race for the women's final and a runner from the Bahamas won the gold medal by diving over the finish line. I don't know if you remember that. She dove over the finish line and I remember it because she beat Alison Felix, who's the daughter of one of my professors from the Master Seminary. She she won not because she ran over the finish line, but because she stumbled over the finish line, just extended herself and threw herself over the finish line. I don't think that uh I kind of question that way of winning the race. But that's the kind of idea that's present here. I'm stretching forward. I'm like reaching forward for the goal, like extending myself as far as I can. And that's the way that we should be pursuing after Christ. I'm just like pressing my way forward, reaching forward as far as I can go. We're pressing forward into Jesus Christ. I press on. toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. And again, this upward call is this the call that will finally take us home when we'll finally reach the goal that we've been pursuing all of our lives, that I would be like Jesus. That's what it's all about, looking like Jesus. So we have Paul's example of pressing forward in 12 to 14, and then in 15 to 16, we have Paul's exhortation to press forward. Look at verse 15. He says, Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, have this attitude. And if in anything you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. However, let us keep living by that same standard to which we have. Paul turns from his personal testimony to this personal application for the Philippians. He's giving them an exhortation. And again, since it's the goal of the Christian life to be like Christ, this should be our mindset, our attitude. This is the way we live, this is how we think. And he says. Those of you who are perfect, let us therefore as many as are perfect. Some of your versions may say mature, but the the word here is teleos. It's uh Uh it's the word for for perfect. And it's not like this is the goal only for mature Christians, like, hey, if you're mature, then this is what you're supposed to do, but like you immature Christians, you don't have to pursue after Christ. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, let us as many as are perfect. So what is he saying, as many as are perfect? Paul is definitely making here a play on words. As many as are perfect. He's just told us that we're not perfect, that he's not perfect. But he says, as many of us as are perfect. So what does he mean by calling believers perfect? I believe there's only one sense in which believers can be considered perfect, and it's in our connection to Jesus Christ who is perfect. It's in our union with him. Back in Philippians three and verse nine, he says, And I may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own Derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. How are we declared perfect? It's because of our connection to Jesus Christ. We've been declared righteous through faith in him. That's who he's talking about. Those of us who've entered into that right relationship with God based on Jesus Christ over in the book of Hebrews, chapter 10 and verse 14, it says, For by one offering he has perfected. For all time those who are sanctified. We've been perfected in our relationship with Jesus Christ, positionally perfected And he says, for those of you who are positionally perfect, for those of you who are saved, this is the kind of attitude you're to have. You're to have a different attitude than the world. You're to have this attitude towards Christ-likeness. You're to be pursuing after Christ-likeness. In other words, we can't be perfect as Christians, but we can have a perfect goal, can't we? I'm not perfect, but I have a perfect goal, and my goal is to look like Christ. I remember a number hearing a number of years ago that uh Jay Adams, who was a kind of a pioneer in the biblical counseling movement, He met with uh a group of psychologists and psychiatrists. He was actually invited to meet with them, and he says, uh, we can all agree that we want to help people to change. He says, the only problem is we don't agree on what we want them to change to. We all want people to change, but what do we want them to change into? He says, as Christians, we actually have the answer. We want people to look like Jesus Christ. Like that is the goal. You know what what what what do you determine is like, hey, this is what normal is or you know how people are to be. It's like what what's the change that we want people to change into? We're we have the answer. We want them to look like Jesus Christ. That is the standard The standard is Jesus Christ Himself. The goal of our Christianity is to look like Him. So it says, as many of us as are perfect, those of you who've been saved, those of you who've been declared righteous because of your faith in Jesus Christ, we know what our goal is. We know what our attitude should be. And if any of you have a different attitude, God will reveal that also to you. He recognizes that even as believers, sometimes we can have a different goal for our lives And as much as you've heard about what your life should be aimed at, sometimes we stubbornly refuse to break free from our own goals, our own desires, and we press towards those instead of pressing towards Christ. And Paul says, if any of you have a different idea, different attitude, different goal for your life, God will reveal that to you. God will let you know, because God is more committed to your holiness than you are. Philippians chapter 1 verse 6 says, For I am confident of this very thing that he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. God's committed to your holiness. Even if we might fall and stumble and you know you're kind of misdirected, God knows what his goal is for your life. And God will reveal this to you. And God will even at times bring tragedy into our lives because he's so committed to the singular goal that we would look like Jesus Christ. We often quote Romans chapter 828. When bad things happen to God's people, and we should, for we know that God causes all things to work together for the good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. We love that verse, don't we? God causes all things to work together for the good. But here's the question that sometimes we don't ask. What is the good? What's the good? God causes all things to work together for the good, but what is the good? It's in the very next verse. Verse 29 For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conform to the image of his son What is God doing in everything in your life, the good, the bad, the ugly? What is God trying to do in your life? He's trying to make you look like Jesus. And I'm just here to make sure you're getting the point. You're to look like Jesus. That's why He does everything in your life, that we would be conformed to the image of the Son. And God is persistent and relentless about that goal. Christ's likeness. And if you do have Christ's likeness as a pursuit of your life, You need to fight to maintain that pursuit in your life, which is what he says in verse 16. However, let us keep living by that same standard to which we've attained. Paul says if you understand what the goal is for your life, you need to keep keep pressing forward. Keep moving forward. I mean that's it. Keep living by that same standard. To let us keep living, it's a Greek term that was originally used in the military for falling in rank, falling in line, a word that implies that you have to maintain your position and move forward. It's a reminder that true spiritual maturity looks like a constant pursuit. God is committed to this. We're to be committed to this. And one day, by God's grace, we will reach this. Like what we're talking about isn't something that we'll never finally reach. Well, we'll finally reach Christ's likeness. It's going to happen. The goal that we're striving for is a goal that we'll reach. I remember MacArthur sharing an analogy that I thought was helpful. He says, You remember the story of the ugly duckling? He was larger, more awkward, less attractive than the other ducklings. He was just flat, ugly by their standards. They made fun of his clumsiness, they made fun of his bizarre, dogky appearance, and he was crushed. So he left the ducklings and he sought refuge with a cat and a chicken. But they didn't accept him because he couldn't purr and he couldn't lay eggs. You don't understand me, he complained. They only mocked him all the more. One day while he was out paddling around the pond, trying his best to be like the other ducks. He caught sight of some graceful and elegant swans, creatures he'd never seen before. He thought they were the most beautiful birds in all the world, and as he watched the beautiful movements of the swans, a strange feeling came over him. He couldn't take his eyes off them and he couldn't shake the newness of destiny that overwhelmed him. While the swans flew off, and as he stretched his neck to try to follow their flight, he thought that he had loved them more than anything he had ever loved before. Winter came and all during the cold months the ugly duckling thought about the lovely birds he had seen. He had no idea what they were called or where they came from, but he hoped someday he'd be able to see them again. And at last spring melted the ice on the pond, and the ugly duckling was able to swim again. And one day, while spring was still very young, he was swimming, and he saw two of these beautiful birds. They swam straight toward him, and fear gripped his heart. He was embarrassed to have such graceful creatures see how ugly and clumsily he was. As they approached him, he bowed his head in humility and covered his face with his wings. When he did that, he was amazed to see for the first time his own reflection in the water, which had just thawed. He was exactly like those beautiful creatures. He was never meant to be a duck in the first place. He was one of them. He was a slan. And as he removed his wings from his face, he lifted his head, not straight up like an ostrich, but slightly bowed in gratitude and humility. Maybe you can see the analogy. As we look to Christ, we see in him the standard of perfection. We long to imitate. We struggle, we fail. But if we've truly been born from above, we can't take our eyes off of him. Can't take our eyes off of Jesus Christ. We're sinful, we're unworthy, but yet we're irresistibly attracted to that which is perfect. And then one day, when he finally appears. We will be like him. Colossians 3 and verse 4 says, When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. Our true life is hidden with Christ in God. And when he appears, we'll be like him. And the goal that we've been pressing forward to all of our lives, we'll finally reach and we'll be in the image of Jesus. Christ. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh this opportunity that we've had, uh, just briefly to take a look at your word. Now, Father, I pray that you'd help us all to grow in Christ's likeness, that this would be the goal of our lives. Father, that um that we'd pursue Christ and Scripture reading and prayer and fellowship and sharing Christ with others and serving Him. Father, I pray that uh you'd help us to to shed uh the these earthly remains, uh Lord, the sins that so easily entangle us. God, I pray that we would uh continue to press forward, Lord, and that we would not allow our failures of the past or even our successes of the past uh to prevent us from moving forward. Father, that we would not uh rest on our laurels, Lord, and that we would also not allow the sins of our past to drag around with us into our new life. Now, Father, I pray that we would live for you, that we would look to Christ, and that we would be transformed in his image from one stage of glory to the next. Now, Father, may you receive all the glory from our lives in this year and in every year. In Jesus' name, you praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files