The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 28? Matthew chapter 28. Our series is finally winding down, and we're one message away from completing Our series on the marks of a faithful church. God's been faithful to speak to us each week through his word, and I continue to be amazed at the depth of this book that we call the Bible. I mean I continue to be amazed at the death of the uh of this book. Uh God has grown and expanded my appreciation uh for the the scriptures and it's a joy to see how uh uh Uh the the truths are just uh uh to my own heart just impressed, and uh it'll be a joy to see how they're they're lived out in the lives of our people as uh as the days uh go on in uh in the practice of our church If you're new here, we're making our way through a series of foundational messages for our church, 12 marks of a faithful church, we call it. And these are truths that set the church apart from the world. Uh set the church apart apart from the world around us. Uh there are truths that we would share with all faithful churches, whether they make these explicit or not. Um and I'll just rehearse these for you again. These are these are marks that would be true of all Faithful churches. The twelve marks are the sufficiency of Scripture, the authority of Scripture, the glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men. a qualified leadership, a sound theology, a holiness of life, a love for the saints, a heart for evangelism, a commitment to discipleship, and a faithful practice, which includes the Lord's Supper, baptism, fellowship and prayer. And uh today we arrive at the church's commitment to discipleship. Um we often talk about discipleship, uh even more we talk around discipleship, but in Matthew 28, the Lord defines for us what discipleship actually is. What discipleship actually is. It's our our Lord who gives us the the final word on discipleship. And uh the verb uh that's used here, uh uh Mothate uh 2-0, uh to make disciples. It's a word that's only found four times in the entire New Testament. Four times to make disciples is found in the New Testament And Matthew 28 is the only place that gives us any level of explanation. Other passages will tell us that discipleship took place. The disciples were made. Matthew 28 is the only place in Scripture that actually tells us how discipleship takes place. Which means that any discussion of discipleship that ignores what Jesus has to say here should be held suspect, right? No other passage in all of Scripture explicitly defines discipleship, but Matthew chapter 28, the noun form of this word, disciple, matheis, it means to be a learner. to be a follower. It was more than just being a student and learning information. If you uh uh talked about discipleship you wouldn't talk about uh being discipled in a subject or being discipled by a book. Uh you were only discipled by a person. That's how discipleship took place. There's a person who is the master and you are the disciple. There's the person who is the leader, you are the follower. A disciple was always seen in contrast to the master or the teacher. A student or learner was not just uh someone who memorized uh facts and and theories, uh, but uh uh a student was somebody who was expected to become like his teacher In Luke chapter 6, verse 40, it says, A pupil is not above his teacher, but everyone after he has been fully trained, he will be like his teacher. So the the whole goal of discipleship was to imitate a life. One standard encyclopedia uh says this of the term disciple. In all cases it implies that the person not only accepts the views of the teacher, but that he is also in practice an adherent. Which means that to be a disciple of someone meant that you not only believe what they taught, but that you practice what they taught. And uh attempted to live it out. One person defined a disciple of Christ as someone who believes his doctrine, rests upon his sacrifice, imbibes his spirit, and imitates his example. So to be a disciple of Christ means that you're being like Christ, that you want to be like Christ. So that's the goal of discipleship And that's the goal of the Great Commission that we find in Matthew chapter twenty-eight, verses sixteen to twenty. We're seeing people become believers and become followers of Jesus Christ. And uh even before we get into the text, I want to confess uh to you that uh there is so much more to this text than we'll have time to to cover uh today and and the more I studied it was like the the deeper I got and if I didn't come up for error sometime we'd be here for like a another month in uh Matthew twenty eight So this is going to be an overview. There's a lot that I want to say. There's so much, like I said, that's backed into these brief verses. In these brief verses, we have the Lordship of Christ. The deity of Christ, the presence and power of Christ, the mission of the church, the practice of the church, the consummation of all things. And we could go on about all that this uh this passage talks to us about. Uh we're actually going to be studying Matthew uh as a church beginning in in December. So I I look forward to seeing like the the the f full f flow uh from Matthew chapter one all the way through uh chapter twenty-eight and uh what starts off as uh a stream will end up as a tidal wave by the time we get back to to Matthew uh twenty-eight again. Uh but for today we'll we'll begin reading at the end of the book. We'll actually start at uh chapter twenty-seven, a couple verses into uh back into chapter uh twenty-seven. We'll start at verse sixty-two just to get the context for us. Uh Matthew uh chapter twenty-seven beginning at verse 62. So it's now on the next day. The day after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate. And said, Sir, we remember that when he was still alive, that deceiver said, After three days I am to rise again. Therefore, give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal him away and say to the people, He has risen from the dead, and the last deception will be worse than the first. Pilate said to them, You have a guard, go make it as secure as you know how And they went and made the grave secure, and along with the guard they set a steel on the stone. Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the graves And behold a severe earthquake had occurred, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it And his appearance was like lightning, and his clothing as white as snow. The guards shook for fear of him and became like dead men. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who has been crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where he was lying. Go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you, and to Galilee. There you will see him, behold, I have told you And they left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy and ran to report it to his disciples. And behold, Jesus met them and greeted them. And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid. Go and take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee, and there they will see me. Now, while they were on their way, some of the guard came into the city and reported to the chief priest all that had happened. And when they had assembled with the elders and consulted together, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, and said, You are to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. And if this should come to the governor's ears, we will win him over and keep you out of trouble. And they took the money and did as they had been instructed. And this story was widely spread among the Jews and is to this day. But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshipped him, but some were doubtful. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. Just by way of background, the uh the theme of this first gospel is Jesus Christ as King, and uh uh this gospel of uh Jesus Christ is presented Uh to us in Matthew, uh Jesus uh is presented as the long anticipated Messiah who offers the kingdom of God to men, and the evidence for this is borne out uh throughout the the entire book. The opening genealogy in Matthew gives evidence of his right to rule. The fulfillment of prophecies gives evidence of Jesus' right to rule. His impeccable character gives evidence of Jesus' right to rule The miracles that he performs gives evidence of his right to rule, and the teaching that he utters gives evidence of his right to rule. And by the end of this book, every possible uh avenue to prove that Jesus is the Messiah has been exhausted. I mean there there's no other way what else could you ask for to prove that Jesus Christ is the Messiah? What other test could you possibly ask for? All the cumulative uh evidence points to to one unique person in all of human history who could qualify as the Messiah, and Jesus is it. Jesus is it. He's the anticipated king and the and Matthew writes to defend that claim and expound upon that claim. And uh if we were to read through the book of Matthew, we would have Seeing the reception of the king by a few in uh chapters one through ten, uh the rejection of the king by many in chapters eleven to twenty-seven. But all of this is followed by the resurrection of the king by God in chapter 28. Death cannot stop this king. Death cannot stop him And as we cross the threshold of chapter 28, we arrive at the fulcrum of all of human history. This is the pivotal point where all of history turns. Because if there is no resurrected Christ, there is no Christian faith to proclaim. If there is no resurrected Christ. If Jesus did not rise from the dead, we have no Christ to make people followers of. It would be like having a building with no foundation, right? A body with no no head. What is Christianity without a resurrected Christ? It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. Because 1 Corinthians 15, 19 says, if we have hoped in Christ in this life only, we are of all men most to be pitied. If if this if if if if this is all that we have. If this is all we have to look forward to. He says, We're of all men the most to be pitied. The entire system of Christianity rests on this historical fact of the resurrection. If the resurrection is false All is lost. But if the resurrection is true, it changes absolutely everything. Changes absolutely everything. And that's why from the beginning Satan's been plotting against this news being proclaimed. He's been plotting against this news being proclaimed. And just briefly, I want to show you the context of uh chapter 8 before we get to our text, because right alongside of this great commission Given by our Lord, there's this contrasting commission that was given by the world. One was the truth, and the other was a lie. Just real quickly. Look at verses 62 to 66 again. It talks about how uh on the next day of the day after the preparation the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered together with Pilate and said, Sir, we remember that when he was still alive, that deceiver Said it after three days I am to rise again, therefore give orders for the grave to be made secure until the third day. It's kind of fascinating to note that the enemies of Christ seem to be the only ones anticipating his resurrection. It's kind of interesting. You don't find the disciples doing this like we're can't wait until the third day. No, you have the enemies of Christ that are anticipating the third day. It seems like the Pharisees were quicker to catch on to what Jesus predicted about himself than the disciples at this point. While the disciples are tucked away in their hiding places, the Pharisees are making all the necessary preparations for the third day. They took seriously what Jesus said in Matthew 12, verse 40, where he says, For just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the sea monster, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Three days. It took seriously what he said in John chapter 2, verse 19, Jesus said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. And what we find developing in chapter 28 is a contrast between two opposing stories. And in a sense, there are really two contrasting commissions. that are given in Matthew chapter twenty eight. You have two groups of of witnesses. You have the the humble group of ladies in verse one Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to look at the grave, the humble ladies. Then you have the hardened soldiers. Pilate gave them a guard so that they can make the stray secure. So you have two groups of witnesses. You have two different experiences with angels. The ladies are told in verse 5 not to fear. The angel tells them don't fear. But these soldiers are overtaken by fear and become like dead men in verse 4. You have two trips to Jerusalem. The ladies go in joy to find the disciples in verse 7. And the soldiers go in fear to find the chief priest in verse 11. Yeah, two reports that are given. The the ladies report what they hear from the angel and what they hear from Christ. The soldiers report what they saw and what they experienced at the tomb. You have two great commissions. The soldiers are given a great commission. Look at it in verse 13. Look at their commission. And he said, You are to say his disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep. I'm sure that'll hold up in a court of law, right? How many of you have given testimony to what happened while you were sleeping? Go and say that that his disciples came and stole him away while I was sleeping. Really? It's just absurd. But the disciples of Christ they're given this commission that we find in the Verses 19 and 20. And there's also two promises. The soldiers are promised a temporary protection and a promise of money. For spreading their news. But the disciples of Christ are promised the personal presence of Christ that's eternal. They have two kinds of commissions. And from the very beginning, Satan has been attempting to keep this message from spreading. He doesn't want this news out because he understands the power of the Great Commission. And the question is, do we understand it? Do we understand the power of the Great Commission? Do we understand the power and the importance of it The heart of uh Matthew twenty-eight, sixteen-twenty is that central command of Christ to make disciples and the motivation for making disciples. And the question that that's answered for us in this text is why should this group of disciples And every group of disciples in every generation following them, why should they risk it all to obey this command That's really the question that's answered in in these verses here. Why should we risk everything to obey this command to make disciples? Flip back to Matthew chapter ten. I want to show you something real quick. There was another time that Jesus sent his disciples out to spread some news, and uh the job description wasn't that appealing. Look at uh Matthew chapter 10. Start at verse 16. We'll read down to verse 25. Matthew chapter 10. Look at verse 16. It says, Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. So be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves. But beware of men, for they will hand you over to the courts and scourge you in their synagogues, and you will even be brought before governors and kings for my sake, as a testimony to them and to the Gentiles But when they hand you over, do not worry about how or what you are to say, for it will be given you in that hour what you are to say, for it is not you who speak, but it is the spirit of your father who speaks in you. Brother will betray brother to death and a father his child, and children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. You will be hated by all because of my name, but it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved But whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. For truly I say to you, you will not finish going through the cities of Israel until the Son of Man comes A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the head of the house Beelzebal, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Try putting that in the classified section of a paper, right? Hey, we we need some disciples. You're gonna be hated, you're gonna be persecuted, you might die. Who wants to sign up? What what reason does Christ give us to to sign up for this and to invite other people to join us in this kind of commission? Why should we be committed to discipleship. And that's what Jesus answers for us back in Matthew chapter 28. And we're given four reasons why we should be committed disciples. Four reasons why we should be committed disciples. Jesus is worthy of all conviction. Jesus is worthy of all submission. Jesus is worthy of all nations. And Jesus is worthy of all dedication. Let's read it. Matthew chapter 28, verses 16 down to 20. It says, But the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee, to the mountain which Jesus had designated. When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some were doubtful. Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age The first reason why we should be committed to discipleship is because Jesus is worthy of all conviction. Jesus is worthy of all conviction. There's this meeting that Jesus schedules to take place in Galilee. On a mountain in Galilee, if it's of monumental importance. This is an important invitation. First of all, we know it's an important invitation because this is a meeting that's announced more than once. He announces this meeting in Galilee more than once. Look at verse 7 Uh the the angels uh tell the ladies go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee And then again in verse ten, Jesus himself personally goes to these ladies. And Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid, go and take word to my brethren to leave for Galilee. And there they will see me. Twice it's mentioned that there's going to be a meeting in Galilee. The repetition underscores the importance of the meeting. Secondly, this meeting in Galilee, wouldn't it be the first appearance of Jesus Christ that was made to his disciples? Actually when you compare the uh gospel accounts to to one another you'll discover that uh the meeting at Galilee wasn't the first time that Jesus appeared to his disciples. Uh between this meeting with the ladies and the the meeting in Galilee, uh Jesus would appear several times to his disciples. Before they arrived at Galilee. J. Dwight Pentecost in his work, The Words and Works of Jesus Christ, list at least five meetings that Jesus had prior to Galilee. The appearance to the two disciples on the road to Emmaus Mark chapter sixteen. The appearance to the ten disciples behind closed doors minus Thomas Mark chapter sixteen A later appearance to the eleven that included Thomas in John chapter twenty, as well as his meeting with the disciples on the shore of the Sea of Galilee in John chapter twenty-one. All of these happened before this meeting on the mountain. And the question is, why would there need to be this separate meeting on this distant mountain from Jerusalem to uh Galilee would be over sixty miles away. Jesus is telling them to travel over sixty miles away to get to this mountain on Galilee so they can have this meeting. What would be the reason for this separate meeting if he already met them a number of times in Jerusalem? And uh it's already been demonstrated that Jesus can kind of appear and disappear. He did to the ladies. Why why can't he just have this kind of private appearing and disappearing and, you know, kind of be done with it Why would he desire this special meeting on a mountain in Galilee? Why wouldn't it a personal private appearance be enough? The answer is because he wants to build a permanent and lasting and firm conviction in his disciples that he's really risen from the dead. Wants to build this permanent and lasting conviction in their hearts that he truly rose from the dead. They needed to know that he was worthy of their conviction. And it is very likely that this meeting that he set up in Galilee is the same meeting that Paul talks about in First Corinthians chapter fifteen and verse six, where he says that after appearing to Cephas and the twelve In verse uh 1 Corinthians 15, verse 6, that after that he appeared to more than 500 brethren at one time , most of whom remain until now, but some have fallen asleep. So it's likely that the meeting that he's referring to is this one. Why else would you need to be on a distant mountain If it was just to make a personal appearance to these eleven disciples, the mountain on Galilee would have been the perfect place for Jesus to reveal himself to 500 people. A mountain on in Galilee would have set them apart from the scrutiny of the unbelieving population in the cities? A mountain location would have been large enough to accommodate five hundred people at one time. Galilee is where most of the disciples of Christ live, the disciples beside the twelve, uh the or the eleven at this point, or where they were at this point, they were already in Galilee, these other disciples of Christ. It was on a mountain in Galilee that J Jesus gave his landmark sermon, known as the Sermon on the Mount. Galilee was known as Galilee of the Gentiles, and he's about to make this commission to go to the Gentiles. And it would seem appropriate to give this kind of commission to a larger group. So for these reasons and more, a number of scholars believe that this meeting in Galilee is the best candidate for the meeting of the 500, 500 people at one time. seeing Jesus Christ. And we know that for a fact that there are more than the eleven present because the ladies are invited to this meeting. The ladies were invited to this same meeting. In Matthew chapter 28, verse 7, the angel said to the women, He is going ahead of you into Galilee, and there you will see him. Behold, I have told you. Speaking to the ladies. So we know the ladies were involved, and it's likely that these women, the eleven disciples, and a large number of other brethren were present at this meeting and Jesus revealed himself to them. So why this public appearance? Like I said, Jesus wanted them to know that he was worthy of all conviction. If you're going to be persecuted and possibly face death for spreading a message, you might need a little reassurance, right? And Jesus graciously gives them that assurance. And there are two responses to this appearance of Christ. There's a response of belief, right? Response of belief. Look at uh verse 17. It says, and when they saw him, they worshipped him. This is a response of belief. Upon seeing Christ, there were those who bowed low before the risen Christ. It's interesting the fact that uh the word worship is used in Matthew twelve times, and nine out of twelve times it all refers to Jesus Christ. The Magi from the east in Matthew 2. 11, after they came and saw the child, they fell to the ground and worshipped him. The leper in Matthew chapter 8, the leper came and bowed down. It's the same Greek word proscana , worshipped him The disciples in Matthew chapter 14 verse 33, after Jesus calms the storm, they worshiped him, saying, You are certainly God's son. The woman at the tomb, we already read that in verse 9, and Jesus met them and greeted them, and they came up and took hold of his feet and worshipped him. And now we have this crowd of disciples at Galilee, and the first thing that the believing disciples do is they worship. It's like they can't help it. There's no question about who they thought Jesus was. It's still a question about who they thought Jesus was. It seems obvious from their expression. They worship. They knew what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 4, verse 10, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. So when they gave worship to Jesus Christ, they were acknowledging that we believe that you're God. We believe that you are God. The only explanation for their behavior was that they thought Jesus was God. That's obvious. The bigger question is: who did Jesus think he was? That's the bigger question. We know who they thought he was. Who did Jesus think he was? Because if there was ever a chance for Jesus to say, what do you guys think you're doing? Get up, get up! I'm not God! If there was ever a chance for Jesus to do that, it would have been right here. Before the eleven, before the five hundred, before the women. Guys, I'm not God It would have been the perfect opportunity to do that. But instead of rejecting their worship, he receives it. And whenever worship is directed to a holy person or an angel, immediately it stopped. Immediately. In Acts chapter 10, Cornelius fell down at Peter's feet to worship, but Peter raised him up, saying, Stand up! I kill him a man just like you! In Acts chapter 14, the citizens of Blissra thought Paul and Barnabas were gods. The gods have come down. You know, Zeus and Hermes, they've come down. Try to offer sacrifices to them. In Acts chapter 14, it says, But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their robes and rushed out into the crowd, crying out, saying, Man, why are you doing these things? We are also men of the same nature as you and preach the gospel to you that you should turn from these vain things to a living God. Don't do this. In Matthew, Revelation chapter 22, Apostle John falls down at the feet of an angel who showed him the visions in the book of Revelation. Revelation 22, verse 9, but he said to me, Do not do that! Don't do that. I'm a fellow servant of yours and of your brethren and the prophets and of those who heed the words of this book. Worship God. Where's that kind of response from Jesus? You don't have it. Where's the outrage? Where's the cry of shock and horror? The only explanation is that Jesus believed himself to be God. It's your own explanation. The Trinity for the early church was more a matter of worship than it was of hammering out doctrinal differences. It was really a matter of worship. The early church knew that Jesus was one with the Father because they worshiped him as one with the Father Athanasius, who was an early defender of the Trinity, argued, if Christians have worshiped and continue to worship Christ, he must be considered God. To admit otherwise would be to accuse the church of continuous blasphemy and its practice and prayer from the first century onwards. He says we've always worshiped Christ. The Bible shows worship of Christ. If we're worshiping it, it means he must be God. That's the response of faith to the resurrected Christ. But in addition to that, there's a response of unbelief Look at uh verse 17 again. It says, when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some were doubtful. No word for uh doubtful, it's uh It's it's a different word than a normal word for for doubt, it's the word destazo. It's not the normal word for doubt. It could be translated as hesitate And the idea here is uh not that they were in stubborn rebellion, but rather that there was this honest questioning and examination, that there were people who were present here who were uh still trying to figure things out And far from being a discouragement to read that some were doubtful, the inclusion of this is actually encouraging to see this. Because, first of all, it shows that the Bible is an honest text. The Bible doesn't try to cover over things to make it seem better than it is. And also it shows me that they had to be overwhelmingly convinced. They had to be overwhelmingly convinced, and that they got that proof. Because these disciples also bore testimony to their faith, and many died for it. They were convinced, even though they they came in with doubts and hesitation. They were overwhelmingly convinced that Jesus had actually risen from the dead. And Acts 1, verse 3 adds these words. Acts chapter 1, verse 3 it says, To these he also presented himself alive after his suffering by many convincing proofs Appearing to them over a period of forty days, and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God. The disciples were overwhelmingly convinced by many convincing proofs. That Jesus had actually raised from the dead because Jesus was worthy of all conviction. Not only was he worthy of all conviction, he was also worthy of all submission. Look at verse 18. And Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. All authority. He came up and spoke to them. Before he makes this pronouncement, he probably wants to be close enough for them to even touch him if they wanted to. So he moves up closer into this crowd before he makes this pronouncement And he says, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. The word authority is a exusia. It speaks of freedom to exercise the power at one's disposal. Freedom to exercise the power at one's disposal refers both to the right to rule and to the power to rule. Jesus had both I've got the right to rule, and I've got the power to do it. And with amazing boldness and directness, Jesus claims to have both the possession of all power and the right to use all power. Claims to have both. There is nothing, this is nothing less than a claim to deity. Nothing less. In what clearer way could you say that I'm God than I have all power and the right to use it? There's an I mean what what what else can you say? I have all power and the right to use it. Nobody else in Scripture can claim that for himself And when he says that this authority is given to him, it doesn't mean that he didn't possess this authority before, but the scriptures teach us that in the incarnation Jesus voluntarily laid aside his divine privileges. We learn about that in Philippians chapter two verse seven. It says, But he emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, being made in the likeness of men. Second Corinthians eight verse nine points out the same truth. It says uh For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he is rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that through his poverty you might become rich. So so Jesus never ceased to be God in his nature, but he laid aside the divine privileges for a period of of time to walk this earth as a poor and humble servant. But here in Matthew 28 he says, uh I've picked them up again. Right. I I laid aside these these divine privileges for a season, but I've picked them back up. All rights and privileges have been picked up by me and given to me by by my Father. I I have all all power, all authority And I'm worthy of all submission. That's why Philippians 2 verses 10 and 11 says that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth. Why? Because he has all authority in heaven and on earth. I've got all authority everywhere. This is universal lordship that's communicated to us here. He's worthy of all submission. And as uh my uh friend Don Green once said, he says, we should not be content If there is one knee left, unbow to this holy king. He's worthy of all submission. He's worthy of all conviction. He's worthy of all submission. And third, he's worthy of all nations. We should be committed to discipleship because Jesus is worthy of all nations. Look at verse 19. It says, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and in verse 20, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. And we'll get back to what this discipleship of all nations looks like, but I don't want you to miss the fact that Jesus says that he is worthy of every nation being discipled after himself. I'm worthy of every nation being discipled after me. When Jesus said to make disciples of all nations, he uses the word ethnos. It was a word that was consistently used in the beginning of Matthew for the Gentiles, the Gentile people, in the earlier part of Matthew. For example, it was used in Matthew chapter 10. Why don't you turn there just for a minute, Matthew chapter 10? In an earlier commission that was given to the disciples, we read a very different set of instructions there in Matthew chapter 10. Look at verses 5 and 6. It says these twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them, do not go in the way of the Gentiles, the ethnos. It's where we get our word ethnicity from. So it's do not go in the way of the Gentiles, and do not enter any city of the Samaritans, but rather go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. That was before the resurrection. After the resurrection, the disciples are unleashed on the Gentile peoples. Unleashed on the nations. This would have been a radical course correction for the Jewish people to make. But what we learn from Matthew 28 is that Jesus is worthy of more than just twelve tribes. He's worthy of more than just twelve tribes. He's worthy of every nation, not just one nation. He's worthy of every nation. Every tribe And he died in order to redeem men from every tribe on earth. In Revelation chapter 5, verse 9 Describes the scene in heaven, and it says, And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals, for you were slain and purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. You died in order to redeem people from every group of people. And then in Revelation 7, verses 9 and 10 it says, And after these things I looked, and behold a great multitude, which no one could count. From every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes and palm branches were in their hands, and they cry out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. He's worthy of the devotion of every nation on earth. And who is worthy of that besides God? Who is worthy of the devotion of every nation on earth besides God? It's a staggering statement. In addition to Jesus claiming he's worthy of the devotion of all nations, he also says all nations are to be baptized in his name. He places himself on this equal-level field with God the Father. When he says, go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, he puts himself on an equal field with the Father. Commentators point out that this is the greatest single verse on the Trinity. That's one of the reasons we had you memorize it. One of the greatest single verses on the Trinity. In a single verse, you have the unity and the diversity of the Godhead all in one verse. One God, three persons. People are baptized in the singular name of the Father. There's one name, one authority. The name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, three persons. There's unity and diversity in the same verse No one else could be put on that list. It's only Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Nobody else belongs on that list. And what Jesus does and what other writers do by placing himself on an equal level with uh God the Father is say is it's saying I'm I'm just as much God as the Father is. He's putting himself on this equal uh field with the Father. And every nation is also under the command of Christ as well. He says, Go therefore make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you. What is he assuming here? I have the right to command all nations. If you're going to teach them all that I commanded you, I have a right to command all nations. Jesus is worthy of every nation because he is the God of every nation. Like I said, one nation is too small for this king. Jesus is worthy. Of every single person, of every people, of every tongue, of every tribe, of every nation on this entire planet. There's a lot of motivations that we get for discipleship, but one of the primary motiv motivations should be that the Jesus Christ is just worthy of it. He's worthy of more people coming to follow him. He's worthy of the whole world to come and follow him. This is the kind of thing that should drive you to open your mouth and for some people to pack their bags, right? To go because Jesus is worthy of the nations. Jesus is worthy of the nations. Jesus isn't some tribal or national deity. Doesn't matter if a person didn't grow up in a Christian nation, if they have their own beliefs, if they have their own traditions, if they have their own God. You don't stop from proclaiming the gospel because somebody comes from a different culture than you do, has a different set of beliefs. Jesus is worthy of praise from that person Jesus is worthy of praise from that person. And we'll get back to what discipleship looks like, but quickly I want to mention the final point that Jesus is worthy of all dedication. Worthy of all dedication. He's worthy of all conviction, of all submission, of all nations. Look at verse 20, teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo I am with you always, even to the end of the age. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. We find that language used throughout scripture. I am with you. Behold, I am with you. She 's often in scripture. Often spoken in scripture to people who are who need to be comforted, people who are fearful. God reminds them that I'm with you. In uh Exodus chapter 3, you have Moses who said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh? That I should bring the sons of Israel out of Egypt? What does God say? Certainly I will be with you. So you have Moses fearful about going before Pharaoh. He says, I'm with you. Joshua, entering the promised land. God said to Joshua in chapter 1, verse 5, he says, No man will be able to stand before you all the days of your life. Just as I have been with Moses, I will be with you. I will not fail you or forsake you. Then he tells them, be strong and courageous. Right? Be strong and courageous. Why? Because I'm with you. I'm with you. When Paul was fearful to speak in Corinth in Acts chapter 18, verses nine and ten Says, and the Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, Do not be afraid any longer, but go on speaking and do not be silent. Why? For I am with you. I'm with you. The presence of God is a comfort to weak, troubled, fearful people. And on the basis of that alone, can we be strong and courageous? We don't have any other basis to be strong and courageous but that. You have no basis of of strength for strength and courage on your own strength? I mean, you kidding me? To do the kind of things that God is asking us to do, you're going to do it on your own? For Moses to face Pharaoh, for Joshua to face the Canaanites, for Paul to face his persecutors in their own strength would be suicidal and foolish. The only reason we have strength here is because the Lord has promised that He'll be with us. And He deserves our full dedication. Full dedication. And don't miss this fact that uh he said he would personally be present with his disciples. The only way That Jesus could make this kind of promise, that he would perpetually and permanently be with his disciples, who would be scattered throughout all the nations across the globe, is that Jesus Himself is omnipresent. Jesus is God. I mean it's just I mean it's just dripping everywhere. I don't know how you read past this and say that Jesus isn't God. The only way that Jesus can promise to personally be present with every disciple all over the globe is that he's omnipresent. He's everywhere. He's everywhere. And in this brief statement, Jesus Christ claims omnipresence. He speaks of himself as an infinite spirit. Who's personally present at all points in the universe? When David said in uh Psalm 139, verse 7 to 10, where can I go from your spirit? Where can I flee from your presence? If I ascend to heaven you are there, if I make my bed in Sheol, behold you are there. If I take the wings of the dawn, if I dwell in the remotest part of the sea, even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will lay hold of me. We can say the same thing about Jesus Christ. He is the eternal present I am, right? Everywhere present. Say the same thing about Jesus Christ, omnipresent. He's not only omnipresent, but he's eternal. He'll be with us even to the end of the age. He transcends every generation. There's no limit to this majesty. That's a wonderful promise that we have, isn't it? Amen. I mean, what kind of motive what what more motivation do you need to say, I uh I want to I want to be obedient to this kind of command? I want to make disciples. You don't need any more reason than this. Jesus is worthy of everything. He is so worthy, isn't he? He's worthy of our conviction, our submission, every nation, and all dedication. That's the why. But quickly I want to address just real real briefly with you is uh the how. How are disciples to be made? There's a single imperative in verse 19. It's the verb Mate 2O, translated, make disciples, go therefore and make disciples. And uh it's really the heart of the sentence, and I just want to explain how disciples are made just by answering some objections uh to the teaching in this uh this passage. Some people will say that uh the command was only for the first century church. This command was only for the first century disciples. I remember uh there's a person that once argued that the Great Commission wasn't for us. You know, it was given to the disciples. It wasn't for us. You better be glad it wasn't just for the disciples. Because we want to be here. If it was just for the disciples, it would have died out in the first century. The Great Commission is greater than that. You better be glad it wasn't for the first century. And I'll agree that certain statements in Scripture are limited to the original audience, but here you have a self-perpetuating command. Self-perpetuating command in verse 20 it says, uh Teach them to observe all that I commanded you. What's the nearest command that he just gave them? Make disciples. Make disciples. So if I'm commanding everybody else to obey all that Jesus commanded me, what am I going to command them to do? Make disciples. And what are they going to command people to do? Make disciples. And it's going to keep going until the end of the age. Self-perpetuating in the very verse itself. To make disciples and to continue making disciples, and the chain goes on. Some people say that this command is only for ministers Because, you know, surely we aren't expected to baptize people, so why would we be expected to to try to make disciples? I say that it's true that baptism is an ordinance of the church. And when the Bible speaks about those who are baptized, it does speak about that in reference to leadership in the church doing that. But baptism is also synonymously used with profession of faith in Christ. And we're to be involved in that process of bringing people to profess faith in Jesus Christ. And when belief and baptism are mentioned together, belief always precedes baptism. So in order to make disciples, you're convincing them of who Jesus Christ is, so that they might be baptized. Right? So you are involved in this command. Every disciple is to be involved in this process. And we have a good example from Acts chapter 8 In verse 4, it says that the disciples were scattered. You had the apostles that remained in Jerusalem. The rest of the church was scattered by persecution. And it goes on to say what they did when they were scattered. Acts chapter 8, verse 4. Therefore those who had been scattered went about preaching the word. They looked at that as their responsibility. My responsibility is to preach the word. Every one of you who is a disciple of Jesus Christ and says that you're a follower of Christ, your responsibility is to preach the word. Preach the word Some people will say since the only command in this verse is to make disciples, that means we don't really have to go anywhere. But it's only, you know, as we go or if we go. And that's true, the the the the only command in this verse, you know, gr uh grammatical command anyway, uh just in the imperative mood Is the the word uh make disciples. That's the only you know uh command uh grammatically. However Grammarians point to the participles around the command to make disciples as participles of attendant circumstance. That's just a fancy way of saying Go, baptize, and teach are connected to that command to make disciples. So how else are you supposed to make disciples unless you go, baptize, and teach, right? So to command one is to command the rest. To command one is to command the rest. So how could they make disciples of all nations if they were not also going to all nations? There's no way to obey the command if they don't go. There's no way to obey the command if they don't open their mouths. And another thing, your your going might not look like another person's going to I mean your going might be going across the street. Somebody else's going might be going across the ocean, but we're all to go We're all to take the initiative to try to talk to people about Christ and to make disciples. And then finally, some people will say that uh they fulfill their obligation as soon as a person makes a profession of faith. Somebody says, Yeah, I'll I'll follow Christ. And they kind of, you know, I'm done. I've done my job. Praise God. But what does the text say? Teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. Our goal is not to make decisions for Christ. That's not our goal, to secure decisions for Christ. Our goal is to make disciples of Christ. And what's a disciple? A follower, a committed follower of Jesus Christ. The goal of discipleship is imitation of Jesus. You don't have a disciple if somebody just agrees to the facts. about who Christ is. A true disciple is one who doesn't just believe what he's taught, but he follows and practices what he's taught A disciple of Christ is somebody who believes his doctrines, rests upon his sacrifice, imbibes the Spirit, and imitates his example. You're not a disciple simply because you believe the facts. If you've been baptized, you attend a church, the question is: have I committed myself to follow Jesus Christ? That's the difference between a professor and a true conversion, right? Have I committed myself to follow after Jesus Christ? And that's that's the question. I mean, there's there's a lot more that could be said, and like I said, I kind of had to cut it short, but um It's a fitting conclusion, right? Have you committed yourself to follow after Jesus Christ? Can you say of yourself that I am a follower of Jesus Christ? That I'm imitating his example, that I've committed myself to be like Jesus. Can you say that of yourself? If if you can't say that of yourself, the reality is that you're not a believer. You're not a believer. And there will be a large group of people that Jesus says, I never knew you. You never had a relationship with me. You never committed yourself to follow after me. If you know that you're not following Christ, I mean to today's the day to do that. Today's the day to make that commitment to say, I want to follow after Christ. I want to imitate his example. I want to be like Jesus. And for those of you who are following Christ, you've been given a commission, right? to make other followers of of Jesus Christ. The soldiers who guarded the tomb It said that they uh in verse 15 that they took the money and did as they had been instructed. And this story was widely spread among the Jews and is to this day. And the the question that I asked you is, uh, are you willing to do for the truth what some people were willing to do for a lie? For for for for a bit of money and protection, they were willing to spread a lie. For the sake of the truth, what are you willing to do? What are you willing to do for the sake of the truth? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh I thank you, God, uh, so much for this text and Father, it's uh overwhelming to uh to think about uh this command, but uh father, the uh the hope that we have, the comfort that we have The only security that we have is that Jesus Christ is the one who's with us. Even till the end of the age, the infinite spirit of Christ is here, present with us. To help us to obey these commands, to give us the strength and the power and the courage to do what we should do. Father, I pray that you'd help us to open our mouths, that we would speak to people who aren't following after Christ. And for those who are following Christ, Lord, that we would be faithful to try to make an investment in their lives, and that we wouldn't be satisfied until every individual looks like Jesus Christ. That those who are unbelievers, that we want them to look like Jesus Christ. That those of us who are in the church that we want all of us to look like Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that he would be our goal, that he would be what we seek after, that we would be committed and dedicated and devoted to following him. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.