Brothers and sisters, God is good, isn't he? He is our strength and he's our redeemer, isn't he? Has the Lord helped us You this week? Has the Lord encouraged you this week? Has He sustained you this week? Yeah, Amen. How is your walk with the Lord? Are you trusting? Are you hoping? Are you following the Lord? How is your speech before the Lord? What about your words? This is where we go from A. Amen 's mmm. There might be a lot more mmm today. But Campbell's soup is good and today is gonna be good too. We have all come to know the accuracy and the potency of this word. And if you're here, new at BBC or new to Christianity, we hope that your time spent with us Will help you understand what it is that we actually have with this. We have God's word from heaven for us to understand who He is and what He wants from us, how He saves us from His wrath. And how he offers us grace and love. This is a word that doesn't just teach, but it causes and creates change. This is a word that revives the soul. It's a word that Makes the simple man wise and it teaches and it corrects and it trains, and there's some passages that do those things more so than others. Some passages we come to and our heart Heart and our soul is revived. Turn with me today to James chapter 1. If you don't have a Bible, you can grab a pew Bible. We'll be on page 10. 11, 1011, we'll get you to James chapter 1. It's right after Hebrews. Today, I trust that God is going to Train us, to push us further into practical living, not merely to teach, but to motivate and to exhort. You may say, well, what's the difference for those of you who may want to start running? Maybe you go to someone to teach you how to run. But the trainer is going to be the one who calls you up at 7 o'clock in the morning and says, get out of bed. The teacher is going to teach you how to lift weights and how to design. Design a program, but it's the trainer who's gonna say, do another rep. Nope, that what wasn't done right. No, you've got to go further. Many of you are probably familiar and fond of it. of our elder brother James and his letter to new Christians around the world. James is a straight shooter, isn't he? He does it in mince words. And that's why he may be known to us affectionately As our elder brother who trains us toward godliness. If you lived in a house with multiple brothers, you know about the weight of the elder brother's words, don't you? These words are weighty words, but they're not meant to be words that dismiss or to destroy us, but they are meant to draw us and to push us to where we are not going. To help us grasp this book and its great value, I want to contrast it with another fond book that I hope is on your bookshelf, and that's the book of 1 John. And sometimes we may ask, well, why would we do this comparison? And I'm sure you've had the experience where you go to Home Depot and you say, Can I get blue? And they show you, well, this is blue. And there's like 24 different shades of blue, and you're thinking, well, what's what? And you kind of have to do a comparison and contrast. To know exactly precisely what's going on. For us to catch up and understand what's going on with James, I want to give you a little comparison and contrast. James was one of the first letters that the New Testament church had. First John is one of the last letters that the New Testament Church had. James, if you wanted to understand the key theme, and it's coming up on this the screen. It's the word consistent. He wants Christians to be consistent. John wanted them to be what? Confident. I write these things To you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you would know that you have eternal life. James is saying, you're claiming to be believers, but there's an inconsistency, and I'm here to challenge you to be Be consistent. The key words, the key verses in James would be James 1:22. Don't merely be hearers of the word, but see, y'all are familiar with James, right? He exhorts us to not have a dead faith, but what a living faith. Right? Both James and John use these series of tests or evaluations. The themes in James are words that are inconsistent and faith that is fruit bearing. John, on the other hand, wants us to look at whether we have the true Christ, whether we're turning from sin, and whether Whether we love the brothers in Christ. And if you do, you can be confident that you're in Christ. What was the opposition they were facing for James? The opposition is mostly yourself. You are your bigoted obstacle to consistent Christianity. For 1 John, it was false teachers that were coming in to discourage and dissuade the church. And so he wants them to be confident. James writes in the early 40s, John writes in ninety AD, James writes to converted Jews, John writes to Jews and to Gentiles. And if the slide team has a next slide that they can advance to. That'll be super helpful. But again, to put James into a single word, what's the way what does he want out of Christians? He wants us to be what? Consistent. Amen. If we want to put Put that in a phrase. James is our elder brother's challenge to walk as a consistent Christian. Again, our elder brother's challenge to walk as a consistent Consistent Christian. And I say elder brother, because if you were to scan through James, he addresses this group of people 13 times. And how does he address them? My brothers. My brothers. My brothers. He doesn't stand over them with the authority of the apostle only. He identifies himself as a servant of God, and that he identifies himself with them. Now this brother language is not Merely ethnic identity. Just because you are related to Abraham through birth, that's not what he's focusing on. The brotherhood here is an emphasis on salvation. On salvation. Look with me at James chapter 1, verses 18. This is the gospel inside of James. Of his own will, speaking of God, he God God brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of His creature. That brought forth language, that's regeneration. That's rebirth language. Peter uses it. You probably remember that verse, right? God has caused us to be born again by his living and abiding word. James is picking up on that same thing here. A cursory Glance at James may give us the indication that this is moralistic religious living. It's not. James assumes that his audience has been born again and is now claiming to be born again. Be a believer, but there's things going on in your life where you say, I'm a runner, but you don't run. I lift weights, but you haven't been in the gym since January 1st. And so James is saying, let's go. Let's get off the sofa. Let's get to work. Let's work out that faith. In the James chapter 126, look down with me. He talks about a primary means by which we are to be doers of the words. Where was this audience struggling? Look in verse 26. If anyone thinks his relig he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, But deceives himself, this person's religion is worthless. Religion here is not a negative term. This is not empty fair say. Religion that we would contrast and say, Oh, I have a relationship with Jesus. That's not what he's saying. Religion is the totality of your faith and submission to the Lordship of Christ as Savior, and that's a virtuous thing. It's all the parts and aspects of your life, your internal, your external, how you order your life, he's saying if you claim to have that religion, but you can't bridle and control and direct your tongue Your religion, your faith, really, it's worthless. And make a note: bridling and controlling is different than muzzling. Right? He's not Not saying just be silent and don't say anything. He's saying you have a powerful member that you need to use well. That's where you're failing. That's where you're failing. And we're gonna watch this unfold. There's three foundations and uh all these things were wonderfully set up on slides, so we're just gonna work it through um as they come alive. But three foundations if you want to scratch down that will help you get in the flow and the mindset of James. Who really is drawing a straight line out of so many of Jesus' teachings through the gospel? You would expect the same thing from a half-brother who walked around with Jesus for three years. He just is speaking His language. The first thing. Jesus demands all in faith. Doesn't he? He demands all in faith. He says, you're gonna know the tree, what kind of tree If it's a good tree, it's going to produce what? If it's a bad tree, it's going to produce. And Jesus says, if you want to come after me, you have to deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. Jesus is all in, isn't he? Secondly, the tongue, your words, are going to reveal your heart. Jesus is all in faith, and your tongue is going to reveal is going to reveal what's in your heart. Finish the sentence with me. Out of the overflow of the heart, the see, we know this, right? Jesus follows up on that in Matthew 15. He says, what comes out of the Mouth proceeds from the heart, and that is what defiles you. That slander and that evil, those murderous and adulterous thoughts, they come out of the heart. And so if your speech is impure, what is What is it saying about you? You got a heart problem. Foundation number two. Foundation number three. A primary example of a changed heart is what? A control tongue. You feel the logic? You feel where we're getting? So if you claim to have a new heart, that will be showing up consistently with a con with a controlled tongue. Here's the problem Problem for the brothers that James was addressing. And here's the problem for all of you and for me, for us. James's audience knew this. But they struggled to do it. And that's why he comes back to the passage that we're going to look at today, which is James chapter 3. James chapter 1, we We just read what he taught. And maybe you rebuked and maybe you were corrected, but he's going to come back to us and say, we need some training on this. And to put a point on it for all of us, let me ask you two questions. Do you You know that a controlled tongue is consistent with godliness. There's at least some heads that are shaking, and internally you're saying, Yes, I know that. Here's the zinger. How are you doing with that? What if I asked your spouse? What if I asked your kids, your employees, your co-workers? If you're a kid, what if I asked your parents, your siblings? What if I asked that person who cut you off in traffic? There we go. What about that cut up customer service rep you spoke to about your poor service or the overpriced item? Your political opponent, your enemies, right? This is where our amens are turning into We all need this press, don't we? This challenge, this training to move on in greater degrees to controlling our tongue. Read with me, James chapter 3. Starting in verse 8. But no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With it, we bless our Lord and Father. Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers and my sisters. This ought not to be so. Let's pray. Almighty God, we come before you. So grateful, God, for the word That binds up our broken hearts, the word that teaches us how to be saved, the word that calls us to a lifestyle of holiness, and the word, God, that presses us and wakes us up. God, that causes us to reject passivity. For we have been called to walk in a worthy response to this incredibly worthy and precious gospel call that you've placed upon us. And today, Lord, I pray that you would work us out. Lord, where we have been weak, where we have been slow, where we have not prioritized. The directest And the bridling and the control of our tongues and the heart that underlies it. God, may your word penetrate and may your work have its way with us. We lay ourselves before your word, before you May your spirit work. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. We're still working. I see a black screen, so I'm just going to keep rolling. All right, we're going to pray for our slides team. They're working hard. So I'll just repeat a lot and just write these things down, okay? If you have a pew Bible, you can't write in there, but you can write write it in your poem pilot. All right. So just put it right there and you're good to go. All right? We're gonna look at seven motivations. Seven motivations to bridle and to direct our tongue. The first motivation is this: an uncontrolled tongue provokes condemnation. An uncontrolled tongue provokes Provokes condemnation. Look at me with me at verse one and two. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways. At a first glance, you may think that James is addressing those who are in seminary. That he's that this is a passage that is going to be about those who, you know, are Going to be become pastors and teachers and get into vocational ministry, but look carefully at who he addresses. Not many of you who? My brothers. He's actually speaking. And look at the contrast. It's not a contrast between no consequence and judgment. It's a consequence between judgment and greater judgment. Verse 2 modifies and explains what he's hitting at. We all stumble. You all stumble. This group as a whole is already struggling with And James is saying, listen, you all, you're already behind the eight ball with your words. So not many of you of that collective whole that's trying to He's actually coming at the whole, not people who would be considering becoming teachers. It would be like this. Be like some someone coming to you who's behind in their car payment, they rent their TV, their underwear and their tube socks are on Leeway at Kmart, and they say, Hey, I'd like to get involved in real estate. And you would say, hey, real estate's a great thing, but we gotta get your tube stocks paid for before you can even think about going there. Do these people Do we have a problem with our tongue? A quick scan through James will say, yes and amen. There is a baseline issue. They have problems in chapter 1, verses 13 where they are pursuing making false accusations against God. I'm being tempted by God. James says, what are you doing? You can't talk like that. They had boastful and self-glorifying words. Look at James 3. 14. You have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts. Do not boast and be false to the truth. In chapter 4, verses 1, there's aggressive and quarreling speech. What causes quarrels? Fo and fights among you. And four eleven, slanderous speech. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. Proud and presumptive speech. James four thirteen. Today or tomorrow we will do such and such. You don't even know what tomorrow's gonna bring. There's a presumption in your heart that you are in control. Empty promises in chapter five, verse one. Don't swear by this or that, just let your yes be yes and your no be no. And they struggled with silence. James five nineteen. If there's any of you who wanders from the truth, someone should be Bring him back. You sit in silence and let your brothers go. In all of these different areas, James's audience, these believers are struggling with their speech. So what is This wheat warning about that? Is James saying you shouldn't become teachers because uh of the the discipline that would come with a lack of theological precision or doctrinal accuracy? I don't think that's what James is getting at. Other scriptures get there. James, I think, is driving at the more clear and the egregious egregious moral inconsistencies that were at work in these people. If you look at the verse we read earlier in verse 9, what happens? You are blessing God and cursing with the same mouth. So let's let's drink this. Let's drink this down, folks. Are we more concerned or are you more concerned in being able to articulate the finer points of the Godhead or avoiding gossip? Are you concerned with Expounding salvation or stopping slandering? Are you more focused on harmonizing the humanity and the deity of Christ or avoiding the harsh and critical speech that can come out of your way? Mouth. Think about the recent example of the founder of the Christian ministry, G3. All of his theological intensity and articulation and clarity is all worthless. Why? Because he could not control his tongue from criticizing and slandering his brothers in Christ. It's all gone. Well what is this? What is this judgment? Is stricter judgment. The words of Jesus should ring in our ears. Judge not, lest you be judged. For with the judgment and the harshness by which you judge other people, that's coming back. Matthew twelve thirty-six, I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for what? Every careless word they speak. Romans chapter Chapter 14. Why do you pass judgment on your on your brother? So each of us will give an account for himself to God. Last week, Pastor George so helpfully and And convictingly and comfortingly reminded us that the great white throne judgment that will cast the devil and sin and unbelievers is a judgment for unbelievers. Believers. And we may know and treasure Romans 8:1. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Perfect love has cast out that fear of condemnation. So we may be thinking to ourselves, well what is there? If I'm not going to be cast into hell and there's no condemnation, what what judgment could there be for me? This isn't a About whether you will or will not enter into heaven. That's the comfort of Romans 8:1. This is about what you will or will not be able to offer there in whole. Or receive what you think is coming. There is a day, Second Corinthians 5:10, when we all will appear before the judgment seat of Christ. When Paul writes that to the Christian, Corinthians, he's talking to Christians. All Christians will stand, and this is a different and distinct judgment than the judge the Great White Throne. That is for unbelievers and it is eternally damning. We will all We long for that day, don't we? And it's a day by which Christ offers rewards. But there's something that exists between us and Christ, and it is a refiner's fire. It is a refiner's fire that's going to take all of those things that we have been accumulating in our life, and it's going to burn away the wood, the hay, and the stubble, and it's going to leave that which is truly offered in the Spirit truly to God. And we may be thinking to ourselves ourselves, man, I've just been so righteous, so loving of the Lord. I got this 50-pound gold boulder. Jesus, it's all yours. And he says, okay, I'm ready to receive that. And it goes to that refiner's fire and it's five ounces left over. The fear and the admonition of the Lord, but yes, you slandered your children and harshly spoke to them every single day. What's going to be left over? Glory, I preached for your glory. I evangelized for your glory. And half of those times, you were doing it for the praise for you. Lord God, I was just trying to get some insight on how to how to encourage my brothers and sisters in Christ. No, you were gossiping the way you were speaking about them. So what you thought was a good thing. Now tarnished. Tarnished. You see, the great works that we want to offer and the rewards that we may think we are receiving, if they are mixed with impurity and sin. What a day of judgment that will be. It won't keep us out of heaven, but it'll prevent us from offering all that we thought we had. James is going to shift from this sobering warning to our second motivation, which is an encouraging outlook. The tongue has the power. There we go, to direct blessing. James is going to state a profound point and provide two insightful illustrations for us. Look with me at verse 2, the second half. And if anyone Does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. If you're looking down in your Bible, the ESV, the NAS, the The LSB all describe this man who does not distump d does not stumble as what? Perfect. Now some translations use the word mature or complete. Either of those is the Legitimate translation of the word teleas. We get the the the concept teleology or the end or the purpose of things. It could mean sinless perfection, perfect, or it could mean Maturity and completeness. The context will clarify for us. As you can probably understand, James's letter is about practical how to be Christian or consistent Christian. He's not giving extensive theological discussion about the faith that saves. That's what we've been in with Romans, where he's talking about the justification that comes through faith. James is focusing on Look with me at chapter 1, verse 2, and you'll see James use this word perfect again. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of Various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be what? Perfect and complete, lacking nothing. Is James trying to communicate that if you go through trials, you'll be sinlessly perfect in Christ? No. What is he saying? If you go through trials, entrusting yourself to the Lord who has perfect. Offered you salvation, you will become more mature. You will become more complete. Paul does this in Colossians chapter 1, verses 28. He says, We proclaim Christ, we warn. We teach so that we may present people what? Mature or perfect, not sinlessly perfect. You obtain that sinless perfection through faith as a what? Gift. A gift. But then you need to go from stumbling to standing firm as you are sanctified. And that is what James is driving at for us here. The mature Sure, man is one who is not going to stumble. God is teaching us something so, so helpful here, brothers and sisters. Here's the promise. If you were to focus yourself to utilize God's resources to grow and maturity in this one area of your life, your tongue, what is the promise that that transforms Training and that trusting and that transformation is gonna translate to all kinds of other areas of your life. So think about the profound opportunity that is before every one of you, and that is before me today. We all stumble in many ways. James said that. With our speech, with our Eyes, with our hands, with our thought, the flesh and the corrupted desires of our heart show up in all kinds of places, don't they? But because of the tight connection between the overflow of the heart, And the mouth that speaks, when we put our effort and our spirit-infused focus on our words and the heart that fuels it. There is multiplying blessing. So here's the question for us to ask. What is keeping you back from an all-out focus? Focus and sprint to apply holiness and control to your tongue. This blessing is not a simple one-to-one correlation. Controlling your tongue is a Force multiplier. Controlling your tongue is a force multiplier. Look back at verse three. We see this illustrated. Look at the horses and look at the ships, James says. If we put Look at the ships also, though they are very large and driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very Very small rudder. You could put a little child on the back of a massive animal, put a bit and a little a little rain, and guess what? That child is driving that animal wherever they want to go. A little bit to the left, a little bit to the right, pull back a little bit, oh the horse stops. Some of you have been on a cruise ship or you've seen one on TV. I mean there's cities. There's cities floating on the water. And up in that cabin room, what's going on? There's little fingers that are adjusting a rudder, and the boat goes. And we know what happens when the rudder goes out. Francis Got Key Bridge don't exist anymore. So we can see the consequence of this. But again, this small member has outsized power. But there's more that I want us to understand. Is there a benefit to the rest of our sanctification and the rest of our holiness? If we apply the principles to our heart and our mouth, there will be gains in holiness elsewhere. But this is something else I want us to understand. Think about the use of these illustrations. Horses do what? They help you be productive. Imagine trying to plow a field by hand or doing They are able to transfer trans uh boats are able to um to help with transporting and and they are all also help in great storms of Opposition. The application I want to ask us to walk away from is this. Do you understand the power that is in your tongue? To produce? To encourage, to edify, and to change other people's lives. Remember that scene where Mary is in the garden thinking that Jesus is dead and is staying dead? Do you remember her eyes are so full of tears and her her mind probably so over overwhelmed with grief that all she can think and see is death. And so when she sees Jesus Jesus, she calls him what? , The gardener. What was it that changed her mind from death to life? Mary. One word said by her teacher, everything changed. Wives, are you aware that an encouraging word To your husband can be an accelerating power to him. Men will go to the ends of the earth for you to say, you're a stud. Fathers, do you understand what it is for your sons to say, I am proud that you are my son? Are you a boss? Are you an employer? What do you think it is for your employees to hear gratitude from you? Not once a year, but regularly. If you're a member of this church, what is it for a ministry leader who sacrifices and serves for them to hear? If you're a pastor here, what is it for your people to know that you treasure them and that you Pray for them and that you're encouraging them. Proverbs eighteen twenty-one. Write it in the margin. Death and life are in the power of the tongue. And those who love it, love the power of the tongue, will eat its fruits. Do you love the power of death? Do you use your tongue as a weapon and do you enjoy that? Or do you say, this is life-giving, and I use it and I love it. I love to bring life to other people. This small member can do On July twenty-seventh, twenty eighteen, a homeowner in California discovered a ground nest of yellow jackets. And he decided that he was going to plug that hole with a 28-inch metal spike. So he got his metal hammer and his metal spike, and he drove it into the ground in a single spark. Jumped off and went into the brush by his driveway. And he began to catch fire, and he tried to throw dirt on it, and tried to throw some water on it and tried to put it out, and he couldn't. And the California wind and the lack of humidity and all the fuel led to the spread of that fire. And in 2018, more than four hundred thousand Acres of land were incinerated from a single spark. This is known as the ranch fire of California. James makes the statement in our next Verse of this real illustration. Verse 5B. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire. This is our third motivation. The uncontrolled tongue has a potential for vast destruction. Verse 6: the tongue is a fire, it is a world of unrighteousness. Brothers and sisters, have you ever been burned by someone's words? Have you ever been seared by someone's tongues? Have the words that have come out of your mouth immediately caused a painful Recoiling reaction from the people in front of you? Redness, the blisters, they appear, the damage is done. Or about that discontentment, that frustration, and that murder. Murmuring becomes an uncontrollable scorched earth, malice and rage and slander. And so the spark-like word that is dropped from a tongue Burning with anger or with envy, may fall into a church, into a family, into a friend group, into a town, and set them all ablaze, consuming them with burning rage. And gossip and complaining. The tongue burns locally and it can spread rapidly. But the gravity, look back at your text of this picture goes on. It not only burns, it not only accumulates, it is a world of unrighteousness. I have some stocks in my backyard which are just illustrations of the curse. Maybe you do as well. Weeds and thorns and poison ivy and there's ticks and there's mosquitoes, but it's just a section in my backyard. The front yard looks great, the side yard looks great. Looks great. The unrighteousness is contained. This is not so with your tongue. It is not a yard worth of problem. It is not a block worth of unrighteousness. It's not a county worth of the curse. It is not a state or a region or a continent of unrighteousness. It is an entire world land and sea and sky, climates, elevations, animals, plants, weather, current, winds. It is an entire interconnected ecosystem of corrupted, polluted, stained unrighteousness, and it's right inside your mouth. The Bible refers directly or indirectly to the Tongue in many ways. There's the wicked tongue, deceitful, lying, and perverse tongue, filthy, corrupt, bitter, and angry tongue, the crafty tongue, flattering, slanderous. And gossiping, the backbiting tongue, blasphemous, foolish boasting, murmuring, complaining, cursing, and contentious tongue, the sensual, vile, tail bearing and whistling Whispering tongue, the exaggerating tongue, on and on. Do you see yourself anywhere on this list? Maybe in multiple places if you're like me. And it's no wonder, John MacArthur says, that God Put your tongue behind a cage of your teeth and walled it in by your mouth. The ways by which our words coming out of our heart can betray the intention Of God are legion, and just like a world, they are interconnected in how they fuel one another. So my question for you today is Will you continue to stand by passively and allow the fire to burn? Psalm 141, verse 3. May be your call to memorize and pray today. Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth and keep watch over the door of my lips. Our next motivation. This tongue is not only destructive and vast out there, but it is comprehensive to impact your entire life. The uncontrolled tongue has the ability to totally corrupt. There are some people who erroneously think that the sins of our words are not too serious. Listen It's just a little venting. I'm just trying to get some advice. It's not gossip. Maybe I embellished, but doesn't everyone Like a little bit of flattery. I wasn't complaining. I was just speaking the truth. Verse 6: the tongue is set among our members. It's not I Isolated, staining the whole body. 'm You see, the sins of the mouth they don't stand there, stay there. They damage and they disqualify the whole. I want you to consider another picture that James is going to before put before us. I want you to think about a wooden wagon wheel and I want you to lay it down on its side. What do you see? You see a pie with all these little different compartments, don't you? And sometimes that's what we think our sin Or our speech is like, well, it's just in that one setting. It's just a little coarse joking with my friends. It's just a little bit of this. If you were to take a little match and a little lighter fluid and just light us Small section of that wheel on fire and say, listen, the rest of it is in good shape. You're gonna place that wheel on the frame of the wagon and you're gonna begin to see it turn over. And what's gonna happen? That wind and that movement is going to take that fire and it's going to spread through the whole wheel and it's going to disintegrate right in front of you. When James said says it sets on fire the entire course of life. The word and the phrase is literally the entire wheel of life. Your unrighteous words are not Why? Because that heart that motivates that mouth goes with you wherever We tell our youth group, we tell our kids, dating and marriage, it's coming someday and it's gonna be great. But son, young men, How you speak to your sisters and how you speak to your mama, it's gonna how you're gonna speak to that sweet girl. Ladies, daughters, that lack of respect is coming out for that guy who you love and are infatuated with. Are you ready for that? That complaining, that private assault of your boss's character, it's coming out somewhere. Else. That bitterness of your heart you're going to take with you. Brothers and sisters, will you control your tongue? Are you motivated? Are you challenged? Or are you merely convicted to sadness? You see, God is not pleased by us merely hearing the word and being convicted to tears by it. We are to hear and not cry. We are to hear and what? Do. Hear and do. Which leads us to our next motivation. If we are not doing Someone else is. What is that last phrase at the end of verse 6? It is set on fire by hell. The tongue is inflamed by Satan. There's a poetic illustration with this phrase that James uses, this world of unrighteousness, as he describes our tongue. But there literally and truly is a realm of unrighteousness. And there's a ringleader over that, isn't it? Who is it? It's the devil. It's the devil. And since the beginning, he has been assaulting God and his nature, and he's been opposed to God through words. The first recorded words we see in the scripture, is that really what God said? And he tries to burn down the goodness of Adam and Eve's perception of God. And then he begins to taint and corrupt. Well, is that really what God said? Let me this is what he said. The devil is a liar, isn't he? And he's been one from the beginning. Are not alone with our words, brothers and sisters. It's not, am I going to say something wrong or am I going to say something right? There's another actor because of the active work of Satan, There are lies that are being told. Lies that He desires for us to believe. Lies that He desires for us to speak. He desires for us to bite and to devour one another. We are not the only ones involved. He is a lion that prowls around seeking someone to do to devour and he will use Christians to do it against one another. It's one thing to try to prevent a forest fire by keeping control of your own matches. It's quite another if there's some madman running around the For us with a lighter torch. Your required vigilance and effort is going to be far greater. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 26. Hang a left and keep going somewhere in the middle of the Bible. If you get to Psalms, go right and you'll be in Proverbs. If you're finding yourself convicted, Proverbs chapter 26, about your word. A proverb a day can help some of the sin go away, as they say. Proverbs is a phenomenal book that will help you deal with all kinds of manners of your life, your speech being one of them. And in Proverbs chapter 26, we see several successive verses that focus and help us understand about what our speech does. Verse 8 18. Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death is the man who deceives his neighbor and then says, Joking. For lack of wood, the fire goes out. And where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases. Great wisdom, right? If you're not whispering, if you're not gossiping. Verse 21 As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife. The words of the whisperer are like delicious morsels they go down into the inner parts of the Of the body. We like gossip, we like slander, we take it and end, and it taints how we view other people. You may look at these passages and say, Yes, this is what I'm going to focus on, or praise the Lord, I am not ready. Regularly consistently gossip, whispering, lying, deceiving, coarse joking. That's not me. You've contained your matches well. There's another whisperer from the pit of hell who wants to put this before you and before this church and in this world. Don't take the bait. Don't take the bait. As we turn back to James, we come to our sixth motivation. In chapter three, verse seven. Turn back with me. The tongue remains untamed and dangerous. For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature, they can be tamed. And they have been tamed by mankind. But no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil full of deadly poison. The taming and training of animals is remarkable, isn't it? I'm sure many of you experience have experienced the blessing of that. There was a point in time when the dog decided it was going to do whatever it wanted to do, wherever it it wanted to do it. And some of you have been successful at taming that dog. Now remember, taming an animal does not remove its animal instinct, right? It doesn't change The animal, the the dog and the cat doesn't go into your bathroom and use the toilet and wash its paws, you know, and then refill the toilet paper. That doesn't happen. But the dog doesn't pee on your floor. Anymore. Why? Because the investment of your training has led to a permanence of effect. The dolphin jumps through the hoop because it's getting a fish. Right? The falcon returns back to the fowler because it's been trained. The dog, the cat, accomplishes what we want it to do. An investment of training leads to a permanence of a Brothers and sisters, the tongue isn't like that. The tongue is not like that. You don't train the tongue in your twenties and then live through the permanence of the tongue. That trained effect through your 60s. The tongue is a manifestation of our sinful flesh. Turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, that's your order. General Electric Power Company. Just say no, that's a free one. Chapter 5 is going to help us understand what we are. Remember the first part of our salvation, we are declared righteous. The second part of our salvation is that righteousness is Is being worked in and through. We are being sacked sanctified. The power of sin is diminishing. And then there's an ultimate salvation where the presence of sin is totally gone. When is Is the presence of sin totally gone? You have to get a new body. You have to be resurrected again. You have to be glorified in the presence of Christ And it is so important for us to understand the need to keep taming the tongue. Think about the tense of those verbs regarding the animals. Every animal can be tamed and has been. Past tense active, it it completed act. But for your tongue, you have got to keep at it. Why? Look at chapter five in Galatians at verse sixteen. But I say this: walk by the spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh, for the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against Against the flesh, for these are opposed to one another to keep you look at the tense continually to continually keep you from doing the things you want to do. Do you remember Paul's exclamation in Romans 7? The good I want to do, I can't do it. The evil I don't want to do, I keep doing it. Oh wretched man! Therefore there is no condemnation for those who In Christ Jesus. And then he goes into the spirit that empowers us to do what with this sinful flesh? Put it to death. Once? Over and over and over again. You put it off and you put it on. You put it to death and you walk in life. You're a little baby Christian walking with the Lord for one or two years, there might be so many things that are changing in your life. But if you look at the Christians who are here in their fortieth and fiftieth years, Of walking with Christ, and you ask them, What does your fight with sin look like? They're gonna say, It's every day. It's every day. And here's why this is incredibly important for us for two reasons. One, we can become overly dismayed with our ongoing fight and temptation with sin that can leave us to want to escape it. You know what? I just, I would rather just go be home with the Lord. So I don't have to keep dealing with these temptations anymore. The Lord decides when that's going to happen. The presence of your temptation does not mean that you are off course. How you deal with it And whether you fall into sin, that's the matter that we care about. For your tongue, we keep at it. And if we don't, then Back in James. It's not only that this world of unrighteousness is going to break out, it's not that our flesh is going to be victorious. It's actually going to be a great danger. Reference to a snake. This is a restless evil full of deadly poison. Several years ago I remember walking through Loch Raven. And for the first time in my life I saw a copperhead that wasn't in a glass box. And it was along the trail that we were hiking on. Now I didn't realize that this was a copperhead snake, for those of you of you that they are poisonous, okay? Some of you have the same reaction whether it's a poisonous or non-poisonous snakes, right? But for others of us it's like, oh that's a black snake. You know, let's play around with it. Oh that's a copperhead. No, we're not touching that. I realized that this was a copperhead about eight steps later. Because I looked down and kept walking and then it registered. That was a snake. There were the colors. There was the triangular head. That's a poisonous copperhead snake. And I recognized that and turned around just as my three year old daughter Remy Remy was stumbling down the trail like Like a three-year-old does, right? Just halfway between vertical and falling down. And you can imagine what was before my mind and heart. Is she going to step next to that snake? Why was there such a great concern? Because of the pain of that bite and the fangs that would come out and to deliver poison deep. And that that venom would lead to gangrene, and if not treated, could lead to an amputation of the foot, all delayed. The tongue. Isn't just like a fire. It is like a serpent's bite. And the problem with snakes is that you sometimes don't see them until it's too late. You're walking along, you feel pain, you look down, you don't see anything except those two little trickles of blood coming down. And you think you've got a problem, but what has been penetrated? is what's going to accumulate as a problem. And there are some words they hurt on the surface for a second, but then they work in And two days later, and two weeks later. And dare I say there are people here who are still struggling with the pain of a word that was injected on you two decades ago The words that can break out are dangerous. They are dangerous. How How long are you going to allow this to continue? May it not be another single day, my brothers and sisters. Not another single day by which we wait in a crouched position to that person we claim to love and strike them. May we not. Let us transition to our last challenge, our last motivation. From James. He's provided a compelling call to us, hasn't he? Control your tongue, bridle your tongue. It provokes condemnation. It has the power to direct blessing. It has the potential for vast destruction, the ability to totally corrupt. It is inflamed by Satan. It remains untamed and dangerous. Verse 9, we will see that it is inconsistent. Grievously inconsistent with your new nature. Verse 9. With this tongue, this restful evil, this fire, this deadly poison, with it We bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse the people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, my sisters, this ought not to be so. First, we see the shame and the offense that God takes at this We praise him and then we curse the things that he's made. Can you say that you're a man who who loves a husband but hates his wife? Wife? Yeah, I love you, but your kids, man, I can't stand them. They belong to me. They belong to me. If you hate my kids. You hate me. If you curse my kids, you curse me. If you curse and hate and slander and have all kinds of twisted thoughts about these people who are made in my image, that's against Do you remember when we were trying to work through the first issues of justice in Genesis chapter nine? And God instructs Noah if a man sheds another blood Man's blood, by his blood it will be shed. Why? Because that person was made in my image. Made in my image. You see, this was a particular Sin for this particular group of people. Think about the false religion that many of the first century converted Jews were coming out of. Legalistic. Hypocritical Phariseism. Do you remember the leaven of the Pharisees that Jesus so continually was fighting and warning against? It was what? Hypocrisy Literally the wearing of a mask. You put on a guise that you're a great worshipper of God. Long prayers, public prayers, amens at church. Worship is on blast in the car. Christians bumper sticker and then you curse not curse words but you curse and you dismiss and you despise those who are made in the image of God. The Pharisees were constantly cur Cursing and cutting people off. And so this audience here that James is addressing is tempted to fall back into this God-offending sin. It was shameful and it was God offending. But what is What is it for us? What is it for you? I'm gonna read. I want you to. I'm gonna share them. I want you to read. In the next slide, and ask ourselves where does this apply to me? The next slide, Grant. Do we struggle with a fire that destroys without Control, loud, obnoxious, arrogant boasts, harsh, unrelenting complaints, malice, anger, venting, wrath, and rage, screaming, cussing, cursing, coarse joking Filthy vein in a moral talk. Or maybe it's a serpent's bite. It's intentional button pushing. It's weaponized Words, it's weaponized silence, it's gossip, it's slander, it's embellishment and flattery, it's diminishment and criticism, it's inaccuracy, it's assumption, it's deceit, it's lying It's sarcasm, innuendo, hypocrisy. From the same mouth come praises today. Prayers today We belt out worship in the car, we spread the good news, and from that same mouth comes these things. My brothers and sisters sisters, these things ought not to be so. First, because it offends God, and it should grieve us. This ought not to be. And James could have ended right here. Could have ended right here. And we would have sat in the burden and the grief. But he doesn't. Why? Watch what he does. James moves past to the last part of his rationale, and this last motivation of why the inconsistency shouldn't exist is a gospel gem. Look with me at verse eleven. Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives or a grape? Vine produce figs, neither can a salt pond yield fresh water. James is not talking about the contrast between a moral and an immoral thing. What is he trying to communicate? We expect certain things from certain objects because of the nature of what it is. A spring is going to produce Fresh water, why? Because it's a spring. A grapevine is going to produce grapes. Why? Because it's a grapevine. And then he he he uses these rhetorical questions to focus on the nature of certain things. Do you know what he wants us to understand? Brothers and sisters, you are no mere human being. That was the first issue of you that came forth from your mother's room Womb in sin and iniquity, and lived in lawlessness and all kinds of problems. But what are you now? James says in chapter one, verse eighteen. You have been brought forth. You have been born again. You are now first fruits. Paul communicates that first fruits in 2 Thessalonians 2:13. Are those that God has chosen to be first fruits who are saved, who are sanctified in the Spirit, and who believe in the truth? James is saying that you're in Inconsistent speech is inconsistent with the new nature of what you are now. And why? Why is such that is such a wonderful place to end? Because he's trying to f Fuel us with encouragement. Not fuel us with conviction. I want you to live consistently because that's what you've been purchased to be. 2 Corinthians 5:17. Who knows it? Behold, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away, and what the new has come. Romans 6. 4 says that we are united in Christ in such a way that we are resurrected spiritually. We are the first fruits. Brothers and sisters, do you understand? That to be in Christ and to have Christ in you gives you all of the power to accomplish what he has asked of us. To walk as consistent Christians. controlling our tongue, controlling our speech, and using it to the glory of God. And so here we are. The truth has been stated. We have seven motivations to go after this, and we may be thinking to ourselves, okay, Amen. This is what I want, this is what the Lord deserves. And we may be asking, okay, well what do I do now? Here's six ways, starting today, that you can begin to control your heart and control your tongue. First, set off-limit words. There may be words or the tone of words by which you speak that today need to go off the table. When Carrie and I were meeting with our premarital counselor many moons ago, they challenged us and said, Do not ever let the word divorce ever come out of your mouth. And by God's grace, 20 Twenty-one years later, my wife has never had to hear that word from my mouth. And I have never heard it from hers. It's off limits. Grievously, there have been other ways that I've hurt my wife with my words, but not with that one. What are the words that you stumble over now that you need to say it's off the table? Second. Just say less. This is distinct from the other ones. Don't mistake them. This is its own entity. Just work on having less things come out Proverbs ten nineteen. When words are many, transgression is not lacking. This is in person. This is with your thumbs online. out of your mouth and on your screen, reduce that number. And I'm sure you will find a measure of blessing. Number three, listen more. And that's different. Right? Saying less is restriction. Listening more is what you're actively going to do in place of that. And if you want to truly listen, ask questions Ask questions and care about the answer. First Corinthians chapter 2, verse 11, for who knows a person's thought except the spirit of the person which is in him. How many times have you as a parent or as a spouse or as a boss or as a colleague or as whoever walk into a situation and say, I know why they did that? And you make declarations as opposed to asking careful questions. Do I have this right? And how many times has someone come at you with a declaration and you have been So offended because that wasn't your intention at all. What do we say? Would you have just asked me a question and I could have explained why? We want it, but what Will you give it? Build up and be gracious. The kindergarten advice is still applicable. If you don't have anything nice to say Don't say anything at all. But the Christian advice is to go further. Be intentional to build up other people. Don't flatter them, but build them up. Encourage them. Encourage them and be gracious. What are gracious words? It's words that people don't deserve. deserve to be greeted because of how they treated you. Talk with somebody who refuses to talk to you because they don't deserve it. That's what gracious speech is. And then lastly, in all things, give thanks. In all things, give thanks. Brothers and sisters, I pray that the Lord will use these things well. And so as we close, I'll end how James does in chapter one. Therefore, my brothers and sisters, let us be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to anger. Let's pray. Almighty God, we praise you and thank you that you have made a way by which we can know you truly, a way by which we may be saved. Saved from our sin, a way by which we can call you Father and be loved and received by you. This is not through our own efforts, but it is through the gift of Jesus Christ's righteousness that is offered as a gift to us, that he died in our place and he lived in our stead. God, for those of us who have received this, whom you have brought forth to be first fruits, may we We be consistent in our claims that we are yours and how we live, that we would control and direct our speech for righteousness and for the building Up that we be aware, God, of our flesh manifest in our mouth is a destructive force. It is dangerous. It is harmful. God. It violates whom we are in Christ. May we be motivated to these things, and may we do so not for our sake but for yours. We offer all of this in the same way. Saving and sanctifying in the glorious name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Praise the Lord, brothers and sisters. We are um about to dismiss to a variety of different things. We have a great opportunity for fellowship. If you're new here or if you're not, again down the hallway to the gym, coffee and refreshments. Another quick announcement. We have the new members meet and greet Back through the hallway, the Reformation Room. So if you're a ministry leader or if you're in the new members class, join us there. And uh I think that's all that I have. But if you would stand with me to receive a blessing and a bet of These are the words from Philippians chapter 2. May we receive this gift from the Lord. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only in my presence, but much more in my In my absence, work presence out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Amen. Amen