The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you open up your Bibles to Acts chapter 1? Acts chapter one. We'll be focusing actually on uh chapter two, but I want to set the context for you in in Acts chapter one. For those of you who are just joining with us, we're Reaching the last message in a in a series of foundational messages that we've been uh teaching to the to the church here. We're reminding ourselves about what the the scriptures uh teach us about. Who we are and why we're here. And as I've pointed out before, uh it's critically important that we understand who we are and why we're here, uh, because if we as a church don't know how to answer those questions Uh we'll be discouraged uh because we'll lose our sense of of purpose. Uh we'll be distracted because we'll focus on other priorities, uh we'll be derailed because we'll start heading in a direction that the Lord never intended for us And ultimately the church will be defeated and die. Uh because you can have a a group of people that meet in a building, uh, but what's going on on the inside is not a church. You can have a group of people that says church on the outside, but what's going on on the inside is uh no longer uh the priorities uh that the Lord has set out for. So it's important that we understand uh who we are and why we're here and There's at least twelve marks or signs or indicators uh that would mark out uh uh faithfulness in in ministering. And uh we've uh uh looked at twelve together and all Read them for you again. There are the marks that are common to all faithful churches, whether they're explicit or not, these are the marks that would be common to all faithful churches. A sufficiency of scripture The authority of Scripture, the glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men, a qualified leadership, a sound theology A holiness of life, a love for the saints, a heart for evangelism, a commitment to discipleship, and a faithful practice, which would be the things like the Lord's Supper, baptism, fellowship, and prayer. And uh these are the things that we as a church cannot deviate from. They're the traits that set the church apart from the world uh around us. And uh if if these traits aren't true of us, we can't be salt and we can't be light. There's nothing attractive about us. There's nothing that's illuminating that would uh pull people towards the church. There's nothing different between uh the church and the world if these things are not true. And today we'll turn our attention to the practice of the church, and for that we'll look at the uh the book of of Acts. The book of Acts. And uh uh the book of Acts is uh an historical account of the birth and growth of the church. That's the the theme of the book of Acts, the birth and growth of the church. It was uh penned by Luke sometime in the uh in the early sixties uh A. D. It was a companion to the gospel of Luke, according to verse 1, chapter 1, verse 1. It says this. It says, the first account I composed Theophilus About all that Jesus began to do and to teach. And this would assume that the book of Acts is about the continuation of Jesus' ministry. So that the Acts of the Apostles could could actually be called the Acts of Jesus Christ through his apostles. Because this is what Jesus is doing in the church. So the apostles are simply carrying out the will of Jesus Christ is expressed in the Great Commission. And that's what we looked at at last week. They are in the book of Acts, you see the disciples they're going. They're making disciples of all the nations, they're baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that Jesus commanded them to do. So what we see is uh played out here is actually Jesus' commands expressed through the the lies of and the acts of the uh the apostles And the book of Acts gives us an accurate account of of that history. And in in many ways it gives us a defense of that history. If you think about it, in 60 AD , the world is still trying to figure out what in the world is this new movement What in what in the world is this this group called called uh Christianities? They would call them the way. You know, who who are these these people? They they hadn't seen anything like this So they're they're trying to figure out what is this this group, what is this movement, what is this this new philosophy. In Acts chapter seventeen you have uh Paul. Uh Paul was uh uh speaking to the uh Athenian philosophers And uh this is the same question that they were asking. In Acts chapter 17 and 18 and uh through twenty, it says, and also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were conversing with him. Some were saying, what would this idle babbler wish to say? There's actually a word for a seed picker. You know, this little seed picker, he's picking up stuff from here and from there. What does this idle babbler wish to say? Others, he seems to be a proclaimer of strange deities because he was preaching Jesus and the resurrection. In Greek that will be Jesus and Anastasia. So they they kept hearing him speak about Yesus Anastasia, Yesus, Anastasia. Wha who are these strange gods that he's talking about? Who is this this Jesus and resurrection? Who is this? And they they verse 19 it says, And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new teaching is which you are proclaiming, for you are bringing some strange things to our ears. So we want to know what these things mean. So you have in in Acts you have Paul giving an explanation and a defense of Christianity. You have Peter doing the same thing in Acts chapter 2. They're saying, you know, what what is what is this? What's going on here? Are these guys filled with wine? Peter gives an explanation and a defense of Christianity. Stephen does the same thing in Acts chapter 7. He gives the full explanation and he goes through the Old Testament law just to prove who Jesus Christ was. and indicted uh the religious leaders. And Luke uses his book basically to do that same thing. He's giving uh uh this uh uh explanation and defense of the Christian faith. And he gives this to this man named Theophilus. If you don't know who Theophilus was, most likely he was some kind of dignitary because in the beginning of Luke's gospel, he calls him most excellent Theophilus which was the name that was given to uh governors. You find uh uh most excellent uh governor Felix in Acts chapter uh twenty-three and uh verse twenty-six You find find another governor, most excellent Festus, uh named in Acts chapter 26 and verse 25. So this Theophilus was most likely a a governor, a dignitary. And uh this gentile ruler had the privilege of holding in his hands an original copy of this book. Amazing. Original copy of this book was preserved. uh through the generations and comes down to us. And if we were to look for an outline for the the book of uh of Acts, uh we'd actually find it in in verse 8. Look at Acts chapter 1, verse 8. It says, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and even to the remotest part of the earth And the rest of the book actually follows that pattern. It actually follows that pattern. In chapters 1 through 7, you have the apostles' ministry in Jerusalem. This is where the church was established, the church was started. In Acts chapters 8 through 12, you have the ministry in Judea and Samaria. This is the extension of the church. The church scatters. It scatters from Jerusalem to the surrounding regions. And then in chapters thirteen through twenty-eight, you start to have those missionary journeys of Paul, and you have the church reaching out to the ends of the earth and finally reaching Rome, which is the expansion of the church. The church is sent. So the book of Acts is it's not about Peter. It's not about Paul. You know, Peter actually drops out of the scene from uh in Acts chapter 15. You don't hear about him anymore. Paul, we follow his ministry up until chapter 28. We never actually see how he finishes his ministry. We we find him he's he's he's in jail and we don't know where he goes from there. It doesn't even talk about his uh uh his eventual death So the the book is not a biography on on these men. Actually the the the book if you look at uh chapter twenty-eight if you flip back to the to the last chapter in chapter uh twenty-eight acts uh actually eight verse 31. It's rather about the power of the Spirit of God and the Word of God to establish, extend And expand this uh this church, this uh this this church of God. And look at how the book ends in uh verse 31. You have Paul, actually I'll start at verse 30, and he stayed two full years in his own rented quarters And it was welcoming all who came to him, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all openness unhindered. That's how the book ends. Teaching concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all openness unhindered. That encapsulates the book of Acts. The Lord will build his church. And that the gates of Hades will not prevail against it. And ground zero for this explosion of ministry happens in Acts chapter two. This is where the church was born, so you can flip back there. And I find it it comforting that the early church Began and relied on the same power that we have today. The early church began and relied on the same power that we have today: the Spirit of God and the Word of God. The Spirit of God and the Word of God. First of all, in Acts chapter 2, you have the Spirit of God that fills the church up. It's described in Acts chapter 2, verses 1 down to 13. I'll just read a couple verses for you, verses one to four. It says when the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. And there appeared to them tongues as a fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit was giving them utterance The Lord promised his disciples that they would receive power when the Holy Spirit came upon them in Acts chapter 1, verse 8. And this filling of the Spirit was this uh this New Testament promise. Right here in Acts chapter 2, you have the fulfillment of that promise in Acts chapter 1, verse verse 8. He promised that they would have power when the Holy Spirit came. Chapter 2, the Holy Spirit is here. The Holy Spirit is here. In uh uh John uh chapter 14, verse 17, Jesus spoke about the Spirit. Uh he said that the Spirit abides with you and will be in you. In Acts chapter two, this is where the Spirit actually took residence in the believers life. So here you have the believers, this church that's filled with the Spirit of God, and all who belong to Christ have the same Holy Spirit. Everybody who called themselves a believer has the same Holy Spirit, the same power that was at work in the lives of these 120 that were gathered there in the upper room is the same Holy Spirit that resides in our lives today if we trust in Jesus Christ. Nothing different. Then in uh chapter uh uh two, verses fourteen to fourteen, you have the powerful preaching of the word of God that uh filled the church out. It's the preaching of uh the word of God that's emphasized over and over again in this section. If you look at verse fourteen, it says, But Peter taking a stand with the eleven, raised his voice and declared To them, men of Judea and all you who live in Jerusalem, let this be known to you and give heed to my words. Give heed to my words. Look at verse 22. It says, Men of Israel, listen to these words. Verse 40. And with many other words he solemnly testified and kept on exhorting them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. And then in verse 41, so then those who had received his word, it's the preaching of the word of God that filled the church out. It filled the church out. So they relied on the Spirit of God. The Spirit came with power. They relied on the Word of God. It was the Word that they relied on to fill this church out. And then in verses 41 to 47 , the church is flowing over So you have the church filled up, the church filled out, and now the church is flowing flowing over uh throughout the rest of this chapter here. And uh this is where we want to spend the rest of our time. Our focus will be on verses 41 and 42. But we'll read uh all of the verses just to provide us with the with the context here. Uh Acts chapter two, starting at verse forty-one. It says, So then those who had received his word were baptized. And that day there were added about three thousand souls. They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Everyone kept feeling a sense of awe, and many wonders and signs were taking place through the apostles. And all those who had believed were together and had all things in common. And they began selling their property and possessions, and were sharing them with all as anyone might have need, day by day continuing with one mind in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house They were taking their meals together and with gladness and sincerity of heart, praising God and having favor with all the people, and the Lord was adding to their number day by day those who were being saved. Let's pray for a minute. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage. Father, I pray that you would speak to our hearts and that you would use me to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen Before we comment on this section, it's important that we understand how narratives function in the Bible. Not everything that you read in a narrative is meant to be practiced. There there are some things uh that are descriptive and some things that are prescriptive. Uh and I think this is where some of our uh Pentecostal and Charismatic friends Um misread and misunderstand the the scriptures? Because there's certain events that are described in the Bible that are not repeatable Certain events that are described in the Bible are not repeatable. For instance, the day of Pentecost was never meant to be a repeated event Either you were there or you weren't, right? It's not meant to be uh an event that's repeated throughout all of history. And an easy way to point that out for someone is the command that Jesus gave in uh Acts chapter 1 and verse 4. Look at what he said He says, gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what the Father had promised, which he said, You heard of from me. So the question is, if you desire to receive the Holy Spirit today, do you have to get a ticket, book a flight to Jerusalem, and wait for it, like Jesus commanded? It's bound by history, right? I mean this is just really easy, right? It's bound by history. There's a certain group of disciples that were to wait at Jerusalem. Until the Holy Spirit came, that's not meant for everybody in every age to go to Jerusalem to receive the Spirit. Okay? Certain things are are not repeatable. of the New Testament church. There's there's something unique about this day when the the Holy Spirit came. And uh some people may want to call themselves uh Pentecostal believers, but there is no group after Pentecost that matches this experience. Okay? There's no other group after Pentecost that matches this experience. You don't have a violent Rushing wind that fills the house where you're we're sitting. There's there's no tongues of fire distributing themselves like we find here. uh and the tongues that people claim to speak today are not the dialects that can actually be translated. You had those different uh uh people groups that were there that understood the language in their their own tongue. They say how how are how are we hearing all these phrases of God in our own language? It was a real language. A real language, right? That's what what tongues were. What people are doing today is not the same as this. So, whatever you might want to call yourself, you're not matching this experience of Pentecost. In addition to certain events being non-repeatable, there are also certain events that are not mandatory Certain events that are not mandatory. We read about the members of the early church. If uh you look down there again at uh chapter uh two verses 44 again and 45. It says, And all those who had belief were together and had all things in common, and they began selling their property and possessions, and were sharing them with all as any one might have need. That's a wonderful, wonderful example, right? But that was not a practice that was binding on the whole church It was not binding on the entire church. A little later in Acts chapter 5, we read that there was a man named Ananias who sold his property, but he kept back part of the price for himself. Remember that? Look at Acts chapter 5, real quick. Acts chapter 5. I'll start at verse 1. It says, But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sophia , sold a piece of property and kept back some of the price for himself with his wife's full knowledge. And bringing a portion of it, he laid it at the apostle's feet. But Peter said to Ananias, Why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit? Great, great text to show that the Holy Spirit is God coming up here Why I say and filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back some of the price of the land. While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? Why is it that you have conceived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men, but to God. So who is the Holy Spirit? God, right? But he says right here, he says, While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not under your control? You had the right to do whatever you wanted to do with the money. It was not a binding command on the entire church to sell everything that you have and distribute it. That was not a binding command on the church. It was an example that we find. But it was not a binding uh command for the rest of the church. It was not mandatory that that's what they do, right? Ananias was not obligated to sell his property and to give the the money. And Peter right here what he's uh uh doing is he's saying it's it was under your control. There was no command to do this. What what he did that was wrong was he lied about it. He lied about it, he wanted to get some glory for himself. He wanted to uh to get the the same kind of uh attraction to to himself and to his good deeds that uh that he thought Barnabas was getting in the in the chapter uh before in chapter four. But anyway, we will find that that some things in the scripture they're they're not mandatory. Some examples that we find in Scripture are not mandatory. And this is important to keep in mind, especially as you go throughout the book of Acts, because sometimes people will make commands out of examples. They'll they'll make doctrines out of descriptions. You know, w where the Bible just describes what happened. Uh and that's a dangerous practice in where some people drift into error. But there are some portions of the book of Acts that are permanent for the entire church. And Acts chapter two, verses uh forty-one and forty-two is one of those sections because in the section we learn about something that the church continually devoted itself to. This is something that the church continually devoted itself to. This is not something that they practiced for a period of time and then stopped. But rather what they continually devoted themselves to. That word devote that's used in chapter two again, in uh chapter two verse Verse uh forty-two, it says they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Uh that word for devote is the Greek word praskar. It means to adhere to. To persist in. It's a compound word which actually strengthens the force of the word. Cardareo by itself would have meant to uh be devoted to. When you add the prefix on it, pras cartereo, it means an extreme devotion. They were extremely devoted to these things. It's like, you know, cartereo would have been the glue, you know, pras cartereo would have been like the the super glue, like the liquid nails, cement, you know, locked in. This is what they continued to practice. And when this word is used towards people, it has the idea of being loyal to somebody. When it's used of an activity, it has the idea of being busily engaged or diligently occupied. This was their constant occupation. This is what they continued to do. The early church was busily engaged and diligently occupied with these things. And there were uh practices that marked out the church, and they should be the same practices that mark us out as a as a church as as well. There are five commitments that are marked out by the uh early church. One was the initial practice that upon conversion and there was four that that followed. And I'll list them for you here. They had a commitment to baptizing believers. A commitment to biblical preaching, a commitment to regular fellowship, a commitment to observing the Lord's Supper, and a commitment to corporate prayer. And uh again, this is uh one of those sections like a said that just uh There's so much that you could say about this, but uh we're we're just gonna try to hit the hit the highlights today. First of all, the church had a commitment Look at verse um 41 again. It says, So then those who had received his word were baptized. And that day there were added about three thousand souls. On the the day of Pentecost, there would have been multiple thousands of people gathered on the on the day of Pentecost uh in Jerusalem. Pentecost was one of the three uh pilgrimage festivals that uh uh uh the Jewish people had according to uh Exodus chapter uh twenty-three seventeen uh chapter thirty four verses twenty-three and twenty-four and uh Deuteronomy sixteen All the men of Jerusalem of the Jewish faith were to appear before the Lord three times a year. Three times a year. In uh Deuteronomy 16, verse 16, it says, Three times in a year all your males shall appear before the Lord. your God in the place which He chooses. At the feast of unleavened bread and at the Feast of Weeks and at the Feast of Booths, they shall not appear before the Lord empty handed. And Pentecost is a another word for the feast of weeks. So this is the time when when all the Jewish males were supposed to present themselves At Jerusalem. And during this festival, Peter indicted the whole group and uh basically told them that they were responsible for killing their own Messiah. Talks to this group of multiple thousands of people and says that the Jew you are responsible for the death of Messiah. And there was this uh corporate solidarity that they felt There was this personal responsibility that they had. That they they they sensed this guilt for what was was done. Look at uh verse 37 in uh chapter 2. He says, now when they heard this, after Peter talks about in verse 36, let all the house of Israel know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified. Verse 37, it says, Now when they heard this, they were pierced to the heart. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what shall we do? That word for pierced to the heart, it literally means to be stabbed. They they felt this intense, deep pain and agony over what they were responsible for. They said we've we've killed the Messiah, and this is really the first step to salvation, isn't it? Feel feeling a sense of conviction, taking responsibility, not just saying that's somebody else's problem. This is this is me. This is me And Peter's response here is to repent and be baptized, he says in verse 38. If they they truly believe this message, if you're truly convicted about your sin. The response is to repent and to make a public confession of that repentance and a commitment to baptism. Baptism was the way that believers made their faith public. It was an outward sign of an inward commitment. To be baptized was to be advertised. To be baptized was to be advertised. This is the way that they would make themselves uh public. Uh it was said that uh uh this is what I believe and I want to confess it publicly. I want everybody to to know about this. Uh if there was no commitment to the message There would be no need for the the ceremony, right? Why why go through baptism if you you haven't made a commitment to the to the message, that you haven't actually believed in uh the message that that Peter Peter gave? Because it wouldn't symbolize anything. It's not symbolizing a commitment to anything. It's just getting wet. It's not not actually symbolizing uh anything. So uh in this way it kind of uh is similar to John the the Baptist when John baptized people he expected evidence that people actually believed his message In Matthew chapter 3, verses 7 and 8, it says, But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, you snakes! Who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? What are you doing here? Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. You want to be baptized? You want to make this public show? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. Do you actually believe the message that I'm proclaiming? John the Baptist proclaimed a message of repentance. He says, Do you actually believe what I'm telling you? In a similar way for those who took on this Christian baptism, it was those who received the word of God. Did they actually receive the word that Peter Peter gave at Pentecost? And those who received the Word of God, it's those people who were baptized. Verse 41. So then those who had received his word were baptized. That phrase, those who received the word, is actually a synonym that's used throughout the book of Acts for uh trusting in the gospel. Those people who were saved from the penalty of their sins were those who received the Word. Just for an example, in Acts chapter 8, verse 14, the Samaritans received the word of God. This is now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent them Peter and John. What does it mean to receive the Word of God if you were to look back in verse 12 it says, But when they believed Philip preaching the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were being baptized, men and women alike. So what does it mean to receive the word of God? They believed the good news that was preached, and they were baptized as an appropriate response to that. I have another example in Acts chapter eleven. Acts chapter 11, where it says that the Gentiles received the Word of God. Acts chapter 11, verse 1, it says, now the apostles and the brethren who are throughout Judea Heard that the Gentiles also had received the Word of God. And what does that mean? Back in Acts chapter 10, why don't you turn to it real quick? I think this is an important passage to look at. Acts chapter 10. Look at verse uh forty-four. Verse 44. It says, while Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon those who were listening to the message. All the circumcised believers who came with Peter were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also, for they were hearing them speaking with tongues and exalting God, and Peter answered. Surely no one can refuse water for these to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we did, can he? And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. And then he asked him to stay on for a few days. So what what is this receiving of the word of God? It's it's men being saved. The Gentiles were saved. They didn't have to become Jews first in order to become saved. They were saved as Gentiles, as uncircumcised Gentiles. They received the Word of God, born again, received the Holy Spirit. And then Peter says, Well, we can't refuse water for these who've received the Spirit just as we have They have a genuine profession of faith. Let's receive them into the church. And that's what baptism would symbolize. And even when the Bible speaks of uh household baptisms in Acts chapter 16 You have the story of the Philippian jailer there in Acts chapter 16, and it says that his whole household was baptized. But in uh chapter 16, verse 32. It says this, and they spoke the word of the Lord to him together with all who were in his house. Meaning what? They received the word of God first prior to baptism. So to be baptized was the church's affirmation that a person's profession of faith was believable. Baptism signified that you were accepted into a body, and this is made even more clear by what follows in Acts chapter 2. um when it talks about the uh the results of uh of of those that that received uh the word of God, because those that received the word of God and were baptized were also the same people that were continually devoting themselves to the rest of what we find in uh verse forty two. When it talks about them being added in uh verse forty one, in that day there were added about three thousand souls. The question is added to what, right? It's added to this group of 120. They're added to the to the church, this gathered body of believers. They're considered part of this body now. And there were multiple thousands of people that heard the message, right? But only a select few of those numbers actually came to faith and were added to the church. It wasn't just the fact that you heard the message that you're added to the church. Not just that you're present, that you're added to the church. They actually submitted themselves to baptism to be added to the church here. So here you have the Great Commission in practice, making disciples and baptizing them. So you have this first of all that they were committed to baptizing believers. Next, the church was also committed to biblical preaching. To biblical preaching. Look at verse 42. So as they were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching. And it's instructive to note that Peter presented the crowd gathered at Pentecost with a biblical exposition. Basically, what he did is he went through scripture. In Acts chapter 2, verses 17 to 21, he quotes from the book of Joel and says that the events that you're seeing here today is that. This is the fulfillment of that. He's explaining Joel. In Acts chapter 2, verses 25 to 28, he quotes from Psalm 16, and he points to the resurrection of Jesus Christ as the fulfillment of that passage. In uh Acts chapter uh in uh uh Psalm 16 it talked about uh uh uh the person there that was uh being referenced, you know, that his soul wouldn't undergo decay. And he says, that can't be talking about David. Because David's tomb is still with us to this day. He's dead and gone. This is reference to the Christ. And he goes on to explain how this is Jesus Christ. So he's giving them a biblical message. It's biblical preaching. And throughout the book of Acts, you have numerous examples of how the apostles use the Old Testament to point people to Jesus Christ. And uh uh Peter, he he did the the he did that in uh Acts chapter two, all the way through uh chapter five. Yeah, Stephen in Acts chapter uh six and seven, he does the same thing. He goes through scripture. Yeah, Philip. uh who reasoned from the scriptures in Acts chapter 8. You have Paul who reasons from the scriptures in Acts chapter 9. And those gathered here in Jerusalem would have heard the Bible. They would have heard explanation of the Bible, and uh in addition to that they would have heard about the the words and works of Jesus Christ Through the apostles in fulfillment of the Lord's command, Christ commanded them to teach all things that I've commanded you. They would have done that very thing with these people, these people that were gathered here. These thousands of people who just realized that they had killed the Messiah. At this point they couldn't get enough about Messiah. They would want to hear everything that they could about Messiah. They couldn't hear enough about Jesus. at this point. And they were devoted to the teaching, the apostles' teaching. I mean can you can you imagine being a believer and being personally discipled by somebody who spent three years with Jesus Christ? I mean, just to sit there and like, you know, just tell me more about him, right? Tell me what did he say? In Jerusalem, you had people that would have been discipled by people who heard his teaching. Who saw his miracles, who heard him pray, who witnessed his resurrection appearances, they ate with him, they walked with him, they lived with him, they slept with him. I mean, yeah, people firsthand experience of Jesus Christ, who are now telling this this group of thousands, this is who Jesus was. Let me tell you about Jesus Christ. These people were being discipled. In Jerusalem, they would have been discipled by these people. I mean, it's no wonder they didn't want to leave. I mean, these people were coming from out of town to gather at Jerusalem. Now they didn't want to go anywhere. They don't want to go home. So you have these thousands of people that stay here at Jerusalem. They would have heard about the Sermon on the Mount, discourses on discipleship, the parables of Christ, the Olive Discourse. They would have committed themselves to all that teaching. Just tell me more about Jesus Christ. There was no other way to receive the apostles' teaching unless they were actually hearing from an apostle. Remember, at this time, you don't have a written revelation. You don't even have the first gospel written at this point The only way these people are going to be committed to the Apostles' teaching is that they're going to hear the Apostles' teaching, right? So all they wanted to do was hear more about Christ. They wanted to stay where they were. And for us today, there's no other way to be committed to the Apostles' teaching without listening to the Scriptures Listen to the scriptures. That's how we're commit ourselves to the apostles' teaching. Because despite what people say, there are no modern-day apostles. There are no modern day apostles. The biblical apostles were personally and directly commissioned by Jesus Christ himself. There were people who had eye witnessed witnessed with their own eyes the resurrected Christ, eyewitnesses of the resurrected Christ. They could produce verifiable miracles, not like you know legs growing like people doing today. They were around in the first century to be the foundation of the church, the biblical apostles. And they also could not be chosen after the apostle Paul because in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 8, he says, I'm the last one. I was the last one. I'm one who's untimely born. I'm out of place, but I'm the last. You don't have any more apostles. No more modern day apostles. So uh if you're going to be committed to the apostles' teaching, you have to be committed to the apostles' words that they wrote in Scripture. And unfortunately, that's not what many people want to devote themselves to today. They don't want to devote themselves uh to scriptures. Today there are people that are devoted to the signs, they're devoted to the healings, they're devoted to new revelations, they're devoted to the miracles. I think uh James Montgomery Boyce was insightful at this point. He said this. He says, it could it could have been a temptation for the early believers to look back to Pentecost and focus on the past. They might have remembered the way the Holy Spirit came and how he used them to speak so that those in Jerusalem each heard them in his or her own language. They might have longed to experience something like that again. They might have been praying, please Lord, do something miraculous again This is not what we find. They are not reveling in their past experiences. Instead, we find them reveling in the Word of God Committed to the apostles' teaching. And then he says, I suggest that this is always the first mark of a spirit-filled church. We don't need a Maryland miracle crusade. That's not what we're looking for. That's not what we're devoted to. We're not devoted to some miracle crusade. That's not what a faithful church is committed to. A faithful church is committed to biblical preaching. That's what it says. That's what they were devoted to. They were devoted to faithful biblical preaching. And it's amazing that in the circles where these healings and miracles are emphasized, that the teaching of the Word of God is de-emphasized. It's deemphasized. And I always wonder, it's like, you know, if God is like, you know, doing all this miraculous revelation and signs and everything else, wouldn't he let them know that they got the scriptures wrong? It's like why do you have all this misinterpretation and misapplication of scripture in these circles that are you know the most spirit-filled supposedly? Why is that? It's a lack of biblical preaching It's an indication that it's not a faithful church. So a faithful church will be devoted to baptizing believers, biblical preaching, and third, regular fellowship, regular Fellowship. Verse 42 again. They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship. That's uh the Greek word koinonia. It means a fellowship. an association, a community, a joint participation. It was a word used in secular Greek for uh for the closest relationships that you would have. It was used for uh the relationship in marriage. It was used of the relationship between family members. This was koinonia. Uh its basic meaning had had to do with uh uh that which you have in common, that's that which you share together. And uh for this early church, the salvation that they just received Would have joined them together in a way that they never would have been joined together before, right? It's more than just being, you know, we're all Jewish. Now now they're joined together at a at a deeper level. They share a common life with God. They share a common life with each other. And I'm not sure if you uh you ever thought about how incredible it is that we would be said to have fellowship with the triune God. That we have have like this common bond between us and the Creator. We share a common life in the Spirit. There's a fellowship in the Spirit that we have in 2 Corinthians 13, 14. It says the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all. We have a fellowship with the Holy Spirit. We share a fellowship with Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 1. 9. It says God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with his Son. Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus Christ is actually called our life. You know that when we look at Christ, we're looking at this this is our life. And then in uh first John chapter 1, uh verse 3, why don't you turn over there real quick? 1 John chapter 1, you have uh the apostle John who would have been here on the day of Pentecost when Peter's giving the sermon. Yeah, the Apostle John in chapter 1 and verse 3 saying this, it says, What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also. Why? So that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. That this message we proclaim to you so that you can have the same fellowship that we have. We we have a fellowship with God. We have something in common with God. Can you imagine that? To be able to say we have something in common with God. We have a fellowship with God. The triune God has invited us to enter into a union with Him Himself. We have fellowship with him. And as diverse as we might be, the most important thing is what we share in common, our spiritual life that we share in common. The same God that I call Father, who elected me, who gave me life, is the same God that you call Father, who elected you and gave you life The same Christ that I call Lord, who died for me, I'm now a member of his body. The same Christ that you call Lord. He died for you, and you're a member of his body. The same Spirit who indwells me, sanctifies me, seals me until the day of redemption, the same spirit that indwells you, sanctifies you, and seals you until the day of redemption. That's much deeper than we just come from the same place. Right? Or we have the we we all wear purple on Friday, right? That's that's much deeper than that, right? I remember uh the the day after uh 9-11 there was this like you know sense of unity that I had with with other people. You know, like you're walking around, you're just like, you know, I'm American, you know? You all stick together. We gotta stick together here. That lasted about two days. It lasts about two days. Everybody's nice for for a little while. You know, like the the first Sunday after nine eleven, everybody's in church and you know holding hands and you know praying together. That that lasts for about a week or two. There's a much deeper level of unity that we have with believers. We're part of the same family. We share the same life. We call the same God Father. Something much deeper about the unity that we had. So it's no wonder that um back in Acts chapter 2 that they shared their possessions with one another. It's like what I have is it's it's it's yours. If you need it, you can have it. You know, I'm not holding hoarding anything to myself. We're awful family here. If if you need it, it's yours. It's not my stuff. It's it's it's our stuff. That's that's how they they looked at the the belongings uh that they had. It says and all those who believed were together and had all things in common. They began selling their property, possessions, were sharing them with all as anyone might have need. This wasn't forced on anybody. It wasn't like communism or socialism. This was a free and voluntary sharing. We just want to share what we have. And we're commanded in a similar way to share what we have too, right? Hebrews chapter 13, verse 16, it says, and do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. And not only did they they share together, but they also gathered together. They gathered together. Look at verse 46 back in Acts chapter It says, day by day, continuing with one another, with one mind in the in the temple. Day by day, continuing with one mind in the temple. There's no way that you can convince me that you're devoted to the fellowship if you're not devoted to gathering with the fellowship. How d how does that work? You know, I'm devoted to the fellowship. I'm just not I'll just I'm just not gonna join with you guys. I won't gather with you guys, but I'm devoted It doesn't work. How can you be devoted to the fellowship unless you're devoted to also gathering together? And there 's people that uh imagine that they're devoted to the church, but they don't gather with the church. You know what what's that? You know, people want to say they they love the head but they can't stand the body. You know, I love the head, Jesus Christ, but I I don't really care for the body. I love the groom, just can't stand the bride. It won't work with me, it doesn't work with Christ. Right? Christ is connected to his church, so to love Christ means that you have to love his church. You have to love his church. When the church began, it met daily, it gathered together. Continuing with with one mind. After they departed from Jerusalem, the habit was to meet on the first day of the week. So they went from meeting every day to meeting on the first day of the week in Acts chapter 20, verse 7. On the first day of the week when we were gathered together. talks about and and talks about here that they broke bread together. Together they broke bread. In uh first Corinthians sixteen two it says on the first day of every week each one of you is to put aside and save as he may prosper. They actually took offerings on the first day of the week. Why did they meet on the first day? Because in uh John chapter uh John chapter twenty verse one it says, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came early to the tomb while it was still dark, and saw the stone already taken away from the tomb. Or are they remembering? Jesus Christ is alive. Jesus Christ is alive. That's why we met on the first day of the week. Jesus Christ is alive. They didn't want to forget that. In fact, John gave the first day of the week a new name. He called it the Lord's Day. Because it's the day that the Lord rose again, and it's also the day that he met with his disciples after his resurrection. So a growing church will be committed to regular fellowship. To regular fellowship, and a growing Christian will be part of a regular fellowship. That's how how we're we're uh instructed to grow here. In uh Hebrews chapter ten, it says not to forsake the assembling of ourselves. So a faithful church is committed to baptizing believers, biblical preaching, regular fellowship, and uh fourth, observing the Lord's Supper. I found it interesting that that uh phrase uh breaking of bread, to to break bread, it's only used a few times in scripture. Uh it's not the common term for just like your normal meal. That's not what they used break bread for. It was used in uh Matthew 26, 26, Mark 14, 22, Luke 22, 19, all in the context of the The Lord's Supper, the Last Supper. Then it's used in uh 1 Corinthians 10 16. Again it says, Is not the cup of blessing which we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread which we break a sharing in the body of Christ? The the breaking of the bread? Used here for the Lord's Supper. It's when it's used in uh in Acts chapter 2 with this uh definite article, the breaking of the bread, the the Lord's Supper is what uh what's in mind here. Uh It's been called the Mass, which uh isn't found in the scriptures at all. That's uh a word that was used by the Roman Catholic Church for you know dismissing people after the Mass. Some call it the Eucharist, which is just a word for thanksgiving. You know, we give thanksgiving to God. Some people call it communion, which just means that we share something in common together as a body. Uh but one designation that I like is the the Lord's table. It reminds us that it's the the Lord who invites us to the table. It's the Lord who invites us to come and partake. And uh the early church would have been devoted to that time. Devoted to it The question is, is that how we would see our own commitment to the Lord's table? Could we say that we're we're devoted to it? I'm devoted to communion. Devoted to it. Those that gathered here in Acts 2, they, like I said, they realized they had just crucified their Messiah, and now they wanted everything that they could do to remember the Messiah. They wanted every possible means to remember the Messiah. They wanted to remember his death. They wanted to remember his sacrifice. And that should be something that we're Diligent, devoted, continually to do, that we want to remember, we want to reflect on Jesus Christ. I like how uh Steve Watson put it, he said, uh the Lord's table is a time to look backward. It's a cause for reflection on the death of Christ. It's a time to look upward, give thanks to God. It's a time to look inward. to examine ourselves. It's a time to look forward in anticipation of his coming again. And I added this one, it's a time to look outward. Uh for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes, proclaiming it uh to the world around. So we look backward, upward, inward, forward, outward, and a faithful church will be committed And then uh lastly, the church is also uh committed to corporate prayer. Corporate prayer. They're continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching, to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. And when it says they were devoted to prayer, it's not just talking about like prayer in general. There's a specific kind of prayer that's referred to here. It's uh the definite articles used in the Greek, which says there's specif specific prayers that are being referred to, and it's also prayers in the plural to the prayer that are devoted to the prayers. And uh from the context, it's clear that it's corporate prayer that they're talking about. Not just, you know, prayer in your closet, it's prayer in a corporate uh setting. It's just like you know uh the uh breaking of bread wasn't a private act, you know, receiving the apostles' teaching wasn't a private act. These were all corporate expressions of the church, and uh uh the early church committed itself to praying together. Uh on the day of Pentecost, 120 were in the upper room praying. In Acts 4, we have the example of the church gathered together, they're praying. In Acts chapter 12, the church is gathered together and they're praying for the release of Peter, and Peter is released there. What makes corporate prayer different than private prayer? I don't know. What would make it different? I mean, does good does God hear you more because you pray with other people instead of praying by yourself? We don't know, but what we do know is that that God desires us to get together and pray. That that He is pleased when His people gather together and pray, you know, collectively as a group. It's a Christian's Declaration of Dependence. We're declaring our dependence on God when we pray. We're acknowledging that we're insufficient for the task before us. To make disciples of all the nations is so far beyond our own strength that it's ridiculous. I mean how how in the world do we think we could actually make disciples of of all nations? There's no way that that could come from us So in prayer we acknowledge our limitation, our weakness, our insufficiency. And that's what we desire to do here at BBC every morning. We gather together to pray before the service starts. We open up our time in the morning with the word of prayer. You know, when I'm up here during the service and I'm praying, I'm not just doing that alone. I'm hoping that you're with me. Even though it's a little hot in here, you guys might be like fading out. Right. I'm hoping that you're with me. You know when we're praying together. It's like this this is we're we're joining together in prayer. We should be joining our hearts together in prayer. And then there's times when we break up in various groups during the week for for prayer. This is something that we should be devoted to as a church In prayer, we're invited by the Father, enabled by the Son, and assisted by the Holy Spirit. So this is this is what the church was committed to. This is what the church was committed to, and it's what we should be committed to. Faithful Church is committed to baptizing believers, biblical preaching, regular fellowship, observing the Lord's Supper, and joining together in corporate prayer. That's what we should be devoted to. So if you want to know how the early church grew, This is it. If you want to know how the early church extended its ministry, this is it. If you want to know how the early church expanded, this this this is the this is the key right here. for what the the church did, what they were committed to. And if we as a church expect to do effective ministry, we'll have to be committed to the same things. Th there's no way that we can expect that as a church we're going to uh experience an effective ministry if This kind of devotion isn't central to who we are. And in each of these, it's apparent that Christ is the center. Just follow me real quick. Baptism is a public proclamation of my commitment to who? To Jesus Christ. Biblical preaching is what exalts the person and the work of Jesus Christ. Regular fellowship is the way that I demonstrate love to the body of Christ. The Lord's Supper focuses my attention on Christ, and prayer acknowledges my dependence on Christ. Christ is central, central to everything that we do. These practices are important because of what they communicate about the importance of the Savior. They communicate the importance of Jesus Christ. And without Christ, everything else is meaningless. If baptism, if you just get baptized without a commitment to Christ, what is it? It's a bath, right? It's a bath. It's meaningless. The Lord's Supper without attention to Christ, it's a meal. Prayer can be meaningless. It could be vain repetition if we're not reflecting a dependence on Jesus Christ. And even gathering together on a Sunday and hearing the word can be made uneffective if it's not coupled with a humble, dependent heart on Jesus Christ. And I pray that the Lord would spare our church from meaningless and empty practices. And that what we would do is to center the ministry that we have on focusing on Jesus Christ. He's the head of the church, and it's Jesus Christ that we praise and give honor to. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you so much for uh this passage. Uh we pray that You would help us as a church to be faithful in our practice. Father, that we wouldn't get caught up in all the vain traditions of men. That we wouldn't even get caught up in biblical traditions if they're not with the right heart and attitude. Father, I pray that everything that we do, that it would center on the Savior. Father, may you be glorified. May your son be glorified. May the Spirit be glorified in the church because we're faithful to obey your word May we exalt our head, Jesus Christ, in all that we do. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on Duplicat and all digital files