The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles and uh open with me to Luke chapter 8? Luke chapter 8 In our text for today, we're going to consider two fathers. So this is a Father's Day message. And in our text for today, we're going to consider two fathers. Now we're going to consider one father who has a daughter by birth and another father who has a daughter by faith. There's a number of similarities between these two daughters. Both of them were in desperate need of a miracle. One of them is bound by a disease, was bound by a disease for twelve years, and the other succumbs to her disease after twelve years of life. Both of them are in an unclean state, one of them because of her disease, and the other because of her death. Both of them come into contact with Jesus. One of them reaches out to touch Jesus. And the other one, Jesus, reaches out to touch her. Both of them receive an immediate restoration after coming into contact with Jesus. One of them receives the healing, and the other one receives the resurrection. And in both miracles, there's a recognition of faith. There is in one case an example of strong and persistent faith, and in the other case, an example of weak and discouraged faith And in both miracles, there is a recognition of who Jesus is, and people fall at Jesus' feet. And there's an important lesson for us to learn in both of these accounts, both of these miracle accounts, but there's also significant differences between these two miracles. One miracle is for an outcast in society, and the other miracle is for someone that or at least the daughter of someone who is well respected in society. Jesus brings one of these miracles out into the light and wants it to be confessed publicly, but the other miracle Jesus wants to remain a secret. And for one of these miracles, Jesus agreed to perform it, and in the other case The person who received the miracle never asked for permission for it. One of the interesting stories that we have in Scripture, but they still were able to receive this miracle by faith. There's a lot to unpack here. But I don't want you to miss the big picture and what we're about to read. Because in both of these miracles we're drawn back to the identity of who Jesus Christ was. The one who has authority over disease and over death. And the miracles that Jesus performed were like signposts that pointed you to who he was. The point of a sign is not the sign itself. The point of a sign is what that sign is pointing to. And these miracles were like signposts that pointed to the identity of Jesus Christ. Jesus did not come to earth just to be a miracle worker. That's not why he came to earth. Jesus did not empty every grave and heal every disease. Everybody who brushed against Jesus' cloak did not receive a healing. And eventually, these daughters who were both healed both eventually died again on another day Because neither one of these ladies is still here today. These ladies died. They eventually died from something, whether it was a disease or an accident or some threat that took their life. Which is proof that both of these ladies needed more than just a physical healing. And if you're here today, you need more than just a physical healing. And if you walk away from this story, just with the understanding that Jesus can heal the sick and raise the dead, you've missed the main point. Because the main point of this passage is not the miracle. The main point of this passage is Jesus. And miracles are just the signposts that direct us to Jesus. And Jesus is more than just a savior from disease. He's a savior from our sins. Amen. He's come to save us from our sins. And the one who can restore physical life is also the one who can grant eternal life. And that's what we need to see in this text. So this is where we'll be Luke chapter 8, and uh we'll start at verse 40. Luke chapter 8, starting at verse 40. It says, and as Jesus returned, the people welcomed him, for they had all been waiting for him. And there came a man named Jairus. And he was an official of the synagogue. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you today, Lord, as we always do. Lord, asking for your help, Lord, we know that we need you. Every hour we need you. And Father, I pray that as we open up your word, that you would speak to us from this text, Father, I pray that you would help us to see Jesus even more clearly today. Father, I pray for the fathers among us to be encouraged by this text and for all of us to learn as we look at the identity of Jesus Christ, as we're uh focus our attention on him, as we fix our eyes upon Jesus. Now, Father, I pray that you would speak to us, encourage us, and Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This text presents us with the contrast with what comes before it. Verse 40 it says, and as Jesus returned, which points us back to the previous context of, you know, where was he returning from? Because just before this account, we read in verse 26 that Jesus was in the country of the Garasenes, which is opposite Galilee, in a town called Gedara. And if you remember what happened in the country of the Garrisones, Jesus cast out a legion of demons from a man who lived among the tombs. This was the man who was violent. Nobody was able to bind him even with chains. In Mark chapter 5 and verse 4, a parallel account it says that he had often been bound with shackles and chains. And the chains had been torn apart by him, and the shackles broken into pieces, and no one was strong enough to subdue him Matthew Matthew 8 and verse 28, we learn that he was so extremely violent that nobody could pass by that way. He was tormented in Mark chapter 5 and verse 5. Jesus constantly, night and day. He was screaming among the tombs and in the mountains, and gashing himself with stones. And on top of that, he was naked. twenty seven it says he had not put on any clothing for a long time and was not living in a house but in the tombs. And according to Matthew, there were two of these men. This is like a straight out of a horror film, right? But when he sees Jesus, he falls down before him, completely subdued. They couldn't hold him, bind him with chains, but he sees Jesus, and he's automatically subdued in his presence And Jesus cast the spirits, multiple spirits, a legion of spirits, out of this man. And if you're familiar with the story, which I'm sure you are, Jesus cast the demons into a herd of swine, and they rushed down a steep bank. And committed suicide. I'm glad that you guys got that. I'm glad that you guys got that And they all drowned themselves. Luke 8 and verse 33. But look at the response to Jesus after this miracle. Look at Luke chapter 8 and verse 36. It says, Those who have seen it reported to them how the man who was demon-possessed had been made well. And all the people of the country of the Garosenes and the surrounding district asked him to leave them. For they were gripped with great fear, and he got into a boat and returned. Imagine that. Jesus cast the spirits out of this man. This man who was fearful, naked, tormenting everybody who came past, and after Jesus cast the spirits out, instead of Asking Jesus, please stay among us. They asked Jesus to leave. Jesus, can you leave us? They would rather, listen to this, they would rather hold on to their demons than receive Jesus. And isn't it the same thing today? That there are people who would rather hold on to their demons than receive Jesus. They would rather hold on to their drug abuse or their alcohol abuse or their sexual sins. They'd rather hold on to their demons than receive Jesus Christ. This man was naked, violent, tormented, a horror flick. They'd rather have him than allow Jesus to come in and take control. And what a sad day when people beg Jesus to lead them. What a sad day that is. So Jesus gets into a boat and he returns to his hometown, which is the town of Capernaum on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. And in Galilee, there's a different response to Jesus' ministry. Luke chapter 8 and verse 40 it says, and as Jesus returned, the people welcomed him, for they had all been waiting for him. We're waiting for Jesus. But that doesn't necessarily mean that they all were waiting for Jesus for the right reasons. Later on, Jesus would rebuke the city of Capernaum because they saw the mighty works of God and they refused to do what? They didn't what repent. They saw all the mighty works. We're welcoming Jesus. We want Jesus here. We want Jesus to stay because we don't like our doctor bills. Jesus can heal us of our diseases. Why wouldn't we want him to stay stay around? But Jesus says in Matthew 11, 23, if the miracles had occurred in Sodom, which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day. Here I am doing these miracles, but yet you're still not repenting. But at least they appreciate what the presence of Jesus meant for their city. So they were all waiting for Jesus. They welcomed Jesus And Jesus is approached as he's in Capernaum by a very important official. And this is where Jairus pleads for his child. Take a look at verses 41 and 42. It says, and there came a man named Jairus, and he was an official of the synagogue, and he fell at Jesus' feet and began to implore him to come to his house, for he had an only daughter about twelve years old, and she was dying. Jairus was an official of the synagogue. This is a different position than the scribes and the Pharisees. Jairus wasn't the primary teacher in the synagogue. He was But he was responsible for the oversight of the synagogue. So he would, you know, schedule the teachers and oversee the worship and make sure that everything was going according to plan. He made sure that the service was orderly. So this is a man with much respect in the community. He was a major figure in the community. Because the synagogue was like a community center. You know, it wasn't just a place of worship. It was also the center of education. It was the center of the community. It was the center of worship. And Jairus heard that Jesus was in Capernaum, and he rushes to Jesus' feet to plead for his daughter's life. And the desperation is intensified because this is the only child that he has. The word that she used for his daughter, it's the Greek word monogenais, which is the same word that's used for Jesus being the only begotten son of God. This is the only daughter that this father has. And in addition to this child being his only child, she's just entering into the prime of her life, around 12 years old This is when a girl is entering into womanhood, and there's a physical transformation that takes place that prepares uh young women to be wives and mothers, and it seems like all the hopes and dreams that they had as a family With this young girl, we're about to be robbed by her death. So the father cast aside any preservation of self-respect. If he was a secret supporter of Jesus Christ, he's outed. He outs himself. And he comes to Jesus' feet and he falls down before him. He doesn't approach Jesus as Jairus the official, the synagogue official. He approaches Jesus as Jairus the Father. I'm a father who loves my child. I'm desperate to see my child live. He doesn't present his synagogue service as a reason for Jesus to answer his request. It's not that I deserve preferential treatment because I'm a synagogue official. If you remember when the centurion sent messengers to Jesus to ask him to heal his servant. Back in Luke chapter 7, if you want to flip back there in Luke chapter 7, we take a look at verses 3 to 5. 6 about the centurion. It says when he in the same kind of situation, his servant is sick and about to die. And in verse 3 it says when he heard about Jesus, he sent some Jewish elders asking him to come and save the life of his slave. When they came to Jesus, they earnestly implored him, saying, He is worthy for you to grant this to him. He's worthy of it. Why? For he loves our nation, and it was he who built us our synagogue. But now you don't have somebody that just loves the nation and built the synagogue. You have the ruler of the synagogue. But he doesn't offer his position as any reason that he deserves preferential treatment. I don't deserve anything because of who I am It's not a badge of worthiness because I love the nation and I'm part of the synagogue. I mean the centurion says I'm not even worthy for you to come underneath my roof. And here the the synagogue official he says, I'm not worthy because of what I do. If you were to do everything that was required of you, you know who you would be? An unworthy slave. That's who you'd be Luke chapter 17 verse 10 Jesus says so you too when you do all the things which are commanded you say we are unworthy slaves. We have done only that which we ought to have done. I'm not doing anything above and beyond. I'm not like storing away some treasury of merits because I've just been so much better than I was required to be. If you did everything that you're supposed to do, you'd still be an unworthy slave. Jaira says, I don't deserve any special treatment. I don't deserve any special treatment because I'm a pastor, because I work in a church, because I put money in the offering, because I serve on the missions field. I'm an unworthy servant, unworthy slave. And Jairus doesn't view himself as having any special privileges because he oversaw the temple, the very same temple that Jesus would have visited, would have attended. He's just an unworthy slave, and he falls at Jesus' feet in an act of humiliation, strips himself of any titles or positions. He comes in desperation as a father, repeatedly pleading and begging for his child Now I want to stop here and just ask you a question, fathers. Fathers, do you plead for your children? Do you come before the Lord on behalf of your children? Not just for their physical healing, but even more importantly, for their spiritual well-being. Do you come before the Lord to plead for your children? I love the words of Samuel as he spoke to Israel, 1 Samuel chapter 12 and verse 23. He says, Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for you. It would be a sin if I stopped praying for you. Fathers, do you pray for your children? Even if God answers your prayers after you die? Are you consistent in praying for your children, even if you don't see the answers to those prayers? You know, Elisha's bones were used to resurrect somebody after Elisha was dead. Read that in 2 Kings 13, 21. Maybe God would even use your prayers after you're dead and gone to resurrect your children, to bring your children life, to do a work in their life. You continue to pray for them. Do not sin against the Lord by ceasing to pray for your children. And Jairus here pleads for his daughter. And Jesus agrees to come to Jairus ' house. Back in Luke chapter 8, take a look at verse 42. It says, but as he went, and this is the end of verse 42, says the crowds were pressing against him. As we already mentioned, Jesus was welcomed in Capernaum of Galilee, and the crowds were pressing against him. The word for pressing is the same word that's used in the parable of the sower in Matthew 13, Mark 4, Luke 8. It was used for the seed that fell among the thorns, if you remember that. And the the seed was choked out and yielded no crop. It's an illustration of those who Hear the word, and because of the worries of the world, because of the deceitfulness of wealth, of riches, they they're choked out. They bear no fruit. And the same idea here is used of Jesus Christ as he's in the middle of this crowd, that the crowd is just so thick around Jesus that it's like it's it's choking the air out of him. He's just being squeezed in the middle of this crowd. They're hemming them in on every side. I remember having an experience like that when I was in Washington, D. C. for the 4th of July. You know, after we watched the fireworks and we took the train, you know, they they said that it's better to take the train. We took the train and I'm just trying to get back to the to the train station. It's just like I can't move anywhere You know, like everybody's coming into the same station as me. Why don't you go to the next station? But everybody's coming to the same station. You can't move forward, backward, side to side. I'm just like squeezed in the middle and eventually I said, Hey, who's touching me? Stop touching me. Ask Jennifer, that's what I said. Who's touching me? Just being pressed in from every side. And that's how Jesus was. He's in the middle of this crowd. Everybody's pressing in around him, squeezing the the air out of him. It's like Jesus is gasping for air in the middle of this crowd. And in the middle of all this, you have this woman. Luke chapter 8, verse 43. It says, in a woman. Who had a hemorrhage for 12 years and could not be healed by anyone. This is a condition that some have suggested was a uterine uterine hemorrhage. Caused continual bleeding , several consequences of her condition. Number one, there was a steady loss of blood that would have resulted in anemia When you have low levels of healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen throughout your body, you're considered anemic. And the symptoms can include fatigue, weakness, shortness of breath. And it's a condition that can also be severe and life-threatening. And here you have this woman with this severe disease. It was a condition that would have cut her off from any religious observance. She would not be able to approach the temple in her condition because she was ceremonially unclean. According to Leviticus 15, verse 25, if a woman has a discharge of blood many days, not at the period of her menstrual impurity Or if she has a discharge beyond that period, all the days of her impure discharge, she shall continue as though in her menstrual impurity she is unclean. And she wouldn't have been allowed to go to the temple in the state. In addition to that, anything that she came into contact with was also considered unclean. Any bed on which she laid down became unclean. Any chair on which she sat became unclean. Any clothes that she wore became unclean. Anyone who touched her or anything that she touched became unclean So there would have been a social isolation as well as this religious and physical affliction. And she had this hemorrhage for 12 years. Can you imagine that? 12 years. And could not be helped by anyone. Over in Mark, in Mark chapter 5, and verse 25 , says a woman who had a hemorrhage for twelve years and had endured much at the hands of the physicians and had spent all that she had and was not helped at all, but rather had grown worse. She spent all of her life earnings trying to get well, and after having spent everything, she didn't become better, she got worse. The physicians did her no good. And some people wonder whether or not Luke left that part out because Luke was a physician. The doctors made her worse. And some of the ways that they treated her condition, according to ancient records One of the ways they treated this condition was by a glass of wine mixed with rubber and alum, which is known as the aluminum potassium sulfate, garden crocuses, which is like a bulb, a plant, and or onions. That's that's the that's the cure. I mean no wonder she wasn't getting any better trying to drink this stuff, right? Sometimes the cure is worse than the disease And in addition to suffering physically, religiously, socially, she was suffering financially because she spent all that she had to live on trying to get well. One textual tradition says that she spent all her life. She's spent all her life. She's literally at the end of her rope. There's nothing else that I can do. And she comes to Jesus. And Spurgeon picks up on that idea and he uses it as a metaphor. And he asks the question, how many of you are going to every other doctor besides Jesus? He says this, have you been to doctor ceremony? He is at this time the fashionable doctor. He has told you that you must attend to forms and rules. He's prescribed you so many prayers, so many services. Ah, many go to him and they persevere in a round of religious observances, but these yield no lasting ease to the conscience. He continues, he says, Have you tried doctor morality? He has a large practice and is a fine old Jewish physician. Be good in outward character, says he, and it will work inwardly and cleanse the heart. A great many persons are supposed to have been cured by him and by his assistant, Doctor Civility. Who is nearly as clever as his master, but I have it on good evidence that neither of them apart, nor even the two of them together, could ever deal with the inward disease. Do what you may, your own doings will not snatch the wounds of the bleeding heart Doctrine mortification also has a select practice, but men are not saved by denying themselves until they first deny their self-righteousness. He says this, how about Dr. Excitement? He has many patients, but his cures seldom outlive the set of the sun. Dr. Feeling It was a much sought after, it was much sought sought after by tender spirits. These try to feel sorrow and remorse, but indeed the way of the cure does not lie in that quarter. Let everything be done that can be done apart from our blessed Lord Jesus. And the sick soul will be not better. You may try human remedies for the space of a lifetime, but sin will remain in power, guilt will cling to the conscience, and the heart will abide as hard as ever. Who are you trying besides Jesus? This woman figured out that nothing else is going to work, and I need Jesus. And this is impressive. In a weakened, anemic condition, she's so determined to get to Jesus that she presses her way through this mob in order to get to him. She wouldn't be moved by this crowd. She actually shouldn't even be in the crowd because she's unclean. She should have been out there crying, unclean, unclean, and everybody's scattering away from her, but she doesn't even say that. Like, I'm going to just come in secretly and get to Jesus. If I can just touch the hem of his garment, I know that I'll be clean. And she does everything that she could to press through in silence. to come behind Jesus within arm's reach of the fringe of his robe, and she touches it, and immediately the hemorrhage stopped. She sensed that the bleeding stopped. She must have been actually bleeding at the same time to know that it stopped bleeding. At the very same time. What an incredible miracle. Here she is, she's she's healed with a touch in an instant the bleeding's ended 12 years gone and she almost got away with it But Jesus stops her in her tracks with these words. Luke 8. 45. Who is the one who touched me? And again, just imagine the scene. I mean, everybody's touching you. You're in a mob here. You're squeezed in from every side. I mean, everybody's pressing against you. On a natural level, everybody's touching you. But what does everybody say? Nope, not me. I'm not the one. Nope, I didn't touch you. Everybody's denying it While they were all denying it, Peter said, Master, the people are crowding and pressing in on you. I mean everybody's denying it, but all you guys touched them. Everybody here touched them. What are you saying you haven't touched them? Master, everybody's touching you. No need to deny it, guys. You know that you're touching them. On a natural level, everybody's touching him. And Peter speaks up and just kind of says what everybody's thinking, as he typically does, right? Just speaks up for everybody. But Jesus says that somebody touched me in a way that nobody else touched me. In this crowd, he was aware that power had gone out from him. And what does that mean? Power has gone out from me. But Jesus was aware when faith was being exercised in him. When power went forth to heal. Jesus knows about that. So he says, Somebody, somebody touched me, somebody did touch me. For I was aware that power had gone out from me. And this woman who wasn't supposed to be in this crowd or touching anybody is finally exposed. Look at verse 47. Verse 47. It says, When the woman saw that she had not escaped notice, she came trembling and fell down before him. I mean, of course she's trembling because she knows she's not supposed to be there. Maybe she thinks Jesus is going to be upset with her because she touched him and defiled him. Maybe she thinks the crowds will be upset because, you know, I had to press through all these people and I defiled everybody in the path. Maybe she thinks Jesus will be upset because she tried to receive a miracle without his permission. I mean who knows what's going through her mind, but she's trembling about this So she comes trembling and fell down before him and declared in the presence of all the people the reason why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed And like I said, this uh she must have been in the process of bleeding to know that it stopped. She's completely healed and she's fearful that she's about to be reprimanded. But how does Jesus respond? He says to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace. Jesus wants to leave her with much more than just a physical healing. More than the physical healing. Like I said, Jesus didn't come just to be a miracle worker. And he wants this woman to know that you have more than just the physical healing. Jesus announced before this entire crowd that this woman gained more than just a clean bill of health. Because her faith, because of her faith, she's been made a daughter of Christ. She's a daughter of Christ. There's nowhere else in scripture where anybody is called a daughter of Christ besides in this text. Daughter of Christ. And obviously she had no physical relationship with Jesus. Again, if this problem started with her cycle back in when she was twelve years old, she might have been in her mid-twenties at this point. If it started later, she might have been just as old as Jesus, if not older than Jesus. So in what way was she a daughter? She was a daughter spiritually. And she was made a daughter by faith alone and Christ alone. Being justified as a gift by his grace. And I'm convinced that salvation came to her heart. And she's being recognized before everybody as a daughter of Jesus Christ. And she didn't have to walk away in shame over the secret miracle. She didn't have to leave with any of the stigma of her previous condition. Whatever was her previous physical condition, religious condition, social condition, financial condition, none of that mattered because of her spiritual condition. J. C. Rao offers these words. He says, to use the words of the good old writer, she came trembling and went back triumphing. And our grasp of the gospel and its promises may be weak and trembling, he says. But after all, the grand question is, do we really trust only in Christ? Do we look to Jesus and only to Jesus for pardon and peace? If this be so, it is well. If we may not touch his garment, we can touch his heart. Such faith saves the soul. He that only touches the hem of Christ's garment shall never perish. And here you have this woman who touches the hem of Christ's garment, who trusts in him with true faith, and she leaves in peace. And there's a lesson here, I think, for fathers as well, isn't there? As fathers, we need to instill confidence in our children. Jesus didn't want this daughter of his to just go away slinking in the shadows. As if she had done something wrong? Do we protect our children from the perceptions of the world around them? Do we let them know that whatever their past might be That through Christ they can be made well and they don't have to go around in secret, that they can leave in peace? Is it worth stopping in the middle of a busy work day to make sure that they know that know that they're seen and that they're loved and that they're appreciated? Jesus wanted more than a physical healing for this daughter. He wanted her to know that she's leaving in peace. That I see you, that I know you, and I want you to know that you're my child. And that you're leaving in peace. And Jesus believes that it's worth delaying his trip in order for this daughter of his to know that. Jesus pays heed to his child. But back to Jairus. While he's still speaking, verse 49. While he's still speaking, someone came from the house of the synagogue official saying, Your daughter has died. Do not trouble the teacher anymore. And this had to be Jairus ' worst fears realized, right? I mean, we don't have any word about what Jairus is thinking the whole time that Jesus is having this conversation, but you can imagine it, right? It's like, okay, Lord, it's enough. I mean she's she's good, right? You know, can we Lord can we go now? But John Rush doesn't say anything. He's just waiting here on the sidelines But then the worst fear that he possibly could imagine came true. Somebody comes from his home to say it's too late. It's too late, your daughter's died. No need to bother the teacher anymore about this. And Jairus must have just been incredibly devastated. You know, sometimes we'd like Jesus to to speed things up a little bit, wouldn't we? I think it was Oswald, J. Oswald Sanders, who said this in his book on spiritual leadership. He says we observe Jesus walking many places in the Gospels. But we never see Jesus running anywhere. Sometimes you'd like Jesus to run somewhere, wouldn't you? Just like, Lord, I got this prayer. Can you hurry it up, please? You know. But Jesus isn't running anywhere. And there's these prayers that we've had and maybe for years, and it just seems like Jesus is taking his time, isn't he? You know, he may not come when you want him, one song says, but he'll be there right on time. He's an on-time God, right? Yes, he is. But this definitely seems like Jesus is late. Luke 8. 49 says, while he was still speaking, meaning that at the same time Jesus was delaying to speak with this woman, death claimed its victim. Someone came from the house saying your daughter's died. Don't trouble the teacher anymore. Why isn't there a need to trouble the teacher anymore? Because it's too late. It's too late. Jesus, if you had been here, my daughter would not have died. Might have been able to do something while she was still living, but now she's dead. The window of opportunity is closed and all hope is gone. But here's the assumption that death is too much for Jesus. Death is too much for him. But Jesus is the resurrection and the life, right? John chapter 11, verse 25, that's what he reminded Martha of. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. And Jairus is about to find out that the one that he's standing next to is the resurrection and the life. He's walking with the resurrection. And Jesus encourages him in verse 50, Luke 8, verse 50. But when Jesus heard this, that Jairus' daughter had died, he answered him, Do not be afraid any longer, only believe. And she will be made well. I mean, what what kind of confidence should Jairus have had that his daughter would live? What kind of confidence should Jairus have in that? You know what kind of confidence he should have? It was Jesus that was speaking to him. Listen, when Jesus agreed to come and heal Jairus' daughter, Jesus was going to heal Jairus ' daughter. Jesus wasn't agreeing to come to a funeral. I'm agreeing to come to see your daughter raised up. I'm not coming to say my final goodbyes. You know, sorry I got caught up in traffic, sorry for the loss. You know, that's not what Jesus is saying. Not even death. Was going to stop Jesus from fulfilling his word. Do you understand that? That's how confident we should be in Jesus' words. That not even death will stop Jesus' words from being true. Jesus was going to heal this daughter. And this is the difference between faith and what has been called faith healing. Faith is confidence and trust in the words and the character of Christ. That's what true faith is. That I'm believing and trusting in the words of Christ and the character of Christ. Whereas faith healing is not based on any promise of Christ. Jesus, like I said, he did not empty every grave or heal every disease. Everybody who brushed against Jesus' cloak was not instantly healed. This was not a magic cloak that you could just kind of pass around, and anybody who touches it gets healed automatically. It's not faith healing. The healings that Jesus did were purposeful, and in the case of Jairus, he was supposed to believe because Christ had given him his word. And that's where true faith comes from. We believe and we trust in the words of Jesus Christ, and we trust in that even over our circumstances. So Jesus gives him a word of comfort. Don't be afraid. This is one of, if not the most often repeated, command in the Bible. Fear not. Don't be afraid. It's an aorist imperative which could be translated like, stop it now. Stop fearing now. Jairus, you need to trust me. And you'll see her made well. Verse 51. It says, when he came to the house, he did not allow anyone to enter with him except Peter and John and James and the girl's father and mother. Now they were all weeping and lamenting for her. By the time Jesus arrives, the mourning and weeping had already begun. It was customary for death to be accompanied by loud expressions of grief. The term for weeping, Ecclaya, was a term for crying out loud, wailing, lamenting, could even be translated as howling loudly. It's letting the pain from your soul out of your mouth through your voice. That just the pain that I have, I'm expressing the pain. And the word for lament, a copto, can even portray the beating of your breast in agony. It was a common expression of grief. According to the customs of Judaism, a person was not prepared for burial until death was certain. They made sure that the person was gone. The family would tear their garments as a sign of mourning, close the eyes of the corpse to show that death had come, and they would invite mourners to join them in the mourning and Wrapped the body in a cloth and buried the body quickly to prevent it from being deteriorated. And sometimes they'd even hire professional mourners to raise an even greater cry for the dead. We don't know if the professional mourners were here yet, but death was certain. The eyes were closed. And they're in the process of mourning the dead. And Jesus walks right into the middle of this, and he says, Stop weeping, for she's not died, but is asleep. And instead of trusting the Lord by faith, as he called on Jairus to do, what does verse 53 says? And they began laughing at him. Knowing that she had died. They go from mourning to mocking in an instant. The drama turns into a comedy. But Jesus isn't amused and he kicks every last one of them out. Get out! Out! I'm not going to be surrounded by mockers when I perform this miracle. And the only people allowed to enter the house are Peter and John and James and the girl's father and mother. Jesus spoke of this girl as asleep. Why did Jesus speak of her death as asleep? There's some liberal commentators who argue that the girl wasn't really dead, she's just in a coma. That's why Jesus said that she's sleeping. But the text says that they knew that she had died, and you don't call the mourners in until you know that the person is gone. You need to be sure that they don't have a heartbeat, make sure that they're they're dead, they're not breathing. So this is not a coma, she's she's dead. This is really a death. But sleep is just the way that Jesus spoke about the death of believers. Remember when Lazarus died John chapter 11, Jesus said to his disciples, Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go so that I may awaken him out of sleep. And the disciples then said to him, Lord, if he's fallen asleep, he'll recover. I mean, this is good news. He's getting some good rest. Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought he was speaking of literal sleep. So Jesus said to them plainly, Lazarus is dead. And scripture picks up on this language that Jesus used. He used the language of sleep for death. So you have in 1 Corinthians 11, verse 30, for this reason many among you are weak and sick, and a number sleep. 1 Corinthians 15, 51, behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed. They say that's the verse for the nursery workers, you know, and the babies. We will not all sleep, but will all be changed, right? First Thessalonians 4. 13, but we do not want you to be uninformed, brethren. About those who are asleep, so that you will not grieve as the rest who have no hope. Sleep is used for death, and the bodies of believers are not done with, but they're asleep. It's just the laying down of the body. Spiritually, they're more awake than they've ever been. They're in the presence of the Lord. But their physical body is resting. The physical body is asleep. We see the spirits of believers in heaven in the book of Revelation before the throne of God. But the bodies are asleep. They've been beheaded. They're asleep. It's actually one of the reasons that we've uh we call grave sites cemeteries. Do you know what the word cemetery means? It's from the Greek word koimao, which means to sleep, and the word koimaterion, which means a sleeping place or a dormitory. When we think about the cemetery for believers, it's just a sleeping place for the body. Until the Lord reunites the spirit with the body and they bust up out of the grave, right? And Old Hymn puts it this way, no longer must the mourners weep, nor call departed Christians dead. For death is hallowed into sleep, and every grave becomes a bed. Death for the believer becomes a lullaby for the body and an entrance for the Spirit into glory. 2 Corinthians 5:8, to be absent from the body is to be at home with the Lord, to be present with the Lord. Amen. But another reason that Jesus referred to this girl as sleeping was because he was about to wake her up. And no one but his closest disciples and the mother and the father would be a witness to this miracle. For the first miracle, Jesus made the secret miracle public, called that lady out to say, no, I want everybody to know. Because he wants to comfort her. You don't have to hang your head down. You don't have to go out in secret. I want everybody to know that you are my daughter. I want everybody to know that that you 're going in peace. You haven't done anything wrong. But here with this miracle, he's kicking everybody out, and he's doing this miracle in secret And the same disciples who were there for the Transfiguration and the Prayer in Gethsemane are here for this resurrection. And how does the resurrection take place? He's about to wake her up in verse 54. It says, He, however, took her by the hand and called, saying, Child, arise. And her spirit returned, and she got up immediately, and he gave orders for something to be given to her to eat. There's absolutely no delay in this resurrection. It didn't happen in stages. It wasn't a struggle to wake her up. Jesus waking up the dead has more success than me trying to wake up my children. He says, get up and immediately she gets up. I I don't have that kind of success at home Her spirit returns, she gets up immediately. And just as simple as it is to wake up your neighbor next to you sleeping, just as simple as that is, is just as simple as it is for Jesus to wake up the dead. And then to prove that she wasn't a ghost, he says, give her something to eat. That was the same kind of proof that the disciples needed after his own resurrection. Remember that? Luke chapter 24 says he showed them his hands and his feet, and while they still could not believe it, because of their joy and amazement, he says, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of rolled fish, which means Jesus was not a vegetarian. They gave him a piece of rolled fish, and he took it and ate it before them. Why is he doing this? I want to prove to you that I'm not a ghost. Give me a piece of fish and watch me eat it. I'm alive. It was a verified miracle, and her parents are amazed. They're astounded, literally struck out of themselves. Beyond amazement. And listen to this. Jesus' delay only increased his glory. You think about Jairus as he's waiting for Jesus to come, like, Jesus, can you speed it up? My daughter is dying. But Jesus' delay actually increased the glory. There's a difference between seeing your daughter being raised up from the point of death and seeing your daughter being raised up beyond the point of death. They didn't just witness a healing. They witnessed a resurrection. So what Jairus received was greater than what Jairus asked for. And Jairus and his wife became part of this inner circle to witness a resurrection. This is better than what he could have possibly imagined. In Psalm 119, verse 71, it says, it is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. Some of you are going through a difficult time. But you know what? Like the the end of that can even be more glorious than getting your prayers answered on the front end That God's delay only increases his glory. And while we're going through this middle period, we might not get what we asked for, but it's exactly what God knows that we need. And here they learned that they would get much better than what they asked for. They would not just get a daughter who was healed, they'd get a daughter back from the dead. And after they witnessed this miracle, and their daughter woke up, she wrote a best-selling book called Resurrection is for Real. And then she started to give detailed interviews on TBN and went on the the teaching circuit No, that's not what happened. What happened. Her parents were amazed, but he instructed them to tell no one what had happened. Can't cancel the tour, guys. You're you're not telling anybody about this one. Can you imagine Jairus going back to the synagogue that next Sabbath day and people asking him what happened? Like, hey, hey Jairus, I heard that your daughter died. What happened? Well, I really can't say. She was gone and now she's she's here But Jesus told me I can't tell you what happened. Like what what are you talking about? Why the secrecy? Why can't you tell us There's a number of different suggestions, but but one is that the miracles that Jesus performed, again, were the signposts. He didn't want people just to focus on the miracle. He wanted people to focus on who he was, his identity. It's not just about the miracle. I didn't come to earth just to be a miracle worker. And everybody who comes is not going to be healed. And eventually these daughters are going to die one day. And what I'm concerned about is what is the main message? The main message is about who I am. Jesus is concerned that people walk away with the right message. And like I said, it wasn't just that he's a miracle worker. Eventually these ladies would die, whether it's a disease, an accident, another threat. But what these ladies need was more than just the physical healing. What they needed was to be healed spiritually And again, if you walk away from this story just saying that, hey, Jesus can heal the sick and raise the dead, you've missed the main point. The miracle is not the main point Jesus is. And Jesus demonstrates through these miracles that he is the main point. Jesus is the main point. And I'm not sure if you realize this, but this in this passage. Jesus has contact with two defiling realities. Blood and death. Blood was defiling if you came into contact with blood, and death was defiling if you came into contact with death. According to Leviticus 15, if you touched somebody with a discharge of blood, you could be defiled by that. According to Leviticus 21, I can't even say it right now, Leviticus 21, if you touched somebody who was dead, you'd be defiled by that. And in both cases, Jesus came into contact with them. One person who was bleeding touched Jesus, and then somebody who was dead, Jesus reached out to touch. Jesus didn't have to touch Jairus' daughter. He could have raised her with the word, just like he did with the centurion servant, right? But he chose to raise her with a touch instead. What does this prove? What does this prove? There's something about who Jesus is that cleanses what's defiled. And Jesus is not defiled by coming into contact with you. Instead, you are cleansed by coming into contact with Jesus. There's something about Jesus. And think about this: death and the blood being something that defiles. But what is it that cleanses us from our sins? Jesus' blood and Jesus' death? We're cleansed by the blood and by the death of Jesus Christ. It's by his death and by his blood that we're cleansed. There's an old song that says, Oh, it is Jesus. Oh, it is Jesus. It is Jesus in my soul, for I have touched. The hem of his garment and his blood has made me whole. It's through the blood and the death of Jesus that we are cleansed. That we're washed clean and that we're sanctified through the blood of Jesus Christ. And again, for you who are here, who are fathers This is the message that you need to be sharing with your children. You need to plead with God for your children. And you also need to make sure that you're setting aside the time and and really uh giving heed to your children, paying heed to your children. But this is the most important message that they need. It's the message of Jesus Christ and how his blood can cleanse us from our sins. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time that we've had together. Father, we thank you for your word, and your word is rich. Father, there's just so many lessons that we learn from this text. And Father, we thank you that it's you that cleanses our souls. Father, that we were not redeemed with the blood of bulls and goats. But Father, we were redeemed with the precious blood of Jesus Christ, as of a lamb unblemished and spotless. Father, we thank you for the person of who Jesus Christ was, that our souls have been purified by Jesus Christ. And our Father, I pray that you, Lord, would be honored and glorified, Lord, as uh we consider these words. And our Father, as we leave from here today, in Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.