The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. We'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. What is godliness? There are probably a number of things that flash through your mind when you hear that term. The biblical expectation for believers is that that their lives be characterized by godliness. Paul says in Titus chapter 1, verse 1, that the knowledge of the truth is in accord with godliness. In other words, Knowing God in truth ought to produce godliness in your life. We're commanded to discipline ourselves for the purpose of godliness. That's what Paul encourages Timothy in 1 Timothy 4. And in 2 Peter 1, verse 3, we're told that we are given all things pertaining to life and godliness through a true knowledge of Him. The word of truth produces a knowledge of God, which knowledge should necessarily lead to godly living, both from the perspective of the work of God in us and also from the perspective of our response to God and to his word. So we should be a people characterized by godliness. So again, what is godliness? You're going to be measured by this. The Lord expects for you to live godly lives, so you really should know what it is, what it means. Godliness has been defined as, quote, an awesome respect accorded to God. Encountering God is a jaw-dropping experience, in other words. It's watching a beautiful sunset. It's seeing the Grand Canyon for the first time. Just the other night, perhaps you got to see the meteor shower that was in the sky. These things that you can't help but just to sit and stare at and just be awed by. How about this one, this definition? Godliness is the reality and power of a vital union with God. Brings out the transformational nature of our relationship with God. Well, I'd like to wrap up both aspects into one definition, and I'll share that with you. Godliness is devotion to the person of God, which leads to a display of the character of God in the words and works of a believer. In short, this is a shorter definition. Godliness is a believer's appreciation and application of the character of God in their lives To believers appreciation and application of the character of God in their lives. Now let me ask you: are you a godly person? Are you awestruck by the person of God? Are you filled with a deep-seated respect for the person of God? Does your encounter of him consistently produce fruit in your life? I don't mean only when you're in the company of other believers. I mean we can all put on a good show, if we're being honest, right? I mean when you're out and about, when you're in the fellowship and in the company of unbelievers. And particularly when those unbelievers in their ungodliness affects you. How do you respond? We live in an ungodly society. That's no secret, right? By that I mean a society that is bent away from a true knowledge of the true and living God, a society that refuses to behold the splendor and majesty of the God of the Bible so as to honor Him. We see their lack of understanding the nature of the true and living God played out in everyday decisions that they make. We look at these things, we struggle with these things. with how to respond to their ungodly attitudes and actions. Our struggle may be as Lot, who the Holy Spirit said, was tormented in his soul because of the ungodliness of the Sodomites. When he lived in Sodom. Seeing the ungodliness of those around us vexes our souls daily. Our struggle may be as Asaph, who as he looked around at the prosperity of the wicked, he almost fell into envy Psalm 73. Her struggle may even be that which David cautioned against in Psalm 1, not walking in the counsel of the wicked, or walking in the way of sinners, or sitting in the seat of the scoffers, not following their way. Perhaps our struggle is like that of Jonah. Jonah would have been considered a godly man. He was a prophet of the Lord. He received direct revelation from God. He was even used by the Lord to speak encouragement to King Jeroboam II during the divided kingdom, not too long before Israel would fall to Assyria If Jonah were alive today, he would have been an avid churchgoer. Jonah would have sat in the pew next to you. Jonah probably would have been active in ministry, perhaps a pastor, a Sunday school teacher, a leader, an encourager, an example to the body of Christ. Christ. And yet for all of Jonah's understanding of God, his understanding of the truth of God For all the ways in which God had used Jonah to speak, for all of Jonah's devotion to God, he struggled, greatly struggled with the ungodliness of the Ninevites. So much so that when he was commissioned to preach to them, the same way he had been commissioned in times past to take the Word of God, when he was commissioned to preach to them, he ran full throttle in the complete opposite direction. You may be tempted to do the same when faced with ungodliness. You may be tempted just to shrug your shoulders and write both sinner and their sin off to the judgment of the Lord. But that's not godliness. Go ahead and turn to the book of Jonah if you haven't. Jonah's going to help us to remember what it means to be godly and what our response ought to be in the face of the ungodliness of others. Again, Jonah's failure, as is often our failure, is that he failed to view the character of God as the primary lens through which he views all people. Again, godliness is a believer's appreciation and application of God's character in everyday life. And we're not going to read through the whole book of Jonah. That would uh take a little while. I mean Pastor Lawson said I could go as long as I wanted, so I mean if you guys are okay with that, I'm just gonna go with it, but I'm thinking y'all might want to get out sometime this afternoon. But again, I'm not going to run through go through the whole book of Jonah, but first I'm going to give you a summary of its contents. Most of us are familiar with the story of Jonah in general. Then I'm going to think, we're going to take some time to think on the truth about God that is put on display in the book of Jonah. In other words, what aspect of God's character is emphasized the most, and what are we to appreciate, to stand in awe of? Then finally we'll draw out just a few principles as to how we can apply his character as we respond to the ungodliness of others. So first in terms of a summary of the book of Jonah, I'm going to go through these kind of quick, but uh it's You can summarize it with uh 11 greats, and perhaps you could break it down a little bit more than that, but this is just my uh my brief summary of the contents of the book of Jonah. Jonah begins with a great commission. God commissions him, he calls him, I need you to go to the Ninevites. Go to the Nineveh and preach against that wicked city. And it's followed by a great rebellion. And as you can imagine, that's Jonah's rebellion. Instead of going to priests of the Nenovites, Jonah goes, again, full throttle in the opposite direction. And Jonah's great rebellion is followed by the Lord's judgment, sending a great wind, which led to a great storm. This this idea of something that's great is actually a theme throughout the book. That the Lord sends a great wind, and that great wind led to a great storm as Jonah is uh on this boat with uh with these unbelieving sailors trying to get away from the presence of the Lord. The Lord sends a great wind. That great storm led to great danger as a ship was about to be destroyed, the ship and everyone on it, including Jonah and the unbelieving sailors. And that great danger is followed by Jonah's great peril. Jonah is cast into the ocean in order to calm the sea. And uh he begins sinking to the bottom of the ocean. And as Jonah is sinking to the bottom of the ocean, we see Jonah's great humility. Um he offers up two prayers. One we don't we're not privy to, but we understand that he did offer the prayer. As you go through chapter two, uh Jonah starts talking about how he was cast off into the into the deep. He's sinking down to the bottom of the ocean, and he cries out to the Lord as he's going down. So you get this image of him sinking into the water as he's been cast off. And as he's going down, he knows the end is coming. He cries out to the Lord and he says, Lord, you know what? I've been wrong. I've been a fool. Lord forgive me. And the Lord sends great deliverance. And that great deliverance is actually a fish that swallows him It carries him back to dry land. So Jonah's great humility led to great deliverance, followed by a great journey. And that great journey was Jonah again being spat upon up to dry land and finally going to Nineveh after the Lord recommissioned him. His great journey led to a great proclamation to the Ninevites. Jonah's great proclamation led to the nation's great repentance. The nation's repentance led to the Lord's great compassion upon them. The Lord's compassion led to Jonah's great folly and his foolish attitude in responding to the Lord's compassion. And Jonah's folly led to a great illustration and the Lord's concluding thoughts at the end. Now again, for a moment, I'd like to for us to meditate on the character of God that's put on display in the book of Jonah. This will be foundational for us as we think through the principles later. And if you've done any study in the book of Jonah, you know that the theme verse in Jonah is found in chapter 4. In chapter 4, after all is said and done, after the Lord shows his compassion to the Nineveh, Jonah becomes angry in verse 1, and then he prays to the Lord. He prays the Lord in verse 2 and he says, Please, Lord, was this not what I said while I was still in my own country? Therefore, in order to forestall this, I fled to Tarshish, for I knew that you are gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, and one who relents concerning calamity. In other words, this whole thing started because Jonah knew the character of God. Because he understood it. He got it. But he just didn't want it applied to the Ninevehit But let's think about that. He says, You are gracious, a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abundant in loving kindness, and one who relents concerning calamity. He says the Lord is gracious. This word means favor. It has to do with the benevolence of God. It is his free offering, giving us that which we do not deserve. His free offering of goodwill. Grace has been described as God's riches at Christ's expense. God is gracious. He is compassionate. This word is related to the term for womb. You think about the compassion that a mother has on her children. That's the idea. A related word to compassion is mercy. It is withholding judgment that is duly deserved. Someone called it divine pity. He is slow to anger. The Hebrew term means something like long-nosed. That sounds a little weird at first, but if you think about it You know, when you're about to, let's say you're you're walking down the hall and you see this person that you've had some sort of conflict with. And uh you don't like the person all that much. I'm not well maybe this is not you guys. I know you guys don't ever have a problem with anyone. You love everyone, you like everyone. But let's just say Let's just say for the sake of argument, someone got on your nerves. You see that person, you know you gotta talk to them. What do you do? You get yourself ready, right? You take a breath. Well, God is long-nosed, so he takes a really deep breath when dealing with us. He's long-nosed. He's patient with us. It's a slow boiling pot. He is abundant in loving kindness. That word loving kindness is uh the Hebrew term for the covenant faithfulness of God. Whenever you hear the covenant that God made with his people, with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, repeated over and over again, that that idea of the covenant Um this word for loving kindness kind of developed out of that. His uh his covenant faithfulness, his faithfulness to keep the covenant that he made with Abraham and to bless his people. And he's also one who relents concerning calamity. The word for relent can be translated as to have remorse or sorrow, and calamity is wickedness or just something bad or evil. In other words, God doesn't rejoice in calamity. He doesn't take pleasure in condemning the wicked, and instead would be inclined to forgive them. Scripture highlights the importance of these qualities together with respect to God's character in both the Old and New Testaments. This Phrase that uh this uh this verse that Jonah gives us in chapter 4, verse 2, and even the wording of it is almost exactly what Moses found out about God back in Exodus 33. When Moses is uh leading the people and um he understands their foolishness. He knows that they're a foolish and rebellious people and he prays to God, Lord, I need some help. He said, Lord, I need some help getting these people to where they need to be. You know how they are. I need to see your glory. I need to get a sense of your glory, God. I need to understand who you are so that I can properly communicate that to them. I want to know you. I mean, if Moses had to pray that, how much more do we? Right? Moses prayed, Lord, show me your glory if I have found favor in your sight. And so the Lord does that. I mean he can't he said Moses you can't see my face and live. I'll just show you my back. I'll just show you the back of me, Moses. That that'll be enough. I'll hide you in the cleft of a rock. I'll show you the back of me If you saw my face, he'd be completely undone. But Moses passes, I mean, the Lord passes before Moses, and this is what he says. He says, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abundant in steadfast love and faithfulness. Moses got it. Not a couple of books later and uh not one book later Uh quite a bit of time later. In Numbers chapter 14, Moses prays for the pardon of the people as they rebel again against the Lord on the basis of his Being slow to anger, abundant in loving kindness, forgiving iniquity and transgression. He repeats almost the same words. We hear those words repeated often in the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament. We look at passages like Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not as a result of works. So that no one may boast. By grace you have been saved through faith. God's riches at Christ's expense. The Lord is compassionate. Titus chapter 3. Verses 4 through 7. When the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we've done in righteousness, but according to His mercy. By the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, God was merciful and withholding what we really deserve. And instead He washed us, regenerated us, renewed us, He poured out His Holy Spirit richly on us. So that we would be heirs of the hope of eternal life. God is slow to anger. 2 Peter chapter 3. The Lord is not slow about his promise. Some were mocking and saying, The Lord hasn't returned yet, so obviously he's not coming back. Peter says, those men are foolish. They're mocking the very thing that God is using to give them time to repent. The Lord is not slow about his promise, as some count slowness, but is patience. That word is macrothumeto. It means that he has great suffering. He has long suffering. It's been translated in other ways. Not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. He is abounding in love. 1 John 3 1. See how great a love the Father has bestowed on us that we will be called children of God. And such we are. Ephesians chapter 1. In love he predestined you to adoption as sons. Romans 5, the love of God has been poured out in our hearts. In fact, the love of God that forms a basis for the satisfaction of his anger concerning our sin and the relenting of the calamity that would be brought upon us. First John chapter 4, by this the love of God was manifested in us that he has sent his only begotten Son into the world, so that we might live in him. In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Instead of pouring out wrath on us , pouring out and bringing calamity upon us, God has poured out wrath upon his son. And now his son satisfies. The wrath that was due. These glorious aspects of the character of God form the basis for God's redemptive work among men. Beginning with the people through whom Messiah was to come, and culminating in this age with the very people whom the Messiah purchased, that He is compassionate and gracious. Slow to anger, abounding in loving kindness, and relenting concerning calamity, ought to be the foundation and fuel of our awestruck, awful filled respect and devotion to God. It ought to govern and guide all of our work and words , especially as we respond to the ungodliness of those around us. Whereas Paul said, such were some of you. 1 Corinthians 6. How often do you sit and ponder the goodness of the God who is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and abounding in loving kindness? Relenting concern and calamity. How often do you meditate upon this one who has by grace given you what you do not deserve in his salvation? In mercy which withheld what you do deserve. Eternal torment. Been long suffering with you and your folly, even after you came to faith in Christ. We still make foolish decisions. And yet God is long-suffering with us, He's patient with us still. And overwhelming in his love and pardon toward you. How often do you give thanks to him, extol him, truly in your hearts? Again, aside from Sunday morning when we're all gathered together and everything is good and everything is nice. How often do you meditate upon this? Stand in awe of him. Ga long at him. How often do you allow yourself to be still and behold the greatness of your God? Again, godliness is the appreciation and application of the character of God in everyday life of a believer. It's the appreciation of the grace, mercy, patience, abundant love, and forgiveness of God, and the application of those. as we respond to others and their ungodliness. Again, let's take some time to walk through just a few principles found in the book of Jonah. The book of Jonah really does give us a realistic picture of the work of God and man. We're all a work in progress, and we're duly reminded of this as we look at Jonah's life. The first principle I want to bring to you is that godliness consists of more than a negative reaction to the sin of others. Godliness consists of more than a negative reaction to the sin of others. Jonah hated the idea that the wicked Ninevites may become recipients of God's grace. Again, he hated it so much that he thought he could hinder God's grace from coming to them. In 4 verse 2, chapter 4, verse 2, which I just read to you, what is translated to forestall means something like to be in front of or to go in front of. To stand opposite something. If we had a busy day ahead of us, as we go through our week, we might say, I'm rising up early in the morning in order to get ahead of all the work that I have to do. That's what Jonah was trying to do. And leaving and fleeing from the presence of the Lord. He was attempting to stand in front of, to go before, to get out ahead of God's compassion and grace and long-suffering and love for the Nineveh. He was a patriot. He was totally committed to the people of God. He could not fathom the thought that the wicked Ninevehes could be recipients of the mercy of God. Jonah even lamented at the end of the book as he's thinking about everything that happened that death is better for me than life. He's like, Lord, just take my life. I can't believe he spared them Again, Jonah knew the character of God. That's the very reason why he ran. Typically, if you were to look at the life of Jonah, again, he wouldn't have been characterized as a rebellious person. But he was rebellious in this instance. And the real problem in Jonah's heart is that he allowed the wicked character of the Ninevehes to overshadow the awesome character of God in his thinking. That's why he ran. That's why the text says that he ran not just from his commissioning to the Ninevehes, but he ran from the presence of the Lord. Chapter 1, verse 3. The text is even emphatic there. It says that Jonah ran from the presence of the Lord. It says that twice. That's where most of us stumble, as we think about the wickedness of those around us. We become so absorbed with our disdain for their ungodliness that we respond to that as opposed to responding to the character of God. The media actually does a tremendous job of helping us to keep in the loop of all the latest scandals and filth in society. Everyone's dirt is put on display, and we often fall right into it. Cases last year like uh George Zimmerman and Trayvon Martin and and the big deal that was made about that for such a long period of time. Things like that are often put out in front in the media and they're replayed over and over and over again and what you start to think in your mind and your heart What we start to think in our minds and our hearts is that that person is completely and totally wicked and I'm I'm okay. Like they're the problem. That's what we start to think, right? We get sucked into that sort of thinking, that mindset. There are other issues like that that come up as well. Abortion, same-sex marriage, gambling, gun control, issues of privacy. Read all about it. We react to those issues often, and sometimes in such a way that completely and effectively negates the character of God. Our reaction is often one of disgust, frustration, astonishment, even hatred. Yes, among believers. We express those feelings on Facebook, Twitter. We react to those things that work around the water cooler. We carry our godly views as a merit badge on our chests. And proclaim our disdain for sin while loving the sinner. Proclaim those things as often and as loudly as we can, and in all that the character of God is being neglected. In favor of our right to express our views. What did God say to Jonah in chapter 4, verse 4? And again in 4, verse 9. Do you have any right to be angry? Do you have any right to be angry? God is the one who made them. God is the one who created them. The greater offense is between them and God, and that's a dangerous place for them to be in. Do you have any reason to be angry? No one. That is to speak evil against no one. That is what we need to be reminded of today. To be peaceable, gentle, showing every consideration for all men. Why? Again, Titus chapter 3, verse 3, for we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, enslaved to various lusts and pleasures, spending our lives in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. But again, when the kindness of God, our Savior, and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which we've done in righteousness, but according to His mercy. By the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out upon us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. So that being justified by His grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The character of God, the person of God, his work in our lives is the reason why we've been changed. He's the reason why we're saved today. They have no right to look down upon others, to scoff at them. That's not godliness. Another principle, godliness consists in choosing to forgive even the most wicked offense. Now, this is somewhat related to the first, in that it is easy to simply respond with disgust to the sinfulness of those around us, but what is even more difficult is to forgive. Now, what's not explicitly laid out in the book of Jonah is the vileness of the Ninevehes, the Assyrians. The crucifixion, as adopted and adapted by the Romans, existed in a much cruder fashion among the Nineveh. For them, the practice involved the process of simply impaling their victim and leaving their body to hang for days on end. The impaling could either have come from the bottom or either just straight through the torso. Either way, the victim would have been left to hang on a beam of wood as punishment. This is just one of the many reasons why Israel, Ma Jonah , had a disdain for the Ninevehes, the Assyrians. And in one sense, it wasn't up to Jonah to forgive the Ninevehes, for perhaps he felt such a bitterness toward them that the thought of them not receiving judgment was unfathomable to him. The thought of them not getting what they deserve was just completely unthinkable. As we've already mentioned, he did all that he could so that the judgment of God would fall upon that wicked city. Let's make this personal. Maybe for you the issue is not the big ticket society-wide problems. Maybe for you the issue is closer to home. Maybe for you the conflict is in your own home. Maybe it's not those people out there, but maybe it's the person closest to you whose ungodliness pains you and sickens you, frustrates you. Marital issues abound even in the church. Divorce is often the first option sought when irreconcilable differences are presented. Children are estranged from parents. Brothers and sisters fight with one another over the proceeds of their parents' estate. Members in the body of Christ argue about ministries, about leadership, about money. About serving. Often in such cases, when offenses come, there is so much emotion, perhaps genuine emotion, and so much hurt that it's hard to see anything beyond that. What is a godly response? How should the godly respond when someone they love hurts them deeply and wounds them Colossians chapter 3 says this, as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved , Put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another and forgiving each other. Listen to this. Whoever has a complaint against anyone Just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. I'll read that again. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. A Christian has absolutely zero justification for withholding forgiveness. Zero. Because our whole faith, our whole life is based on forgiveness. Forgiveness that we've received from God when we deserve something so much worse. If you've been chosen by God and you have someone to forgive today, I'm not asking if you're waiting for someone else to apologize to you. I'm saying if you have someone to forgive today, then you need to get busy doing it. Doesn't matter what they've done, doesn't matter what they've said, doesn't matter how hard it's going to be, doesn't matter if you feel like you know you're gonna have egg on your face if you go to that person and forgive them first. That's not what it's about. This is about your relationship with the Lord. This is about your understanding of the forgiveness and mercy and grace and love of God. And how you ought to respond that way. No one is beyond God's grace to us in Christ. We're not greater than He. If He could forgive us, we ought to be able to forgive one another. The third principle. The actions of the godly cease to be godly if it encourages a low view of God. And Jonah attempts to run away from the Lord. And as the sailors find this out in chapter 1, as the Lord brings judgment upon them and everyone in the household, Everyone in the uh in the in the ship, rather. It says there in um In chapter one, as uh Jonah tells them, I am a Hebrew and I fear the Lord the God of heaven who made the sea and dry land, verse nine. Verse ten it says, Then the men became extremely frightened, and they said to him, How could you do this? They knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the Lord. And uh go down a little bit farther. Jonah says, all you need to do is cast me into the water, but the people, the men, start to row desperately, it says, to return to land. But they couldn't. So instead of understanding from Jonah's life that there's no possible way to escape the judgment of God, they thought that they could thwart God's judgment by rowing harder. And that's all as a result of Jonah's foolishness. I think we fail most often in this respect when it comes to discussing contemporary issues. Quite often the tone and nature of our response and discussion of societal issues does more harm to the truth than good. You know, this is Memorial Day weekend. For some it's a time of thanksgiving, it's a time of um A blessing is a time of thinking back on all the liberties and freedoms that we have as a result of those who have fought for us. For others, it's a time of complaint. Complaint about the government, complaint about liberties that are taken, complaint about the legality of these things and those things. Talking about the president and the cabinet and issues that uh that have to do with um various political parties, even at times slandering our political leaders. And this even from Christians. When Paul left Timothy and Ephesus, he instructed them him in this way As I urge you, and this is in 1 Timothy chapter 1, he says, As I urge you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus so that you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies which give rise to mere speculation, rather than furthering the administration of God which is by faith And then he goes on, the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. In other words, there are those who are interested in discussion and debate. Paul refers to Jewish myths here and in other places and genealogies. Discussions about the law. These discussions of Paul were fruitless because they did not lead the people to a deeper knowledge of the truth, which would lead them to godliness. Often when we get into conversations, political conversations, and other sorts of conversations about the issues, our goal is just to win the argument. 'Cause we feel like we got it right. But when we make that the end, we usually lose people. When it comes to issues in our society, in particular political issues, what should be our response? Our response and our goal of course should be to point them to the person of Christ. 1 Timothy chapter 2, verses 1 through 6. First of all, I urge then entreaties and prayers, petitions, and thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men for kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life In all godliness and dignity. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour, who desires all men to be saved, and it comes to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus who gave himself as a ransom for all, the testimony given at the proper time. In all our discussion about the issues, we need to remember And we need to allow that to be the capstone. We need to allow the grace of God, the goodness of God, the person of God, the salvation of God in Christ to be the main issue. It ultimately doesn't matter how we view the issue or what opinions we have politically. It ultimately matters that people come to know the one true and living God and the mediator, whom He is sent. Let that be the issue. Another principle, godliness consists in God honoring response to whatever He brings in our lives. Godliness consists in a God-honoring response to whatever He brings in our lives. I like to tell people that God is committed to our sanctification, often more committed than we are. The whole account, this whole account, the whole book of Jonah seems to be more about God's work in Jonah's heart than anything else. Again in chapter 1 verse 4, the Lord hurls a great wind to try to get Jonah back. And Jonah is finally subdued after spending some time in the deep and in the belly of fish, and he ends up going to Nineveh, but his heart still wasn't right, and so God reaches out to him again. Giving him something simple like a plant to shade him from the sun, and then causing the plant to die and to wither, so that Jonah could understand the compassion of the Lord. Sometimes the Lord brings trials into our lives that are really of no fault of our own. It's just his work. It's his desire to work out his character in us James talks about those diverse trials that we fall into. Peter talks about those trials as well for the testing of our faith so that we can learn patience. But other times we have hardship as a result of our own sinfulness. as a result of our own foolish decisions, but this is no less a part of God's sovereign will and God's sovereign plan for our sanctification Because of the love of the Lord, he doesn't allow us to remain in our sinfulness, but rather he chastens us with the rod. That's the message of Hebrews chapter 12. He says, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him, for those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines, and he scourges every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with sons, he says. All discipline for the moment seems not to be joyful but sorrowful, yet for those who have been trained by it, afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness. In order to bring about that peaceful fruit of righteousness, the character of God in our lives, the Lord often brings trials and difficulties. He allows us to be chastened by our foolishness because again, he is committed to our sanctification. This he does in love for us. He's committed to working out that glorious character in our lives. Both the stormy sea as well as the plant were God's way of disciplining Jonah in order to build up his faith. And again, sometimes for us it's like that. Sometimes the Lord gives us a holy spanking. Sometimes he brings those stormy seas into our life. Yeah, sometimes he simply shows us the grace of a shaded plant in order to get our attention I've had many times and the Lord has clearly humbled me for some foolish thinking. There have been times when I need a correction for something, and yet the Lord has blessed me to remind me of his love and care, though I was wrong. And that was also humbling. You know you have something coming, and yet he gives greater grace. He is a wise, compassionate, merciful, long-suffering, and gentle heavenly Father who knows best what we need to grow. And how we respond to these things when the Lord chastens us will make a difference in the lives of the unbelieving world around us. What testimony do you bear to the world about the grace, mercy, patience, and abundant love and forgiveness of God as you go through trials? What do you say about your God as you endure affliction? What do you say about his love for you? What do you say about your understanding of the truth that he loves you, even in spite of these things? Do you utterly despair when you go through trials? Are you broken down with bitterness and complaining? I'm not talking about acting as if nothing is going wrong. Be honest. Let people know that you're struggling so that they can pray for you. But how do you respond to God in your heart? Again, Jonah's response was at both ends of the spectrum. In chapter 2, he humbly submitted to the Lord's discipline. As we hear, we hear and we read about him calling out of his distress to the Lord as he's going down to the depths of Sheol and to the depths of the waters. He calls out to the Lord in prayer. By the end of chapter 2, he says, you know what, Lord, what I vowed, I'll repay Having been cast into the ocean, he called out to the Lord in humility, and the Lord answered. This was the humble response to the chastening of the Lord. In chapter 4, we see the other end of the spectrum. We see his continued rebellion. After the Lord causes the plant to grow and then subsequently die, and uh the sun begins to beat down on Jonah's head, he proclaims, Death is better for me than life. Everything is just going wrong. Sometimes we feel that way when we're being disciplined, right? We feel like we just can't go on. We feel like we don't want to. We wonder how in the world could the Lord do this? That's how we respond to the discipline of the Lord. But again, we have to take care. We have to be mindful how we respond to the discipline of the Lord. We must not reject the discipline of the Lord, as we were encouraged from Hebrews 12. Because the Lord loves those whom he disciplined. And we understand and we know and we believe that the Lord is working his discipline in our life for our good. We have to keep going back to that. Paul says in Philippians 2, Do all things without grumbling or complaining, so that you may prove yourselves blameless and innocent children in the midst of a crooked and perverse society, among whom you appear as lights in the world. Do all things without grumbling and complaining. How do the unbelieving folks around you and your spheres of influence respond when they go through hard times? With grumbling and complaining, right? How do we shine as lights in the world? We shine as lights in the world. We shine forth the character of God As we accept his discipline, as we accept his chastening and the difficulty that he brings in our life. I give one more principle. Godliness consists in regarding the ungodliness of others as an opportunity to declare the glory of God. Of course it's really the whole point of uh the book of Jonah, right? God is sending Jonah to the Ninevehes because of their wickedness. He sends him to preach a message of judgment that is coming because of their wickedness. That was really the whole point and purpose of God setting Israel apart was for them to be a light to the nations. God calls forth Abraham, and when he called Abraham, he called him, and he said, I'm setting you apart and I'm blessing you, so that in you all the families of the earth might be blessed. Then Jonah going to the Ninevites was one of those moments in time where God is trying to bring blessing to this ungodly nation through his people. Yet Jonah was fighting against that. Of course, Christ commissions his disciples to carry out that same work. He commissions us, as he says in Matthew 28, to make disciples of all nations. We may be tempted to think as Jonah about the nations around us, especially those nations that seem less civilized or more wicked than others. We might be tempted to think of those nations and people who might just as soon be rid of all Christians and the Bible with disdain. We may even judge certain individuals who are from those nations. without even getting to know them. Why not just let them to themselves to do whatever they want? Why not just let them alone until Christ returns and brings judgment on their lives? Why should we send missionaries to those countries? Why should we waste the lives of our family members and our brothers and sisters just for those people? Why would we want to spend money for such a work when there's so much to do here? Listen to what God says to Jonah at the end about Nineveh. Again in chapter 4, verse 11, he said, Should I not have compassion on Nineveh, the great city in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know the difference between their right and left hand, as well as many animals? Should I not have compassion on them? He is the creator God. He made them. He set them apart. He gave them their boundaries of habitation. He gave them Their lives, they bear his image. Should he not have compassion on them? Should we not continue to have compassion? On those who are outside of Christ. It's not a burden to proclaim the truth of the gospel. It's a privilege. Additionally, the church is not an exclusive club. Allegiance to Christ is non-negotiable. But the message of the cross is a message that must be shared with all men. The grace, mercy, peace , patience, love, and forgiveness of the Lord is for all people. And his purpose is for the church is that through the church the message would continue to go forth. We endeavor to be senders, right? We endeavor to send out folks from our churches. You endeavor to send out folks from BBC to take the gospel of Christ. You endeavor to partner with other ministries, partnering with ministries like Team Philippines, who have gone out before. To take the gospel to the Philippines. There are other ministry partnership opportunities. At Hope, we have partnered with a number of other ministries in Spain, in Ecuador, Chile. And we're hoping to send out a family to Togo, West Africa in 2016 so that they might take the gospel. I know for my part, um when we had our evangelism week last week, it was kind of strange, but um myself and another brother as we went out into a park, into a park, a local park, to do outreach spoke with a man from Pakistan and a man from India at the same time. They didn't come together. They just happened to be at the same place at the same time and we got into a conversation with them both. At one point I know for myself at work I had at least four different nationalities represented in my branch and my office at work. We do have the nations all around us, right? So how do we respond to that? In Acts chapter 17, Paul said that God is calling all men everywhere to repent. How are you involved in that? How are you engaged in that? God is calling all men everywhere to hear the compassion, grace, love, long-suffering, and forgiveness of God. Again, God is in the business of building his church with people from every tribe and tongue and nation. That's what we see at the end of uh Revelation. Those people set apart for his glory and for his name's sake. And we need to be a part of that as well Well, again, we've said that godliness is the appreciation and application of the character of God in the everyday life of a believer. If we are to take up this task of godliness, of displaying the truth of who God is in our works and words, then we must be so convinced that He is great and that He is worth it that we're willing to do whatever it takes. to proclaim that truth. We must be so convinced that we're not above the wicked, but that for the grace of God we will be just as they We must be so convinced that the grace, compassion, long-suffering, abundant, faithful love of God applies to all people because of who God is, no matter where they are. Because he is the Lord of heaven and earth. Are you a godly person? Again, how do you respond to the ungodliness of those around you? That'll be a good litmus test for you. God is gracious and compassionate. He is slow to anger. He is abounding in faithful love. He is one who is willing to relent concerning calamity. He's willing to forgive. How about you? How does your godliness measure up to that? To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.