The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to uh 2 Corinthians? 2 Corinthians For those of you who are uh new here, we're uh making our way through a series of foundational messages for our church. Uh we're calling it the 12 uh marks of a of a faithful church, and these are are truths, uh truths that are uh that set the the church apart from the world around us. These are things that uh we share with uh all faithful churches, whether they make these explicit or not, but uh these are things that uh that we share with all uh faithful uh churches. And uh I'll rehearse the list for you again and uh by this time we'll probably have it memorized, but uh uh the twelve marks are the sufficiency of scripture The glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men, a qualified leadership, a sound theology A holiness of life, a love for the saints, a heart for evangelism, a commitment to discipleship, a faithful practice, which would include things like the Lord's Supper baptism, fellowship, and prayer And uh today we uh get to uh uh to a mark that we spent quite a bit of time discussing as a church, and it's it's having a heart for evangelism, a heart for Evangelism. It's been said that the greatest crime of the desert is to know where water is and not tell anybody. To know where water is and not tell it. And as Christians we have access to the living water, amen. And uh it's not only disobedient to keep it to ourselves, it's it's actually criminal to keep it to our keep it to ourselves. And in uh Second Corinthians uh we have one of the most succinct and powerful and clear explanations of this message that you'll find in in all of of Scripture. In the the book of 2 Corinthians, it's really a a defense of Paul's uh ministry and an effort to to rescue the the church from false shepherds. He's uh riding to a church that really should have known better by this point. Uh Paul personally spent a year and a half ministering in Corinth according to Acts chapter 18 and uh verse eleven. Uh Timothy and Silas spent a significant amount of time in uh in Corinth. Titus spent an extended time on more than one occasion in Corinth. Apollos spent time ministering in Corinth. They benefited from people like Aquila and Priscilla. This small city, or actually it's a pretty uh large city that uh at that time, southern part of Greece had an opportunity for had every opportunity for maturity. Had every opportunity to grow. So when men arose in their midst to claim that they were super apostles and started to uh attack the character of Paul, they should have been shut down immediately. But they they weren't. And Paul has to do an uncomfortable thing for himself, which is to defend himself To defend themselves because if the church cuts themselves off from him, they were cutting themselves off from the truth And for the sake of the truth, he defends his his ministry. For the sake of the truth, he defends his his ministry to them. In uh chapter uh one of uh uh second Corinthians we find that uh he defends the clarity of his his own conscience. Second uh Corinthians chapter one and verse twelve. It says, uh for our proud confidence is this the testimony of our conscience, that in holiness and godly sincerity, not in fleshly wisdom, but in The grace of God we have conducted ourselves in the world and especially towards you. Over in chapter two, verse seventeen, he defends the purity of his motives He says, For we are not like many peddling the word of God, but as from sincerity, but as from God, we speak in Christ in the sight of God. He defends the fruit of his ministry in chapter 3, verse 1 and 3. It says, Are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Or do we need some letters of commendation to you or from you? You are our letter. Written in our hearts, known and read by all men. Being manifested that you are a letter of Christ cared for by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of human hearts He defends his dependence on God. Verse 4 and 5 of chapter 3, he says, Such confidence we have through Christ toward God. Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves, but our adequacy is from God. We don't depend on ourselves. Depend on God. Defends the transparency of the conduct. Look at chapter four. Look at verse one and two. It says, Therefore, since we have this ministry as we received mercy, we do not lose heart, but we have renounced the things hidden because of shame, not walking in craftiness or adulterating the Word of God, but by the manifestation of truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. I have nothing to hide. It's nothing to hide. We've renounced the things, the hidden things because of shame. We've renounced those things. He defends the content of his message in verse 5 of chapter 4. He says, For we do not preach ourselves. Message isn't about us. We do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus is Lord and ourselves as your bondservants for Jesus' sake. Then he defends his fear and love for God in chapter 5 and verse 11, which says, Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are made manifest to God, and I hope that we are made manifest also in your consciences. And later on in verse 14, it says, For the love of Christ controls us. Having concluded this that one died for all, therefore all died. So for the sake of truth, he he defends his ministry And the primary reason why Paul wanted to defend his ministry is because he wanted to defend the gospel. He didn't want people to lose sight of the gospel. He didn't want people to lose faith and hope in the gospel. So he defends his his own ministry. And in chapter 5, verses 18 through 21, we get to the to the message. This is the message that he was concerned about. This is the message that he didn't want people to lose sight of. He wasn't concerned about himself. He wasn't concerned about what people thought about himself. He was concerned about the gospel message. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 18 to 21, and this is where we're we'll spend the rest of our time together. It says, Now all these things are from God. Who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation? Namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you on behalf of Christ. Be reconciled to God. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Do you understand why he wanted to protect his ministry? Because he understood that he was an ambassador for Christ, that the ministry was one of reconciliation, calling people to faith and repentance in Jesus Christ. The main idea that's communicated in this passage here is the idea of reconciliation. The form of this word for being reconciled is repeated five times in this passage alone. It's the word uh cathalagae. It's uh a word group that's only used by Paul in the New Testament. Uh some scholars have called this term the leading theme or the center of Paul's thought in ministry. And that term reconciliation is a rich term. It's a rich term. The basic meaning of this word is to change. It was often used for exchanging money from one form of currency to another. But it was used metaphorically for the exchange of peace for war, the exchange of love for anger, the exchange of friendship for enmity. It's a word that means to bring back to a former state of harmony. To bring back to a former state of harmony, or to change from hostility to friendship. It was used for the restoration of relationships like broken marriages in 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 11. Talked about an estranged spouse, a wife who left the home, being reconciled to her husband, being brought back to her husband. And just like there was an innocent party in uh 1 Corinthians 7, there was one who stayed and one who left. There's an innocent party in our reconciliation to God as well. Because uh God is the one who's done nothing wrong. God is the one who's done nothing wrong. The offender is the one who needs to be brought back. The offender didn't do anything wrong. The offended didn't do anything wrong. God's the one that's offended. But the ones who have separated ourselves from God because of our sins. We're like the unfaithful spouse who leaves and wanders after other relationships, and as a result, we store up wrath for ourselves. And what reason has God ever given us to leave them? What did God ever do to become the enemy of man? God made man, placed him in a well-prepared habitation. Blessed him with life, food, companionship, purpose. He gave him dominion over the earth, every good tree for food, and a wife to share it with. What did God ever do that would call for rebellion? From the time we ate the fruit, we declared war on God, expressed our hostility against God, and the separation began. And every man since Adam was born with his back toward God. With his back toward God. Psalm 58, verse 3 says, The wicked are estranged from the womb. These who speak lies go astray from birth. And our cry is the same as uh in Luke 19 verse 14. It says, We will not have this man to reign over us. Referring back to uh to the Egyptians, uh to the uh Israelites in the in Egypt, saying we don't want Moses to rule over us We won't have this man to rule over us. It's the same cry that people say against God. We will not have him to rule over us. We'll rule ourselves And this is the reality prior to our conversion. Romans chapter 5, verse 10 says that we were enemies of God. Enemies of God. We're the ones who've departed from God, and we continue to spurn his goodness, his kindness, call down his wrath. The Bible lets us know that the Father in heaven is perfect. Father in heaven is perfect. No dark darkness in God at all. 1 John 1, verse 5. This is the message we have heard from Him and announced to you that God is light, and in Him there is no darkness at all. But from Adam on, we've turned away from God. And we're born with our feet hitting the ground running. Running away from God. Sometimes salvation is described as turning back or returning. Like uh the in the the the the illustration, the parable of the prodigal son, you know, those that return home. But that doesn't mean that you were ever with God. It just means that in Adam we left God. In Adam, the whole human race left God. But in Christ we're all returned. We're all returned. We 're called back to the shepherd and bishop of our souls in Isaiah 53, verse 6, it says, All of us like sheep have gone astray. 1 Peter 2 verse 25, for you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the shepherd and guardian of your souls. And what we find in uh Second Corinthians chapter five is this return. To God, this return to God. We were born estranged from the womb, like I mentioned earlier It's not that we were born in a relationship with God. That's why in Matthew chapter 7, verse 23, God says, I will declare to them, I never knew you. Never. It's not like I once knew you. I never knew you. Matthew 25, verse 12 says, Truly I say to you, I do not know you. Why? Because they had no relationship. No relationship with God. And this is true universally of all people. And what a dreadful state to be in, right? To be separated from God. In John chapter 8 verse 19, it says, you know neither me nor my father. You have no relationship. And for those that have no relationship with him, in Matthew chapter 7, verse 23, he says, Depart from me you who practice lawlessness. You're separated from me now, and you'll be separated from me for eternity. That's what he declares to those people. Eternal life is bound up with a relationship with God. It's bound up with that. When Jesus defined eternal life, he said it this way: He says, This is eternal life that they may know you. Have a relationship with you. This is eternal life. Did they know you? You have no salvation without reconciliation. No salvation. No wonder it's been called the leading theme of Paul's thought and ministry. And there's four aspects of reconciliation that are covered here in 2 Corinthians 5. Four aspects, there's the God of Reconciliation, there's the Ministry of Reconciliation, there's the Word of Reconciliation, and there's the Substitute. of reconciliation. We'll uh uh go through all of these. First of all, the the God of reconciliation described in uh 2 Corinthians 5, first part of verse 18. It says, Now all these things are from God. Who reconciled us to Himself through Christ. All these things are from God. And what we find out here is what we've learned throughout Scripture that God is the initiator, God is the one who initiates salvation. He's the one who loved us. He's the one who sent his son. And he's the one who brought us reconciliation. He's the one who reconciled us. God is the initiator of reconciliation. He's the one who initiates this Told right at the beginning that all things are from God. And uh all things refers back to verse 17. Behold, all things have become new. God giving us a new life, God regenerating us, all things come from God, a specific reference to our salvation. And those who have been regenerated and made a new creation need to understand. That this comes from God, that God is the origin of it. God is the one who started the salvation. And that's not only true for our spiritual birth, regeneration, but also for our reconciliation. And as you pay attention to this passage, you'll notice that everything related to our reconciliation comes from God. Everything related to it comes from God. In verse 18, he reconciled us to himself. In verse 18, he gave us the ministry of reconciliation. In verses 19 and 20, he committed to us the word of reconciliation. In verse 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sin. On our behalf, right? This is the work of God. Nobody had to coax God into doing this. No one had to convince him or persuade God to do this. Reconciliation. It 's done by God because he's by nature a reconciler. He's by nature a reconciler. In the Greek it literally says God the reconciling one. That's a description of God. God, the reconciling one, by nature, a reconciler. And the idea that God the Father had to be persuaded by the Son to spare sinners is totally foreign to Scripture. God is not in conflict with Himself. God is not in conflict with the Son. It's not like God was coming down and then here comes the Son running. No, Father, please don't. That's not the picture you need to have in your mind. It is God that initiates the salvation. It's not the Son who came running and stopped God at the last minute. This is the plan of God. This is the purpose of God. The sun didn't sneak out of heaven to accomplish redemption. This is God's plan. And verse 19 lets us know that it was God in Christ who was reconciling the world to himself. What we see Christ doing is what the Father is doing. Every word, every decision, every action was initiated and directed by the Father's perfect will. His decisions are from the Father. In John chapter 5, verse 30. He says, I can do nothing on my own initiative, as I hear I judge, and my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. All of his actions are from the Father. John chapter 8, verse 28. So Jesus said, When you lift up the Son of Man, talking about his crucifixion, right? When you lift up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am He, and I do nothing on my own initiative. But I speak these things as the Father taught me. His coming was from the Father. In John chapter 8, verse 42. Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me. For I proceeded from forth and have come from God, for I have not even come on my own initiative. But he sent me His words were from the Father. He says, Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I say to you I do not speak on my own initiative, but the Father abiding in me does his works. This is the Father working for the reconciliation of the world. It was the Father in Christ reconciling the world to himself. And what makes this so remarkable is that God is the one who's been offended. God is the one who's been offended by man and he takes the initiation to bring him back. Amazing. And this is what makes this kind of reconciliation distinct from the world's reconciliation. It was stated this way. The notion of mediation is well known in modern culture. The mediator is usually an impartial third party. In this reconciliation, however, the aggrieved party is God. And it is God who initiates and secures the means of reconciling the self-alienated from him back to him. This is why when the Bible speaks about reconciliation, it always speaks about man being reconciled to God. It's not God being reconciled to man. God is the one who brings them to himself. 2 Corinthians 5. 18, he you reconciled us to himself. 2 Corinthians 5. 19, reconciling the world to himself. Romans chapter 5, verse 10, we were reconciled to God. Colossians 1:20, through him, to reconcile all things to himself. God is the one who takes the initiation to bring us to Himself. So we learn about this God of reconciliation, but also the ministry of reconciliation. Look at verses 18 and 20 here. It says, uh, now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. And while it's true that we've been given this wonderful privilege of sharing the good news of reconciliation, I'd like to suggest that the primary minister of reconciliation is Christ Himself. The primary minister of reconciliation is really Christ Himself. First of all, he's the primary agent highlighted in these verses. We're reconciled in verse 18 by Jesus Christ. It was God in Christ who was reconciling the world to himself. Verse 20, our ministry is of sharing the good news is on behalf of Christ. We're fulfilling his ministry. So it indicates that we're simply carrying out the what he desires. Huper uses this Greek proposition who pair to say that we're we're standing in behalf of Christ, in the place of Christ, as a substitute for Christ. In verse 21, we're made the righteousness of God in him. And also when it goes on to explain this kind of uh ministry. What this reconciliation uh uh work looks like in verse 19. It it talks about the the work that Christ does. Look at verse 19. Talks about, you know, he gave us this ministry of reconciliation in verse 18. Namely, so what is this ministry of reconciliation? Namely, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation This is the ministry of Christ. The ministry of Christ through us. Robert Peterson in his work, Salvation Accomplished by the Son, says the unique ministry of reconciliation was Christ's accomplishment alone. In his cross and resurrection. This is the ministry of Christ. And he goes on to say that God gave us the ministry of reconciliation based on Christ's unique ministry. It's because of Christ's ministry that we can have a ministry, right? It's all based on what Christ has done. And if it were not for the ministry of Christ, his reconciliation work on the cross, we would have no word of reconciliation to share. There's no good news if there's no Christ. Christ was the chosen agent of reconciliation. There's no other agent of reconciliation Christ says, I'm the way, right? There's no other way. He says, I'm the way. And if you're separated from the agent of reconciliation, there's no word of reconciliation to share. There's no good news without the good Savior, right? According to Hebrews chapter 10, verses 26 to 27, if you reject the agent of reconciliation, you have cut yourself off from all hope. Because there are no other alternatives. It's not like we get to choose who our Savior is going to be. It's no alternatives. We don't get a choice of reconcilers. Do you want this one or that one? Hebrews chapter 10, verses 26 and 27. For if we go on willfully sinning after receiving the knowledge of the truth, meaning we're rejecting the knowledge of the truth, we're rejecting the gospel, that's what Hebrews is talking about. People who come to the edge of salvation and say, ah, I'm not interested. He says, if we go on sinning willfully, rejecting this truth after receiving the knowledge of it. There no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a terrifying expectation of judgment and the fury of a fire which will consume the adversaries. What is he saying? Christ is the only option you'll ever get. Because it's only through Christ that your trespasses are not counted against you. One commentator says this, to count something to someone is an accountant's expression meaning to put something down on someone's account. Put it down on their account. And it came to be used in a pejorative sense, meaning to count against or to hold something against someone. And the idea that's communicated here is that sins have to be counted. Sins have to be reckoned for. Sins have to be paid for. It has to go on somebody's account. Whose account is it going to go on? It has to go on somebody's account. Sins have to be counted. And what 2 Corinthians communicates to us is not that sins won't be counted, but it says this, that sins won't be counted against us. Sins are still counted. But what this communicates is they won't be counted against us. And people like to come up with this argument that all religions are basically the same. And it's obviously false, but what I like to remind them about is that there's only one religion that deals with my sin I was talking to a um uh a Muslim uh friend not too long ago, and uh I said, you know, well let's let's let's start out with things that we agree on. I said, You believe in a God, I believe in a god, right? He said, Yeah. I said, you believe God is holy? I believe God is holy, right? He said, yeah. I said, well, answer this question for me. How are you, as a sinful human being, going to stand in a right relationship with the holy God? I said, that's where we differ. You don't have a solution. You don't have a solution. There is no savior. No savior. Sins aren't accounted for. If your sins are still being marked down against you, you are hopeless. Psalm 130 verse 3 says this: If you Lord should mark iniquities, oh Lord, who could stand? Who could stand if you were marking up every one of my sins? When the books are opened on judgment day, talks about this in Revelation 20, verse 12, and sin after sin after sin is revealed and unclosed, disclosed, uncovered. Do you think you're still going to be on your feet when it's done? He says, if if if if you're counting iniquities, who's going to stand on that terrifying day? If all my sins are being recorded, what hope do I have? There's only one way that I will stand. There's only one way that I'll stand. It's if my sins are recorded on somebody else's sheet. My sins have to be recorded on somebody else's account. That's the only way that I can stand in judgment. If sins are counted against me, I'm hopeless. And this is what the ministry of Christ was all about. 1 John 3, verse 5, he says, You know that he appeared in order to take away sins. This is why he came. To take away sins, and in him there is no sin. That's why it's such uh folly to think that there can be unity between you and God if there's not unity between you and Jesus. There's no unity between you and God. There's no reconciliation. Without Jesus, my trespasses are being recorded on my sheet. And they're still being counted against me. And the message that we have to give is that your sins don't have to be counted against you. That's the word of reconciliation That's the word of reconciliation. That's the next point in verses 19 to 20. Talks about this ministry of Christ, namely that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself. Not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. This is our part here. We communicate the message. He has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, we are ambassadors For Christ, as though God were making an appeal through us, we beg you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. We beg you on behalf of Christ be reconciled to God. Paul understood his ministry as that of an ambassador. In Ephesians chapter 6, verse 20, he says, I'm an ambassador in chains. He also asked the Ephesian church here to pray. Pray that in proclaiming it the gospel that I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. And what Paul understands is that the word that he has to give is not his own. The message that he has to give is not his own. He shuddered at the thought of misrepresenting the Lord. Shudder. Or failing to speak when he should have spoken. He says, pray for me. Pray that I speak boldly as I ought to speak. I ought to speak. I'm obligated to speak. I don't have the liberty to make up my own message, give my own words. Paul understood that he had a message to give that wasn't his own. And as an ambassador, he understood himself as an official messenger who represented a higher authority. That word ambassador was used for those that represented kings, represented emperors, represented nations. Those who were ambassadors were understood to be sent on a mission. Representing the sender and exercising the authority of the sender. And ambassadors were not free to give their own message And Paul is chiefly referring here to himself as an apostle, commissioned by the risen Christ, commissioned by Christ as an apostle. But by application, we are all representatives of Jesus Christ, right? We're all representatives of Jesus Christ. We're to be ambassadors. Jonathan Lehman paints a picture of what this would look like in his book on church membership. He used the illustration of the press room podium. He says, you might know the podium I'm talking about. It's often in the news. The presidential seal is emblazoned on it. Behind it are a blue curtain and an American flag, along with a suspended oval medallion that reads the White House. It is perhaps the most powerful podium in the world. From that podium, wars have been announced, markets have been moved, whole economies have been marginalized. International treaties have been explained, millions, even billions of lives have been impacted. Not even the president's closest friends or family members take the global stage. The President must officially authorize you to represent his mind. And can you imagine the press secretary using the podium to represent his own ideas? I've got some ideas about what we should do. How frightening would that be? And think about this, how frightening is it to imagine that all over the world this morning, this Sunday morning, somebody is standing at a podium Declaring that he's representing the words of Christ. Frightening to to think about. We don't stand behind a a blue curtain and flag and presidential seal. Stand behind the cross. Stand by on the cross and declare that we're representing the the mind of God. Paul said, pray pray for me. I I I don't want to mess this up. I don't want to mess this up. Pray that I speak the way that I ought to speak Paul saw himself as the waiter, not the chef. I don't I don't go back and cook the cook the food. I don't cook the meal up. All I'm supposed to do is just present it. Without tripping. Right? I d I just want to present it as the chef gave it to me. His job was not to alter the content. But not only was the the message not his own, neither was the manner that he gave it in, the manner was not his own either. And this is uh this is shocking here. This is this is shocking because it it feels so out of place. Look at verse 20 again. It says, Therefore we are ambassadors of ambassadors for Christ as though God were making an appeal through us. We beg you. We beg you on behalf of Christ to be reconciled to God. We're begging you. Can you imagine Christ instructing his representatives to plead and beg? Plead and beg? He's the Lord. What do you mean, plead and beg? This is the greatest news ever. What do you mean, plead and beg? That somebody would be reconciled to God and have their sins for you. What are you talking about? Why would anybody have to be pleaded with or begged to have eternal life? Does that make sense? Well, this is this is what he says. On behalf of Christ, we're we're begging you, we're pleading with you, we're entreating you. The word entreat or uh uh appeal, it's uh the word parakalato, uh literally to call call alongside of It can be taken in a number of different ways from a strong exhortation to a word of encouragement. And here it's understood in the sense of urging, encouraging, requesting. But the the word beg The word beg or implore it helps us to see the and hear the broken heart of Paul here It's the word deomai. It's the word that means to to plead, to beseech, to beg, even to pray It's the same word that was used in Luke chapter 9 and verse 38, where there was a man from the crowd who shouted, Teacher, I beg you, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only boy. I'm begging you, please. I went to your disciples, they couldn't do it. I beg you, Master, can you do anything? Please, please. This is my only this is my only boy. Same word that she used. I'm begging you. There's this tender earnestness in the word. One commentator says we cannot fail to detect the strong note of urgency. And compassion in the apostle's language. He sees men as God sees them in a lost state. He has the word, which because of it is a word of reconciliation above all else that they need to hear. And Paul says, I do this on behalf of Christ or in Christ's place. Uses a preposition that's often used for substitution. He says, I'm doing this on behalf of the king. I'm pleading with you, I'm begging you on behalf of the king. Be reconciled. I mean, can you imagine a king lamenting over a nation of rebels? Pleading with them, begging them? Rebels who rejected him? What kind of king does that? Matthew chapter twenty-three Verse 37. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her? How often I wanted to gather your children together the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling. That's the kind of king. That's the kind of king that pleads. Right on the hills of some of Some of his most scathing words against the Pharisees. He utters some of the most tender and compassionate sentences in all of Scripture. How many times would I have gathered you together like a hen gathers for chicks and you wouldn't do it? You would not This is the kind of speaking that's entrusted to those who would be ambassadors of Christ. It's the manner like the Lord lamenting over Jerusalem, or like Jeremiah who was weeping over Judah, or like Moses asking that his name would be blotted out of the book of life, if you don't accept Israel, just take my name out. Or it's like Paul who's pleading for his brothers over in Romans chapter 9. Turn over Romans chapter 9. This is one of those passages that just I mean stops me every time I read it. I I can't get over Romans chapter 9. I really can't get over this. Look at what uh Paul says, Romans chapter 9. Verse 1 he says, I'm telling the truth in Christ. I'm not lying. My conscience testifies with me. In the Holy Spirit. Why is he piling on these words, these phrases? Because he says, I know what I'm about to tell you, you're not going to believe me. Well, let me tell you, I'm telling you the truth. I'm not lying. My conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit. What I'm about to tell you is a true statement. Did I have great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart? For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Do you have any idea what he's saying? What what what kind of what kind of destiny do you receive if you're separated from Christ? He says, I wish that I could be separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren. What kind of destiny do people receive who are separated from Christ? Hell! He says, if I could go to hell so that my brothers could be saved, I'd do it. I'm telling you the truth, I'd do it. I 'm not lying. How far are we from that kind of heart? If you're going to represent the king's words, you better represent the king's heart. If you're going to represent the king's words, you better represent the king's heart. It was said that George Whitfield could never speak of a lost soul without tears in his eyes. Jeremy Walker and the broken-hearted evangelist wrote this. He says it is very easy for us to be up in arms, for example, about current assaults on what can so calmly be described as the doctrine of hell. Of course there is a hell, we protest, offended and disturbed that someone could deny what is so plainly written in the Word of God. Is there a hell? What difference has it made? What have we done differently because there is a hell? We're more disturbed that people deny hell than we are disturbed that there are people who are going there. Why do we let our hearts get cold? Spurgeon said, Oh, my brothers and sisters in Christ, if sinners will be damned, at least let them leap to hell over our bodies. If they will perish, let them perish with our arms about their knees, imploring them to stay and not madly to destroy themselves. We have a saving message. Do you beg people to be reconciled to God? We have the God of reconciliation, the ministry of reconciliation, and the message of reconciliation. Do we beg people to be reconciled to God? And then finally, we have the substitute of reconciliation. Look at verse 21. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. This is one of the most succinct presentations of the gospel in all of Scripture. One of the most succinct. Fifteen words in the Greek language that could literally change your life. Martin Luther called this passage the joyous exchange. It's been called the ultimate solution of all puzzles. The keystone of the whole system of apostolic thought, the focus in which the reconciling love of God burns with the purest and intensest flame. It is the fountain light of all day and the master light of all seeing in the Christian religion. And there is so much theology that is just loaded in this verse We could have spoken of this verse alone independently of the rest, but I want you to see the connection here between this and the context it's found in And here we have the substitute of reconciliation. We have the substitute, okay? The substitute who knew no sin. The substitute who knew no sin. When it says that he did not know sin, it doesn't mean that he didn't know what sin was Of course he knew what sin was. It doesn't mean that he didn't see it and feel the effects of sin during his incarnation. Romans 8, verse 3 says that God sent his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. He knew what it was to have a body that was prone to weakness like ours. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15. We're reminded that uh, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are. We have a substitute that that understood sin, knew exactly what it was. He knew it infinitely better than any of us, didn't have a sinful nature, but he he understood perfectly what sin was. Understood what it was like to be in a weak body. But what 2 Corinthians is pointing out is that Christ did not personally experience sin. That word uh no, it's a form of the word genosco, and it speaks of uh a personal and experiential knowledge. And in that sense, Jesus never knew sin at all. Had no experiential personal relationship with sin at all. 1 John 3, verse 5. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. 1 Peter 2 22, who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. So we have a substitute who knew no sin. Yet this verse also lets us know that we have a substitute who became sin. A substitute who became sin. And there are word of faith teachers that actually promote the idea that on the cross Jesus became a sinner. In the sense that he himself took on a satanic nature and bore our sins. Benny Hinn once claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit told him Jesus Christ knew the only way he would stop Satan is by becoming one in nature with him. You say, what do you say? What blasphemy is this? No, you hear this. He did not take my sin. He became my sin. Sin is the nature of hell. Sin is what made Satan. Jesus said, I won't take part in it. I'll be the totality of it. Claiming that Christ took on the Satan the nature of Satan. He should have should have stopped when he said, What kind of blasphemy is this? He should have stopped right there. But he goes on to try to defend it. Kenneth Copeland claims that this revelation from Christ says it was a sign of Satan that was hanging on the cross. I accepted it in my own spirit, spiritual death, and the light was turned off. This is what he says about Christ: that he accepted the spirit of Satan, spiritual death, and the lights were turned off. Is that the kind of Savior you have? Unthinkable. Christ did not become sinful to take on or take on the nature of Satan, because how else could he be considered the precious and unblemished and spotless lamb of Christ? Christ didn't become sinful, 1 Peter 1 19, but with precious blood, as of a lamb, unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ. Jesus only became sin in the sense that he took on himself the penalty of sin. Took on the penalty of sin. Remember we said earlier that sins must be counted? Sins must be counted for? It has to go on somebody's sheep. The books have to balance. It's gotta go on somebody's account. If God does not credit sin to our account. It's because he's credited to Christ's account. He's put it on Christ's account. So that God treated Christ As if he had committed every sin of every person who would ever believe in all of time. Three hours on the cross. Every sin for every person who would ever believe in all of human history. Placed on Jesus Christ. No wonder he sweat sweat drops of blood. Sweat came down like drops of blood. And Father, if there's any other way. There's any other way. All past, present, and future sins of all who would ever believe were placed on Jesus Christ in that moment of time, and Jesus paid it all. Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Hallelujah. Sin had left the crimson stain. He washed it white as snow. Isaiah 53, verse 5, it says, But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by his scourging we are healed. We are healed. It's talking about spiritual healing there. Spiritual healing. We're forgiven. Substitute. Substitute became sin for us, and he stood in the place of sinners. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. That word uh that phrase on our behalf, it's the a prep preposition that's uh the same word for substitution. Coupere. It's the word for substitution. In our place, substituting for us. He took on himself what we deserve. So you have this the substitute. Who knew no sin, who took on sin, who stood in the place of sinners. And then on the other hand, we have the sinners who knew sin. Who knew sin? We have him who knew no sin, and then we who know sin. We who practice sin. We who participate in sin. Personally, experientially. The ones who actually dwell in sinful flesh, not just who came in the likeness of sinful flesh like Christ. We dwell in it. We are the ones who are of our father, the devil. We're the ones who are by nature children of wrath. If anybody took on the nature of Satan, it was us. It was us, like our Father. Like father, like son, like children. And we our sinners by practice are called righteous in possession. Sinners by practice called righteous in possession. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God. Sinners becoming righteous. And the righteousness that Paul speaks of here is not a righteousness that believers grow into. It's not something that that one day happens to us. It's not not a process like uh Catholics will talk about, you know, becoming more and more righteous, you know, with more justifying grace. Uh the word righteousness is is uh used here in the Arist tense. It speaks of a of an action as a whole. Rather than an ongoing process. And what it's saying here is that he's declaring something that is true about those who are reconciled to God. What is true about those who are reconciled to God? They're called righteous. Those who are reconciled to God are called righteous. And this is a parallel statement to what we just read about the Son of God. Because did the Son of God become a sinner by practice? No. But he became sin for us, right? We who are justified and reconciled, are we actually righteous in practice? No. We're not. We we grow in that kind of practical righteousness, but we're not righteous But positionally we're called righteous. It's by imputation. Jesus didn't actually become a sinner. And and and I mean come on guys, you know yourselves. You're not actually righteous, right? You're not actually righteous. We receive righteousness by imputation. Just as my sin was credited to Jesus' account, his righteousness was credited to my account. He never committed a sin, but it was credited to him. We didn't fulfill all righteousness, but it was credited to us as if we did. This is the joyous exchange that Luther spoke of. It's not enough for my sins to be wiped out. That would just bring me back to ground zero. There has to be more than just my sins wiped out. I need to have positive righteousness. That's the only way that I can stand the judgment before God. Because He demands righteousness. I need positive righteousness, and that's what Christ gives me. He not only pays for my sin, he also pays for my righteousness. And here's the part that should blow you away. Because sinners now stand in the place of the substitute. What do I mean by that? Because of this joyous exchange, right? Because of this joyous exchange, because of this substitution, we now stand in a relationship with God that corresponds to our new position. This is where reconciliation comes into the context here. One commentator put it like this: He, Jesus, came to stand in that relation with God, which is normally the result of sin. Estranged from God and the object of his wrath. Remember his words on the cross? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He stood in the place of those who had committed sin. He was estranged from God, separated from his father , treated as the object of wrath. We, correspondingly, and through God's loving act in Christ, have come to stand in that relation By the term righteousness. What do those who are righteous, what's their standing? What's the standing of those who are righteous? We're acquitted in his court, justified, reconciled, we're no longer enemies, now we're friends. Because of the sacrifice of Christ, we no longer stand in that position of enemy of God, estranged from God, alienated from God. We now stand in the position of friend of God, reconciled to God, united to God. This will be the central and driving force behind any true gospel ministry. Reconciliation. It'll be behind any true gospel ministry. And Paul is defending his ministry. By saying, I'm a minister of reconciliation. If you really want to know who I am, I'm a minister of reconciliation. I bring the word of reconciliation. That's the ministry that I have. It's like Paul says, you know, put the stethoscope over my heart, and hear it break for the lost. Is that who I am? That will be the mark of a faithful minister. And it will be the mark of a faithful church. Be the same mark of a faithful church. Spurgeon said that there are some who believe. There are some who believe and tremble at the truth, but they never say a word. They're called demons. There are some who believe the truth and tremble at it, but never say a word. Even demons believe and shudder. But they're not sharing the truth. They're not going to share the truth. I pray that God would open our mouths to tell people in this dry desert where they can find living water. We need to be be those that minister reconciliation, those that give the word of reconciliation. I'll close with this. It was a word from Jonathan Edwards. He says this. He says, O sinner Consider the fearful danger you are in. Tis a great furnace of wrath, a wide and bottomless pit Full of the fire of wrath that you are held over in the hand of that God whose wrath is provoked and incensed as much against you as against many of the damned in hell You hang by a slender thread with the flames of divine wrath flashing about it and ready every moment to singe it and burn it asunder, and you have no interest in any mediator And nothing to lay hold of to save yourself? Nothing to keep off the flames of wrath? Nothing of your own. Nothing that you have ever done. Nothing that you can do to induce God to spare you one moment. If you understand the condition that you're in, we beg you to be reconciled to God. We beg you to be reconciled to God. After I pray and uh we sing the song, there'll be some men up here in the front. If there there are anybody if there's anybody here Who does not have the assurance that if you were to close your eyes for the last time, that you'd be immediately brought into the presence of Christ, immediately ushered into the presence of Christ. If you don't have that confidence, I want you to come talk to us. And even right where you are, you can pray. Pray out to the Lord. Cry out to the Lord. Ask him for his forgiveness. Trust in Christ. And if there's any way that we can help you, we'd love to do that. We'd love to pray for you. We'd love to walk through the gospel with you. Explain to you more about this reconciling God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh we do thank you. We thank you, God, for being a reconciler. For being a reconciling God. You're by nature a reconciler. We thank you for the ministry of reconciliation through your Son, Jesus Christ. We thank you for the word of reconciliation that you've given to us to share. And Father, I pray, I pray that you would help us to be ministers of reconciliation. That we wouldn't hold on. To the water in the desert and not share it with anyone. Father, that we would be those that are quick to share this word of reconciliation that Men and women can be reconciled to God, can be brought into a state of peace with God. That you no longer have to be an enemy of God, that you can be God's friend and God's children. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be those that minister this word of reconciliation. We thank you for our substitute. The one who knew no sin, who became sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him, and that we might stand in that position of union with you, of friendship with you Of total acceptance with you because of what he's done. Father, open the eyes of those who are blind to the truth of the gospel. In Jesus' name we praise you in you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.