The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. The church we meet on the first day of the week, we meet on a on a Sunday, and that's uh not without purpose. Uh it's because on That first Sunday, resurrection Sunday, early on that first day of the week, Jesus rose from the dead. And uh next week's Sunday uh we'll be uh celebrating uh together uh resurrection sunday uh giving special attention to the resurrection of jesus christ uh during that uh resurrection uh celebration. Uh it's a Sunday the churches have typically uh set aside uh to give special attention to what happened on that first resurrection Sunday. Uh but the week before that first resurrection Sunday There was another kind of celebration. As a church, we celebrate that Jesus rose on a Sunday. But the week before that Sunday, there was another celebration that the church also recognizes. uh which is called the Triumphal Entry, or some know it as Palm Sunday. And while it was a true celebration There was much more going on on that day than you might initially realize. And even though it's been called triumphal, uh there was not much of triumphing going on on that day. And uh we'll get back to Romans Soon, I'm actually thinking next week, we'll get back to Romans. But for this Sunday, let's turn our attention to the week that led up to that first Easter Sunday in Matthew chapter 21. So if you would take your Bibles with me and turn over to Matthew chapter 21. And I'll read to you what took place One week before Jesus' death and resurrection, this is the beginning of the end. Matthew chapter 21, starting at verse 1. It says when they had approached Jerusalem and had come to Bethbagae at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples. Saying to them, go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied there and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, the Lord has need of them. And immediately he will send them. This took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. Say to the daughter of Zion, behold your king is coming to you, gentle and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the full of a beast of burden The disciples went and did just as Jesus had instructed them, and brought the donkey and the colt and laid their coats on them, and he sat on the coats. Most of the crowds spread their coats in the road, and others were cutting branches from the trees and spreading them in the road. The crowds going ahead of him and those who followed were shouting. Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna and the highest. When he had entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this? And the crowds were saying, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we I do come before you, Lord, and Father, we are grateful for your word, and uh we're grateful for this account of Jesus' life. Father, I pray that we would walk away and ask ourselves the question, where do we find ourselves in this story? Father, I pray that we would find ourselves with the disciples alongside of Jesus, but we know that that's not the only response that was on this day. Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to learn from these words. And Father, I pray that you would uh speak through this text and that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned, what we read here takes place one week before Jesus' death. And what Jesus does in this chapter is really a bold move because he knew that the Jewish leaders wanted him dead It's like coming to a town that has your your wanted poster plastered everywhere, wanted dead or alive. And Jesus walks right into the Lion's Den. In prior times, Jesus avoided confrontation in Jerusalem. In John chapter 7 and verse 1, it says that he was unwilling to walk in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. And Jesus knew this. And when his brothers tried to get him to walk in Judea publicly, in John chapter 7 and verse 6, Jesus said to them, My time is not yet here. It's not my time for that But the time has now come, and Jesus is now preparing himself to die. Jesus is going to make this grand entrance into Jerusalem, knowing full well what was about to take place. On at least three different occasions, Jesus spoke to his disciples and said that he was to suffer at the hands of the elders, the chief priests, the scribes, and to be killed in Jerusalem. He knew that he would die. He knew where he would die. He knew how he was going to die. And we see the sovereignty of Jesus actually on display even in this moment. He knew all of these things and he still walks right into it. Because Jesus is actually in charge, even over the circumstances of his death. And he organizes this public parade. In the place, the very place of his execution. And the first thing that we see is that Jesus plans his own coronation. Take a look again at verse 1. It says, when they had approached Jerusalem and Come to Bethbaga at the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples, saying to them, Go into the village opposite you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied there and a colt with her, untie them and bring them to me. We don't know where Bethphagah is today, but we do know that it was near the city of Bethany, according to Mark chapter 1 in verse 1, 11 in verse 1. Bethany was the home of Jesus' closest friends, Mary and Martha and Lazarus, the same one that he raised from the dead. It's only located about a mile and a half away from Jerusalem, about a fifteen to twenty minute walk from this place, Bethany and Bethage, which would have been right next to it. Only a fifteen to twenty minute walk from there into Jerusalem. You don't need to get a ride to get there. It's just like many of you, you know, you walk to school or, you know, maybe different places. We were talking last night uh and Jennifer said that uh sometimes she'd walk from her school and it would take about an hour and a half. I'm not sure what she did in all that hour and a half, you know, going from her high school to home. May maybe her mom knows something about that, but But you don't need you don't need a ride if it's a fifteen to twenty minute walk. But here and Jesus is is known for walking, I mean the disciples walked everywhere. But here Jesus wants to make a point. So he sends two of his disciples to the village of Beth Phate and Donkey and her cult, a mom and the mom 's uh you know cult This would have been equivalent here to someone telling someone to walk down the street and saying, you know, hey, you know, there there's going to be a work truck in that parking lot. I want you to jump in, you know, start the engine and just bring it to me. How does Jesus do this? You know, just go into somebody else's yard, untie their colt, untie their donkey, and bring them to me. These are somebody's work animals Donkeys were used for plowing, for transporting goods, for transporting people. The cult of this donkey was one that nobody ever sat on before, according to Mark 11 in verse 2. I mean this is the new work truck You know, it still had that fresh donkey smell to it, you know? Right off the factory lot. But Jesus does not ask permission because kings don't ask permission Jesus is the king. He says just in time and bring them to me. And if anybody has a problem with that, you just tell them I need it. I need their donkey. He's exercising his rights as king in these verses. Same authority that he had in Beth Phage is the same authority that he has over every village, every city, every nation in the entire planet. In the universe, Jesus exercises his right. And as we've said often that one day every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. But there's a willing submission on the part of this owner. And this is what he says. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, verse 3, the Lord has need of them. And what does it say? And immediately He will send them. No questions asked. The Lord needs it. Have it. I don't need to know why He needs them. I don't need to know where He's going to take them. I don't need to know when He's going to bring them back. If the Lord needs it, you can have it. And that's the heart of willing submission. And actually in Luke chapter 19, we don't find it here, but in Luke chapter 19, we actually find that as they're untying this colt, That its owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And guess what? No argument. No argument. Take the donkeys. Take whatever you need. If the Lord has need of it, you can have it. And I pray that that would be the same kind of response that we would have. That if the Lord has need of anything from our lives, that if he desires it, that he can have it. That it's not our will be done, but Lord, your will be done in my life. And what is it that the Lord is asking you to bring to Him today? Maybe the Lord is asking you to trust him with your marriage. Maybe the Lord is asking you to trust him with your job. Maybe the Lord is asking you to trust him with your children. Trust me, trust me with your finances. Or maybe the Lord is saying, you know what? You need to give up your life to me. You've been holding on to your life, you've been walking around as if you're in charge of your own life. You need to give it up. The Lord desires that. The Lord desires your life. And would you have that attitude that says, Lord, if you need it, you can have it. If that's what you want, you can have it. You're the rightful king. You own it all anyway. Lord, you can have anything that you ask for. But here we have this heart of willing submission. Immediately you will send them. And Jesus prepares for this entrance, verse 4. It says this took place to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, gentle and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the full of a beast of burden. Why don't you flip back to Zechariah chapter 9? Two books behind the book of Matthew. Matthew, Malachi, Zechariah, if you're flipping back. Book of Zechariah. Let's take a look at chapter 9, Zechariah chapter 9. The scriptures prepared For this entrance. Not only did Jesus prepare for it, but the scriptures predicted it. The scriptures predicted that this would be the kind of entrance that he would have. Just to give you a little bit of background on Zechariah, Zachariah was a priest and a prophet who was born in Babylon, so born in the land of exile If you remember going through the the book of Daniel, uh Zachariah was born in the land of exile, born in Babylon. He was born uh during that time, but but then he lived through the time that Israel was allowed to go back to to Israel, allowed to go back to Jerusalem to rebuild their temple. And Zechariah reminded Israel that they had a hope for the future. Actually, the name Zechariah, listen to this, means the Lord remembers. The Lord remembers you. The Lord knows what He's doing and He has a He has a place for you. He has a future for you. Zechariah reminded the children of Israel that they had a hope in the future. And even though things look bad Don't think that the Lord has forgotten. The Lord remembers. And one day your deliverer is going to come. You're going to come home. To a temple that's broken down, to cities that have been burnt down to the ground. But I'm telling you that there's going to come a time when your king will come to that very place. This very place that you're going to. You're going to be discouraged, but I'm telling you, your king is going to come to this very place. Look what he says in Zechariah chapter 9 and verse 9. He says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout in triumph, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. And how will he come? He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey. And as Jesus prepares himself to ride in on this cult of a donkey, all kinds of bells should have been going off In the minds of the people of Jerusalem. Like something's different about this. You don't need a donkey to ride fifteen to twenty minutes of a walk And and people usually don't ride on the donkeys. It's usually like they they've got some kind of burden that they are they're placing on the donkeys and and they're walking beside the donkey. This is a work truck. You know you're you you're putting it in the in the in the back where where like that's where the goods go. Why are you sitting up there? And why are you on the colt like the the baby donkey? Why are you on that one? Why not be on the mommy Why are you on the child? What's going on here? Jesus is coming in in a way that should have sent off some signals to Israel that something's different about this one. And they should have been making this connection between what he was doing and what Zechariah had prophesied hundreds of years before And what else will this king do? Verse 10 of Zechariah 9, it says, I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, and the bow of war will be cut off. I'm going to put an end to warfare. He will speak peace to the nations, and his dominion will be from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. I'm going to reign universally And then down in verse 15, it says, the Lord of hosts will defend them and they will devour and trample on the slingstones. Not even slingstones are going to be used as weapons of war. And apparently some of the people who were in Jerusalem started to make a connection between what was going on. Because what you find in verse 6, if you take a look at verse 6, it says the disciples went and did just as Jesus had instructed them And brought the donkey and the colt and laid their coats on them, and he sat on the coats. And most of the crowds spread their coats in the road. And others were cutting branches from the trees and spreading them in the road, and the crowds going ahead of him, and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. There are some people that were saying, you know what? There's something distinct about this. Back in Zechariah again in chapter 9. It says in verse 16, it speaks about this king who had come. It says, and the Lord their God will save them in that day. As the flack of his people, for they are as the stones of a crown sparkling in his land. And apparently there's some people who are starting to make these connections and saying, maybe this is the one. Maybe this is the one who's going to save, and they they start throwing their coats in the road before the donkey as Jesus is riding in. And they're saying save now. That word Hosanna , some of us use that word Hosanna, we don't know what it means. It's a word that means save now. This is it. Here he comes, he's coming to save us. And who is he going to save us from? He's coming to save us from Rome He's coming to deliver us. And this is during the time of Passover. During the time of Passover, they would have been reminding themselves about their deliverance from Egypt. And now they're saying, hey, we've got another enemy that we need to be delivered from. Hey, now he's coming to deliver us from Rome. And they're spreading out their quotes and saying, why not now? Why not now? And the honor that Jesus receives here is right. Does the disciples lay their coats on top of the donkey? You know, even preparing the donkey for Jesus to ride on the donkey? And what are the disciples thinking during this time as they they see the crowd starting to gather and branches being cut from the trees and They're throwing their clothes as if to say, I'm willing to submit myself even to this one who's coming in. What are the disciples thinking during this time? Flip over to Luke chapter 19. Luke chapter 19. We don't have to think about what the disciples are thinking. We don't have to imagine and guess, because the scriptures actually tell us what they're thinking. Luke chapter 19. describes the same time frame that we're looking at here, the same period of time in Matthew 20 and 21. And we're told what the disciples are thinking. Look at chapter 19, look at verse 11. While they were listening to these things, they're listening to the crowds, you know, Hosanna, save now. While they were listening to these things, Jesus went on to tell a parable because he was near Jerusalem, and they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately. Here they are, and what are they thinking? This is it. This is what we've been waiting for. This is what our expectation is. You know, he's the Messiah, and now he's coming. He's going to save, he's going to deliver us from Rome. That's their expectation. What did Jesus tell at least the disciples at least three times was going to happen when he went to Jerusalem? I'm going to what? I'm gonna die. I'm gonna be delivered over into the hands of the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees, and I'm gonna be killed. But now his disciples say, hey, this is it! He's gonna become king, totally dismissing what Jesus told them before. This is it, the kingdom's coming. Kingdom's coming. So Jesus tells them this parable, verse 12 of Luke chapter 19. So he said, a nobleman went to a distant country to receive the kingdom for himself and then return And he called ten of his slaves and gave them ten minas, and said to them, Do business with this until I come back. But the citizens hated him, and sent a delegation after him, saying, We do not want this man to reign over us. That's what was going to happen. When he returned after receiving the kingdom, he ordered that these slaves to whom he had given the money be called to him so that he might know what business they had done. Jesus lets them know that If you're thinking that the kingdom is going to come immediately, you need to change your thinking. That's not what's going to happen. These same people that might be spreading out their clothes and waving the palm branches and throwing those down. It's going to end with them saying, you know what, we this is not the one that we expected. This is not the one that we want to rule over us. So what Jesus does is he puts some context around the triumphal entry. This is not going to end with me reigning. This is going to end with my death, with my rejection. And he says, I'm gonna go away. I'm gonna go to a far country and receive the kingdom, then come back and receive it for myself. And this should answer some of the frustrations that we have while we're still on earth. Do you know that the scripture says that we live on this earth as aliens If you don't feel feel like you're at home yet, it's because you're not. First Peter chapter 1 and verse 1, Peter and Apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who reside as aliens, foreigners. Don't belong here. Chapter 2, verse 11 of 1 Peter. He says, Beloved, I urge you as aliens and strangers, do you know what kind of instruction we're given regarding the government? Is it to take over the government? No. Romans 13, every person is to be in subjection to the governing authorities. For there's no authority except from God. Do you know that we're to pray for the kingdom to come? We're not set to establish it on the earth. Matthew 6 verse 10, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We're to pray for that. So if you ever find yourself frustrated that this world does not feel like it's home, it's because it's not. And the triumphal entry did not change that. Jesus was entering Jerusalem to die. And guess what? If we're following Jesus, where are we going to? We're going to the same cross. Pick up your cross and follow me, Jesus says. This is not the path to victory. This is not the victory lap. You know, this is the time to die. And he's ascended to heaven, as he said that he would, to receive the kingdom. And he'll come one day to conquer it. And for those of us who belong to him, we'll be coming back to reign with him. 2 Timothy 2 verse 12 says, if we endure, we will also reign with them. We're coming back to reign. We will reign with Christ, which implies that Jesus has to be there in order for us to do that with him, right? He's coming back and we'll be with him. But here they're saying, do it now, Lord. Do it now. Do it now. And it was right, like I mentioned that Jesus was publicly recognized, and Jesus should still be recognized today as the rightful king. He should be recognized, he should be lifted up. Even the rulers and authorities should know that they're going to be held accountable to him. We should not be ashamed to declare him publicly, to speak the his truth. But don't forget that this is not yet that time to reign. This is the time to trust in Him who is coming back, who is returning for us. Amen. But here you have the disciples uh again. They were thinking that the kingdom's going to come. Like I said, most of the crowd spread their coats in the road. Others were cutting these palm branches. You know, these palm branches were actually symbols of rejoicing. We find that in Leviticus 23 and verse 40. You also find another account of this in uh Revelation 7, verse 9 and 10. Where it says, after these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no one could count from every nation, all the tribes and peoples and tongues. Standing before the throne, before the lamb, clothed in white robes, and what palm branches were in their hands. And they cry out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne. And to the land. There's coming a time when we will see these palm branches again. And at that time he's coming to conquer, but at this time he was coming to die. He's coming to die. But the crowds are saying, Hosanna. This is actually from Psalm 118. I won't turn there right now, but in Psalm 118, uh it speaks about the the time of the the Passover. This is the uh actually I will turn there. Psalm 118. Let's just go there. Psalm 118. Psalm 118, it's a psalm of joy, celebration. It would have been used as the worshipers were Preparing to approach the temple, come up to Jerusalem. Commentators also point out that this sound was used during the Passover to celebrate Israel's deliverance. Well take a look at verse 19. Psalm 118, look at verse 19. Here they go. Like I said, they're traveling to Jerusalem. And what do they say as they approach Jerusalem? Verse 19, open to me the gates of righteousness. I shall enter through them. I shall give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord. The righteous will enter through it. And here these crowds would have viewed themselves as, you know, we are the righteous who are coming into the gates. And they wouldn't not have, they would not have. Viewed themselves as rejecting the cornerstone, they would not have viewed themselves as rejecting the Lord. You know, we're the ones that are rejoicing in the Lord. Verse 23, this is the Lord's doing, and it's marvelous in our eyes. The stone that the builders rejected, verse 22, has become the chief cornerstone And they're rejoicing in that. And they would have thought that their prayer for blessing and prosperity would have been actually limited to this physical oppression. And many people still believe that that's all that Jesus is. He's just the liberator. You know, he's just about justice. In verse 25, it says, O Lord, do save, we beseech you, O Lord, we beseech you. We send your prosperity. Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. And some only think of that salvation as a physical salvation, physical prosperity. But Jesus was About to bring much more than just a physical salvation. And they would not be prepared for their physical salvation until they accepted their spiritual salvation. They weren't prepared for it. Jerusalem wasn't ready to receive their king. Back in Matthew 21, we understand why they weren't ready to receive their king. Because they didn't even understand who he was. Look at verse 10. Back in Matthew 21. When he had entered Jerusalem, all the city was stirred, saying, Who is this? And the crowds were saying, This is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. Now you have to think about what's going on here. There's the crowds that are coming from outside of Jerusalem. They're the ones that have witnessed Jesus' miracles. You know, they're the ones that are coming along with Jesus from, you know, this area of Beth Phage and Bethany. Bethany was where uh Lazarus was raised from the dead, so these are people that have witnessed Jesus' miracles. So they're coming in saying, like, hey Save now! He's the one who can raise the dead. I I'm sure surely he's the one that can deliver us from Rome as well. They're coming in saying, Save now, save now. There's a big party, big commotion going on. And as they enter into Jerusalem, the people in Jerusalem are like, What's the What's happening here? And who is this? Who's this coming? So here you have these two crowds of people that are mixing together. There's those who are coming from outside of Jerusalem, and now the people in Jerusalem are starting to be stirred and saying, Well, who is this? And what are the people who are following Jesus from Bethany and Bethage? What are they saying? This is the prophet. This is the prophet. Jesus from Nazareth in Galilee. That's what they recognized him as. He's a prophet. They didn't recognize him as the one who truly came as the one who was to save them from their sins, as God in the flesh They recognized him as a prophet. And he's coming to bring physical deliverance. That's what they recognized Jesus as. Jerusalem wasn't ready for this. One of the reasons why is because the chief priests and the rulers of Jerusalem were already telling them that Jesus is worthy of death. We've rejected Jesus as the Messiah. And actually, in Luke chapter 19, you have some of the Pharisees who are coming into the crowd saying, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Like, let them stop. Shut their mouth from saying these things. But what does Jesus say in Luke 19, verse 40? Jesus answered, I tell you, if these become silent, the stones will cry out. I mean you talk about, you know, uh some uh a rock party here. It's like the stones are gonna cry out. There's nobody that's going to keep this silent I'm going to be recognized. Jesus is coming. And he's going to be recognized. And when he approached Jerusalem and he saw the city, just flip over to Luke 19, because I want you to see this. As Jesus approaches Jerusalem, how does he respond to those who are wondering about who he is? Verse 41. It says, When he approached Jerusalem, he saw the city and he wept over it. Instead of Jesus seeing the celebration and and rejoicing over all that was going on. Jesus begins to cry, saying, if you had known in this day, even you the things which make for peace, but now they have been hidden from your eyes. They don't really recognize me for who I am. They don't really understand what I've come for. If you had known this day what makes for your peace. The city of Jerusalem rejected Jesus Christ. And even those who celebrated him did not have a true understanding of who he was and what he came to do. They can't even identify him correctly. This is just the prophet from Nazareth. Is that all Jesus is? Is he a prophet? Or is he as Peter says, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. The crowds didn't know who he was. They didn't have the eyes to see. They didn't have the heart to understand. And Jesus says, if you had known, even this day what makes for your peace. Is the truth of who Jesus is hidden from your eyes this morning? There's a lot of religions that give respect to Jesus as a good man, a prophet, a religious teacher. Revolutionaries. He's come to teach us how to love one another. You know, you hear that a lot. You know, what what's the message of Jesus that we would love our neighbor as we love ourselves? Now that's that's what Jesus came to teach us. Is that all Jesus is? Would you be part of the crowd that laid down your coat and cut off the palm branches, but didn't recognize that Jesus has come to rule over you, to rule over your heart? Your palm branches won't help you if Jesus does not also have your heart. And Jesus will not save physically until he saves spiritually. And Jesus planned for this party, this celebration, but even at the end of it, he recognized that this was not yet the full recognition of who he was. And we don't get this from Matthew, but we find out in Mark chapter 11 that as Jesus entered Jerusalem and he weeps over the city, but then he turned around and he left. Mark chapter 11, verse 11 says, Jesus entered Jerusalem, came into the temple, and after looking around at everything, he left for Bethany with the twelve, since it was already late. He looks around at the temple, and uh, if you remember in John chapter 2, Jesus cleansed the temple when he first came to the temple years ago. What he had seen in the temple was that they made his father's house a den of thieves, that they were taking advantage of the people that they were supposed to be helping. And he comes to the temple and he looks over it and guess what? It's the same old story all over again. So he leaves, it's already late, and then he shows back up on the next day. Look at verse 12 back in Matthew chapter 21. This is the next day. And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all those who were buying and selling in the temple and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who are selling doves. And he said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you are making it a robber's den. This is after Jesus had the night to sleep on it He comes into this large outer court where the Gentiles would have met, and there was a court of the women where the women and the Jewish men could meet. There was a court only of the men. But on the outside, on the outer court, there was the court where the Gentiles could get And that was as close as they could get to the temple. This is like holy ground for the Gentile people, for the nations to come as close as they could get to where the temple was. And in this place where the Gentiles would have been able to gather, they made that their place of business. They made that into the marketplace. Commotion of buying and selling and haggling over prices happened there Why why why did this happen? What was going on? Basically as the people came to to worship the the Lord they would bring their animals and uh you know these animals would be inspected to see if they were were worthy of being offered and They find something wrong with the animal. But you know what? This animal isn't accepted, but but we've got this animal over here. So a little more pricey, but but this animal is without spot, without blemish, this is the one that can be accepted, and they would take advantage of the people that way. As people brought offerings, they'd say, you know what? This coin here, it's got Caesar's face. We don't accept this, but we've got our own money that you can exchange, and that'll be accepted It's just like uh you know when you go to the the movie theater and they don't want you to bring your own food, but we have our own snack shop, you know, that's like jacked up four or five times the price You can't bring your own food, but you know, we've got our own food in here. It's the same kind of kind of thing. In addition to that, the the temple refused, like I said, to take the Roman currency. They They had their own temple currency. They charged a 25% fee on top of what you gave. According to the Jewish commentator, a person would have to often pay as much as ten times the amount for an animal. To be accepted, and Jesus sees all of this and he's had it. He's had enough. So he comes in and he wrecks shop. Wrecks the temple, turns over the tables, drives out those who are buying and selling in the temple I mean money's flying, tables are turning, seats are rolling, people are physically being picked up and tossed out And more than that, in Mark chapter 11, verse 16, it says that he would not permit anybody to carry any merchandise through the temple. Jesus comes in and he takes charge of this entire precinct. I've actually been on the Temple Mountain. It's 36 acres of land. And one man took control of the entire thing. Casting them out. My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you're making it a robber's den. Quotes from Isaiah 56 and verse 7. All the peoples actually speaks about this in Isaiah 56 and verse 7, that my house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples. That word for peoples is the word for the Gentiles. All the nations shall be gathered to me. But here you are, you're here picking pockets. It was God's name that they were using to pick people's pockets. They they sought cover from the temple to cover their criminal activity. Just like many pastors who today say, you know, hey, close the doors. You know, we don't We don't have enough offering in the plate here. You need to close the doors. That's not new, by the way. That's been happening. That's been going on Not everybody who wears a cross, carries a Bible, stands behind a pulpit, speaks for God. Just because you speak behind a podium on a Sunday does not make you credible. You have to back up what you say by the word of God And here you have these people that were, you know, feigning, you know, pretending to be religious, you know, as if they really cared about what God was concerned about, but they're concerned about stuff in their own pockets And that's what Jerusalem had become. It become a bazaar as these people are picking the packets of the people who are coming to worship. So Jesus drives them out. We don't know if he made a court of whips like he did before in John chapter 2, but we know that he drove them all out. And Jesus just by the power of his own authority can drive out all those who are buying and selling and allow nobody to come through. But then you have in verse 14 that the blind and the lame aren't frightened of Jesus. The blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and the scribes saw the wonderful things that he had done in the children who were shouting in the temple, Hosanna to the son of David, and again here the shout comes up again. Hosanna to the son of David, they became indignant. And you you would have thought that you know these chief priests and scribes would have seen the wonderful things that were being done and rejoiced in it. Here we have the the Messiah, he's here and he's actually healing people. He's actually giving evidence that backs up who he says that he is. He's able to heal. You might expect them to recognize that, you know what, I think God has just shown up in our temple. I think he's here today. You might expect them to reconsider their position. You know, maybe maybe we've been wrong about who Jesus is. Shouldn't we at least hear him out? Expect them to be struck with fear because they've been opposing Jesus Christ. Or at least be happy that somebody's being healed. I mean, at the very least, you know, the blind and the lame are being healed. Let's rejoice in that. But no, they say, can you can you shut these people up? Shut the people up. They became indignant. And they said to him, verse 16, Do you hear what these children are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read? I love when Jesus says that. You know, he speaks to these religious leaders and says, don't you guys read? Have you never read? Out of the mouth of infants and nursing babies, you have prepared praise for yourself. I love this. Think about this. This is uh coming from Psalm 8, which speaks about praise going to God. Okay? Here these people are praising who? Jesus. And Jesus says, out of the mouth of infants and nursing babes, you have prepared praise for yourself. Who is Jesus saying that he is? He's he's the he's he's God. This praise is coming to me and you know what you can't stop this. And this is exactly what the scripture said would would happen, out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies, you've prepared praise for yourself. He's directing attention to himself because Jesus is God. And there's one more event that I don't want you to miss One more event. Not only do we have Jesus cleansing his own temple in verses 12 to 17, but we also have Jesus cursing his own fig tree in verses 18 and 19. This is where we'll we'll stop. In verse 17 it says he left them, went out of the city to Bethany, spent the night there. Then in verse 18 it says, Now in the morning, when he was returning to the city, he became hungry. Seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And he said to it, No longer shall there ever be any more any fruit from you, and at once the fig tree withered. And you have to You have to pay attention to some of the details here, but actually what's happening here in verse 18, the text is actually taking us back one day. It's taking us back to what happened at the time that he's walking up to the to the temple. Actually taking us back to that morning when he's walking up to the to the temple as he's going to cleanse the temple. As he's walking there, he sees a fig tree that has leaves, has no fruit, and he curses it. And you think about like, well, what's going on here? You know, we've heard about miracles of healing, of creation, compassion, but but where do we find Jesus destroying anything? But here you have Matthew rewinding the clock back to the morning and giving us a miracle that only his disciples witness. This is like like the details that we didn't have. It's like the backstory to what we find in the temple. Matthew rewinds the clock back and shows us this destructive miracle, but everything that Jesus did was intentional. It's not like Jesus just had a bad day. There's a message in the fig tree. Very striking similarities between the fig tree and what took place in the temple. And this becomes for us a great reminder of a genuine faith, spiritual fruit. There's a couple things I want to point out about the story as it unfolds. Number one, Jesus had a right desire. It says he became hungry. What we find here is that Jesus wasn't some kind of superhuman. Jesus was a was truly man. He became hungry, tired, thirsty. He looked for food. He had a right desire for food He has all the limitations. He had all the limitations that we do except without sin, with no sin. The humanity of Christ. Here is clearly described. And we would have no substitute if Jesus were not truly man. He had to be truly man in order to be a substitute for man. We find in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 5 that when he comes into the world speaking about Christ, he says, sacrifice an offering you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. Jesus had to be truly human. In order to be our substitute. So Jesus comes, he has a physical need, he became hungry. And then he had a right expectation. In verse 19, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it and found nothing on it except leaves only. And Mark adds this detail that it wasn't the time for figs. So why is Jesus expecting Figs when the figs weren't in season. And this is where the background becomes really helpful. One background study on the life of Christ makes this comment. Although the season at which figs ripened had not yet arrived Yet the tree was clothed with leaves, and the fruit of a fig sets in before the leaves unfold. So if you find leaves, you should expect to find fruit. So he sees the leaves and he's coming in expecting to find the the fruit that had come before the leaves. So he sees these these leaves spreading out and he's expecting fruit, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it. Expecting to find the fruit. But what does he find? Nothing. This area was actually known for abundant fruit. The word Bethage is actually the house of the early fig. You know, so he's near the house of the early figs and expecting to find figs here. And the first ripe figs were actually the best according to scripture. It says in Isaiah 28 verse 4 calls the the figs which one sees as soon as it's in his hand, he swallows them up. You know, these are the very good figs. It's like the the ones that you just, you know Chug down, you know, right away. And this is his expectation that I'm coming to find fruit, and there is no fruit. And he had the right reaction. He says, no longer shall there ever be any fruit from you. He had the right reaction, and the fig tree withered. It's an obvious point here, but to make it anyway, that the primary purpose of a fig tree is not for its leaves. The primary purpose of the fig tree was for the fruit. You know, the shade of the fig tree was something in addition, but you don't plant a fig tree for the leaves. You plant a fig tree for the fruit. And here the fig tree didn't produce fruit. And Jesus' reaction was right. And it's not hard to put the illustration together. As Jesus approaches the temple, his desire is for God to be worshipped. That's the right desire. He's expecting the fruit of righteousness. He's looking for the fruit of righteousness, but all he finds is the leaves of religion. Finds the leaves of religion. After the three years of public ministry, Jesus cleansed out the temple the first time. He comes back and there's nothing but the leaves of religion, and they've brought it right back in again, making his father's house a house of thieves, a den of thieves. No fruit, all leaves, and Jesus' reaction to the fig tree is the same as it was to those who are in the temple He condemns it. The reaction is right. And a nation that does not worship God is like a fruit tree that does not bear fruit and it's fulfilling no purpose. And Jesus' response to their lack of repentance is right. And this is why Jesus weeps over the city. Jerusalem, Jerusalem. He who kills the. Who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her, it says in chapter 23. How often I would have wanted to gather your children together the way a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were unwilling. Behold, Jesus says, your house is being left to you desolate, empty. No more No more leaves versus the not even the fruit. You're not going to produce anything And not now it also says this, you'll see me no more until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the house was left empty. What worship is going on in the Jewish temple today? None. None Jesus here predicts that it would be left desolate, which is exactly what it still is today, desolate. There's around the temple, around the temple mount, you know, there's all kinds of activity going on. But there's nothing happening in that place where the temple stood. The house was left desolate. The Lord left, and not even any activity would go on there any further. And Jesus says a little further on, later than that, in Matthew 21 and verse 43, if you want to flip down there. Verse 43 he says, Therefore I say to you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing the fruit of it. And do you know who that is? Who are the ones that are producing the fruit today? It's the Church of God, the Church of Jesus Christ. That's who's to produce the fruit. It was taken away from being underneath the uh the government of of Jerusalem and now it's being given to the church Now 1 Peter 2 and verse 9 and 10 it says that you are a chosen race, a rural priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possessions. possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, for you were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And where is the temple today? 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 16 says, Do you not know that you are the temple of God? And that the Spirit of God dwells in you? Chapter 6, verse 19 to 1 Corinthians, or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and that you are not your own? You are the temple of God. You're the one who produced the fruit. But there's coming a day in the future, according to Matthew chapter 23 and verse 39, when they will say, Blessed is he, and who is they? It's the nation of Israel, when they will say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. It's been cut off from them until. It's been removed from them until there's a future for Israel that's spoken of here. Until you say, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And this is what provides them with hope. There's a hope that's found in here. There's going to be a day when the nation of Israel looks on him whom they've pierced. And they will mourn over him as one mourns for an only son. But until that time, the Lord says that you are to be the fruit bearers. You're to produce the fruit that gives glory to the Lord. You have a number of different responses to the Lord as he came to Jerusalem that week before his crucifixion. And where do you find yourself in this story? Are you like the disciples? I may be confused, but you know, I still know who Jesus is. I have a right understanding of who he is. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Might still have some confusion there, but I know who you are. You're the Christ, you're the Son of the Living God. I know who you are. I might have different expectations of what you'll do in my life, but at least they had a a right understanding of who he was. Or are you like the enemies of Christ who are trying to shut the praise that was going up to the Lord up? We will not have this one to rule over us. And keep it quiet. Keep the praise down. Turn the volume down on the praise that goes to the Lord. Or might you be today like those that threw down their coats and spread out their palm branches, but never truly gave the Lord their hearts? And we're easily persuaded by the crowd. Because you have some of these same ones who came and said, save now, save now, who days later said what? Crucify him, crucify him. But we still have here those that truly believed. And I pray that today that you would be those who would truly believe, who would truly trust in Jesus Christ, and that today that we would be those who are truly productive for the Lord. John 15, verse 8 says, My father is glorified by this that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. You know, those who are his disciples are those that produce fruit. And we should check to make sure we're not just the leaf bearers, but that we're we're fruit bearers, that we don't just have the leaves of religion, but that we have the fruit of righteousness. And that fruit of righteousness comes through repentance, through turning away from our sins and trusting in Jesus Christ alone. And if you're here and you haven't trusted in Jesus Christ. Will you be prepared on the day that inspection is coming? Because there's an inspection coming. And what this text lets us know is that Christ is not going to be fooled by the leaves of our religion. It 's possible for you to be engaged in superficial, hypocritical religion that has no substance, that has no fruit. And if you don't have a true heart for the Lord, if you haven't truly trusted in him, if you don't really have the fruit of righteousness and repentance in your life, you will not pass that inspection that is to come. And you can't think that you're safe because you attend a religious service? And there's people who are condemned that were found in the temple of the Lord In Jeremiah chapter seven and verse four it says, Do not trust in deceptive words, saying, This is the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord. What were people saying? Hey, we're we're in the temple, we're safe We're safe because we're connected to religion. We're safe because we're around religion. This is the temple of the Lord. I'm gotta be safe here But what does the Lord say in verse 8? Behold, you are trusting in deceptive words to no avail. You're trusting that you're in the temple of the Lord, but you haven't given your heart to me. You're trusting in deceptive words, saying this is the temple of the Lord and we're safe here. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, offer sacrifices to Baal and walk after other gods? And then you come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say that we are delivered, that you may do all these abominations? You know, don't think that you're safe because you're religious. Don't think that you're safe because I'm connected to a church, to a place of religion. We're not safe until we come to Christ. That's the only place that we find safety. Have you turned your life over to Jesus Christ? And uh today, again, it would be my prayer that you would be found in him, trusting in him. And that you wouldn't be like these crowds that were fickle and just looking for the benefits of Christ, but weren't really looking for the substance of Christ. I pray that you'd really be looking for Him. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, we pray that your word would speak to our hearts, Lord, that you would help us to understand these things. Father, I pray that as we prepare ourselves for uh this week, uh as um uh we think about uh uh the the resurrection of of Christ and the death of Christ. Father, I pray that as we prepare for these things, Lord, that we would uh understand the message of Christ, that He's came, He's come to be a Savior for from sins. He's come to give his life as a ransom for many. That he is the Lord of glory and that we should recognize him as the uh the one who our hearts, Lord, should be given to you, Lord, completely. Even as we heard in our in the testimony earlier on uh today, uh Lord, as uh uh um our brother shared about giving his heart completely over to Jesus Christ, pulling over to the side of the road and and surrendering his life over to you withholding nothing, Father. Even as the uh the the owner of these these donkeys, Lord, the donkey and the colt, the the foal of the donkey Lord would just surrender all that he had over to Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that we would give our lives over to him, withholding nothing from him, because he's worthy of all of it So Father, I pray that we would have surrendered hearts, Lord. Father, that we would have those that truly give praise to Jesus Christ, honor to him And Father, as we think about the sacrifice that uh uh He would make, uh Lord, uh Father, as we think about uh the sacrifice that we look back to. Now from our perspective, Lord, I pray that we would understand that He's come to save us from our sins first before He's come to save us from any kind of physical oppression around us. So, Father, I pray that we would desire a true salvation, Lord, and the salvation that can only come from Him. Father, may ye be honored and glorified. For your sake, God, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.