The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Please open your Bibles to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians chapter 3. Happy Mother's Day to all our mothers that are gathered here. We are so thankful for you. What a vital role you have played in your family. And how important you are to this local church. Colossians chapter 3, we're going to look at verses 1 through 4. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1. Therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things on the earth. For you have died. And your life is hidden with Christ and God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. Let's pray. God, we thank you that this is your word, the inspired word of God. There's a message for all of us in this holy text. May our hearts be open and sensitive to your word, to the direction of God the Spirit. May all of us recognize where we fail to Set our mind on things above. And so much of our focus is on things of the earth that are passing away. God, we ask for you to drive these truths home to our hearts. And Lord, if there's anyone that's not a true believer, we pray that today would be the day they would turn in faith and repentance to the Lord Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior in Jesus' name. Have you ever heard someone say, He or she is so heavily minded, they are no You knew it. I didn't have to help you with that. Have you known anyone like that? But yet, isn't it a bigger problem to be so earthly minded that somebody has no heavenly good at all? Now here's the big takeaway from this passage. Want to give it to you right at the very beginning. If we are alive with Christ, we should live for Christ. If we're alive in Christ, and all believers are called in Christ, we should live for Christ. We should be heavenly-minded. These short four verses, I believe, have powerful truths for us in at least three key areas. This passage is a call for sanctification For greater sanctification, to be more Christ-like than we were the day before, the week before, the year before. This is a template for our holiness To get rid of the vestiges of the world around us, and not be so conformed to the world, but to live and walk in a more holy fashion. And I believe this passage is a pathway to spiritual maturity in our lives, to show maturity and growth. Now as I was thinking on this Mother's Day and Parent Dedication Day, what I would share, I looked at a number of passages. And came back to this passage because I believe it is a passage that can benefit all of us, not just mothers, not just fathers, not just parents. But every person in this room. Because if we allow the truths of this passage to get into our heart, it will transform our life. and the way we relate to others because all of us, whether we have children or not, are impacting the children at Baltimore Bible Church They are watching us. We have opportunities to disciple, to mentor, or just by observation, people are looking at us. And they're noticing whether we are earthly minded or if we are truly heavenly minded And so it is important that all of us leave a legacy of heavenly affection upon the lives of our family members and our church family and even into our community. By the way. For those of you who are grandparents, isn't it great to be a grandparent? Yes, children are great. But let me tell you, grandchildren are spectacular. In fact, it might have been easier just to start with grandchildren. And the great thing about grandchildren is You can get them ready and send them back home after you spoil them, of course. But I believe this passage, this message is something that I need to hear I've been very convicted as I've looked through these phrases in these four verses. And I want to know how I can leave a legacy of heavenly affection on my children, my grandchildren, my Baltimore Bible Church family. And I hope that's your heart and your desire to leave truly a legacy. Of heavenly affection. Now, there's going to be three points as we look at this passage. I'm going to share them with you at the beginning, then I'll walk through them more slowly. First of all, understand your position. This text reminds us that we need to know and understand our position in Christ. Secondly, pursue your priority. Make it a heavenly priority. Pursue that priority. And then thirdly, anticipate your prospects. Have great anticipation for your prospect. Now, first of all, just want to share a few things about the book of Colossians. It's one of Paul's prison epistles, and the theme of it is about the supremacy of Jesus Christ. We see in Colossians 1. 15, if you want to turn over there, the Bible tells us he, Jesus Christ, is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. Verse 16 says, for by him all things were created. Verse 17 says, he is before all things. And in him all things hold together. Over in chapter two, verse nine, another great doctrine of Christ is shared. 2. 9 says, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. In him. He is the perfect God man. So the first two chapters give us a doctrinal treatise about Jesus Christ. And then the last two chapters are the practical sections. Telling us what that means, how that should affect our lives. Now chapter 3 begins with a word, therefore. And that therefore is very important because it refers back to something that Paul had just talked about, particularly in chapter 2. Where Paul is warning about false rituals, asceticism, self-made religion. Note chapter 2, verse 20. Several verses here, beginning in chapter 2, verse 20. He says, if you have died with Christ to the elementary principles of the world, why, as if you were living in the world, you submit yourselves to decrees such as do not handle, do not taste, do not touch, which all refer to things destined to perish with use. In accordance with the commandments and teachings, underscore this of what? Of men. Man-made religion. Verse 23, these are matters which have, to be sure, the appearance of wisdom in, notice again, self-made religion. Underscore that. And self-abasement and severe treatment of the body. But notice this as he closes the chapter, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. The NIV translates it as in of no value in restraining sensual indulgence You see, the Colossian believers, Paul did not establish the church, but he's writing this letter to them, have been led astray by false teachers. Who were teaching them to look to themselves what they could do in their flesh instead of looking to Jesus Christ, the author and finisher of their faith. Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 4, give a resounding rebuttal to those who are trying to say such things, and what chapter 2 is all about. For ascetic regulations are of no real value in restraining the indulgences of our flesh. And this is a quote from Pastor George. I appreciate when he said this, I heard him say this. Holiness doesn't come through man-made rules that bypass the heart. Let me say that again. Holiness does not come through man-made rules that bypass the heart. Now, following that word, therefore Paul shares in Colossians 3, 1 through 4, how we can grow in our holiness, how we can leave this legacy of heavenly affection. And number one, we want to notice in verse 1 and 3. Understand your position. Understand your position in Jesus Christ. Notice verse one. Therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ Notice verse 3, for you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. So verse 1 begins by saying, if And there is a big word there, even though it's two letters. If you've been raised up with Christ, it is not questioning their salvation grammatically. This is what is called in grammar a first class condition. That assumes that statement is true. And it can be translated since you've been raised up with Christ Paul wasn't questioning their salvation. It's clear in chapters 1 and 2 and various phrases that they were true believers. He understood that in their lives, though they had been led astray by some false prophets. So he says here in verse 1, if you have been raised up with Christ, brothers and sisters, in order for us to have a heavenly affection You must be saved. You must be in Christ. You must be raised up with Christ, which is synonymous with our salvation. Non-believers are naturally going to have an earthly affection. Non-believers can fake it for a while, but they can't forever show a heavenly affection. Over the years in ministry, I have been challenged at times thinking, how can I get through to this person? And some of these people that I'm thinking about back in Michigan, they came every Sunday. But they just sat there. And even though they came regularly, they had no spiritual interests at all. In fact, some of them even told me, I'm not really a believer, and I'm wondering why do you even come to church every Sunday? They actually admit it. There was no heavenly affection. So you have to be raised up with Christ. You have to be a born-again Christian. And only those who are saved can truly seek those things above. Now, most times when the New Testament talks about the believers' resurrection, it's talking about something in the future. We look forward to our resurrected bodies, do we not? But this is talking about a past resurrection. A past tense. You have been raised up with Christ. To be raised up with Christ means to be awakened, awakened spiritually, and as a result, through regeneration, it's the impartation of spiritual life. to the spiritually dead. And as a result of that spiritual life, we are awakened. We are co-resurrected with Christ. We're identified with Jesus Christ. With his death, burial, and his resurrection, we were made a new creature in Christ. Those who have been raised up with Christ are truly saved Romans chapter 6 verse 4 says, just as Christ was raised from the dead, by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For brothers and sisters, when we came to Christ, we came into an intimate union with Jesus Christ Join together with him. He will never leave you or forsake you. In your weakest time, in times of desperation, you have Jesus. You're united with him. Do not forget about that. The blessings of that union. Now verse 3. Goes on to say, for you have died. Path tense once again. Upon salvation, we died with Jesus Again, our identification with the Lord Jesus Christ. Before we were saved, the Bible says we were dead in our trespasses and sins. But now that we're saved, we're made alive in Christ. And we die to our old way, the old flesh. We die to that as Romans chapter 6, verse 11 says, for so consider yourselves to be dead to sin. But alive to God in Christ Jesus. But then Romans 6. 12, the next verse goes on to say, giving a command, therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its lusts. So we don't get rid of the old person, the the flesh. There's still that flesh that we struggle with, but we are a new creature in Christ. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things have become new. What a tremendous blessing that is. And even here in Colossians chapter 3, verse 5. The next verse says, in the ESV, put to death therefore that which is earthly in you. The earthly things, our old way of living. And he gives a couple lists throughout chapter two of the things that we ought to put off And things that we ought to put on as a result of our death to our sin and resurrected life, co-resurrection with the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact Colossians chapter 2, verse 12, summarizes these thoughts for us by saying, having been buried with him in baptism. in which you were also raised up with him through faith and the working of God who raised him from the dead. And that classic passage that many of us have committed to memory in Galatians chapter 2 verse 20, I have been crucified with Christ. And it is no longer I who live, but who lives in you? Christ who lives in us. Years ago we had missionaries to Japan that our churches supported and they came back on furlough and they lived in a city called Oak Park, Michigan, and they sent their teenage daughters to Oak Park High School. which was uh largely a a school of Jewish students. These two young missionary girls were missionaries on their own in a public school and led one of their fellow friends to the Lord, a Jewish girl. Her parents were incensed. They kicked her out of the house. And for a season had to live with that missionary family. That happens sometimes In fact, I've heard other stories about parents who have disowned children when they found out their children became Christians. And even making these statements, my son, my daughter is dead to me. Well, there is a bit of truth. We died to our sin, and we are raised up in Jesus Christ. Praise God. Verse three closes by saying, Your life is hidden with Christ in God. We are hidden with Christ. I believe this again is talking about our identification with Christ. That as a result of the salvation that He provides, and we have a right position. Again, we need to understand our position. We are in Christ, clothed in his righteousness Him with Christ and his precious blood that has cleansed us of all our unrighteousness and all of our sin. Eric Watkins from Ligonair made this statement about this phrase. He said, clothed in our shame. And exposed to the judgment of God we deserve, Jesus is our hiding place. Outside of Christ, he said, there's no place to hide, but being found in Christ. There is peace and safety and security. Have you found that? Hiding in Christ. There's a couple hymns that speak to that. Rock of Ages, cleffer me. Let me what? Hide myself in thee. Or another song puts it this way: Thou blessed rock of ages, I'm hiding in thee. Have you found your security? Have you found your refuge in Jesus Christ? Are you trusting him? Are you hiding in him? You might say, okay, I understand my position now. I'm in Christ. I'm a believer. I praise God for the union with Christ, but I still struggle with my sinful flesh. I do too. We're all together in this. We understand that. I heard about a man who wrote in his diary. Dear God, I'm thankful that I have not lusted, gossiped, lost my temper. I have not been greedy, grumpy, nasty, or self-indulgent. But in a few minutes I'm getting out of bed And that's when I really need your help. Isn't that our prayer? Let us make that our prayer, that we need God's help. And again, that union with Christ, our position with Christ, makes that all possible. May God help us understand our position. That's our first point. Our second point: pursue your priority. As a result of understanding our position, we need to pursue our priority. And we see that at the end of verse 1 and also verse 2. We'll read all of verses 1 and 2. Therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things that are on the earth. What Paul now is directing us is as a result of our position in Christ We have a priority that we need to pursue. We need to be passionate about. And passionate about things that are eternal. That will last forever. Not about the temporal things in life. These verses give us the priority. And the first command in verse 1 says Keep seeking the things above. This word seek also can mean to search for, to desire, to strive after. We must keep seeking. It's something that we must do every day. This is in the present active sense Where Christians are to be constantly in pursuit of it. It's not, well, I did something well today and now I can rest on my laurels tomorrow and keep on seeking, rest in on my laurels. No, it's an active pursuit. It's something that we need to wake up and say, God, help me be heavenly-minded today and not so earthly-minded in my pursuits. Help me make it a priority in my life. As Matthew 6. 33 reminds us, but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you. Or as Philippians chapter 4, 3, verse 14 tells us, I press toward the mark of the prize, the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. It's a constant pursuit. an activity that we must do every day as we get up in the morning and pray and have our devotions and we walk through the day. Are we seeking to please Jesus? So what are the things that are above? And this word above can be translated as is considered heaven. There are things that will last for eternity. 1 John 2, verse 17 reminds us that the world is passing away and also its lust. But the one who does the will of God lives forever. Doing the will of God Seeking God's will in our life. As in the Lord's Prayer in Matthew chapter 6, verse 11, one of the key phrases, you know this very well, is your kingdom come. Your will be done. And daily we have to die to ourselves. Daily we have to die to our will. And say, is it God's will in my life? Now, over the years of ministry, I've also experienced people saying to me, Well, Pastor, I know this is wrong, but I'm still going to do it. Or I've had people say, I believe God has directed me to do such and such. And I'll say, well, that doesn't really line up with Scripture. And they don't seem to care. At that point, they don't want to know what Scripture says. They've already made up their decision, their will. Now the next thing I'm going to say, I I I perhaps you've said it to me and I don't remember you saying this to me, but over the years, uh 40 plus years in ministry, occasionally I'll hear somebody say, Well Pastor, I'll be at church this Sunday, Lord willing. And in the back of my mind, I'm saying, God is willing. Why do you have to even question what God's will about that? I know God's will. I I don't say that. I you know say, great, we'll see you on Sunday. I mean I have had phone conversations with people who had not been in attendance, and this is way back uh twenty, thirty years ago in the days when you didn't have cell phones but regular phones and I would call and a child would answer the phone and they say, well the pastor's on the phone and I could hear in the background, I don't want to talk to him And I'm hearing everything. Tell him I'm in bed right now. You know, and then oh hello, Pastor. So good to talk to you I wanted to say something, but I wanted to say I heard everything you said about me. You don't realize how those landlines picks up uh voices from across the room. Are we really seeking God's will for our lives? Seeking things that are above. A LifeWay poll cited that most Americans don't even think about heaven. That should not be a surprise. But then when they were asked this question, how often do you wonder if you will go to heaven when you die? 40% said they never think about it. I actually think the percentage is probably higher than that. Don't think about it at all. We ought to be thinking about heaven, about our future. And if we're not sure and secure in our salvation, we ought to be scared to death because there is a real hell. And God has created heaven for those And a place for us to dwell forever, a place we do not deserve, but only by his grace. We're reminded, my friend, if you and to anyone here that may not know about your eternal destiny, let me remind you that the wages of sin is death. Eternal death, but thank God the gift of God is the eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. And as Peter said, repent and be converted, that your sins will be blotted out. Or Paul said to the jailer, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. Or as Paul said in Romans 10, 9, if you will confess with your mouth, Lord, And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. We'd love to talk with you afterwards if you're not sure about your salvation. There will be prayer counselors up here to do that. We notice the end of verse 1 tells us about seeking those things above, and it's where Christ. Is seated at the right hand of God. In fact, nine times we see this phrase. Christ is at the right hand of God The first is in the Old Testament in Psalm 110, verse 1, and eight others are here in the New Testament. What is that talking about? That we ought to seek the place where Christ is showing his authority, his power, his sovereignty at the very right hand of God on high. The Bible reminds us in Romans chapter 8 verse 34 that Jesus Christ is at the right hand of God, making what for us? Intercession for us, praying for us, dear friends. friends. We need to pursue the priority, and it continues with the second command in verse 2. Verse 2 notice once again it says, set your mind on things above, not on the things on the earth. Lightfoot in his commentary said, not only seek heaven, but think heaven. Seek it, but think it. Make it a major part of our thought life. Make it our mindset. The truth of God's word should shape the way we are thinking, and that's why we need to saturate ourselves more and more in God's holy word. As Philippians chapter two verse five says, Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Newer translations say have this attitude, but I still have King James Bible in my brain, so I can't I can't take that out, but have this mind, have this attitude. Or Peter writes in 1 Peter 1. 13, therefore, prepare your minds for action. Be sober in spirit. Fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Or this familiar passage in Romans chapter 12, verse 2 says, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your Mind, the renewing of our mind, so that you may prove what is the will of God and which is good and acceptable and perfect. This is a call for a consecrated lifestyle which depends on a consecrated mindset. Instead of filling our minds with all the garbage out there in this world, let's fill it more with sermons, with the Bible. Bring the truth of God into our hearts. I believe this is reminding us. What is our focus? What does he mean about the earth? Set your mind on things above and not on things of the earth. The Bible reminds us that we are just pilgrims here. We are sojourners. Hebrews chapter 11, verse 13 says, we're strangers and exiles on earth. Philippians 3. 20 tells us that our citizenship is where? In heaven. It is not on earth. Now there's a lot of earthly things that are evil. Not all. There are some things that are good, like college football and baseball. I did have a lady 25 years ago come to me at Marnatha Baptist Church and say, you like football? That is such a wicked sport. They are beating up on each other. They're so cruel. Why do you ever watch football? So excuse me if you I But we have to keep things in perspective. Yes, I'm thrilled when Michigan beats Ohio State four years in a row. But that's an earthly thing. That passes away. Heaven is forever. What are the things of earth? Yeah, there's a lot of things that can be done, but if we're preoccupied with good things, that can be sin also, can't it? When we allow it to control our lives. And sometimes my wife sweetly reminds us there's other things than college football in the fall. And I need to be reminded of that. We have to ask ourselves, what is our mindset? What are we dwelling on? What brings us the greatest joy in life? Is it serving the Lord? Or are we living for the American dream? Living for our best life now? Is Christ at the center of our lives? Puritan John Owen said, What do you think about when you're not thinking about anything in particular? My friend, what is our default setting? When we're not thinking about anything in particular. Do we default to Christ? To worshiping God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? Or do we default to earthly things? We can set our mind, as I mentioned already a moment ago, by spending more time reading the Bible, hearing the Word of God, hearing sermons, memorizing the Word of God, meditating on God's Word. John Stott said, the measure of holy living lies in the mind. Think on these things. Now in the parallel passage that David read earlier this afternoon, familiar passage. Reminds us: don't store up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust will destroy, where thieves will break through and steal. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. And a key phrase there, you're familiar with this, I'm sure, for where your treasure is, there will your what? Heart be also. It's a heart issue, a mindset issue, but it's also a heart issue. We cannot serve two masters. We can't serve heaven and earth at the same time. You cannot serve God and wealth at the same time. So my friend, what do you treasure? Is it your dream home? Your dream car? Your dream vacation? The list could go on and on, for materialism often makes us earthly minded. Are we laying up treasures in heaven or on earth? In our activities, in our service, in our giving. Are we giving biblically, generously, sacrificially? We could be robbing God. By our lack of faithful biblical sacrificial giving. Are we working, building, buying as if we're going to be here forever? I got news for you. I'm 71 now, and I'm not going to be here forever. You're not going to be here forever. Even the seven-year-olds, the babies. But we're just dedicated. My friend, we need to put our time, energy, and money into heavenly treasures. We need to pursue the priority. We need to understand our position in Christ. Thank God for that! And then pursue the right priority. But thirdly, we need to anticipate your prospect. Anticipate your prospect in verse 4. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. Isn't it great that Christ is our life? Is he your life? Is he my friend? Are we living for him? And when he appears Talking about when Jesus comes again. As the song says, what a day, glorious day that will be. Are we looking forward to our future prize? The Bible tells us in 1 John 3, verse 12 2, Beloved, now are we the children of God. And it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears We will be like him because we will see him just as he is. We will be like him. It is glory. That's a great song that we sing here when we all get to heaven. The last verse says, onward to the prize before us. Soon his beauty will behold. Soon the pearly gates will open. We shall tread the streets of gold. When we all get to heaven, what a day of rejoicing that will be when we all see Jesus will sing and do what? Shout the victory. I don't know about you, but I'm ready to turn in this old jalopy for a new model. My first car that I had back in nineteen seventy-six was a Ford Pinto. A few of you might know what that was. It was not a bean I don't know why they named it a bean uh after a bean, but uh shortly after we had it, the door fell off. And I paid two thousand dollars for that. Well that's my body right now. The door is falling off, and I'm ready for the new model anytime. The man had his own business. It was so successful that he had to change locations. And as he arrived at his new location, he received flowers and a card that said Rest in peace. So he called the florist and said, why did I get these flowers in this card? And Uh the uh florist was flabbergasted and apologized, said, Well, somebody right now received your flowers at a funeral home and the flower said, Congratulations on your new location Well isn't really isn't really that what the flowers are for For the believer, congratulations that they are in heaven. Our heavenly abode. The things we're supposed to be seeking after and putting our mind to. My friend, friends and brothers and sisters, I have a to-do list for you as we close. Some assignments for you Number one, as you understand your position, rejoice in the God of your salvation. Give thanks to Him that you're united with Christ Secondly, as you pursue your priority, I ask you, take some time today or this week to read the whole book of Colossians. It will tell us how to be more heavenly minded. Particularly in chapter 3, the things we ought to put off and the things that we ought to put on. And as you pursue this priority, as you read the Book of Colossians, I urge you, as I know I need to continue to repent, let's repent of misplaced priorities in our life. Put our priorities on the Lord Jesus Christ. And then, as we anticipate our prospect Let's look forward to our future. We need to keep looking up. What are we living for? What gets us excited when we get up in the morning? Are we making decisions based on eternal values? Or earthly values. For our children, watch, read it like a book The children here at BBC notice what we do, what we say, and our actions talk a lot more than our talk-talks. By action, we need to demonstrate before them here at our church, in our homes, in our community that we indeed are heavenly minded. Charles Simeon, Christian theologian from England who died in 1836, emphasized two lessons for Christians. Number one, enjoy God in everything. And number two, enjoy everything in God. On his deathbed, he was asked, What are you thinking about now? And he responded, I'm not thinking anymore. I'm just enjoying. As he awaited to be with his Savior. A song that I love to hear as a kid. I haven't heard it as much in later years. George Beverly Shea used to sing the song, I'd rather have Jesus. than silver or gold. I'd rather be his than have riches untold. I'd rather have Jesus than houses or land. I'd rather be led by his nail pierced hands. I'd rather have Jesus than worldly applause. I'd rather be faithful to his dear cause. I'd rather have Jesus than worldwide fame. Yes, I'd rather be true to his holy name. Than to be a king of a vast domain and be held in sin's dread sway, I'd rather have Jesus than anything this world affords today. Shall we pray? Oh God, I am so convicted by this passage. Please forgive me Because so often I'm laying up treasures on earth as if I'm going to be here forever, and I know that's not true. My brothers and sisters have a heavenly focus. Have a heavenly mindset. Help parents train their children, grandparents, their grandchildren to have more and more of a heavenly focus. May we repent of our sin. May we turn and follow you more in more dedication and service for the cause of Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.