The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 7? Matthew chapter 7 is uh where we're back to uh this morning and uh Jesus is quickly uh drawing this masterful sermon to a powerful and inescapable conclusion in uh chapter seven. And uh as we'll see in uh verses thirteen and and fourteen and actually throughout the rest of of the uh uh the rest of chapter seven, uh what we'll see is that uh uh Jesus is is drawing his listeners to the conclusion that we all have a choice to make Every one of us has a choice to make. You can't listen to the Sermon on the Mount and remain neutral to what Jesus has to say. And your choice Your choice to uh to what Jesus has to say here is a matter of eternal life or death. It's a matter of life or or death, and it really doesn't get any more serious than than that. The words of this king carry weight. The words of this king carry weight. And Jesus closes this address with a series of sharp contrasts that are impossible to miss. There's three clear pictures that uh Jesus gives us in uh verses 13 down to 27 that I want you to observe with me. In uh verses thirteen to fourteen, he gives us the picture of the two gates. In fifteen to twenty he gives us the picture of the two trees. And in twenty-one to twenty-seven He gives us the picture of the two builders. And the illustration of the two gates in verses 13 to 14, there's two gates, the small and the wide, which lead to two ways, narrow and broad. Which are populated by two groups of people, the few and the many, which end up in two different destinations, life and destruction. Look at verse 13. Enter through the narrow gate. For the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. There's a gate that leads to destruction In the illustration of the two trees in 15 to 20, there's two trees, the good and the bad, which produce two different kinds of fruit, good and bad. And receive two different consequences. One tree stands and the other one is cut down. Look at verse 19. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And then there's the illustration of the two builders. In 21 down to 27, there's the two builders, the wise and the foolish, who build on two different foundations, the rock and the sand. Which lead to two different results. One house stands and the other falls. Look at verse 27. The rain fell and the floods came, and the winds blew and swammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. In each illustration, the consequences of making the wrong choice is devastating. There's destruction at the end of the road. There's being cut down and cast into the fire at the end of the season. There's total demolition of your life at the end of the storm. And every one of these Pictures is a matter of life and death. Which road you choose, which kind of tree you plant, and what kind of foundation you build on is a matter of eternal life or eternal death. And listen to this, our eternal destiny hangs on our response to the words of Jesus Christ. Our eternal destiny hangs on that. That's what this is all about. If you look down at verse 24. Here in Matthew Chapter 7 it says, Therefore everyone who does what? Hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. Look at verse 26. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. Life and death is tied to our response to Jesus Christ That's the main point. I mean, that's really it. Our life and death is tied to our response to Jesus Christ. And as Jesus closes this sermon, he wants his disciples to understand that they can't remain neutral. You can't remain neutral to Jesus. There's a choice that you have to make. There's an urgent call to those who are still considering the authority of the king. Because not to decide is to decide. Not to decide is to decide. You can't remain neutral to Jesus. And this morning we'll just examine the first three illustrations that our Lord gives, the first of the three illustrations that our Lord gives in verses 13 to 14. As we consider this matter of life and death, let's uh take a look at verses 13 and 14 together. It says, Enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is broad that leads to destruction, and there are many who enter through it. For the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life, and there are few who find it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray as we come before this uh sobering text Father, that you would uh help us to think clearly about what Jesus has to say. Father, there's a lot of confusion about eternal life. There's a lot of confusion about uh what we should believe and how we should live. But Father, Jesus Christ came to make it crystal clear. My Father, I pray that as we look at the contrast that Jesus gives throughout the rest of the sermon, my Father, that you would help us, Lord, to be convinced that what Jesus Christ has to say is true. And Father, for any who are here who have yet to enter through the narrow gate, Father, I pray that today would be the day there is no need to hesitate. When the king ushers a command, when the king gives the command, there's no need to hesitate. So Father, I pray for those that are here this morning and who will listen to this, Lord, who who have not yet made the decision for your son. My Father, I pray that uh that today would be the day. We pray that you would work that in the power of your your sovereign spirit. Now, Father, I pray that you use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Martin Lloyd Jones wrote these words. He says, the man who does not consider his destination is a fool. The man who does not consider his destination is a fool. That's the great argument of the Bible from beginning to end. Consider your latter end. Consider your destination Have you really considered uh where the road you're on is taking you? Have you ever thought about that? Have you ever uh how have you concluded whether or not you're you're on the right road? If you have chosen a path, how do you know that you're on the right path? Did you pick your spiritual path because it just felt right to you? Is that how you make your decision about spirituality? It just feels right. It brings me uh some kind of inner fulfillment. You know, this is what's right for me. you know, to each his own, live and let live. Let me do what's right for me. You know, and that's how some people make their decisions. It's right for me. It feels right to me. So that's the way I make my decisions. Or maybe you picked your spiritual path because of the ease of making the decision. You know, everything just seems to line up. You know, when I took this path, everything just seemed to fall into place. And if it's not broke then what? You know, don't fix it. You know, my life isn't broke. Everything's working out well for me. You know, it seems relatively easy. You know, I've got religion. I've I've I've you know I've got God, you know, everything's okay for me. I don't really need to reconsider anything that I'm doing. You know, why rock the boat? You know, I'm doing well so far. Why should I switch now? Maybe you you picked your spiritual path because so many of your family and friends were on that same path. So many of your family and friends went on that same path of ahead of you. You know, my spiritual path is part of my heritage. You know, that's that's how I was raised. It's our family's tradition. Or maybe your spiritual path is part of your cultural expression. You know, this is who we are as a community. I'm standing together with my people. And the path that I chose, I'd you know, if I chose anything else, I'd actually be arguing and fighting against my own kind. Why would I do that? You know, this is the path that my community's chosen. Why should I choose anything different? But there's there's a fatal flaw in each one of those lines of reasoning, and it's that Jesus, well, Jesus is going to argue against this throughout the Sermon on the Mount. And really this is especially uh helpful in a day like ours where, you know, people try to expand the options that we have, you know, extend our freedoms. uh multiply our choices. You know, Jesus makes it makes it all really simple when it comes down to religion because the question is ultimately not about How does it feel? Is it working for me? Is it popular? You know, do my my family and friends, is this the way that they're choosing? The question that you have to ask yourself is how will your path end? That's the question that you have to answer. How will your path end? Because that is what you need to be concerned about. Where's your path leading you? That's the warning that's repeated in Proverbs 14, 12 and Proverbs 16. 25. In Proverbs 14. 12, it says this, there is a way which seems right to a man, but the end Of that way is death. There's a way that seems right. There's a way that might seem easy. There's a way that might seem popular. Everybody else is doing it. But have you considered the end of that way? The end of that way, which might seem right to you, could ultimately lead you to death. And after you peel back the labels and examine the contents and really boil down all of the religions of the world, you know, down to what they really are and their content, their essence, there's really only two options. You really only have two. You don't have many. There's really only two options. There's the path of life and there's the path of death. That's it's just plain and simple. There's the path of life and there's the path of death. It' Always been that way Flip over to Deuteronomy chapter 30 real quick. Deuteronomy chapter 30. Throughout the uh the history of scripture, the people of God were faced with a variety of religious expressions. A variety of beliefs, variety of practices, but in the end it always came down to the path of life and the path of death. That's where it ended up. It's really only two options. Moses understood that in uh Deuteronomy chapter thirty when uh the Israelites he understood that the Israelites would be tempted to worship the gods of the Canaanites, and there was a variety of gods of the Canaanites. He he understood that they'd be tempted to worship these gods as if you know these gods were the one that were producing all of the abundance in the the land of uh Canaan. And he issues this warning in uh Deuteronomy chapter 30. Look at verses 19 and 20. It says, I call heaven and earth to witness against you today. For I have set before you life and death, the blessing and the curse. So choose life in order that you may live, you and your descendants. By loving the Lord your God, by obeying his voice, by holding fast to him, for this is your life. What is life? Life is loving the Lord your God, obeying his voice, following after God. That's life. Any other path, whatever path you choose to follow, is death. It's life and death. Life and death. Two choices. Might be a variety of gods, but there's only two choices. Joshua chapter 24, if you want to flip over there In Joshua chapter 24, Joshua's uh preparing his people, the people of Israel, to enter into the promised land. And uh he reminded Israel that they had a choice to make. Joshua chapter 24, one book over from Deuteronomy, reminds them that they have a choice to make. Joshua chapter 24, verses uh 14 and 15. Look at this. It says, Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served beyond the river in Egypt, and serve the Lord. And if it is disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, choose for yourselves today whom you will serve. Whether the gods which your father served, which are beyond the river, were beyond the river Or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. I've already made my choice. But then look at what he says down in verse 20. Listen to this. If you forsake the Lord, if you forsake the Lord and serve foreign gods, whatever gods you want to choose, you serve these foreign gods. Then he will turn and do you harm and consume you after he has done good to you. You know what the choice was? Life and death. Life and death. You want life? You serve the Lord. You want death? He can choose whatever God you want to choose. It's life and death, two choices. When uh Zedekiah and the people of Judah were faced with the decision to obey the Lord, Jeremiah was sent in Jeremiah 21, verse 8. He says this, he says, ye shall also say to this people, this is what God is telling Jeremiah to say to the people of Israel, thus says the Lord, behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death. It's what it comes down to. Psalm chapter 1, when in contrast it contrasts the way of the wicked with the way of the righteous. Psalm 1 verse 6. It says, For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. What's the choice? Life and death. Life and death. And this is exactly what Jesus presents us with in Matthew chapter 7 in the Sermon on the Mount. There is a way of life, and there's a way of death. There's a path to life and there's a path to destruction. And this idea made such an impression on the people of God that early Christians just referred to themselves when they they talked about themselves. They talked about themselves as those who belong to the way. We're on the way. We're on the right path. That's how they refer to themselves. We're the people of the way. We're the people on the path. Acts chapter 9, verse 2 talks about that. An early Christian document known as the Dakae begins in this way. It says, there are two ways, one of life and one of death, and there is a great difference between the two ways. And while you may think there's a variety of options, like I said, there's really only two. Jesus put it like this in Matthew chapter 12 and verse 30. He said, He who is not with me is what? Against me. You're either with me or you're against me. It's not a lot of options. Either you're with me or you're against me. Whatever variety of option of against me you want to choose, but it's either one or the other. It's either life or death. You're either for Christ or you're against him. You're either in or you're out. There's no straddling across the gate. And as Jesus closes this sermon, he wants his disciples to understand that that nobody can remain neutral to his words. And the the assumption here, uh back in Matthew chapter seven is that he's speaking to those who have already entered the gate. He's talking to disciples here, okay? Otherwise, how could he call them, you know, those that are uh that are the light of the world and those who are children of the Father? He's speaking to people that he's assuming are disciples, you know, true disciples. But we do know that there were some who followed Christ who were not really committed, right? We do know that there were some in the group who weren't truly committed, Judas being a prime example of that. We also know that Jesus is speaking to his disciples within earshot of a large crowd of people who have gathered to hear what Jesus had to say. There's a large group that's around Jesus at this time. Matthew chapter 7, verse 28 lets us know that Gathered around this mount, and Jesus is aware of that. And Jesus wants to make sure that they know that this message he's giving is more than just to be admired. It's to be followed. It's to be obeyed. And uh this also serves for his disciples as a model of how they're to respond to people who are still considering the truth. And remember we're in a section of scripture that Jesus is dealing with his disciples and teaching them how they should respond to others. How do you respond to people who obey the truth? How do you respond to people who disobey the truth? How do you respond to people, you know, who are still considering the truth? This is what Jesus is trying to address here. And here he teaches the disciples, this is how you respond to people who are still considering the truth. People are still thinking about the truth. And he makes it clear that there's this urgent call that needs to be given. There's this command that Jesus offers here. And uh it's in the words, enter through the narrow gate. And uh just by way of introduction, the first thing that we see in this command, enter through the narrow gate. We understand that there's there's a personal submission to Christ. A personal submission to Jesus Christ. The word enter is an aorist imperative verb, and uh imperative just means that it's a command. And uh have you ever noticed that uh you can't remain neutral to a command? You can't remain neutral to a command. Either you obey it or you don't. There's no middle ground when it comes to a command. To do something different is to disobey. To do it your own way is to disobey. To hesitate is to disobey. To do nothing is to disobey There's no neutral ground when it comes to a command. Either you obey it or you don't. Commands have a way of making things really clear, and that's you know that's what we try to teach our kids, right? You know, either you do it or you don't. It's not like I I kinda did it and sorta did it and you know I was about to do it. No, it's either you did it or you didn't It's one or the other. Commands make things really clear. That's what King Saul found out the hard way in 1 Samuel 15. Remember that? When he was commanded to wipe out the Amalekites, spare nothing. But uh but what did he do? He saved the the best for himself, you know, the best of the of the land for himself, saved spared the king, spared the best of the sheep and the axen for himself Was he congratulated for doing most of the work? Not at all, right? Not at all. 1 Samuel 15, verse 19. Why then did you not obey? Yeah, you went to war, yeah, you defeated him, but you did not obey. But rushed upon this world and did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. Halfway obedience is no obedience. No obedience. There is no straddle in the gate, either you obey or you don't, and commands make things crystal clear. And the kingdom here is not just You know, sometimes we think about the the invitation to follow Christ as like just a mere offer. You know, hey, you know, you might want to think about this. You know, why don't you consider this? It is not an invitation in that sense. It's not just, you know, hey, this is an offer. This is one of the options that I want to want to try to give you. It's a command. Jesus says, enter through. He doesn't say think about entering through this gate if you'd like. He says enter through. It's a command. And as a king, kings don't make suggestions, right? Jesus is a king. He doesn't make suggestions. He offers commands. He issues commands. And sometimes we think about when we present the gospel as a mere invitation. But the Bible makes it a matter of obedience to obey the gospel. 2 Thessalonians, if you want to turn over there, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 speaks of the uh Second coming glory of Jesus Christ when Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in Second Thessalonians. And in uh verse eight of uh 2 Thessalonians uh chapter 1, it tells us this. It says uh Chapter 1 and verse 8, it says, dealing out retribution talks about those who who are receiving punishment from the Lord. It says with his mighty angels in verse 7, flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God, and to those who do not what? They do not obey the gospel. They do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. The gospel is to be obeyed. It's not just something to be considered. It's to be obeyed. You obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. 1 Peter chapter 4 In verse 7, it's also in the context of judgment here as well. Peter speaks about the judgment that's to begin at the household of God. and then expands to the rest of the world. And listen to what he says here in 1 Peter 4 and verse 17. He says, for it is time for judgment to begin with the household of God. And if it begins with us first, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? The gospel 's to be obeyed. To believe in Christ is a matter of obedience, and that's why Paul uses obedience to the faith as a synonym for salvation. In Acts chapter 6, verse 7, the priests were becoming obedient to the faith Romans chapter 1 verse 5, we receive grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of the faith. Romans 16, 26, it says that the gospel is made manifest to all the nations, leading to the obedience of the faith. The faith is to be obeyed. Salvation is something that you obey. And we need to keep that in mind as we're offering salvation to people that this is the edict of King Jesus. This is who he is. The king is coming back to reclaim his territory, and you can either submit and be saved, or you can disobey and be destroyed. But it's one or the other. It's life and death. Life and death. If you obey, you'll be adopted to sons, but if you disobey, you've sided with his enemies. Evangelism is a command and it's much different than this idea of Jesus is pleading and begging for a chance to offer you fulfillment. That is not the gospel. You know, Jesus is just begging you for an opportunity. Just give Jesus a try, you know. And sometimes people offer Christ like that, but that is not the offer of the king. It's it's obey, enter through the narrow gate, submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the tense of this command makes it clear that the decisive action is necessary. The error tense speaks of a completed action. It's not something in progress, something that happens over a period of time, you know, repeatedly. It's it's one and done. It's like you obey, you come through. It's not like you know you just kind of you know meander through it's not no it's it's you come. You know, that's that's the the force of the command here. You're clearly on one side or the other. And if you're to enter into life There must be a personal submission to Jesus Christ. Number two, if you're to enter into life, it's also clear that you have to take personal responsibility. There has to be a personal response. We're not born into the path towards the kingdom. We're not born there. You know, we we we enter through the path into the kingdom. It's not automatic. And uh that was one of the dangers associated with uh Judaism. Uh if you remember, many Jewish people assumed that their entrance was automatic just because they were born, you know, the people of of God in a physical sense, they were born as Abraham's seed. John the Baptist, he warned the crowds in uh Luke chapter 3 and verse 8. He says, Therefore bear fruits in keeping with repentance. Do not begin to say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children of Abraham. Don't don't rely on your heritage. Don't rely on who your parents were. Don't rely just on how you were raised that you know I'm automatically in. You know, it was never meant to be like that. Entrance into the kingdom of God does not come automatically. It doesn't come by lineage. And there's uh many today that assume that they're in the kingdom of God just based on where they came from. Just based on how they were raised. And it's uh one of the dangers that's often associated with uh infant baptism. One of the dangers that's often associated with that. There's people who believe that just because they were born into a Christian family and uh baptizes an infant that they're safe. But there's a personal responsibility to enter through the gate. I have to take this on personally. Personal responsibility to enter through the gate. On another uh occasion in Luke chapter 13, if you want to flip over there, Luke chapter 13. Somebody got the idea from what Jesus was saying that entrance into the kingdom was difficult. And they asked Jesus in Luke chapter 13 in verse 23. They asked him this question. Someone said to him, Lord. Are there just a few who are being saved? You know, the way that you talk, you make it seem so difficult. You know, are there just a few that are going to enter into the kingdom of God? Listen to what Jesus has to say. Verse 24. Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able. Many will seek and will not. Many will seek and will not. Well what's the answer? Yeah, there's a few. The answer is yes, there's a few. Listen, you don't get pushed through the gate by your parents. It doesn't happen that way. You don't get pushed through the gate by your church. You don't get pushed into the gate by some priest. Doesn't happen that way. You can get sprinkled, poured on, dunked. Doesn't make a difference. And if you uh if you're in the church, you don't wait for some kind of spiritual breeze to blow you down, you know, and just kind of catch it, you know, in the air. It doesn't happen that way. It doesn't happen on accident. You don't drift into the kingdom. There has to be a personal striving to enter through the narrow door in order to enter. The word that Jesus uses here is strive to enter through the narrow door. It's the Greek word agonizomai. You recognize anything from that word? Agony. Agonize. It's a personal striving. The Greeks use this word for uh for the straining of an athlete. They also used it for a fighter who's who's struggling in battle. It's a striving to enter through the kingdom. It doesn't happen accidentally. It's a very personal kind of experience. If you're going to enter into life, there has to be a personal submission to Christ. You have to obey the command. It has to be a personal responsibility. You're not born up through the path. You have to enter through the path. There also has to be personal denial. Personal denial. And this is made clear by the the way that the gate's identified. Because it's not just any gate. But it's the gate. It's the narrow gate. Enter through the narrow gate. That word the it's uh it's called a definite article, and what it does is it shingles out this gate for many others. There's only one gate. It's not many options to choose from. There's one gate, one way to go. We're not told to go through a narrow gate. We're told to go through the narrow gate. There's only one correct gate. Which means that you have to deny all other roads as options, right? There's no other options. What Jesus asked his followers to do is uh probably one of the most difficult things that uh you can ask anybody to do. And so those three little words, I was wrong. I was wrong. That's that's so hard for people to admit, isn't it? So hard. You know, we just want to be right. You know, it felt right, it seemed right, my parents did it, you know, it was easy, you know, everything kind of fell into place. But but Jesus is asking those who are going to follow him to admit, I was wrong. I'm wrong. Every other option that I've tried is a false way. There's only one correct way. He's asking them to deny yourself. Deny any other road, any other option that you've given yourself. There's only one legitimate way. And this is such a blow to pride and self-sufficiency, isn't it? It's a blow to your pride to admit that you're wrong. I hate saying I'm wrong. I hate it. That's my wife. I hate saying I'm wrong. Amen. We all do. But but if we're gonna enter into the kingdom we have to admit it, right? Have to admit it that I'm on the wrong way. I'm on the wrong way. I hate asking for directions too, by the way. I hate asking for directions. But yeah, sometimes I'm just wrong. I'm going in the wrong way. Lord help That's a blow to your pride, isn't it? Throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is constantly contrasting his teaching with what the teachers of his day taught. Throughout the Sermon on the Mount, he 14 times he uses this phrase. I say to you, I say to you. You've heard it said, but I say to you. What is he saying? I'm right. They're wrong. If you're going to enter into this way, you have to admit that I'm right and they're wrong and you're wrong. If you're going to enter into this narrow way, and what Jesus is saying here is that you might have been convinced that there's another path that would take you to heaven. But I want to say to you that hearing these words of mine and obeying them is the only hope you have. You don't have another option. You don't have any other hope. So all these claims of Christ need to be believed. There has to be a sense of personal denial from any truth, any other options, any other thoughts that you might have had. And the popular view that people have of God today is that there's many paths to God. You know, we're all at the foot of the mountain. It's just one mountain, right? You know? We can all take I can take this path, I can take that path. Eventually we'll all get up there. You know, you might go the easier road, I might go a more difficult road, but eventually we'll all reach there, isn't that right? That's not what Jesus said. It's not what Jesus said. It's not one mountain that we're all traveling up. It's two gates. And you either go through one or the other. Two gates. There's uh uh an article that I was uh reading recently about uh the values of uh Americans. You know, Americans, one of the things that uh Americans value the most. You know what it is? It's choice. That's one of the fundamental values of Americans. A big part in this article it says this. It says a big part of our American identity is the freedom of choice. The strong libertarian streak has been part of our national identity since the Revolutionary War. This desire for choice is also reflected in the way we consume. We love outlet malls, big box retailers, warehouse clubs that are filled with huge variety of products with many different varieties of each. We prize the ability to control our own destiny down to the level of which fabric softener we add to our laundry. We want to choose everything. We want choice. We want options. Right? Isn't that true? We love the freedom to choose, the variety of choices that we have. I remember when uh uh Crystal uh Chen from uh from China who spent some time with us here. I remember the first time we took her shopping And uh, you know, Jennifer was taking her through the grocery store and she's just looking at the aisles and aisles of, you know, just like a whole aisle just full of cereal. It's just like, what what what do I do? Like what do I eat here? You know, there's too many options. You know, and she'd ask Jennifer, it's like Jennifer, you know, what what what do I get? And she says, you know, whatever you want. She's like, no, just just pick for me. I don't I don't know what I want But we as Americans, we just love the options. You know, just give me more and more options. I love the options. You know, it's up to me. You know, have it your way. You know, we put in our slogan, it's your way right away, right? That's that's how we like it Who says we need to choose one serial over another? You know, I'll just mix them, you know? You got two and mix it. Why why do I need to pick one program over another? You know, I'll watch one and I'll record the other. We don't like to choose. And who says I need to pick one religion over another? Can't we all just get along? Can't we all just get along? Why can't Jesus and Muhammad just coexist in one big happy family? You know, why can't we have both ways? That's the way as Americans that that we like it, but nothing is more offensive to the American mind than the idea that there's only one way to God. There's only one way to God. You can't pick your own way. You can't choose your own path. There's one way to God. Jesus never left us with options. And um back in Matthew chapter 7 when he talks about the the narrow gate, he uses the the word uh stenos. It's a word that means to be constricted. Constricted The old King James used the word straight, and uh that's not like you know straight like an arrow or straight like a line. It's straight like a jacket, like a straight jacket. Where you're just constricted. You're confined. There's no room to to move around here. I'm feeling a little, you know, you limited my options here. You know? Creatively tied. It's like I I I need some room. Straight, like a straight jacket. It's tight. It's compressed. Constricting. You have to squeeze through this gate And it's not our business to try to sugarcoat the message to other people when we uh offer them the gate, when we tell them about the gate, when we command them as Jesus did, you know, enter through the gate It's not for us to try to sugarcoat it and make it seem like it's something other than what it really is. And how many pulpits today are preaching an easy road? It's just easy. It's just easy. Shallow commitment to Christ, superficial response, Lordship of Jesus is optional. You know how many how many churches are preaching a an easy road to salvation? And the sad reality, and it's it's sobering to think about, but the sad reality is that many of our preachers are pouring people right down the Broadway. Where you can bring your sin, your self-sufficiency, your pride, your choice. It's all welcome. We're accepting. We're tolerant. Isn't that the more loving thing to do? That is the worst thing you can do. It's not loving to tell people, hey, we're accepting, we're tolerant. You know, come in with your sin and your pride and your self-sufficient. It's okay. You know, think about Jesus the way that you want to think about him. You know, this is how I like to think about him. How do you like to think about him? He is whatever you want him to be. You know, what people think about that is that's just the loving thing to tell people. That is the hateful thing to tell people. That is the wicked thing to tell people. Leading them down the broad road to destruction. How sad is that? And people stand up behind a pulpit and open up a Bible and don't want to tell people the truth. Lord have mercy. Sad reality. Down the wrong gate. Martin Lloyd Jones points this out in his commentary. He says, the very first thing we notice is that this is a life which is narrow at the very beginning. Immediately it's narrow. It's not a life which is at first very broad and then as you go along it becomes narrower. No, the gate itself, the very way of entering into this life is a narrow one. And if we're going to be an honest, if we're going to be honest evangelists, if we're going to be honest in our evangelism, we can't persuade people that it starts out easy And only gets difficult over time, the gospel of Jesus Christ openly and uncompromisingly announces itself as being something which starts with a narrow entrance, a straight gate. It's just how it is. If you want to become a Christian, this is just how it is. I'm not going to try to sugarcoat it and try to make it seem like it's something else. This is the path. This is the gate that you have to enter through. It's the gate that you have to enter through on your knees, repenting of your sins. Broken over your sins. Hungering and thirsting for righteousness. Mourning. This is the way in. There's no other way. Acknowledging who Jesus is, there's no other way. There are those that are uh loosely attached followers who need to understand how they need to respond to Christ, and uh you know that's another group that needs to be addressed as well And if you're here and you've been hanging around the entrance to the gate, but you haven't actually walked through the gate, you haven't committed yourself to Christ in the cross, you need to understand that no decision. It's disobedience. No decision is disobedience. No decision is a decision, right? No decision is a decision. Jesus doesn't recognize some third category of halfway saints, right? You know, it's just kind of like, you know, there's this narrow gate and the broad gate, and then there's like the middle gate, you know, the medium-sized gate. There's no medium-sized gate. There's no halfway Christians, halfway saints that are entering into the kingdom of God, kingdom of heaven Consider the fearful danger that you're in. The warning from Hebrews chapter 3 says this in Hebrews chapter 3 verses 8 to 12. It says, do not harden your hearts as when they provoke me as in the day of trial in the wilderness. Were your fathers tried me by testing me and saw my works for forty years? Therefore I was angry with this generation and said, They always go astray in their heart, and they do not know my ways. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Take care, brethren, that there not be in any one of you an evil, unbelieving heart that falls away from the living God. Be careful Not be in any one of you a an evil, unbelieving heart. There's also a third group that we need to talk to. There's some who have uh no attachment to Christ at all. And uh maybe you're already on the spiritual path of your own choosing. Maybe that's you. You're already on a spiritual path. Maybe you chose your spiritual path because it just felt right. You know, this just feels right. You know, maybe you chose your spiritual path because it seemed easy. You know, it seems to be working out. Maybe you chose your spiritual path because your family or friends were were on it. I just want to let you know that whatever that path may be, it's only one of two options. It's only one of two. It's been said that there's always been only two systems. Only two systems. One system of divine accomplishment And the other system is of man's achievement, human achievement. One is the religion of God's grace, the other the religion of men's works. One is the religion of faith, the other the religion of the flesh. One is the religion of a sincere heart, and the other the religion of hypocrisy. And if you want to know which uh path you're on You should ask yourself the question, am I trusting in God's grace alone to save me? Is that what I'm trusting in? Am I trusting in Christ? Or am I somehow trying to earn the favor of God? Somehow I'm trying to work for grace. Which is totally oxymoron, right? How do you work for a gift? Work for grace. Grace is unmerited favor. How do you work for something that's unmerited? How do you work for something that's not worked for, unworked for, right? All of religion is in one of two categories. It may fall under different headings, may have a different label on it. Might even call itself Christianity, which is the worst deception, right? The worst deception. Might use the Bible But if it's not fully relying on the authority of Christ, the finished work of Christ, it's the religion that's taking you down the broad road to destruction. And the the religion that Jesus attacked would have been considered by many to be a biblical religion. But you know what they did? They used the Bible and they twisted it to their own ends. They used the same scriptures that we have. You know, the same scriptures that Paul said, you know, are able to lead you to salvation. They used the same scriptures. Well, what did they do with it? They twisted it. They ignored it. They pulled it out of context. Flip over to Luke chapter 18 real quick. Luke chapter 18. According to uh to Luke 18, the Pharisees trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. You know what that says about them? They're on the broad road. They're on the road of Human achievement, something I can do to earn the favor of God, that's where they were, trusted themselves that they were righteous. Then convinced themselves that uh that they were above others, look down at others. Look what it says in uh Luke chapter 18, look at verse 9 It says, and he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself, God, I thank you that I am not like other people, swindlers, unjust, adulterers, even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. Let me let me uh stop right there and ask you a question. Did God ever command anybody to fast twice a week? Wasn't found in the scriptures. Even with tithing, we tithe on what we earn, not on everything we get. And here he's trying to go behind the law. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of everything that I acquire. Everything. It's not just what I earn, it's everything that I get. He's trying to present himself before the Lord as you know some kind of super saint. You know, obviously I'm on the right path. Look at what I'm doing. He was uh one of the people on the path to the gate to destruction. But there was another traveler on that same day. Look at verse 13. It says, but the tax collector standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breath, saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Somebody was knocking at the right gate. Somebody's knocking at the right door on that day. Striving to enter through the narrow gate. Lord, be merciful to me, the sinner. It's me. I'm wrong. I need help. I need mercy. God be merciful to me. I'm not worthy. This is the person who was justified in the sight of God. The tax collector was striving through the narrow door. And if you're going to be justified in the sight of God, If you're really going to enter the narrow gate, this is the way that you have to come. There's no other way to come. There is no other way to go. No other way. In Romans chapter 3, verse 28, it says, For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. There's nothing you can do to save yourself. We're not justified by the works that we do. Justified by what Christ has done for us. And that's what it points out earlier on in Romans chapter 3, verses 24 to 26. It says, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus, whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith, this was to demonstrate his righteousness. Because in the forbearance of God he passed over the sins previously committed. For the demonstration, I say, of his righteousness At the present time so that he would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ Jesus. There's there's only one way to there's only one way to come. Only one way to enter into eternal life, and that's through trusting in Jesus Christ. There's only one way. Only one way I pray that uh uh today as you uh hear this message, I know that there's people in in one of three groups. Either you're here and you're a committed disciple. And if you if you are, you need to make sure that the message that you gave is the message that Jesus gave, right? If you're committed to Christ, you need to be committed to the message of Christ. Even if it's hard, even if it's difficult. To speak these words to somebody, we can't deviate from what Jesus gave us. We can't offer another solution. If you're here and you're in that first group, I pray that you're a faithful evangelist and that you're faithful to what Jesus has said. If you're here and um you look like you're you're in, but you're really not, you're just kind of standing at the gate and and hoping that somebody's just gonna push you over. If if that's you, the the Bible doesn't say just wait for it to happen. It says enter through. Enter through. Strive to enter through. Drop anything that you have in order to enter through this gate. Because of how important it is. And if you're here and you have no association to Jesus Christ, I want to let you know that uh that you're on one of two roads. There's only two options, and it's either life or death. It's not many roads that lead to God. It's not, you know, many ways up the mountain. It's one way. One way. And the only way is through Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this opportunity that uh we have to uh consider uh these words, to enter through the the narrow gate. And uh Father, there's uh much more that We'll have to cover as we uh take a look at this again uh next week. Uh Father, I pray that uh you'd use uh the words that were shared today, Lord, to penetrate uh hard hearts, uh to penetrate uh hearts that our soft Lord to your word, Lord, that we just uh uh fulfill the obedience to uh to this kind of command and the model that Jesus Christ uh gives us And Father, I pray that there's a none here who have not entered through that gate. Father, that uh you, uh, through the encouragement of your spirit and uh in your word, Lord, that uh you help us to uh uh submit ourselves to you, uh to obey uh your command. That we would take this as a personal responsibility and that we would deny ourselves, Lord, in order to follow after you. Father, we uh I pray that uh you, Lord, would uh uh do this for for your sake and uh for your kingdom. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.