The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. And uh study in the book of Matthew, Matthew's a book that proclaims and defends Jesus as Israel's Messiah. And the last time uh we looked at Matthew together, we saw that Jesus was Thoroughly examined and found to be without blemish, without spot, without wrinkle. At his baptism he was declared to be the Son of God, the Son in whom the Father was well pleased. And then uh out in the Judean wilderness that claim was put to the test by Satan. And uh uh this king succeeded where many kings failed, and he uh after passing through the fire he was uh proven to be pure gold, was he not? He was tested by God. He was tempted by Satan. And now having overwhelmingly proved his preparedness, he's ready to embark on a course that would change the face of history. forever. And uh what we have in these verses in uh Matthew chapter four, verses twelve down to uh twenty-five is a preview of what would characterize the rest of the Messiah's ministry. A preview of what would characterize the rest of Messiah's ministry. Jesus is the true prime minister. He's the chief minister. He's the one that the ministers above every other minister. And this is a preview. of uh his ministry. And we won't be able to get to all of this today, but uh I at least want to set the context before you by uh reading uh 12 all the way down to 25. It says, Now when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, he withdrew into Galilee, and leaving Nazareth he came and settled in Capernaum, which is by the sea in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan Galilee of the Gentiles, the people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light. And those who were sitting in the land in shadow of death, upon them a light dawned. From that time Jesus began to preach and say, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now, as Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him. Going on from there he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. The news about him spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics. And he healed them. Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the capitalist and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we Thank you, God, for this revelation of your word. Father, we thank you for the revelation of Jesus Christ, the light of the world. And Father, I pray that As we study this text today, Father, that you would make it clear to us and that you'd be with me a weak instrument in your hands to bless your people. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Before Matthew jumps into all the details of Jesus' earthly ministry, he presents us with a preview of what is to come. A preview of what is to come. And there's Three categories that you could use to summarize the ministry of the king. In verses 12 down to 17, there's the preaching of the kingdom. In verses 18 down to 22, it's the preparing of the disciples. And in verses twenty five uh twenty-three to twenty-five, it's the performing of miracles. And there's overlap in these these verses But the emphasis is pretty clear in uh verse 17. He's preaching the kingdom. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In uh the next section 18 to 22, he's preparing the disciples. In verse uh 19, he called the disciples. He said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And then uh in verses uh twenty three to twenty five he's performing miracles. That's really the focus there in twenty three. Uh Jesus is going all all throughout the the Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. And the news spread about him, and they brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases, pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them. So you have this healing ministry of Jesus that's really highlighted in that last section. And uh this ministry of Jesus Christ would have been as as subtle as a bomb, you know, going off in uh in Palestine. The kind of ministry that that Christ had would have just exploded onto the scene in Palestine. The last recognized prophet before John the Baptist was Malachi. Malachi who wrote around 430 B. C. about 460 years before Christ. So it's been over 460 years since they've had a prophet. The last miracle workers would have been Elijah and Elisha, who ministered in Israel about 860 B. C. I mean, close to a thousand years, you know, before Jesus shows up, Elijah and Elisha were the last kind of miracle workers, known miracle workers. And then there were many ra rabbis who called people to follow after them, but uh who gave an exclusive you know uh uh told people to exclusively commit themselves to himself? Jesus is the only person who does that. So this kind of ministering would have just exploded onto the scene in Palestine. A breathtaking display of dazzling, unsurpassed brilliance, and it's rightly pictured here as the dawning of light. The dawning of light, the breaking forth of a new day, the great light that chases away the darkness is what we find in the ministry of Jesus Christ. And Jesus was known as that light. And it was prophesied about Jesus Christ that he would be that light. In uh Luke chapter 2, when uh Simeon was uh holding the the baby Jesus in his in his arms And if you remember, he was uh it was uh promised to him that he wouldn't uh see death until he saw the Lord's Christ. And uh he actually had the chance to hold Jesus as a baby in his arms. And uh Luke chapter 2, verse 29, he says, Now Lord You are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace. He says, I can die now. I've seen Christ. I'm ready to go home. You're releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. Which you prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel And numerous times throughout the uh the Gospel of John, uh Jesus referred to himself as light. Why don't you turn here with me in uh in the book of uh John, the Gospel of John? I'll just show you a couple passages here. John chapter 1. Look at verses 4 down to 9. It says, In him was life. And the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. There came a man sent from God whose name was God, and he came as a witness to testify about the light. So that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to testify about the light. There was the true light which coming into the world enlightens every man. Flip over to chapter eight. Chapter 8, verse 12 of John. Look what he says here. It says, Then Jesus again spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in the darkness, but will have the light of life. And uh John MacArthur commenting on uh this passage, he says this. He says, Jesus spoke words, these words, in the treasury as he taught in the temple. Uh the temple treasury was the outer court of the women for a a week a great stream of light shined out continuously to commemorate the pillar of fire that Israel uh that led Israel during the wilderness wanderings under Moses. As Jesus entered the court of the women the light had just been extinguished, the candelabra were still in place, but they now gave no light. Jesus' declaration that he himself was the light of the world must have struck his hearers with great force. As all these lights are going out around the temple, he says, I I am the light. I'm the light John chapter 9, look at verse 5. It says, While I am in the world, I am the light of the world. I am the light Chapter 12. Chapter 12. Look at verses 35 and 36. So so Jesus said to them, for a little while longer, the light is among you. Walk while you have the light, so that the darkness will not overtake you. He who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes. While you have the light, believe in the light, so that you may become sons of light. And then skip down to verse forty-six I have come as light into the world, so that everyone who believes in me will not remain in darkness. And while Jesus was in the world, he was the light of the world. The light never flickered It never dimmed, it never faded, and for a period of three and a half years he committed himself to ministering tirelessly, tirelessly, and relentlessly. His whole life was marked by sacrifice for the ministry. As soon as the ministry began, he had he would have had to escape to the mountains just to get a break because he was so relentless in the ministry that he that he had, if he wanted to get alone. He had to wake up in the middle of the night and steal away so he could get some time before the Lord. He was devoted to preaching, to preparing his disciples, to performing miracles until the light was finally snuffed out. Literally, he ministered until his very last breath. Even on the cross, he was ministering. Last words, ministering to others. But with all the demands on uh on his life, we never get the sense that Jesus was stressed. That he uh he was rushed along, that he's carried away, running behind. You know, there's really this uh beautiful harmony uh with uh divine providence and complete confidence that what he's doing is what he's supposed to be doing. Every everything that he did was what he was supposed to be doing. He was where he was when he was supposed to be there. When he was supposed to be doing it, you know, whatever he was doing. Uh while there were uh some wonderful things that we learned about uh Jesus here as being the light of the world. We're also going to learn how he operated in ministry. We're going to learn uh how he operated in ministry. And uh just to give you an outline here so you can track with me. In uh verse twelve, and we're just looking at this uh first section here of uh of uh the the the outline here in uh in chapter four verses uh twelve down to seventeen. In verse twelve you have the light dawn at the proper occasion. In verses 13 and 16, the light dawned at the predicted location, and then in verse 17, the light dawned at the powerful proclamation. So you have the proper occasion, the predicted location, and the powerful proclamation. The light dawned at the proper occasion. Look at verse 12 again, back in Matthew chapter 4. It says, Now when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, he withdrew into Galilee. And uh there's really this uh definite shift in the ministry focus of Jesus at this time. In uh verse twelve it says when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody. If you uh look uh further down in the verse seventeen it says, From that time. Uh from that time Jesus began to preach and say, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. So there's this definite shift in uh Jesus' uh focus here. Uh and the This point really marks the official beginning of Jesus' public ministry. There are things that he's done before this point, but this is the true inauguration of uh the ministry of the the king. And uh while it may seem for Matthew that he went straight from his baptism to his temptation uh to a full-blown ministry, the the other gospel writers let us know there's actually a gap of time uh in between the the temptation and the the the ministry of the the king from the gospel of John uh we learned that there was a period of about one year between the temptation of Christ and the beginning of his ministry And he waited purposefully because he knew that his time had not yet come. His time had not yet come. And throughout the Gospels we see that Jesus had this understanding of the divine clock. If you remember in John chapter 2, Jesus went to a wedding, which tells us a lot about what God thought about marriage, right? Jesus goes to the wedding. He actually shows up for the wedding. And uh during the celebration they ran out of wine, and uh wedding celebrations during that time lasted anywhere between uh two to seven days, uh depending on the resources of the bridegroom And it would have been a a considerable embarrassment uh to cut the celebration short because you lack the resources. You know, cut halfway in between, you know, the party because uh you lacked resources. Uh one writer said, None but those who have known how sacred in the East is the duty of lavish hospitality, and how passionately the obligation to the utmost is felt can realize the gloom which this incident would have thrown over the occasion, or the misery or mortification uh which would have uh caused the the wedded pair, you know, the the people getting married, it would have caused them to be mortified Uh they would have felt it to be, as in the East, it would be felt to be a a bitter and indelible disgrace. They would have been disgraced by running out of resources here. And uh when Mary came to Jesus to report the problem, the expectation is that Jesus is going to do something. He's gonna show the miraculous here. This is what Jesus is gonna do. But listen to how Jesus answers her in John chapter 2 verse 4. He says to her, woman What a way to talk to your mom, right? Woman? What does that have to do with us? My hour has not yet come He said, it's not time for me to reveal myself yet. It wasn't his time. It wasn't his time to reveal himself. So this miracle that he performs, he actually does it privately. He does it in the in a back room with just uh the disciples, a couple servants, but this isn't a miracle for everybody to see. Jesus lived with this this kind of sensitivity to the divine clock. He knew that His ministry was not to begin until John the Baptist's ministry came to an end. His ministry began when John the Baptist ministry came to an end. And uh I love what S. Lewis Johnson observes about this He says, according to royal protocol, the king does not make his appearance in public until the forerunner has finished his work. John the Baptist's ministry was still going on. He says it's not the proper time for me to start my ministry until John the Baptist finishes his. Matthew, emphasizing the official and regal character of Jesus, follows this procedure exactly. John the Baptist was still ministering at this time, and it was at the imprisonment of John the Baptist that Jesus says, Now's the time. Now's the time for me to reveal myself. Now's the time for me to start my public ministry. It's time for the ministry to begin. And uh this is how God ordained that the transition would take place, uh that John the Baptist um would be imprisoned uh before Jesus would would start this uh public ministry. And as John said himself, he says, he must what? He must increase, but I must decrease. The the way that God chose for John the Baptist to decrease was by throwing him in jail. That that was God's plan. It was God's plan. Uh the prison meant was uh God's means uh that he chose to uh for John to decrease and for the ministry of the Son uh to increase. And uh I mean really when you when you think about that kind of uh of of ministry that uh John the Baptist would be thrown into prison to to allow the sun to increase. And you think about uh what we often complain about when we suffer, you know, uh different minor things uh for the uh exaltation of the of Christ. But we'll we'll get into more of the details later because uh Matthew actually uh uh talks more about this uh imprisonment of uh John the Baptist a little later on. But uh As you'll remember, uh Herod Antipas, who's uh Herod the Great Son, put John in prison and finally had him beheaded uh because he was such a fearless preacher. Uh John wasn't afraid uh to point his finger in the the governor's face and say that uh It's it's wrong for you. It's unlawful for you to have your your brother's wife. And that's the kind of courage that we need to today desperately, don't we? Uh people that that are willing to stand up and uh speak the truth Uh Josephus says that uh Herodanthippus feared John and uh put him in prison because he was su such a powerful uh force. And uh what Jesus does is after he hears about this imprisonment As he withdraws into Galilee. After he hears John's in prison, he withdraws into Galilee. And uh this word withdraw is often used to uh uh for escaping hostility But the interesting thing about this passage is that Galilee was actually where Herod had his jurisdiction You know, so so Jesus is actually withdrawing into the very place where Herod was who had just thrown John into prison. So so Jesus isn't going to Galilee because he's trying to escape Herod. You know, if if he was trying to escape Herod, he would have gone in the other direction. Uh so when uh when we find this this withdrawing of of Jesus, uh one commentator uh points this out. He says it's a strange mistake to say that he wished to avoid Herod because Judea was not in Herod's dominions. Where Jesus was before with John the Baptist was not in Herod's dominions. Galilee was So it's better to see Jesus not as moving to hide, but moving to minister. Jesus was moving to minister. He was withdrawing to minister, and he understood. That the ministry in the south in Judea, where he and John the Baptist were, was complete, and that the the message that was heard in the south now needs to be heard in the north, in Galilee. And uh because of that he withdraws into Galilee. And he gives the same exact message that John the Baptist gave, right? Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And uh he understood that it was uh the proper occasion Uh for this message to be given and his timing was impeccable. He waited till the time was right, and then he gave this this message about uh repentance in the kingdom in the north. And uh when you consider the the short period of uh Jesus' uh ministry. This this is pretty amazing that he would wait this long. He's already uh he started his ministry at 30, age 30, right? He's already waited 30 years to begin his ministry, according to Luke chapter 3, verse 23. After he's been identified by baptism, he's tried in the wilderness. He waits another year to start his his ministry even after that. So you have this great patience. And he was able to accomplish everything that he did in three and a half years. I mean three and a half years and the the the course of history has changed forever from three and a half years. That was it. That was it. It's remarkable when you really think about it. Towards the beginning of his ministry, Jesus said this. He says in John 4. 34, My food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to accomplish His work. And then at the end of his ministry in John 17, verse 4, he says, I have glorified you on the earth, having accomplished the work which you've given me to do. Three and a half years and it's done. My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and by the end of his ministry he says, I've accomplished all that you sent me to do. I've done done everything. And I I love what uh uh Jay Oswald Sanders says about this. In his book Spiritual Leadership, he says, our Lord sets the perfect example of strategic use of time. He moved through life with measured steps, never hurried. Though always surrounded by demands and crowds, when a person approached him for help, Jesus gave the impression that he had no more important concern than the needs of his visitor The secret of Jesus' serenity lay in his assurance that he was working according to the Father's plan for his life, a plan that embraced every hour and made a provision for every need. Jesus completed his life's work without any part spoiled by undue haste or half done through lack of time. His 24 hours a day was sufficient to complete the whole will of God. It's amazing. Then he goes on to say often the pressure of spiritual uh a spiritual leader leader feels comes from assuming tasks that God has not assigned. He says others may surpass our abilities, influence, or money, but no one has more time in their day. Nobody has more time in their day. Each of us has the time to do the whole will of God, and there's a lot that we could say about that. Uh but I pray that the the Spirit of God would really apply that principle in your own conscience. That the the will of God, when you think about what the will of God is for your life, whether that's prayer, whether that's Meditating on scripture, whether that's fellowship, whether it's love for the body, each of us has enough time to do the whole will of God for our lives. God's given each of us the amount of time that we need to accomplish his will. Um and often if we find that we don't have uh the time to to do the will of the Lord, it's probably because you're assigning yourself tasks that you shouldn't be doing. Right? Uh Jesus here he accomplishes everything uh that he needed to to do in the time that was allotted to him. But not only did the light dawn at the proper occasion, at the proper time, the right time. The light also dawned at the predicted location, the predicted location. Look at verse thirteen. It says and leaving Nazareth, he came and settled in Capernaum, which is by the sea in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, the land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. The people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light, and those who were sitting in the land in shadow of death, upon them a light dawned. And here Matthew introduces us in these verses to the headquarters of the king. While it may not be shocking to us that Jesus placed his headquarters in Capernaum, it would have been extremely shocking to a Jewish reader. Because where would you expect the headquarters of the king to be? In Jerusalem, capital city. They would have expected the Messiah who was born in Bethlehem. They knew he was going to be born in Bethlehem. Uh but it would have been hard to hard enough to stomach that he he grew up in Nazareth. He's born in Bethlehem, now he grows up in Nazareth, but I mean he's got to come to Jerusalem. This is the capital city. This is where it's all happening. They would have expected Jesus To come to Jerusalem, the city of the great king. But what is Jesus doing setting up shop in Capernaum in Galilee of all places? And as we've mentioned before, Galilee was a despised place. Lensky comments, Galilee was the Jewish province that was farthest removed from the capital. As far from the capital as you could get, farthest removed from the capital, and quite generally looked down upon by the proud inhabitants of that center It was said, if one wishes to be rich, let him go north. But if he wants to be wise, let him come south. Come home to Jerusalem. This is where the knowledge base is. This is where the law is. And Galileans weren't expected to be uh bright people. They were uh despised. They were said to be uh said to live in darkness. People were shocked when uh they heard uh the Galileans speaking in other languages. They said, aren't all these men Galileans? These guys don't know how to speak any other languages They hardly know how to speak Hebrew, right? They hardly know how to speak the Aramaic. How are they speaking these other languages? Galileans weren't expected to be too bright. And uh when Nicodemus attempted to get a fair hearing for Jesus in John 7, he says this in uh John 7. 51. He says, Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he's doing, does it? It's like I I want to give Jesus a fair hearing. And what 's the response to them to that? He says they answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. Nobody comes out of Galilee. That's worth listening to. And uh there are a number of reasons uh that they believe that, that the uh uh uh Pharisees believe that. One of them was that the region of Galilee was uh given by God to the uh tribes of uh Zebulun and Naphtali according to Joshua 19. God commanded that uh the people would uh uh occupy the land, possess it, get rid of the the pagans that were living there. Uh Zebulun and Naphtali never fully carried that out. They never got rid of the pagan influence that was there. So it remained a gentile place. And that's why even in Isaiah 9 it's known as Galilee of the Gentiles, because there was this significant amount of Gentiles that lived there. Uh Zebulun and Aphtali were located in the north, uh, and because of that they were also always the first to get hit by any invasion that came from the north. Uh for example in the 8th century Assyrians came and attacked this uh region, the region of Galilee, and took away uh tri uh part of the tribe uh back to Assyria and uh actually imported pagan people into the the city of uh of Galilee in that region there. The region of Galilee was also on an international trade route, and one person uh uh comments that the the sea road, which is as mentioned in uh Matthew here was a trade route that that ran through the region and uh connected it with all kinds of gentile you know countries. So uh gentiles were frequently uh coming through this this area. It was said that uh Judea goes nowhere but Galilee goes everywhere. You know, everywhere you want to go you can get to from from Galilee. And this is the place that was uh Really the heart is hit by by this ungodly pagan influence, and it was neglected by Judea. People in Judea didn't want to bother with the people up north in Galilee. So why would Jesus choose an area like this? Why would Jesus choose this kind of heavily pagan, you know, Gentile influenced kind of area? One reason is that it it was densely populated with people, and Jesus had compassion, right? Jesus had compassion for people. Josephus, the Jewish historian, said of Galilee, the cities lie there very thick, very numerous. Villages are so full of people because of the fertility of the land. that the very smallest of them, the smallest of the cities they said contained fifteen thousand inhabitants. That was a big big deal back then. Uh it was also central. Jesus could reach people outside of Galilee from there because the the roads went everywhere. It was connected to the to the Gentiles. And at this time Jesus isn't ministering directly to the Gentile people. He didn't have a direct Gentile ministry. But his focus was on the lost sheep of the house of Israel. But we also learn that Jesus also had compassion for the Gentiles. If you remember when a Canaanite woman uh came to uh to Christ, uh that that Christ showed her her mercy. He says, you know, at first he says, you know, I'm I'm only sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, right? But he says, you know, even the the dogs eat the crumbs off the the table, right? That fall from the master's table And uh he he saw that she had great faith and uh had compassion on her. So we we find that Jesus had uh compassion even for the the Gentile uh people. And uh what's also interesting is is that from uh Galilee the Great Commission was was sent. The disciples were sent on their great commission from Galilee, this the despised place where the people lived in darkness is where the Great Commission was given. And uh the fact that they were neglected would have actually drawn Jesus to this place? What better place for the light to shine than in a dark place To find the place where it was dark, and uh in the the spies place of Galilee where people lived in darkness, this is where the uh the light has dawned. And there's also those are some historical reasons, but what we pick up from the text itself is in verse 14, look at what it says. This was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. This is this is a fulfillment of Scripture. He fulfills Scripture in uh in what he does here in uh going to this this area of uh of Galilee because it was part of uh the land of uh Zebulun and And uh what he does here is uh he he shows that the to the Jewish readers who might have cringed at saying seeing their Messiah in this place of Galilee, uh that this is actually predicted by the scriptures. This is where where I'm supposed to be. This is where the Messiah was supposed to be. Why don't you turn back to Isaiah just to get the context of this? Back in uh Isaiah. Actually we'll start in uh in chapter seven because that's that's really where the context starts for this quote. Let's read verses 1 and 2 here in Isaiah 7. It says now it came about in the days of Ahaz the son of Jatham, the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, that Rezan, the king of Aram, and Pikah, the son of Ramaliah, king of Israel, went up to Jerusalem to wage war against it. But could not conquer it. When it was reported to the house of David saying, The Arameans have camped in Ephraim. That's the north. Ephraim was a representative of the north. His heart and the hearts of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake with the wind. So the picture is you have Judah in the south. Uh up in the north you have Ephraim and the the Arameans are joining together to defeat Judah. They're joining together to defeat the South. And uh so this is the same context that we looked at earlier for uh where the virgin would be uh uh would uh uh bear a child. Um and uh we find that in uh in verse 17 that we looked at uh earlier in in Matthew. So basically these two uh two groups got together because they want to punish Judah for not joining forces with them against uh Assyria, which was really the power that they were concerned about And uh in chapter seven God promises deliverance for Judah. Uh if you remember uh Ahaz the king, he didn't want to ask for a sign. Uh he says, you know, I I want uh I won't I won't uh tempt the Lord, I won't tempt the Lord, uh and kinda try to feign like he had uh some kind of allegiance to to God, which he he really didn't Uh but God says, I'm I'm gonna deliver Judah. Even in spite of uh Ahaz and his lack of faith, I'm going to to deliver uh Judah. And uh Isaiah chapter uh eight, uh if you flip over to uh chapter eight, starting at uh at verse eleven You have God actually promising deliverance not only for Judah to the south, but now he also promises deliverance for for Israel to the north. Ephraim to the north, he promises deliverance for them as well. Look at that verse eleven. It says, Thus for thus the Lord spoke to me with mighty power, and instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, You are not to say it is a conspiracy in regard to all that this people call a conspiracy, and you are not to fear what they fear or be in dread of it. It is the Lord of hosts whom you should regard as holy, and he shall be your fear, and he shall be your dread. Then he shall become a sanctuary. Listen to this. Both to the houses of Israel a stone to strike and a rock to stumble over, and a snare and a trap to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. So what he says here is that uh I'm going to to deliver both. I'm going to deliver both houses. The house of of Israel to the north, the house of Judah to the south. I'm going to deliver uh both houses. And uh and really what he says is that you can't ignore me. He really says you can't ignore me. I'll become a sanctuary, or I can also become a rock that you stumble over, right? I can either be a place that you seek refuge. And safety, or I can be a place that will trip you up, but you can't ignore me. You can't get around me. It's either you're going to trust me or you're going to stumble over me, but you can't uh ignore me. You can't get around me. And he says that the Lord should really be your fear. Don't fear these countries that are around you. You need to fear fear the Lord. And then in verses fourteen and fifteen, uh Isaiah reminds them that God is there, whether they uh acknowledge him or not. As I said, uh use a snare or a trap, or he can be a sanctuary. In 16 to 18, he reaffirms his trust in the Lord and in his word. Listen to what he says here. Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples. And I will wait for the Lord who is hiding his face from the house of Jacob. I will even look eagerly for him. Behold, I and the children whom the Lord has given me are for signs and wonders in Israel. from the Lord of hosts who dwells on Mount Zion. So he says with this testimony, the law, he says, bind up the testimony, seal up the law. This is this is this is for sure. I I I'm uh I believe in this, I trust in this. God's already given me signs that this is to happen. Okay? So he's trusting in the Lord. He reaffirms his trust for the Lord. And then in verses uh 19 to 20 He rebukes those that turn to other means of revelation. So r again, remember the context here is uh that they're fearing these nations that are around them. He says you need to trust in the Lord, trust in the Lord. And then he rebukes those who seek anything else outside of the Lord, outside of the revelation of of God. Look at verses 19 to 20 He says, when they say to you, consult the mediums and the spiritists who whisper and mutter, so here this is uh you know uh consulting demons and the dead Should not a people consult their God? Should they consult the dead on behalf of the living? To the law and to the testimony, if they do not speak according to this word, listen to this, it is because they have no Dawn. They have no light. If they're looking outside of my revelation for truth, they have no light. There's no light outside. of the revelation of of God and I I I love what the what a commentator said about this. He says, those who depend upon earth. Actually I'll I'll uh back up a bit. He says in every age the church needs to hear this word anew For apart from the recorded Word of God, any light Christianity has is but darkness. Every teaching must be tested by the Scripture, unless the Christian Church can agree that the Bible is as it stands. And is the very word of God, it is without consensus, authority, and without light. If you can't come to the to the point in your life that you agree fully that this is the word of God, that it stands as it's written, you have no light. There's no hope outside of the scriptures. There's no hope outside of the revelation of God. And he says, to the law and to the testimony. If you don't speak according to this, you have no light. No light. In verses uh twenty-one and twenty-two he he talks about the judgment for those that would go outside of The revelation of God. Look at what he says in 21 and 22. It says they will pass through the land hard-pressed and famished. And it will turn out that when they are Hungry, they will be enraged and curse their God and their king as the as they face upward. Then they will look to the earth and behold distress and darkness, the gloom of anguish, and they will be driven away into darkness. You know what the uh the result of Looking to darknesses, more darkness. The result of looking outside of Scripture for some kind of light is just more darkness. You just compound the darkness. That's what he's saying here. And uh again, Oswald says this. He says, uh those who depend upon earth for solutions to the earth's problems only compound their darkness. Light for our darkness must come from outside of ourselves if it is to come at all. Darkness can swallow up failing light, but it can never produce light. Darkness cannot produce light. When you look outside of the light of God's revelation, you're not going to get any light from it because it can't produce any light. Can't produce light. Uh just this uh this week uh on on Wednesday I was coming home from a meeting and uh this is when the wind was just really kicking up, really blowing. And uh I was about to hit the the traffic light right before I turn, you know, off to go to my street, and you couldn't even see the traffic light. It went from like being vertical to being horizontal, so you couldn't even see the lights anymore. And then I look over to to my right and I see one of these utility poles coming down. I mean it it it caught on fire as it's it's coming down. Uh when it finally hit the ground it it it just almost looked like it blew up and then there's this trail of fire that goes across you know 198 and I'm like this looks like I'm in a movie somewhere It's like what in the world is this? And after this utility pole fell, everything went black. Traffic light went out, every street light went out. I pulled into my neighborhood, every light was out in my neighborhood. I mean everything goes black. Um and it just kind of kind of reminded me that uh that if I was gonna get light, it wasn't gonna come from the inside, right? I wasn't going to get any light from, you know, switching turning on a switch, you know, flipping a breaker. There there's no power coming to this house from Inside the house, right? If the if I was gonna get power, it would have to come from the outside. Somebody has to hook me back up and bring power in from the outside because no power is going to come from inside. And uh really reminds me of uh a lot of what we try to do when we we look to ourselves, look to our own wisdom, look to our own philosophies for some kind of light. We're flipping on switches, we're pulling on breakers, but there's no light coming from the inside. We have to look outside to get the light to come in. And this is what he's saying here. They look to themselves. But what do they get? Darkness, gloom, anguish, they'll be driven away into darkness. But what uh chapter 9 promises is that this light is going to come from the outside. You can't you can't produce the light. You don't have any means to produce light. The light has to come from the outside, and this is what it talks about in chapter 9. He says, but there will be no more gloom for her who was in anguish in earlier times. He treated the land of Zebulun and the land of Natale with contempt. But later on he shall make it glorious by the way of the sea on the other side of Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. The people who walk in darkness will see a great light. Those who live in a dark land, the light will shine on them. This is all predicted. The promise of physical deliverance, but that was not to come apart from a spiritual deliverance. God first had to turn on the lights on the inside before he was going to uh to uh uh give them this external uh deliverance. They first had to have a spiritual uh salvation and this is really what's uh what's talked about here, what's promised here Uh the Messiah's physical and external kingdom is preceded by the Messiah's spiritual and internal uh kingdom. And it may be a poor analogy, but just to kind of finish the illustration, uh the power was finally connected to my neighborhood, but uh Again, if I were to look outside at the street lights and the traffic lights on, but I never flip the lights on on the inside, it's not going to help, right? It's not going to help. The light that we talk about in Scripture will do no good unless there's an internal light. The light of Jesus Christ will do no good unless there's an internal light And uh just to give you uh uh an understanding of what light is used for in scripture, it's a it's a metaphor. You find that light is often used for truth. You know, you know, the word is a a lamp unto my feet, a light into my path, and uh, you know, Psalm 119. The light is also used for uh for holiness. You know, in uh in 1 John chapter 1, verse 5, we find that uh God says, That I am light, in me there's no darkness at all. He's talking about his holiness. The light is used for uh for joy. Uh back in uh uh in Psalm 97, it talks about this uh joy uh that's uh pictured as light. In Psalm 97, verse 11, it says, Light is sown like seed for the righteous and gladness for the upright in heart, this gladness and joy, life. is also uh a metaphor. Uh uh light is also used as a metaphor for for life. Uh having having life also again in uh in Psalm fifty uh 50 uh uh 56 and verse 13, it says for you have delivered my soul from death, indeed my feet from stumbling. So that I may walk before God in the light of the living. The light of the living. So life is also pictured as uh as light. Uh you have the presence and blessings of of God. uh that are pictured as light in uh uh Psalm eighty nine and verse uh fifteen. You have this mention here, Psalm eighty nine and verse uh fifteen. It says, How blessed are the people who know the joyful sound, O Lord, they walk in the light of your countenance. The presence and blessings of God are used as light But it's also used for salvation. Salvation. In Isaiah 49 and verse 6, it says, he says, Is it too small a thing that she should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob? And to restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will also make you a light of the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. And uh the Messiah Particularly here, when we uh look at uh uh Isaiah 9, he he showed up to bring salvation. He showed up to I mean particularly what he was bringing was salvation. He he brought the light of salvation because he was the light. That's what he was looking for from these people, that they would repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. What's he looking for? He's looking for conversion. He's looking for conversion. Came to the it was the the right time, it was the predicted location, but before the lights could come on for the people they had to respond to the right message. They had to respond to the the powerful proclamation of the of the king. And this is important that you don't miss this, because uh when we talk about seeing a great light, the light dawning upon them, what does it say that Jesus actually did? Verse 17, he preached. What was the light coming on for these people? It was the proclamation of the gospel. He came into their city and he preached the gospel. This was their seeing of a great light. This is the light dawning on them. Salvation was was there. He's proclaiming salvation, and salvation is there. He began to preach. That's how they saw the light is by hearing the the proclamation of the the king and as wonderful as the miracles of Jesus were the miracles were not the focus of Jesus' ministry. Miracles were not the focus of Jesus' ministry in uh in Mark chapter one We have a scene that takes place in Capernaum that's described for us. Mark chapter 1. Flip over there real quick. Mark chapter 1. We have the scene that's described in Capernaum for us. This is after uh Jesus cast out a demon in the synagogue. He heals Peter's mother in law. Does all this in the Capernaum and actually I've I've actually been there. uh been at the site where the uh the synagogue would have been and uh where they believe Peter's house would have been as well. There's symbols that were found, Christian symbols that were found all along this uh this house in the city and they believe that that's where where Peter's house would have been But look what he says in uh in verse 33. It says, And the whole city had gathered at the door. Everybody's coming. They they hear about this miracle worker. He's casting out demons, healing people's mother-in-law's. They said, Oh, we've got to get a piece of this. And he healed many who were ill with various diseases, cast out many demons, and he was not permitting the demons to speak because they knew who he was. In the early morning, while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house, went away to a secluded place, and was praying there Simon and his companions searched for him. They found him and said to him, Everyone's looking for you. You know, we've got to kind of keep this ministry going. He said to them, Let us go. Somewhere else. To the towns nearby. Why? So that I may preach there also, for this is what I came for. You know all these people were looking for the healing. He says, I I I I didn't come primarily for the healing. This is like I came to preach. I need to go to another city because I need to preach. The message was the priority, and the the miracles were were secondary. The miracles were to point to the message, and there's this uh push today within the church to do anything but preach. You know, preaching is falling on hard times today, right? Do anything but preach. You know, preaching is taking a backseat to music, drama, experiences, you name it. Just anything but the preaching of the word. I remember I was talking to this one guy on my job, and he says, uh, you know, I don't mind church. I just don't like the preaching. He says, why can't they just have you know a conversation? Or or you know, do some sharing, some personal sharing or something like that? Why why do we have have to do the the preaching? Um because we're heralds of a message that doesn't belong to us, right? We're heralds of an authoritative message. You don't you don't share and have a conversation about a message that comes from the king that's authoritative You don't just get up and and kinda share this is this is kind of what I think about that and you guys have an opinion I have an opinion and let's just kind of share what we think about that That's not the job of a herald. A herald is to stand up and proclaim the message of the king, the king's edict. Furthermore, it's the means that God has chosen to save souls. By the preached word, J. C. Rowell says preaching is the principal means God has always chosen to use to convert and edify souls. The brightest days of the church have been those when preaching has been honored. The darkest days of the church have been those when it has been treated as something unimportant. Secondary. And these are dark days for the church. Dark days for the church. And the message that Jesus gives should be struck and familiar here because it's the same one that John the Baptist preached, right? He says, I haven't come to really give a new message. You guys need to repent. The same same thing that the forerunner said. I'm coming up just to back it up. You need to repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Kingdom of heaven is here. That's what he preached. It's a message of repentance. And this is the means that God chose to convert and edify souls and to bring light. It's been called the uh uh and when he has this message of repentance. It's uh consistent with uh John the Baptist, like I said, but it's a consistent message throughout the Bible. Repentance. Matthew 3 verse 2, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand Matthew 4, 17, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Acts 238, repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. You'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And Peter In Acts chapter 17, you have Paul, same message, verse 30. Therefore, having overlooked the times of ignorance, God is now declaring to men that all people everywhere should repent. Message is consistent. And the the gospel message that's stripped of repentance is not the gospel according to the scriptures. It's it's a message that uh that's connected to repentance. And uh also a gospel message that isn't connected to the king is not the gospel message of the scriptures. Jesus is King, He's Lord. And uh the message of the gospel has to include that. The kingdom was at hand because the king was at hand. The kingdom was so near to them that the light was shining on them. The light of the kingdom was shining on them. And can you think of a more wonderful opportunity than what was offered to Capernaum? To be the headquarters of the ministry of Jesus Christ? That Jesus Christ was actually there, the one who brings salvation They didn't just entertain the herald, they entertained the king that the herald was pointing to. They didn't just receive a message, they received a light They heard the preaching, they saw the miracles, the light shined here first, and the light probably shined here the brightest. What a privilege, right? Have the king personally come to me and preach the message. What a privilege. There's no question that they saw the light. But how did they respond to it? How do they respond to it? Turn over to John chapter 1. We'll be done in a minute. John chapter 1 John chapter one, look at verse nine. It says, there was the true light which coming into the world enlightens every man. No question about the light shining. It's no problem with the light. No problem with the light at all. He was in the world. And the world was made for him, and the world did not know him. The light showed up and lighted every man But the world didn't comprehend them. They didn't know them. Look at John chapter 3. Everybody loves John 3. 16, right? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. Let's read down a little further. For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world might be saved through him. He who believes in him is not judged. He who does not believe has been judged already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is the judgment. I don't have to judge. This is the judgment. But the light has come into the world, and men love the darkness rather than the light, for their deeds were evil. Rejected the light. For everyone who does evil hates the light. Does not come to the light. Why? For fear that his deeds will be exposed. I don't want to change. If I come to the light I have to do what? Repent. If I come to the light I have to repent. I I don't want to change. I don't want to change my deeds. R. C. Sproull says about this. He says the metaphor of light and darkness is used abundantly in the New Testament. It gives a vivid contrast between righteousness and evil, between life and death. Every one of us is by nature a child of the darkness. Every one of us is by nature a person who prefers darkness to the light. Because in the light of our in the light of day our sins are made manifest. When the prophecy speaks about those sitting in darkness seeing a great light, it does not mean that everyone embraced the light. Then he says this. Listen to this. Jesus was killed because he was the light of the world. Because he was the light of the world. That's why he was killed Because men prefer the darkness to the light. Otherwise the light would not have been extinguished Why do they put him to death? Because he's exposing us. He exposes me for who I really am. I don't want to be exposed. The Pharisees hated it. He's exposing me for who I really am. I don't want to repent. So what would they rather do? Put out the light. The light's too bright. Put the light out Prefer darkness to the light. And then those who prefer the darkness are consigned to a place of utter darkness. You go, you go from dark to more dark to utter darkness. That's the progression. Just one more passage. Look over at uh Matthew eight. Matthew eight. This is in Capernaum. This is in Capernaum. The place where Jesus set up his headquarters. This is it Again, a little picture here of what Capernaum was like. And we'll we'll learn more about this later. Look at uh Matthew eight, look at verse five. It says, And when Jesus entered Capernaum, a centurion came to him imploring him, hold on, centurion. This is a Gentile. This isn't a Jewish person. This is a Gentile. Imploring him and saying, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion said, Lord, I am not worthy for you to come under my roof, but just say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man under authority with soldiers under me, and I say to this one go, and he goes, and to another come and he comes, and to my slave do this, and he does it Now when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. Anybody in Israel. I say to you that many will come from east and west, Gentile nations, and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. in the kingdom of heaven, but the sons of the kingdom will be cast out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. You know who he's talking about? The people of Capernaum. He says you guys had the light and you rejected the light, and now you're not going to have any light. Had the light, rejected the light, and now you're not going to have it at all. And the sad truth is, is that there may be some who are here who've seen the light Heard the truth about Christ, you know that Christ is the truth. You know that Christ is holiness, that He's joy, that He's life, that He's the presence and blessing of God, that He's salvation, Christ is salvation. But the the but the fact is is that you you you see the light but you haven't embraced the light. You're around the light, you're looking through the window at the light. But you haven't embraced the light. Jesus says, I've come as light into the world so that everyone who believes in me will not remain in darkness. And if uh if if that's somebody here uh today, that's not the condition that you have to remain in. You don't you don't have to remain in the dark. Um for those that have uh embraced the light They can say this, O gift of gifts, O grace of faith, my God, how can it be that thou who hast discerning love should give that gift to me? O grace and two unlikeliest hearts, it is my boast, thy boast to come, the glory of thy light to find its darkest spots a home. If you're without the light, you don't have to remain without the light. You can embrace the light, and the only way that you do that is by repentance and faith. That you're you're willing to give up your sins, not to uh to to push off the savior because you want to hold on to your sins. It's to push off your sins so you can embrace the savior. That's that's the exchange that you have to make. Exchange your sins for the Savior. Exchange your sins for the Savior, and you can have the delight of life. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files