The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Why don't we take our Bibles and open to the book of Matthew? The book of Matthew, chapter three. We'll read verses one down to twelve together, although we won't actually make it all the way to verse twelve. I thought I could. Kind of like the little train. I think I can. I think I can There is just no way. So uh Matthew chapter 3, we'll uh start at verse verse 1. We'll read down to 12 just to get the context for us. Says now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet when he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Now John himself had a garment of camel's hair, and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem was going out to him, and all Judea and all the district around the Jordan. And they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that thee from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. The axe is already laid at the root of the trees, therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. As for me, I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I. And I am not fit to remove his handles He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winning fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor And he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you so much for The revelation of your word. Now, Father, we thank you for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who is proclaimed on its pages. And now, Father, I pray that you'd help me this morning as a weak instrument to proclaim your word to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. I want to ask you to think about something. How would you prepare yourself to receive a king? Or uh maybe it's some powerful dignitary or some other person of of great honor. Uh what if it was one of those once-in-a-lifetime experiences, maybe you didn't request it at all, it just kinda came to you. Uh maybe there's a president or a you know some kind of dignitary from another nation and he comes to This country and he uh wants to spend a day with somebody. And out of all people they choose you. The the cameras are coming, you know, the reporters are gonna be there, and you can't say no. You can't get out of it. How how are you going to prepare yourself to receive a a king like that? Where would you begin? I imagine you'd probably start by cleaning your house. Making sure you get it ready from from top to bottom to receive, you know, whoever this uh person uh is coming might finish up some projects that you might have had lingering for a while, maybe do a little painting. Maybe you'd buy some new clothes or at least make sure whatever you had was dry cleaned. Make sure you're prepared. Maybe you'd find out what your guest's favorite meal was. Maybe you'd have it catered. Maybe you'd try to do it yourself, you know, but you try it a couple times just to make sure you get it just right, you know, because you you want to make sure it's right for whoever you're gonna be hosting. Maybe you want to take them to your house at all, maybe you take them to a restaurant You know, but uh it's not just gonna be any restaurant. You know, you you're gonna break the budget for this one. Nobody's gonna blame you for for breaking the the budget Maybe there's a lot of things that you do to prepare yourself to meet this king or this dignitary, but all of that would be absolutely meaningless if you knew how to read your mind. If you knew how to read your your heart, if you spent your entire life engaged in rebellion against this king. Disrespect against him, direct opposition to this king. He knows your every action, your every word, your every thought. Every time you disrespected him, every time you had an angry thought, every time you wish he wasn't a king at all. This king knows about every deed, every word, every thought. How are you going to prepare yourself for a king like that? And this is the kind of king that John the Baptist was trying to prepare the Jewish people to receive because there's no amount of hairstyling or makeup that's going to make up for your heart, right? There's nothing that you're going to do on the outside. There's nothing that you can do to just kind of get rid of some of the clutter in your life, you know, shove it into the closet if this king knows how to read your your mind. The only kind of reception that's fit for a king like this is repentance Repentance. And this is what John is trying to prepare these people to receive. As we said before, Matthew's primarily written to a Jewish audience and uh the great aim of the the the gospel is uh trying to proclaim and to defend the truth that Jesus is the long anticipated Messiah. And uh for anybody that would have wondered, you know, why didn't anybody prepare us for this? We never received any notice. How are we really supposed to know that the Messiah was going to show up? Matthew reminds them that there was a herald. There was a herald. The word for preaching that's used in uh chapter one, uh uh verse one here of uh chapter three, it says, now in those days John the Baptist came preaching. The word for preaching is the word kerusso, which could be translated properly as a heralding, proclaiming, announcing. It was used for those that were sent before a king to make official proclamation about the king, to warn the people that the king was on the way. It was used in the Greek translation of the Old Testament in Genesis chapter 41 and verse 43. Remember Joseph was made second in command of Pharaoh, and uh there was actually uh uh a caruch, which is uh the the noun form of the the word karuska, there was a carux, a herald. Somebody who came before him and said, Bow the knee. You know, here comes somebody of great importance. Daniel chapter 4, in verse 4, in the uh Greek translation of the Old Testament, when the official word was made about Nebuchadnezzar's image. Remember that? There was a herald that was sent to proclaim that when you hear the music played, everybody bowed the knee. Bow the knee before this great king. A herald was somebody who gave an official announcement or proclamation from the king. Somebody who tried to prepare the people, you know, for the King's arrival. And this is what John the Baptist was sent to do for Jesus Christ, to tell everybody that would hear him, bow the knee. The king is coming. The king is coming. Gave this official announcement. He wasn't the light, but he came to bear witness of that light. And he's identified for us in chapter 3. Every gospel writer records something about the ministry of John the Baptist. The ministry of John the Baptist was not a small, insignificant sideshow. His preaching in the wilderness was so weighty and so powerful that it attracted the attention of The entire nation. All of Jerusalem knew about John the Baptist. All of Judea knew about John the Baptist. The whole district of the Jordan knew about John the Baptist. There wasn't anybody that didn't know who John the Baptist was. John the Baptist was the prophet who broke the silence. Before this time there were 400 years of silence from heaven, and the last prophet who was recognized was Malachi. That was about 400 years ago. So when John the Baptist comes, I mean everybody's talking about it. You know, there's a prophet. There's a prophet from God. He's here. All that to say that uh John's voice in the wilderness was headline news. All all of Israel was considered uh John the Baptist to be a prophet in Mark chapter 11, verse 32, it says, Everyone considered John to have been a real prophet. The masses would have been familiar with John and his message in the wilderness. Even extra-biblical history records this desert crier, Josephus, talks about him and says he was a good man. Commanded the Jews to exercise virtue both as to the righteousness towards one another and piety towards God and so to come for baptism. But not only only that, he also uh attracted the attention of uh the Gentile rulers. They couldn't even ignore his influence. You have uh Herod Antipas, who was the son of uh Herod the Great. We talked about him before. Uh Herod Antipas uh put John in prison and finally had him beheaded because of his fearless preaching. Had to try to shut him up. John wasn't afraid to point the finger in Herod's face and boldly tell him that it's unlawful for you to have your brother's wife Nobody could ignore John. I mean, everybody's going to know about John, right? You can't shut him up. Josephus also adds this about Herod. He says that Herod was afraid of him. Lest the great influence John had over the people might put it into his power and inclination to raise a rebellion. He was that scary. It's like if if this guy ever decides to gather the whole nation and start a rebellion against me, I don't know if I could handle it. That's scared of John the Baptist. I don't think I've realized uh before getting into this just how significant John the Baptist Really, really was, but John made it impossible for anybody to offer the excuse that they weren't aware that the Messiah was coming. The nation was given plenty of warning. Nobody could say that they didn't know. And uh no one was better for the job than than John. Jesus said in Luke chapter 7, verse 28, I say to you, among those born of women, there is no one greater than John. He was the greatest Old Testament prophet. He had the supreme privilege not just of announcing that the king would come, but actually seeing the fulfillment of it, actually seeing Jesus Christ Himself. All the hopes of of Israel were were fulfilled in his time, though those hopes were foreseeing the Messiah. If the Jews were to be prepared uh to receive their king. The message that John preached was the message that they needed to hear. They needed to hear this message. And if we're going to be prepared to receive the king, this is the kind of message that we need to hear. Or if we're going to prepare other people to receive the king, this is the message that we need to hear, because if you haven't repented, you're not prepared If you haven't repented, you're not prepared. And this passage can be divided up into four parts. Like I said, we're not going to get to all of it today, but uh four parts in uh verses one to two, he preached a message they needed to hear. Verse 3, he had the biblical credentials that they needed to see. Verse 4, he lived the life that they needed to observe. And uh uh verses five to twelve, he performed a rite. that they needed to understand. And uh we'll start at verses one and two. He preached a message that they needed to hear. Look at verses one and two again. Says now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. John's ministry was really considered the beginning of the ministry of of Jesus, the public ministry of Jesus, when uh the disciples wanted to find somebody that would uh replaced Judas, uh who had lost his life and uh you know went to his own way, uh went to his own place, it says uh they wanted to find somebody who would replace them, and they said, we need to get somebody who was here from the beginning from John the Baptist's ministry. John the Baptist was was really like the starting point of the ministry of Jesus in Acts chapter 1 verse 21. It says, therefore it is necessary that of the men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning with the baptism of John until the day that he was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness. with us of his rev uh of his resurrection. Uh later on in uh Acts chapter ten uh basically says the same thing. Uh you yourselves know uh the thing which took place is in verse 37 uh throughout Judea starting from Galilee after the baptism of John proclaimed, you know of Jesus of Nazareth, uh how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit with power, how he went about doing good, healing all those who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with them. Then it goes on to talk about his resurrection as well. So from the baptism of John Through the resurrection, that's the ministry of the life of our Lord. And it starts with the baptism of John the Baptist. From the baptism to the resurrection was the span of the ministry of Christ while we were here on earth. But before then, the king wasn't publicly proclaimed. He waited until John set the stage for him. And uh that's one of the reasons why Matthew is silent about 30 years of Jesus' life. I mean a lot of us want to know some of the history. It's like what happened in the first thirty years of Jesus' life? I mean, we have a little bit that's given to us in Luke about when he was twelve and went to the temple. Other than that, we don't know anything. about Jesus' life uh before uh this time and and really that's the the way it was it was meant to be. Uh there's no sermons before this point. There's no disciples before this point. There's no miracles before this point, regardless of what you might have heard. You know, Jesus didn't make clay pigeons and then give 'em life and, you know, watch 'em fly. You know, that's a a fabricated story outside of of scripture Jesus didn't curse his playhood friends, you know, when they were playing around with them and uh you know curse his friends and cause them to be blind or whatever else. You might have heard those are all myths. None of that actually uh actually happened. Uh you don't have uh Jesus starting his ministry until uh this point. And uh this point was probably around uh 80 26, somewhere between 8026 and 29, and historians are pretty confident we can narrow it down to that time. But those are the the days that John the Baptist ministered. It says in chapter 3, verse 1, it says, now in those days John the Baptist came came preaching. What days? You know, those days. It's the days that Jesus was about to appear, right? Those days when Jesus was being presented. That's what made these days significant. And he preached this uh message in the wilderness of Judea. Uh and the the wilderness of Judea is really a barren area uh located uh just west of the Dead Sea. It's arid, bleak, dry. I've actually uh had the privilege of being there with uh with my wife. I mean and it is dry. It's desolate. Um actually uh one of the things that they do when they take tours around there is they make you get out of the bus and just kind of sit there for like five to ten minutes and say, uh now imagine being out here for for forty years, kind of wandering around. And uh wonder if you'd complain about this. It's it's dry out there. It's desolate. And this is where John the Baptist started his ministry. Out in the wilderness. I mean nobody selling real estate out in the wilderness. And you you kinda wonder it's like, you know, if if you really want this thing to be publicized, right? You know, you really want the the ministry of of Christ to to get out there. Why wouldn't he go to the city where the people are? Why have this ministry out in the wilderness instead of in Jerusalem where you have the crowd? I mean the wilderness is where you went if you couldn't afford to live in the city, right? Nobody nobody hunts for uh for a place to go in the the wilderness. Why start this ministry out in the middle of of nowhere. But that's kind of part of the wisdom of God because if your ministry is able to take off in the wilderness, you know you have something going on, right? If your ministry is able to take off in the middle of nowhere and you get the attention of the whole nation, I mean something is significant about this man, John the Baptist, and what the Lord was doing through him, and the first word of John's message was repent It's the first mess message that came from our Lord as well, repent. First words that they heard from John was, Repent. That's the message that they needed to hear if they were going to be prepared to receive the king, they didn't need to clean their homes, fix a meal, get a new outfit. They needed to prepare their hearts. They need to prepare their souls. Because this king wasn't going to be impressed by what he saw on the outside. Our king is not impressed by what he sees on the outside. That word uh repent, it's uh from the Greek word metanoe'o. It's a command. It's a command to repent. And many people try to play down the strength of this word, repentance. They say, oh, it just means to change your mind about something. Yeah, I used to think this way, but now I'm thinking this way about it. That's that's uh repentance is is more than that. Uh some people say it's uh it's just you know feeling bad about what you've done. You know, repentance is more than that. Uh the biblical word for repentance means more than that. It's it's more than just feeling emotionally sorry for your sin. If you remember the story of Esau, after he sold his birthright to Jacob, he felt emotionally sorry over his decision to sell his birthright, right? But in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 17, it says, For you know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance. Though he sought for it with tears. He was emotional about not having the birthright. But you know what? If you were to bring Esau back to that same spot in his life, he'd make the same decision again. It's no place for repentance in Esau's life. You have Judas felt emotionally sorry over what he did, right? Brought back the 30 pieces of silver, threw them into the temple, right? But there was no place for repentance found in Judas. Repentance is more than just feeling emotionally sorry over something that you've done Repentance is also more than just an intellectual change of mind. If you remember before we read about Herod trying to kill and slaughter whoever this king is, it's going to come. He was intellectually convinced that Jesus was the Messiah. Nobody had to convince him. He believed it. He believed when the Magi came and said, hey, we're looking for the one who's born king. Yeah, he's out there. And I want to find him so I can kill him. He was intellectually convinced that Jesus was the Messiah, but that was not repentance. That only qualified him to be a demon. James chapter 2, right? Verse 19. Even the demons believe. Just being intellectually convinced about who the Messiah is does not mean that you've repented. John's message wasn't simply, change your mind. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. It was made clear by the baptism that was accompanied by a confession of sin. When people were baptized, they didn't say, Hey, I used to think this way, but now I think this way. What were they confessing? They're confessing their sins. These are the ways that I've rebelled against God. This is why I'm coming for baptism. I want to be changed. Confessing their sins, they didn't confess their doubts. John was calling for something deeper than that. And repentance is also more than doing penance. Penance, if you ever uh heard of that word, there's there's no Hebrew or or Greek word that could be translated as penance anywhere in the Bible. The English word uh penance is actually based on the Latin word, penitentia or ponitentia. It's where we get our English word penitentiary. Penitentiary. Interestingly enough, it was uh originally the the penitentiary was where you went to uh uh get right with God. You know, it's where where you went to to feel sorry for your your sins, to to supposedly find God. But in the Roman Catholic Church it was uh argued that the acts of of penance, like doing good works, could uh mitigate or or lessen the final payment that was demanded for sin in purgatory. So you could lessen your time in purgatory. If uh you'll you know do so many Hail Marys or do whatever good works, you can you know lessen your time and in purgatory, you can lessen your your guilt. But that's not what biblical repentance is. It's not like, you know, hey, I did this bad thing over here, so I'm just going to do some good works over here to kind of balance it out, make up for it. That's not what repentance is. Biblical repentance is uh different than that, and uh you can see that but based on uh even what what John the Baptist did here. Um as people came uh to to be baptized, he he wanted to see that their their lives had been changed changed first. He didn't even see the baptism is like a good work to to somehow make you right with God. You know, if that was the case, he would have baptized the Pharisees and Sadducees when they came, right? It's like, hey, come on down, fellas, you need this, right? This is the water's gonna do some help for you. He didn't think even the baptism was gonna do any good John didn't see any of these things as sufficient in themselves for salvation. Not even the water of baptism was sufficient for salvation That's why, like I said, he didn't allow the Sadducees and the Pharisees to come in, because he didn't see the water as having any power in itself. That's why he constantly pointed people not to the water baptism. He says, There's one coming after me. It's not like focus on this baptism. There's one coming after me who can baptize you with the Holy Spirit. You need a real change, right? You also wanted to see fruit of repentance prior to baptism, not afterwards. Baptism wasn't a saving work, and it wasn't seen as biblical repentance. Listen to this. Biblical repentance is a change of mind, which results in a change of life. It's the turning of the whole person from sin to God. The turning of the whole person from sin to God in obedience. It's the recognition of your offense against God and your desperate need for forgiveness. That's what true repentance is. It's the decision to turn from sin to God, which leads to an obedient lifestyle. In uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 9, it speaks about this. It says, You turned to God from idols to serve a living and a true God. It's it's to make a U-turn. The whole of life. One commentator notes this. that John was not merely calling Israel to a regular turning away from specific sins, but to a radical conversion from an old to a new way of life. A repentance of the sort that they as Jews might associate with Gentiles converting to Judaism. Store that one in the in the back of your minds, okay? We'll we'll get to that probably next week, okay? It was it was to to to it's a full conversion of of life such as they might associate it associate with a Gentile turning over to become a Jew. I'm going to totally turn away from everything that I've known. Everything that I've thought, everything that I've lived for, now I'm going to turn around and give my life fully over to the God of Israel. That's the kind of repentance that John the Baptist is talking about. A full conversion of life. They had to come to a place where they recognized they were totally bankrupt, admitting their their life was characterized by sin. He's calling for a total abandonment of their way of life. So if they were going to be prepared for this kind of king, this is what was necessary as preparation. Because if you haven't repented, you're not prepared. If you haven't repented, you're not prepared. And there's this direct link between repentance and the kingdom of God, and John makes that clear with the conjunction for It says, for, why? Why should I repent? Verse 2, 4 the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The kingdom is at hand. This is the only way you're going to be prepared for the king. The Old Testament made it clear that Messiah's kingdom would be accompanied by national repentance, regeneration of Israel. That was the point of Jeremiah chapter 31, if you remember that. In chapter thirty one, verse thirty three it says, But this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I'll put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people And they shall not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord For I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Talks about in Jeremiah 31, this new covenant, you know, ushering in this kingdom. But the first thing that has to be dealt with is sin. The first thing that has to be dealt with is sin. Same point made in Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 24. It says, For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, bring you into your own lands. Promising the kingdom, right? Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh And I will put my spirit within you, cause you to walk in my statutes, and you will be careful to observe my ordinances, and you will live in the land that I gave to your forefathers, so that you will be my people, and I will be your God. And this is the same thing, and flip over here, flip over to Acts chapter 3, because I want you to see this. It's just amazing how the scriptures just tying together. Acts chapter three. Because you have uh Peter, this is uh after After Christ has uh gone back into heaven in chapter 3, Peter is longing for the same thing to happen in his day. Acts chapter 3, look at verse 19. It says, Therefore, repent and return, so that your sins may be wiped away, in order that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send Jesus the Christ appointed for you. Whom heaven must receive until the period of restoration of all things about which God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from the ancient time. You know what Peter is saying to these dear Jewish people? You missed it. You missed it. Here came John the Baptist. What was his message? Repent. Why? The kingdom of heaven is at hand. It's here. Kingdom of heaven is at hand, the same thing that was promised in the Old Testament. It's here. And what's Peter saying after Jesus has already gone back into heaven? Guys, are you ready now? Are you ready to repent now so that times of refreshing may come so that Jesus can come back from heaven to set up this kingdom? What he's saying is that you missed it. He was here and you missed it Why? They weren't being prepared for the king. They weren't prepared for him. Until your sins are wiped away, you're not prepared for the king. It's all connected. It's all connected And what the nation wanted, what this nation wanted, was the kingdom of heaven without the king of heaven. They wanted the kingdom without the king. They wanted the k They wanted freedom from oppression, but they didn't want freedom from their sins, and Jesus says you can't have both. If you don't want freedom from your sins, you're not going to be free to enjoy the blessings of the kingdom. And there may be some people that are that are here that are in that same kind of position today. You might be very interested in the kingdom of heaven. Might be interested in eternal life. Might be interested in forgiveness. Might be interested in all the blessings that God has for those that belong to Him. And all those are real. And they're all available. But they won't come unless you're willing to abandon your sins. You can't receive the blessings of the kingdom unless you're willing to receive the king. And the message that you need to hear is the same one that they needed to hear. Repent. Return that your sins may be wiped away. Can't have the kingdom without the king. And there's a lot more to say about the kingdom, but we'll we'll save that and and move on. First of all, he gave the message that they needed to hear. Number two, he had the biblical credentials that they needed to see. Look at uh verse three. It says when he actually let me get back into the right chapter here. Matthew chapter 3. Verse 3 it says, For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet when he said, the voice of one crying in the wilderness. Make ready the way of the Lord. Make his paths straight. Let's flip back over to Isaiah chapter 40. Isaiah chapter 40 is where this verse is taken from. In Isaiah 40, actually the book of Isaiah, it's a uh a book where in the the first half in chapters uh 1 to 39 it Pronounces uh judgment, there's a judgment that would come to the nations, the nation surrounding Israel as well as to the nation Israel itself. Israel, to the north, the northern tribes, they'd be conquered and judged by God. That happened in 722. And uh what Isaiah's message was for Judah is that Judah was next in line to receive the judgment of God. But it's starting in uh chapter 40, it lets us know that um Redemption is also coming. There's a redemption from God. There's an initial deliverance from Babylon. They would be taken off into captivity, but they'd be released. But Isaiah also looks further than just the release from Babylon uh to a time where they would receive this kind of ultimate uh freedom and deliverance and actually spiritual uh deliverance and uh this is what he talks about in uh verses one and two of Isaiah chapter four look at what he says. It says comfort Oh, comfort my people, says your God. Speak kindly to Jerusalem and call out to her that her warfare is ended, that her iniquity has been removed, that she has received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins So there's this comfort that's that's promised to Israel. Israel's going to be comforted. But before this time of comfort would come, Before this time of refreshing would come, to use the the language of uh of Peter in uh Acts chapter 3, uh before they would receive these uh blessings, uh the first thing that they would have to do as well is to take care of their sins. This is what it talks about in verse 3. It says a voice is calling. Clear the way for the Lord in the wilderness. Make smooth in the desert a highway for our God. Let every valley be lifted up and every mountain and hill be made low, and let the rough ground become a plain and the rugged terrain a broad valley. Verse 5. Then Then the glory of the Lord will be revealed, and all flesh will see it together. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. What needs to happen before the glory of the Lord is revealed? You need to deal with your sin. You need to deal with your sin. Until you deal with with the sin, and and all this language here is just uh used as a metaphor. Uh let the the valleys be lifted up, every mountain and hill made low, the rough ground become a plain, the rugged terrain, a broad valley All of this is uh language, just metaphoric language, uh for uh taking care of of sin. And it says, after you you you do this, after you do this work of repentance, Then the glory of the Lord will be revealed. It's only after the sins are dealt with that the Lord reveals his glory. And the consistency is amazing, isn't it? I mean, everywhere you look, it's the same message, right? Continues to talk about this time of Messiah later on in verses 9 to 11 here. It says, Get yourself up on a high mountain, O Zion, bearer of good news. Lift up your voice mightily, O Jerusalem, bearer of good news. Lift it up, do not fear. Say to the cities of Judah, Here is your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with might, with his arm ruling for him. Behold, his reward is with him, his recompense before him. Same language used over in Revelation chapter twenty-two for for Christ. When he returns, that he brings his reward with him. Revelation 22, verse 12, Behold, I'm coming quickly. My reward is with me to re render to every man according to what he has done. But again, that time is preceded by the repentance of Israel. So when Israel heard this wild man in the wilderness, John the Baptist, It it should have like made their antennas go up, right? You know, for for those of you that don't know what an antenna is, like, you know, make sure they have had enough reception on their phone, right? It's like it should have alerted them. You know, somet something's happening here. This isn't normal. People usually don't start a ministry in the wilderness. How did this guy get all this attention from nowhere? There is a voice in the wilderness crying out. They should have been alerted to the fact that the God was trying to tell them something. God was trying to tell them something. This was the ministry that was predicted. He had all the biblical credentials that they needed to see. This is exactly what was predicted in the Old Testament. And I find it interesting that uh John the Baptist, when he identifies himself that he prefers to call himself just a voice. Like, you know, who are you? You know, in uh John chapter one and verse nineteen it says uh There's this John, the Jews were sent to him, the priest Levites sent to him to say, who are you? You know, you're out here, you got this ministry, all these people are flocking to you. Who are you? Are you the Christ? He said, No, I'm not the Christ. They said, Who are you then? Are you Elijah? He says, No, I'm not. Are you the prophet? The prophet that was expected to come, and we'll learn a little bit about that later. He said, No. Then he said to him, Who are you so that we may give an answer to those who sent us? What do you say about yourself? He says, I am a voice. That's who I am. You want to know who I am? I'm a voice. Crying out in the wilderness, make straight the way of our Lord. As Isaiah the prophet said, and his message was identical to the one that was predicted about him. In the uh ancient customs, uh roads were uh prepared, repaired to uh uh host a a visiting king. Like today with with the with the city that that might be hosting the Olympics, you know, they get everything ready, get the streets ready. Prepare the buildings, make sure everything's ready to go. Because they know they're going to get all this attention from the world. Same kind of thing when a when a king would come into your your city, you'd want everything prepared, even prepare the roads. Make sure there was no brush on the road, make sure the roads were flat, straight that he could ride in on. If you didn't have a road, then you built one. You built one. You get get it ready for the king. The king's coming. You get the the road ready. Literal picture would be of this path to the city. A lot of the times the streets were made out of these rough stones, sometimes laid out without much skill or method. But if you knew the king was coming, you'd make sure that everything was was ready for the king. And this is what uh Isaiah pictures here. He says, you know, prepare the highway for our God. The highway would be what was used as a prominent road in ancient times. It was Prepare for royalty to travel on. You know, the broad roads. The road had too many bends in it, it wasn't ready for the king. King didn't want to go the securedest route. You know, he didn't want to take the uh take the scenic route. He wanted the straightest path, easiest access. This, like I said, is all metaphoric for uh for repentance. This is what repentance is like. It's trying to give uh Jesus the quickest and easiest access to your heart I'm going to clear everything out. I don't want anything to stand in his way. Gonna get rid of all the obstacles. I don't want him to navigate through anything. No detours. Clear the path for for God. And this is exactly what uh the people that heard John understood him to be saying. Because when they went into the rivers, like I said, they confessed their sin. They understood that the John was preparing them spiritually. To be uh ready for for the king. Like I said, this is what what we do as as Christians, as believers. We repent. And for the rest of our life we're engaged in road work. You know, continually repenting. You know, making our our hearts easy access for our God, right? We're continually repenting. Those that are Christians in uh first John one nine, it's Says that we're known as those that continually confess our sins. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's a present tense word You know, we repent and then we keep repenting, and then we keep repenting, and then we keep repenting. It's one of the practical benefits to uh to the Lord's table. It gives us a a monthly call to to do a checkup on ourselves. You know, Lord, is there anything that I need to remove from my heart to allow this easy and clear access? That's what we'll do next week actually in 1 Corinthians 11, 28. But a man must examine himself, and in so doing he is to eat of the bread and drink of the cup. It's one of the benefits of accountability groups. You know, as the men gather together or the women get together, it's a weekly opportunity to do that same kind of work with other people. James 5, 16, therefore confess your sins to one another, pray for one another, that you may be healed. And as a Christian, without this uh constant road work, our prayers are hindered Understanding of God's word is hindered. And if you've never done this work at all, you're not a Christian. I mean, that's pretty as simple as you can put it, right? If if you haven't repented, if you haven't turned from your sin, if you haven't made this total U-turn of life, like I'm I'm I'm not going in my own direction anymore, I'm making a total change of of life. I'm giving my life over to him. I'm giving my life to Christ. You're not prepared for the for the king, because if you haven't repented, you're not prepared. If you haven't repented, you're not prepared. But let me be quick to remind you that repentance is not something that you do on your own. It's not something that uh it's not some human work that we do. It's actually the grace of God. In uh Acts chapter 5, verse 31 it says, He is the one whom God exalted to his right hand, speaking of Christ, as a prince and savior to grant Repentance. Repentance is a gift. He grants repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. In Acts chapter 11, verse 18, it says, When they heard this, they quieted down and glorified God, saying, This is when the Gentiles were being received. It says, well then God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to life. He's given it to them. It's a gift. 2 Timothy 2 verse 25, with gentleness correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance, leading to the knowledge of the truth. So repentance is is the path that leads to forgiveness. It's the path that leads to life. It's the path that leads to the knowledge of the truth. But it's the path that God prepares, right? But it's one of those things where like the sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man, they don't contradict, right? God still calls you to repent. But after you've repented, you know who you give thanks for? You give thanks to God. God, I give you thanks that I've repented. Same way with belief. Right? I don't just go around saying, hey, I believe because I was smart enough, I figured it out. No, if I believe, it's because God granted that to me Granted me the ability to believe. It all goes back to the glory of God. But it's still what God calls men and women to do. Repent and believe. And when you repent and believe, you have to turn around and give God thanks for allowing you to repent and believe. Like I said, no competition. But this is the message that they they needed to hear and uh the credentials. John John Adam. He says, I'm the voice The one crying out in the wilderness, make the path ready for our God. And the last point is uh for today, anyway, is that he lived the life that they needed to observe. Look back at uh Matthew chapter 3 again. Look at verse 4. It says, Now John himself had a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. John's life was an illustration of his message. He preached hard and he lived hard. You know, even his lifestyle preached to people. As long as he was in the wilderness, it was rough Rough place to live. It wasn't a place where you went to vacation. Like I said, it was a desolate place. He had this dress of uh camel's hair that was rough. Camel hair garments were the clothing of the poor, and it's still common among uh some of the poor in parts of uh Syria. Uh the outer protective fur is called the uh the guard hair. It's coarse, it's inflexible can be woven into a hair cloth and uh there's a way that you can actually blend camel hair with wool uh to make it softer , kind of make it like plush a soft material. Uh but the poor can it afford that kind of of luxury. The kind of garment that uh John wore was uh Made by removing the skin of a camel, drying it, treating the inner surface to stop it from decomposing, and using the hide as a cloak. And this this isn't the kind of thing that you go to the store and pick off the rack, okay? You know, he's just, you know, skinning a camel, making sure it's dry, making sure the inside doesn't decompose on him, and he's throwing it on. It's basically like uh like wearing a rug. And actually actually that's what camel hair was used for. Camel hives were used as rugs. uh during this time. So it's basically like picking up a rug and you know cutting a hole in it, throwing it on, and uh tying a little piece of the the leather from the camel's hid, you know, around your waist and and ready to go. This is what John would have worn. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 11, verse 8, it says, Well what did you go out to see? What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Those who wear soft clothing are in king's palaces. John 's clothing was was rough, and his diet was rough. His diet was rough. Diet of locusts and wild honey. There are Arabs and other people even today that gather locusts for food. Some of you might want to hold your stomach for this one. They pull off the head. Which also pulls out some of the internal organs when they pull the head off. They remove the abdomen, legs, wings, and dinner is on. Dinner is served. If you choose not to eat it right away, you can dry it and store it away for later. And wild honey was used as a, you know, just to make it a little more flavorful. But uh this wasn't your domesticated honey that you get out of a basket. Uh this was the honey that was uh wild. You often find the the honey here anyway was found in in the ground, holes in the ground, crevices in the rocks. By the New Testament time it was known as the diet of the poor. If you didn't own land, you didn't own livestock, you could still survive off of locusts and honey. You don't don't need a job for this one, right? You just go out, find a locust, and you're ready to go. Find a dead camel, skin 'em, I'm I'm ready to rack. This is this is who who John was. He he ate like he lost his appetite. Like he was mourning. Actually talks about that in uh Matthew chapter nine verse fourteen. Uh Luke chapter five verse uh thirty-three is as well. Uh John and his disciples often went without food, spending time in fasting and prayer often would do this. So uh if you can imagine how how John looks, he's the kind of man who's probably thin, dried out by the sun. Tough, hardened by the life that God has chosen for him, and nobody would have questioned his commitment because he he gave his life for it. Eventually gave his life at the hands of Herod for speaking the truth. And when a man like this comes to you and says, you need to deny yourself. You need to deny yourself. Clear the pathway for the king. You're not saying, well, that's easy for you to say. When this guy speaks, you know, you know he knows what he's talking about. He knows what it means to deny himself and to take it seriously. He had no choice but to take him seriously. And more than that, there would have been something strikingly familiar about this prophet because there's another prophet who is known by the way that he dressed. Flip back over to 2 Kings real quick. 2 Kings chapter 1. 2 Kings chapter 1, you have uh Ahab's son, Ahaziah, he fell through a through a lattice, basically fell through a roof. Became so ill he wondered whether or not he was going to die. But instead of uh asking the Lord, he uh sent some messengers to ask of uh Belzebub. Don't want to ask God. I want to find Belzebub. Maybe he'll give me an answer. Maybe he'll tell me if I'm going to recover. Look what it says in uh Verse 5. It says when the messengers returned to him, this is 2 Kings 1, starting at verse 5, it says, when the messengers returned to him, he said to them, Why have you returned? He came back too quick. They said to him, A man came up to meet us and said to us, Go return to the king who sent you and say to him, Thus says the Lord, is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Belzebub, the God of Echron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but you shall surely die. They said to them, What kind of man was he who came up to meet you and spoke these words to you? They answered him, He was a hairy man with a leather girdle bound about his loins And he said to him, it's Elijah the Tishbite. I know who this guy is. There's nobody else that dresses like that, right? He was known by his attire, and actually the when he says that it was a hairy man, it could actually refer to the clothes that he wore rather than to the the beard on his face. He's a hairy man, he's got hair all over him. He 's got this leather belt around his waist. He's like, I know who it is. I know who it is. Zechariah chapter 13, verse 4, it says a hairy robe was actually a prophet's attire. Uh talked about uh false prophets that says, You shall no more put on hairy robes. Basically like they're people that are trying to pass themselves off as prophets by wearing a hairy robe so they could, you know, look like Elijah. But here you have uh John the Baptist. He's wearing the prophet's attire, this uh hairy robe, leather belt. And it's clear that he's not a false prophet. He's not peddling his own message. This guy's the genuine article, right? This guy's the real thing. Nation accepted him as a prophet. And if you're a student of scriptures, you remember that there's a prophecy in the last book of the Old Testament, Malachi. Malachi chapter 4, if you want to turn there, Malachi chapter 4. Says, Behold, I am going to send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord He will restore the hearts of the fathers to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, so that I will not come and smite the land with the curse. That was the last word. That they would have heard from the Old Testament. If they were reading through the Old Testament, this is the final word. So what are they expecting? There's a prophet that's going to come, right? Last verse of the last book, they said there's a prophet coming. We're looking for this Elijah who is to come. Then all of a sudden you have this John the Baptist shows up 400 years later, and he looks really familiar. He looks a lot like what I read about. This is not some reincarnation of Elijah. I'd see the similar to what uh Jeremiah 30 talks about. David the king will I'll raise up David the king for you. Which is a reference to Jesus Christ. When it talks about I'm going to send Elijah to you, it's not saying I'm going to reincarnate Elijah. It's there's there's going to come a prophet in the spirit and the power of Elijah. But just as Israel wasn't prepared for David their king, they weren't prepared for Elijah their prophet. Flip over to Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11. We'll end here. But in Matthew chapter 11, you have uh John sitting in prison. And uh the disciples are wondering what's going on. The disciples are sent to him. It's like, are you the one that we're supposed to be looking for? Or should we be looking for somebody else? Remember that? In uh Matthew chapter 11, I'll start at verse verse one. So when Jesus had finished giving instructions to his twelve disciples, he parted from there to teach and preach in their cities. Now when John, while in prison, heard of the works of Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to them, Are you the expected one? Or shall we look for someone else? Jesus answered and said to them, Go and report to John what you see and hear, what you hear and see. The blind receive sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he who does not take offense at me. As these men were going away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John. What did you go out into the willingness to see? What did you go to see Reed shaken by the wind? What did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Those who wear soft clothing are in the king's palaces. But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes. I tell you in one who is more than a prophet, this is the one about whom it is written. Behold, I send my messenger ahead of you who will prepare your way before you Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist, yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and violent men take it by force For all the prophets in the law prophesied until John, and if you are willing to accept it, John himself is Elijah who was to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. But then look at what Jesus says. This is interesting. But to what shall I compare this generation? It's like children sitting in the marketplaces who call out to other children and say, we played the flute for you and you didn't dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. It's kind of like these kids playing Like, you know, I'm gonna play a little song, but you don't do anything. Oh, let's pretend like we're mourning, like there's a funeral going on, and you don't want to it's like you don't it doesn't matter what I do You guys aren't going to participate. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, Yeah, the demon. Son of man came eating and drinking. They say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a drunkard. Friend of tax collectors and sinners, yet wisdom is vindicated by her deeds. Then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they did not what? They did not repent. Woe to you, Karez and woe to you, Bessida, for if the miracles had occurred in Tyron Sidon, which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. You know what he's saying? You weren't prepared for Me as your Messiah is your king, and you weren't prepared for Elijah as your prophet. If what had happened in this city happened in these other places, they would have repented long ago. What was wrong with this nation? He says, you won't repent. You won't repent, so you're not prepared. You're not prepared for your king. You're not prepared for your prophet. And later on you have Jesus weeping over Jerusalem, saying, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. How many times would I have gathered you together as the hen gatherers of chicks, but you were not willing. And he wept over Jerusalem, because they didn't know the time of their visitation. Here came the prophet, here came the king, and Jerusalem wasn't prepared. And the question for you is, uh, will Jesus leap over you because you're not prepared? Because you fail to repent, because you fail to turn to this king who's presented to you as well. You may want all the blessings of the kingdom. You may want eternal life. You may want heaven. But if you have not repented, you're not prepared. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for The opportunity to look into your word. And Father, I pray that if there are any here who haven't repented, Father, I pray that they would turn to you even today My father, that they would recognize that it's it's uh it's not uh any work that you're looking for us to do, uh, but that you're looking for a heart that's broken, that's contrite. That's willing to abandon the way of life that we've pursued before, and that's willing to fall into the arms of the Savior. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. . Please visit us online . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.