The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to uh the book of Matthew? Uh Matthew, we're in Matthew chapter three. Uh last time we were together, we began to consider the question. How do you prepare yourself for a king who can read your mind and heart? How do you prepare yourself for a king who you've spent your entire life opposing? How do you prepare for a king who knows your every action, your every word, your every thought, one who knows about your disrespect towards him, one who knows about your disregard of him, uh one who even knows your desire to replace him? Uh and crown yourself as king in his place. Uh the only possible reception that's fit for a king like that is repentance. And uh that's what we're gonna learn about in uh Matthew chapter three. We're gonna start At uh verse one again and uh finish up uh verses uh one down to twelve. It says, Now in those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness in of Judea, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand For this is the one referred to by Isaiah the prophet when he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, make ready the way of the Lord, make his path straight. Now John himself had a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild hunting. Then Jerusalem was going out to him and all Judea and all the district around the Jordan, and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, We have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. The axe is already laid at the root of the trees, therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. As for me, I baptize you with water for repentance But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, and I am not fit to remove his sandals. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor, and he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Uh let's pray. Heavenly Father we Thank you, God, so much for the revelation of your word , for the comfortable portions, for the difficult portions of your word. Father, we pray that uh you would uh use uh me this morning to communicate Your word faithfully to your people. May you uh bless your people with your word. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. As I mentioned uh before, uh John the Baptist was the forerunner of Jesus Christ. John the Baptist is a herald, and uh heralds were often given the responsibility of uh going before a king to prepare people for the king's arrival. They would often announce as the king was approaching to bow the knee We learned about that even in the Old Testament. We find that Joseph, when he was second in command in Egypt, that there was a herald that went before him to say, bow the knee, bow the knee. In Daniel, you have uh Nebuchadnezzar, they said every time the the music plays, what are you supposed to do? Bow the knee. And here you have uh John the Baptist, he's the herald uh for the king Jesus, and uh he's saying the same thing as bow the knee Not necessarily physically, but but you need to bow the knees of your heart to this king, because the only reception that's fit for a king like this is for penance. And uh John was not interested in just uh merely an outward show of humility before this king. This is a king, like I said, who could actually see into your very heart. Uh he did not see the rite of baptism as some type of penance that would lessen their guilt. Uh he wasn't just asking for an intellectual change of mind. You know, you used to think this way about them, now think this way. He wasn't asking the people just to feel emotionally sorry about their sins. What he was calling them to do was to repent. He was calling Israel to a radical conversion from an old way of life to a new way of life. uh the same kind of repentance uh that they might have expected uh a gentile to have, uh to be converted from uh uh being a gentile to to becoming uh convert to Judaism. So he's calling this nation to bow their the knees of their their hearts, their to recognize the gravity of their offense before a holy God. uh their desperate need uh for his forgiveness. He was calling them to abandon any hope in themselves, any hope in uh their heritage. He was calling them to uh uh throw themselves fully and completely on the the grace and mercy of of God, abandoning all hope and uh uh actually uh performing works that that would actually appease him Because if they didn't repent, as he's calling them to repent, they weren't going to be prepared for the king. John's ministry was one of of preparation. He really made it impossible. uh for anybody to offer the excuse that uh they weren't warned about this coming king. Uh he actually calls himself the voice. You know, they asked him, you know, who are you? He says, I'm just a voice. You know, if you really want to know who I am, I'm a voice. Voice in the wilderness and he gained the intention of the uh the whole nation from the religious leaders To the political leaders, everybody knew about John he was impossible, a tig Norin. Anyone that might have wondered, you know, why didn't anybody prepare me for this Why didn't anybody uh let me know and give me some kind of notice that the Messiah was going to show up? Uh Matthew reminds us here that God sent the herald. And uh last time we saw in verses one and two that John preached the message that they needed to hear. In our verse 3 that he had the biblical credentials that they needed to see. In our verse 4, that he lived the kind of life that they needed to observe. And lastly, John performed the rite that they needed to understand. And that's what we pick up with on verses 5 and 6 here. It says then Jerusalem was going out to him in all Judea and all the district around the Jordan, and they were being baptized by him in the Jordan River as they confessed their sins. During the time of uh Christ, Palestine existed in four uh divisions. There were four divisions to Palestine, uh, the land of Israel. To the north there was Galilee, uh, where Jesus grew up, in the middle there was Samaria. And we know about that from the uh uh John chapter four, the the woman at the the well there in Samaria. Uh on the west was uh uh the uh uh on the west of the Jordan was uh uh Perea, and on the east side, uh And to the south was uh uh Judea. So y you have uh these four uh divisions, Galilee, Samaria, Judea, and uh Perea. And John 's ministry was located in the south. Okay, located in the south where uh Jerusalem would have been located in the south. Uh he was uh actually not in the the city, he was out in the the wilderness. Like I said, for him to uh build up a ministry like he did in the wilderness was pretty remarkable around the Jordan River and his uh ministry was so powerful that he didn't have to travel to the big cities to get a crowd You know, people knew about John the Baptist, and everybody wanted to find out what this prophet had to say. Like I said, there's been 400 years of silence from heaven And uh John the Baptist is the one who broke the silence and he caught the attention of uh all of Jerusalem. Uh Jerusalem, like I said, was the uh uh founded in the uh in the south, it was located in the south. Uh it would have been enough just to say that all of Judea came, uh, but the text specifically points out that Jerusalem knew about this. You know, the religious center of the nation knew about John the Baptist. Like I said again, Matthew is trying to prove to the nation that they had no excuse. No excuse. The religious center of your nation knew about John the Baptist. They heard about this forerunner. They knew what was going on. Jerusalem was not unaware. So Jerusalem heads the list of those going out to see John the Baptist in all of Judea and all of the district around the Jordan. So not only did the people come to hear the message, but they even responded to the message by being baptized. And it's uh important that we you know kind of put ourselves into the sandals of the the the Jewish audience here, you know, the original audience that that would have uh received this message from uh John the Baptist, uh, because this would have been strange. Okay? There there's no Old Testament Command anywhere for people to be dunked. There's there's no Old Testament command for this to happen. This is this is like new, okay? Uh the the Greek word uh for uh baptism, bap baptizo It was uh where we get our English word uh baptism from. Uh the root word of uh baptizo is uh the word uh bapto, which literally means to dip Or to dunk. That's what the word bapto means. It was used in John chapter 13 when uh Jesus was uh he had the last supper there and he uh takes a piece of bread and he dipped it into a sauce. There was a rich man. Remember in uh in uh beliefs in Luke 16 where you have the rich man uh and Lazarus, the story that's told about the rich man and Lazarus, and the rich man says, Can you tell Lazarus to dip? the tip of his finger and some water to cool my tongue? It's it's the the same word, uh bapto. Uh it was also a word that was used for uh uh people who made uh cloth. They would uh take sheep's wool and dunk it into bleach and then they dunk it into a dye uh to change the the color of it. Uh so this this word it's uh it's a common word that was used for to dip or to dunk to immerse And what John was doing is he was wading out into the Jordan River and dunking people into the water. And uh later on when it says that Jesus was baptized in verse uh sixteen it says that Jesus came up immediately from the water because he had been down in the water, right? So he came up out of the water that he had been down into. So uh but we don't have this this kind of uh picture uh really mentioned anywhere in the the old testament Uh the the closest ceremony that they had to this uh was the the ceremonial washings that we find in the the book of Leviticus, in the book of Leviticus in uh chapters fourteen and fifteen, uh people that were considered ceremonially unclean uh because of uh maybe leprosy or a discharge that they would uh bathe you know in water. Uh in Leviticus uh chapter 16 you have uh Aaron Uh as the high priest there, he's uh dealing with the sacrifices, and before he dealt with the sacrifice on the Day of Atonement, he had to take a bath before he dealt with you know the sacrifice, and after he dealt with it, he had to take another bath In Leviticus chapters 17 and 22, it speaks of other defilements that people had that they would bathe for, but uh what John is doing is different than this. It's different than the ceremonial washings because you have uh in Leviticus, like these ceremonial washings, it was because you know I came into contact with something that was defiling. Right? You know, I touched a a dead body or I touched an animal that had been torn by a wild beast or I I touched, you know, some kind of bodily discharge. And now now I'm defiled by that. So now I'm gonna take a bath to kinda, you know, get ceremonially clean from from touching this thing which is defiling. What John the Baptist was doing was something completely different. He wasn't saying that you've touched something that's defiling, that's made you unclean. What he was saying is that you yourself are unclean. You haven't just touched something that's unclean. You yourself are unclean. John's baptism said much more than uh the Levitical uh ceremonial washings that was saying that that I myself and am unclean. And really the closest picture that we have to this kind of baptism, this kind of ceremony is what was known as uh uh proselyte baptism. Uh it was actually performed on on Gentiles. When a a Gentile was convinced that uh Israel's God was the true God, he could be accepted as a proselyte or a convert. That's what the word proselyte means, a convert to Judaism. And there were three things that were required before he would be admitted into the Jewish religion. First thing he had to do is he had to be circumcised, if he was a male, circumcised according to the law of Moses. Next he had to be baptized, dunked in water, and uh the third thing he had to offer a sacrifice Three things that he had to do. The baptism was considered absolutely necessary to make a proselyte. He was to be immersed completely so that every part of his body was touched by the water. He stepped out of the water. He was considered to be born anew , literally uh like a a newborn babe is what the rabbis would say. Uh he was to be regarded as a a new man in reference to his to his past, his uh his country, his home, his habits, his relationships all changed. at this point. The old man with its defilements were buried in the water, and now he had this new relationship to the God of Israel. And it was expected for for Gentiles to submit to something like this. But this would have been like out of the question for a Jewish person to submit to something like this. Because basically it's like saying that everything that I've done up to this point is like rubbish. It's like nothing, right? This is this is what they would be uh indicating by uh this kind of of baptism, and this is what John the Baptist was calling them to. If the people in Israel were to be prepared for their coming king. This is the kind of repentance that was necessary. It was like a wholesale, you know, just discarding of my old life, abandoning of my old life and saying that I'm I'm ready for whatever the king would have to say. And uh just as it seems like, you know, we kinda expect this w you know widespread revival, you know, you have these crowds that are coming to the to the Jordan. You have these people that are, you know, jumping into the river with John the Baptist Uh and and being uh baptized by him and uh even in in the uh the the way that it's mentioned here of John being the baptizer, there's with the the ceremonial washings, it was something that you did to yourself. This is actually John that's performing this kind of of baptism. So here they are. They're coming to John. They're submitting to this baptism. And just as it seems like, hey, maybe maybe a revival is going to break out, look what you have in verse seven. But But, but what? But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warns you to flee from the wrath to come? The Pharisees and the Sadducees are the religious leaders of Israel. Most of the Sanhedrin were made up of Pharisees and Sadducees. This is the um Jewish Supreme. uh court and they belong to one of these two groups, either the Far Pharisees or the Sadducees. These are the people with influence. Okay? So you have the common people that are coming and submitting to the baptism. And then you have these religious leaders that are kind of looking over their shoulders. Let me let me kind of check out what's going on out here. Uh the Sadducees were a group that had political power. Uh they basically made peace with the Roman government. They were given the privilege of controlling the temple and uh some of the things that went on in the temple. They were the the aristocrats, you know, the the ruling class, the nobility, the higher-ups. This is who the Sadducees were. The high priest would have been at the top of the structure. He had other priests that were below him, lower priests, also those that were considered chief priests, many of them Pharisees as well. Uh the Sadducees uh tended to be liberals. Uh they rejected supernatural ideas like angels and the afterlife. Uh they weren't as popular with the people because they buddied up with Rome, but they still had clout, okay? They still had had power. And then you had this uh other group, the Pharisees. And uh these are the the people they didn't necessarily have the ruling power, you know, and buddy up with Rome, but they had power with the people. The the people respected the Pharisees. They were the class of scholars who taught and copied the uh the law of God. Uh respected theologians. They were more in number than the Sadducees were. Uh they were respected for their uh interpretations. And they as as we know, as we go on into to Matthew, they uh they elaborated you know on the law. They they applied the law to the nth degree, they uh uh amplified the law, and that actually what they considered themselves doing was really helping the law out Because it's like the law is holy. We want to protect the law. So what we're going to do is, you know, to make sure that we don't disobey the laws of God, we're going to build up our own laws around it, like a fence. So that if you obey our laws, you'll never have to worry about disobeying God's laws. Because our laws are even more stringent than God's laws are. Our laws are on the outside of God's laws. So if you obey ours, you'll never have to worry about God's laws So now what became the the real authority? It's no longer God and his laws, right? It's now theirs. They've taken the control, they've taken over the uh authority or sticklers for their laws, but they were popular with the the people. The people considered them uh to be holy and they uh they also shared the people's hatred of Rome, so the people like that. So here you have these uh Pharisees and Sadducees. They uh they actually despised one another. They didn't get along with one another. But here when they they see a threat to their power, now they're going to join forces and come against John the Baptist. So here they they come out to examine what's going on with uh uh John the Baptist and uh and John nails them Uh because he he understood that their emphasis was on what was on the outside. What was on the the outside. He says, uh Who uh who who who warns you about the wrath to come? You brood of vipers, you snakes I mean, uh, I'm sure that one had passed in the preaching class today, right? You know, address your congregation as snakes, you vipers, you s children of snakes. You know, that that's basically what he's what he's saying here. What a welcome. But he knew exactly who he was dealing with, right? Uh so we have have uh number one, uh uh verse seven, and this is just gonna kinda outline uh the next uh uh uh A few points here in our in our passage to get us down to verse twelve. Number one, he's telling them to examine our motives. Examine your motivation. Examine your motivation. Look at verse seven again. Well when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? He calls them uh vipers. This is uh the same word that was used in Acts 28 for the the venomous snake that uh actually popped out of uh a bundle of sticks that Paul was carrying to Put on a fire. Remember that in uh in Acts chapter uh twenty-eight? Uh in uh verse three it says, But when Paul gathered a bundle of sticks, laid them on the uh on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened itself on his hand. And if you remember the narrative there, the people that were on the island, they said, oh, this guy must have done something wrong, and God knew about it and wasn't going to let him get away. You know, he might have escaped the death penalty, but God, you know, made sure the viper got him. So they're they're just kind of sitting around waiting for the guy to die. You know, at first he's like the the worst criminal that you could imagine and uh got away, but then when they saw that, you know, the Lord preserved his life they said, Man, maybe he's a god Right? They want to worship the guy, right? So you have the this these snakes that kind of camouflage themselves. Uh these vipers is the same word that was used in Acts 28. Uh these these uh snakes that would kind of camouflage themselves. They uh almost look like uh uh dead branches. You know, so you could pick up a bundle of sticks and pick up the snake with it and not know the difference because the snake looked like uh the the dry twigs that you were picking up. Uh they could kind of stay still when they felt threatened, uh pass themselves off as if they were harmless. But then if uh They got next to a fire, they became dangerous, right? And uh this is what happened in the the case of the Apostle Paul. So John calls them vipers, but not just vipers. He says you're a you're a brood of vipers, like a snake pit. Snake pit. Offspring of snakes. And uh John would have been familiar uh being out in the the wilderness about these uh snake pits, holes in the ground, places in the rocks where You know, uh snake eggs would hatch and you'd have a whole group of of snakes that would be uh right there. But when they're born they're already fully, fully developed and ready to bite. You know, they they come out ready, ready to kill. And uh this was actually a common way that Jesus spoke about these leaders in uh Matthew chapter 12, verse 34. He says, You brood of vipers, how can you being evil speak what is good? In uh Matthew chapter 23 and verse 33 he says, You serpents, you brood of vipers, how will you escape the sentence of hell? And uh snakes was really a fitting description for these guys because they were deceitful. They try to kind of float under the radar. You know, act like they were really about the people and about, you know, the Lord, but they're really about something else that's going on, right? They 're hypocrites. And that's what Jesus often call them, you hypocrites. Look good on the outside, but you're dangerous and venomous on the inside. Prid of themselves in being the sons of Abraham. We're the sons of Abraham. But what did Jesus say in John chapter 8? He says in John chapter 8 and verse 39, it says, They said to him, Abraham is our father. And Jesus said, if you are Abraham's children, then do the deeds of your father Abraham. You really want to call yourself a son of Abraham? Why aren't you doing what your father's doing? Your father trusted in me, weren't you? John 844 says, You are of your father the devil. And if you want to do the desires of your father, you want to do the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks, he speaks a lie. And what you really have going on here, and uh uh we'll kind of look at this further on in the passage, but uh John, right after he uh you know talks about this this group being this uh you know brood of of vipers. Look at what he says a little later on in verse 9. He says, And do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from the stones God is able to raise up children of Abraham. So don't don't don't try to pass yourself off as you know Abraham's sons and that you're safe. And what Jesus says is, you know, you call yourself Abraham's sons, but uh you want me to tell you who your real father is? Your real father is the devil. The king snake. That's who your real daddy is. Your true father and leader is nothing but the king viper himself Revelation chapter 12 and verse 9, Revelation 20, verse 2, it says Satan is a serpent. He's that same serpent from the garden. John 8, he's the deceiver, he's the liar, poisonous, deceitful. But even snakes know when to run, right? So you have uh John saying art are you checking your motives? I mean do are you really coming because you you're fearing the wrath to come? Is that why you're here Or are you here for some other reason? So John the Baptist, he's here kind of pressing in on him and saying, you know, what are your true motives? What brought you snakes out of the holes? What brought you guys out here? What fire got you moving? Who chased you out here? Are you legitimately running from the wrath of God or what's your real motive? What's really going on? And he doesn't say it here, but in uh in Matthew chapter eleven, verse eighteen, it lets us know what they really thought about John and his ministry. In uh Matthew chapter eleven, verse eighteen. It says, For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say what? He has a demon. Let you know what they really thought about John and his ministry. He has a demon. This is all part of a masquerade here. You know, we're showing up at John the Baptist's baptism because he seems to have influence with the people, and we don't want to lose the influence with the people, so we'll kind of show up and pretend like we're on the bandwagon. Because what they're really concerned about is we want the power. We want the people to be on our side. They don't want to lose their influence. So this is all a show. They didn't really believe in John the Baptist ministering. They they thought he had a demon. This crazy guy out there in the wilderness. What is he doing eating bugs and honey? What's he doing wearing camel skin? This guy's guy's a lunatic. It's all part of their show. That's why when uh Jesus asked him in uh Mark chapter 11, verse 30 says uh I love how Jesus nails them. Was the baptism of God from heaven or from men? Answer me. Answer me. They began reasoning among themselves, saying, if we say from heaven, he'll say, uh, why didn't you believe him? But if we say for men, we're afraid of the people because everybody considers down to be a real prophet. So they answer Jesus, We don't know. They want to want to kind of hedge their best. I want to make sure we want to make sure that the people still like us, but you know, we don't want to give in too much So uh, you know, they play dumb, play ignorant. Oh, we we don't know. We don't know what it you guys are the teachers and you don't know? Supposed to be the leaders and you don't know? The people could figure it out that he's a real prophet, and you guys can figure it out And it's possible that you could regularly attend a church. Maybe even want to join a church. You want to be around it. Like the Pharisees and Sadducees. Maybe you might even request baptism. But you could be no more than a snake at heart. You could be no more than a snake at heart. You need to examine your your motives. What what are you really coming to church for? What do you come and open your Bible for? What do you want to join a church for? I mean what what's it really about? What are your motives? This is what John's asking him to do. Check your motives. Are you really fleeing from the wrath to come, or do you have some other purpose going on behind the scenes? Is it because you really see yourself as worthy of God's wrath? Have you abandoned all hope and trust in yourself? Are you doing what you're doing just because you want to be accepted? Because you'll you think you'll find a place where people give you a little little more prestige for yourself, make you feel better about yourself. I actually got a got a little flyer in the in the mail from a from a church. It's like, you know, church is a place where it should be exciting and everybody loves you and you know you can come in and join us. It's just like really? Is that what church is about? Thurst is about God, isn't it? Church is the place where you come to hear from God. So he says, examine your motivation. Second thing. Examine your salvation. Look at what he says in verse 8. Just the text, folks, just the text. Look at verse 8. Therefore, bear fruit in keeping with repentance So John knew these guys, and before he would allow them to identify with his movement, he wanted to know if they'd really changed. He wasn't convinced that they were coming out for the right reason. He says, I want to see some proof of your repentance before I include you into my group. Bear fruit that's fit for repentance. This is the same thing that Paul looked for when uh he went out and he shared the message of the cross. Look for those that profess faith in Christ to actually show some fruit of it. In uh Acts chapter 26 and verses 19 and 20 it says, uh King Agrippa, I did not prove disobedient to the heavenly vision. But kept declaring both to those of Damascus first and also at Jerusalem, and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds appropriate to repentance. What did Paul look for? I want to see some fruit I know you guys say you believe in Christ. That's great, because you know, faith alone, Christ alone, grace alone, we believe in that, right? But I actually want to see some evidence that your life has been changed. I want to see some evidence. We're commanded by Scripture to examine ourselves. You know that, right? Commanded by Scripture to examine ourselves. Sometimes people think that, you know, if you question your salvation like that, it's a bad thing. The Bible commands you to do it, right? Examine yourselves to see whether or not you're in the faith. 2 Corinthians 13, verse 5. Test yourselves to see if you're in the faith. Examine yourselves, or do you not recognize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed you fail the test? Are you examining yourself? Second Peter 1, verse 10. Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing of you, for as long as you practice these things, you will never stumble. He's calling us to examine ourselves. Be certain about his calling and choosing of you. Our Lord lets us know the same thing that repentance is a tree that bears good fruit. Matthew chapter 7, verse 17, so every good tree bears good fruit, but the bad tree bears bad fruit. If you've generally repented, the evidence will be showed up in a transformed life. That's that I mean that's just the simple point of the text. Alright? Bring forth some fruit that shows that you've really repented. Don't just say that you've repented. Don't just say that you believe. Where's the evidence of that belief? How has it changed your life? If you've generally repented, the evidence shows up in a transformed life. And over in uh Luke chapter 3, if you want to flip over there, John actually uh uh talks a little bit about what that looks like. Luke chapter 3. Have a the parallel uh account that's given here in Luke. Look at verses uh 10 down to 14. Actually in verse 8 it says, Therefore bear fruits in keeping with repentance. Do not begin to say it uh to yourselves. We have Abraham as our father, the same message that he gave. Back in Matthew. It says in verse 10, it says, And the crowds were questioning him, saying, Then what shall we do? And he would answer and say to them, The man who has two tunics is to share with him who has none. And he who has food is to do likewise. And some tax collectors came to be baptized, and they said, Teacher, what shall we do? And he said to them, Collect no more than what ye have been ordered to. Some soldiers were questioning him, saying, And what about us? What shall we do? He said to them, Do not take money from anyone by force or accuse anyone falsely, and be content with your wages. He's saying, This is what a transformed life looks like. You know what's very interesting about this text? You don't have the Pharisees and Sadducees saying, And what shall we do? Absent from the text. Absent. The crowds were hit with what John said. They were convicted. They wanted to know, well, what does a change transformed life look like? They're listening to John, it's like hanging on the edge of their seats. John, tell us, please. We want to make sure that we have a transformed life. And you have the Pharisees and Sadducees just kind of leaning back. Not even a question. What shall we do? They're not worried about what shall they do. They're trying to figure out how they can they they get rid of John. They're not worried about repenting. Believing his message, they weren't interested in a changed life. There were those who already considered themselves well, right? Remember uh Jesus says, uh that that didn't come for people that are well. That came for people that know they're sick. You guys don't know that you're sick. I came for sick people, for people who actually have something to repent of. So if you're a sinner, you're in good company, right? This is who Jesus Christ came for, for sinners. Didn't it come for people that thought they had it all together? So have you examine your life? Next thing, verse 9, back to Matthew. Examine your expectation. Look at verse 9. Uh back to Matthew chapter three. It says, and do not suppose that we can say to that you can say to yourselves, We have Abraham for our father. For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. And uh this is just masterful the way that uh that John puts this together because you you know you're beat when the opponent can read your mind. Like before you can even come out with an objection, he already, you know, spits it out. And this is exactly what he what he does. He says and and don't be sitting over there thinking to yourself that we've got Abraham for our father. And this is what the religious leaders were relying on. They were relying on this. When they spoke to Christ, they said, you know, we have Abraham as our father. We've got Abraham. It was ingrained into their thinking. One ancient rabbi said that in the age to come, Abraham sits beside the gates of Gehenna, you know, hell, the fire. And suffers no circumcised Israelite to go down. You know, Abraham is going to guard the gates of hell to make sure no Israelite gets into hell. That's what the rabbis would teach. Alfred Ederscheim, in his work on the life of Christ, says this, that no principle was more fully established than the popular conviction than that all Israel had part in the world to come. And this specifically because of their connection with Abraham. And uh basically Zion says, is that what you're relying on? That you've got a relative relative someplace back there that trusted in God? Is that what you're relying on for your salvation today? Is that your expectation? God can raise up these rocks to take your place if he wants to. And and likely just kind of pointing out to the physical rocks. I mean plenty would have been on the terrain right there. He says, if God wants to, he can raise up that rock right there to take your place. If God can bring a son into the world through a virgin, he can create a few sons out of some rocks. So she can't rely on your heritage. This is uh Paul's point. Flip over to uh Romans chapter nine. I love this. Romans chapter nine It's beautiful when you when you file that the arguments of of Scripture here. Romans chapter 9, look at what it says here Yeah, Paul, he's he's uh he's weeping, lamenting over his people according to the flesh. He's he's uh weeping over Israel Romans chapter 9, he says, I'm telling the truth in Christ, I'm not lying, my conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit that I have a great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart. For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh Who are Israelites to whom belongs the adoption of sons and the glory and covenants and the giving of the law and the temple service and the promises? Whose are the fathers and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh who is over all? God bless forever. Amen But it is not as though the word of God has failed. So what he's saying here is that I know that a great portion of Israel is going to be lost. But he says, but it's not as if The word of God has failed because God has promised the future for Israel. And he's looking at all these Israelites that are rejecting Christ and going into hell. But he says, but it's not that God has failed on his promise. For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel, nor are they all children because they are Abraham's descendants. But through Isaac your descendants will be named. That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are regarded as descendants. For this is the word I of promise. At this time I will come and Sarah shall have a son. You guys uh remember that Abraham had more than one son? You guys do remember that, right? Yes, Amen. Abraham had more than one son. Abraham, Isaac, and who was the other one? Ishmael. Ishmael. The promise only came through one son. Both sons could claim Abraham as the father. But he says, not all the descendants are true Israel. Abraham had two sons and one was rejected. He goes on. He says, uh, and not only this, but there was Rebecca also when she had conceived twins, by one man, our father Isaac. For through the twins were not, though the twins were not yet born and had not done anything good or bad, so that God's purpose according to his choice would stand. Not because of works, but because of him who calls, it was said to her, The older will serve the younger, just as it is written, Jacob I have loved, but Esau I hated. Two sons. Jacob and Esau. One was chosen, one was forsaken. What's uh Paul saying here? He says, you know, I know that all that are descended from Israel aren't really Israel. I know that the promise will come to Israel, but it's not going to be to everybody that was born out of the nation. And uh back here in Matthew says, Don't don't get all hung up that you're sons of Abraham. You think that's going to save you? You think that's going to save you? Abraham had more than one son. Isaac had more than one son They weren't to to count on their their heritage. Next thing, they were to also examine their procrastination. And uh before we move from from that, um There might be people here today that that are counting on their uh relations to get them in because I'm a son or a daughter of somebody who loves the Lord. married to somebody who loves the Lord, that the God's gonna kind of look on me with favor because of of that. Um there is no guarantee, right? God doesn't have uh uh in-laws, God doesn't have grandchildren Yeah, sons and daughters, right? Uh we need to make sure that uh we're not just relying on you know somebody else to to get us into heaven. And and uh real quick, uh MacArthur pointed this out in Luke chapter sixteen. Remember Lazarus? You know, he wakes up with his, you know, you have Lazarus in the rich man, you have Lazarus in Abraham's bosom, you have the rich man who opens his eyes in the flames. Remember what he said? He said, uh, Father Abraham Being related to Abraham didn't save him. And Abraham actually responds to him and says, my son. Just being related to to Abraham didn't didn't save the rich man from the flames. Just being a son or or daughter of Abraham doesn't doesn't rescue you. Next thing. Examine your procrastination. Look at verse 10. It says the axe is already laid at the root of the trees. Therefore every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. In uh verse ten, the the Greek word uh uh heyday is uh used right up front of the verse. It's a word that means now or already. It's a word that speaks of Eminency and the picture is uh an agricultural uh picture. It's uh at the end of the harvest season, which is when this illustration would have taken place. Uh the keeper of the vineyard or the orchard would have checked out his vines or his trees, fig trees, or whatever they were, to see what the produce was. And if the tree didn't bear any fruit. He would wonder why is it wasting my space? Turn over to Luke chapter 13 real quick and I'll show you just an illustration of this. Luke chapter 13. Look at verses 6 down to 9. Luke Luke 13. It says, And he began telling this parable. A man had a fig tree which had been planted in his vineyard, and he came looking for fruit on it, and did not find any. And he said to the vineyard keeper, Behold, for three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree without finding any. Cut it down. Why does it even use up the ground? And he answered and said to him, Let it alone serve for this year or two until I dig around it and put in fertilizer, and if it bears fruit next year, fine. But if not, cut it down. The master's patient. He's already waited, what, three years? Three years I've waited for this tree to bear something? Sir, just give it another year and and if it doesn't bear fruit by by then then then cut it down. Uh basically what John is telling them is that your your year is is about up. The axe is already laying at the the root of the tree and it's ready. The axe is already waiting. The axe is laying down next to indicate that this is the tree to be cut down. And if I don't look up and see some kind of bud or something, this tree is gonna go down. Time is up. And the the context of the passage in in uh Luke, it's uh it's kind of interesting back in uh in Luke 13, because if you uh Look up a little bit to what the context of this parable was with this fig tree about to be cut down. If you look in uh verse three, I tell you no, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Verse 5, I tell you no, but unless you repent. You all likewise perish. They came to Jesus with these two stories of uh uh Pilate who had slaughtered some Galileans, and he says, Oh, y y you you think that because the Galileans died that they're worse than everybody else? I'm telling you that unless you repent. Had a tower that fell down. Oh, you think because the tower fell down on a group of people that they're worse than you? I tell you that unless you repent And the the the the the warning for us is that uh we're all gonna die and we don't know when, right? Everybody's gonna die and they don't know when. It could be you know some kind of terrorist attack, it could be some kind of you know disaster that comes, the the rueful cave in. I mean we have no idea But it could be the axe laying at the root of the tree and it's just saying it's just a matter of time. You might think that you have another year. I'm telling you, your year is up. Year might be up. So here you have uh John the Baptist, back in Matthew 3. He says, you can you can pretend like you're fleeing from the wrath of God. Pretend like you're fleeing from the judgment to come, but I'm telling you that unless he looks up and sees some kind of fruit, uh, that this tree is coming down. You're Descent 's not going to save you. Your self-righteousness is not going to save you. The axe is already laying down and destruction comes quickly And it will come. We don't know when. It could happen in death. It could happen at the uh the return of Christ. We don't know when it'll happen, but it's it's imminent. Number five, look at verse 11 back in Matthew 3. It says uh this is examine your subordination. You have examine your motivation, your salvation, your expectation, your procrastination, and uh number five, examine your subordination. Got one more to go. Verse 11, it says, As for me, I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, and I am not fit to remove his sandals, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. So what you find here is that uh John really had a proper perspective of himself, proper perspective of his own ministry. He says, you know, you know, related to Christ, I mean, my ministry is insignificant. You know what what Christ is coming, he's got the mightier ministry than I have. All I all I can do is dunk you in the water. I I mean I can't do anything else other than that. I can dunk you in the water and I can kind of check to see if I see some, you know, kind of fruit or whatever, but I all I can do is just dunk you. Only only Christ can rightly relate you to himself. All that can do is baptize you with water for repentance. And um uh just as a as a side note, when he says That I baptize you with water for repentance. I baptize you with water for repentance. He clearly doesn't mean that I baptize you with water in the order that you may receive repentance, right? He's saying that I baptize you with water in light of your repentance or in reference to your repentance. Like he's assuming that the repentance is already there before he baptizes him. And I think that really sheds a lot of light on some of the other verses that might be confusing, like when you read in Acts chapter 2, verse 38, where Peter says, Repent, and each of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins. Is he saying that I'll baptize you in order that the result may be that your sins will be forgiven? You know, the answer is no. I'm baptizing you in light of your sins. Being forgiven. Right? In reference to your sins being forgiven, I baptize you. Just like John the Baptist wasn't saying, I'm baptizing you, with the result that there be repentance. I'm baptizing you because I'm assuming that the repentance is already there. Peter is saying I'm baptizing you with the assumption that the forgiveness is already there because you've turned to Christ, because you've repented, right? So uh John isn't trying to argue that uh you know this baptism has any saving power uh in itself. The baptism wasn't the the saving uh work You have in uh in Acts chapter 1, verse 5, John baptized you with water. This is the uh uh where the uh the promise is is given again. John baptized you with water. This is Christ speaking to his disciples. after his resurrection, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now. This is the mightier work. You know, John could baptize you in water, but I can baptize you in the Holy Spirit. And that fulfillment came in Acts chapter 2 When they were filled with the Holy Spirit of God, those that were gathered together. And all who trust in Christ are baptized in the Spirit. If you have a relationship with Christ, if you have uh faith, if you've repented of your sins, uh you are baptized in the Spirit. You don't have to wait to speak in a tongue. You don't have to wait for the the house to shake and a mighty rushing wind to fire. You know, people get confused about that and say, Oh, I'm not baptized in the Spirit because, you know, I didn't, you know, have some kind of outward, you know, evidence or whatever else like that. That's not the case. Uh what happened on uh Pentecost was a uh uh a unique uh uh gift for the for the church. You don't have the the the flaming tongues or whatever else you know repeated throughout you know the rest of uh the book of Acts. So what what happened there was uh was unique. So uh you have uh this greater work in Romans chapter 8 verse 9 for all of us. It says, if indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. But if anyone does not have the spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him. All who have trusted in Christ have the Spirit of Christ. If you belong to Christ, you've been baptized in the Spirit. Okay? Immersed in the Spirit. And uh That's what the Pharisees and Sadducees really need to worry about. Not this kind of outward sign and can we kind of get in and you know make the people think we're we're a part of this. They really need to worry about this greater work that what's to come and s submit themselves to Jesus Christ. And John says, this one who's coming, who's mire than I, I'm not even worthy to untie his sandals. Washing feet and removing somebody's sandals was like the lowest job on the totem pole. I mean this was reserved for the lowest slave in the house to take somebody's shoes off and put their dirty feet in water and wash them. I mean that's you know carry their shoes away. That would have been like the the worst job in the house And uh John says, I'm not even I'm not even high enough to do that. I'm not high enough for the lowliest job. This one who's coming after me, he's so mighty that I can't even t I don't I don't even feel comfortable touching his shoes And you have that uh that same picture in uh John 13 where you have the uh disciples remember that in John 13, they're all gathered around in the room with dirty feet in each other's faces because they're reclining. Dirty feet in each other's faces and nobody wants to pick up a a towel in a basin because it's like, you know, I I I'm I've been arguing about me being the greatest. I'm not gonna, you know, wash anybody's feet. And what does Jesus do, right? You know, the mightiest one among them. You know, they they they weren't even worthy to touch his shoes, and here he is touching their dirty feet and washing them. Uh just a wonderful example of our Lord. But he says there's coming a king that uh that you need to submit yourself to. This is the one that you really need to worry about. I can only baptize you with water. I mean, why are you coming out here to me for this? Think this is going to do something for you? Need to worry about this king that's to come and then uh last thing, uh not only examine your motivation, your salvation, your expectation, your procrastination, subordination to this one king who's coming. But also examine your destination, and this is sober. Verse 12. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor. And he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. And this is where John forces us to wrestle with the question of our destination. Where are you headed? Where are you headed? Does it with the word that's repeated throughout the passage? We find it three times in verse 10. At the end of verse 10. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Verse 11, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. Verse 12, his whimming fork is in his hand, he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor, and he will gather his wheat into the barn, but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. And throughout the scripture you have different uses of uh of the of fire, symbolic uses of fire. Fire can be used as a presence. You find that in uh in Exodus, Exodus chapter 13, that you know the Lord traveled with uh the Israelites in a in a pillar of fire. Fire can be used as a symbol of purification. In uh Psalm 12, verse 6 the words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in the furnace on the earth. Uh fire can be used for things like truth, guidance, righteousness, protection, trials. But one of the most frequent uses of fire in the scripture is a symbol of divine judgment and punishment. In Genesis 19, 24, then the Lord reigned on Sodom and Gomorrah, brimstone, and fire. Deuteronomy 4. 24, for the Lord your God is a consuming fire. Deuteronomy 32, 22, for a fire is kindled in my anger and burns to the lowest part of Sheol and consumes the earth Last book of the Old Testament, Malachi chapter 4, verse 1. For behold, the day is coming, burning like a furnace, and all the arrogant and evildoer will be chaff. And the day that is coming will be set ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave neither root nor branch. You find the same thing that happens in the New Testament as well, Matthew 5, 22. Whoever says you fool shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell. Matthew 7, verse 19, every tree that does not bear fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Mark chapter 9, verses 47 to 48. If your eye causes you to stumble, throw it out. It's better for you to enter the kingdom of heaven with one eye than having two eyes to be cast into hell where their worm does not die and their fire is not quenched. And what you have John talking about here is the unquenchable fire, where the fire is not quenched. What he's talking about is eternal damnation. He's talking about eternal hell. This is serious. Serious. That's how the fire is being used in this context. It's a picture of hell. He's already described it as the wrath to come in in verse 7. It says, but when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? It's wrath. It's described as being cut down and thrown away in verse 10. And there's this idea of the eternal punishment included in the word unquenchable. He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. This is eternal fire. And in this case, the chaff that is burned up continues to be burned up. Just to give you an explanation of what uh chaff was, it was the uh the broken pieces of uh stalks and and husks from uh the grain that would grow in in Israel. One of the things that they would do, they'd separate the uh to separate the husk and the stalks from the from the grain. Uh they would uh pile their their sheaths of grain onto what was known as a threshing floor. A threshing floor. It was usually uh uh bordered by stones around it. It was a level floor, almost kind of shaped like a like a dish, uh about twenty-five to forty feet in diameter, this round, you know, kind of area. It would be uh uh they'd pick out the stones, they'd wet the ground, they'd tamp it down, roll on it, and finally sweep it, so this is like a hard surface by the time they're done. They put these stones around it as a border so when they put their grain in the grain wouldn't get away. After they did this they'd uh bring in oxen or donkeys and uh they'd drive them around in a circle, you know, on this little plate that they've made. And uh as the the the the axon would drag this like a piece of wood with uh uh like a uh stone on the the bottom of it, it would kind of rip up this this grain and kind of tear up the the stalks and the and the husks. and and leave the the grain that would you know kind of be separated you know from from that process. After they do that, and and usually they'd build these uh uh thrushing floors on a on a um on a place where they knew they were going to get some wind blowing through there, you know, sometimes on even on a hill. And uh what they would do is they'd take a wooden shovel and they they toss Toss everything up into the air and uh the lighter material would blow away and the grain would would fall down and then they do it again and then they do it again and the chaff would be burned and the grain would be stored. And uh what you have here is you have the the grain that's separated out. The grain represents those that are baptized in the spirit, those that are rescued. You know what the chaff represents? Those that are baptized by fire. Consistent picture. And uh what he says is that there's not going to be one piece of grain that doesn't make it into the granary Look at the verse 12 again. It says, He will thoroughly clear his threshing floor. There's not going to be anything left when he's done with this work. Nothing's going to be left. Every piece of grain that belongs is going to be stored away. Every piece of chaff that doesn't belong is going to be burned. And the the question that I have for you is, are you examining yourself? Are you examining yourself? This is really what the the text calls us to do. One commentator said this, that too often in the history of the church people have trusted in living in a Christian country. Being raised in the Christian family, holding Christian membership even in a local church, offering verbal claims of repentance, having trusted in Christ Yet without the evidence of a changed life and the perseverance in belief, all such grounds of trust prove futile. One cannot determine the number of truly saved people in a given church by simply counting those who have responded to altar calls Receive baptism, or become members. The greatest obstacle to genuine repentance is found in those who somewhere got just enough religion to be inoculated against its further demands. It's like just enough Christianity to make you feel like I'm doing okay because I I know it. I've heard it. I know all this stuff That's why I say it's not enough just for to have information, right? It's about the application. We have theologians that are going to hell. People that know the Bible better than I do that are going to hell. Guys, do you realize that uh Judas heard every sermon that Christ preached? Every sermon? Judas knew more theology than any of us do. Are you prepared for the king? Uh most of you are familiar with uh George Whitfield. He was an English preacher who helped spread the Great Awakening in in Britain during the 18th century, especially in the American colonies. There's a story that was told about an irreligious man who went to hear Mr. Whitfield preach. And uh he took this passage in Matthew chapter 3 for his text. George Whitfield preached on this text. He described the Sadducean character, and this is the sky's own admission. He says, And this did not touch me. I thought of myself as as good as a Christian as any man in England From this he went on to that of the Pharisees. He described their exterior decency, but observed that the poison of viper rankled in their hearts, and this shook me At length, in the course of the sermon, he abruptly broke off, paused for a few moments, and then he burst into a flood of tears, lifted up his hands and eyes, and exclaimed, O my hearers, the wrath to come, the wrath to come, the wrath to come. And he said, these words sunk deep into my heart like lead and water. I wept. And when the sermon ended, I retired alone. For days and weeks I could think of little else. Those awful words would follow me wherever I went. The wrath to come, the wrath to come. And the result was that that young man soon after made a public profession of religion and in short time became a very eminent preacher himself. We preach the whole word of God, right? Not just the comfortable sections, but but those that are difficult. And um There is going to be wrath. There's going to be wrath. And uh my my fear is that there there might be some here that might experience that wrath. The wrath is going to come. It's eminent. And you don't know when. There's safety. There's a granary. If you separate it out because you've repented, trusted in Christ, He'll make sure that every piece of grain gets picked up and stored away. Those that are baptized with the Spirit end up in heaven. They're saved. But then there's those those others that as they're tossed up in the air, they blow away. And experience the unquenchable fire. You know what makes hell so uh so disturbing is that there's no end. And that's why you have uh Paul in uh Romans chapter 9, he says, My heart's breaking. I I wish I could take your place. That's where the Apostle Paul was. He says, if I if I could take your place, I'd do it. That's the kind of heart he had, because he says, I I understand what's coming. You can't trust in just being around Christianity. Can't trust in your heritage. Can't trust in how many sermons you've heard. Can't trust in your church membership, your baptism. Can't trust in these elements we're going to celebrate today, the Lord's Supper. You can't trust in this. The only one that you can trust in is the one who can baptize you in the Holy Spirit. The one who can pull you into his granary and says, You're mine. You belong to me. And I I pray that uh that you'd let that ring in your hearts. And uh if you're saved, praise God that He save you from that wrath. And may we be those that proclaim the truth of his salvation to everybody that we meet, right? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. And Father, this is a sobering text, a sobering passage. Father, I pray that you'd help everyone here to examine themselves. Father, I pray that even as we're preparing now to take of the Lord's Supper, that no one would take it in an unworthy manner. Father, for those that are saved here, I pray that there would be no unconfessed sin. Father, let us not hold on to the very sins for which Christ came and died for. And Father, I pray that if there's uh anyone here who doesn't know your son , Father, I pray that today would be the day. That they would come to Jesus, that they would flee from the wrath to come and be rightly related to you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.