The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter four? Uh Matthew chapter four, our church has been uh joyfully and eagerly working our way through the the gospel of uh Matthew and it's been a great blessing to me to be reintroduced to our Lord Jesus Christ together and I'm absolutely loving the the journey that we're on. And uh as we've mentioned throughout our study, Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends Jesus as the king and Jewish Messiah. But before Matthew jumps into the details of Jesus's earthly uh ministry, he presents us with the preview of what's to come. And uh there are three categories at the end of Matthew chapter four that summarize the ministry of the king. In verses 12 to 17, there's the preaching of the kingdom. In verses 18 to 22 of uh Matthew chapter 4, there's the preparing of the disciples. And uh in verses 23 to 25, there's the performing of miracles. Uh so there's some overlap in this, but the the emphasis is pretty clear. There's the uh the preaching of oracles. The kingdom of God and uh verse 17, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. There's the preparing of disciples in uh verse 19, you know, follow me and I will make you fishers. of men. And then there's the performing of miracles in in uh verse uh uh twenty-three down to uh twenty-five and verse twenty-three it talks about how he heals every kind of disease, how he healed them in verse twenty-four again, and uh today we get the Kind of focus our attention on that final section of uh what uh Matthew has to say about the miracles, the performing of miracles of Jesus Christ. Well I'll read through the whole passage just to remind us of the context. I'll Start at verse 18. Matthew chapter 4, starting at verse 18. Says now as Jesus was walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers in Simon, who was called Peter and Andrew's brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him. Going on from there he saw two other brothers, James, the son of Zebedee. And John his brother in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. The news about him spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains and demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the decapitalist and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. Well, let's uh say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we Uh come before you once again, uh Lord, uh looking to be fed uh by you. You're the the the great shepherd, and uh Father, I pray that you would uh use me to uh Be a blessing to your sheep. Father, they belong to you, and I pray that you'd encourage them by this word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. There's a hymn that begins with these words, Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh what a foretaste of glory divine. Oh what a foretaste of glory divine. And when those uh Words were composed, the hymn writer didn't have the the earthly ministry of Jesus Christ in mind, uh, but a foretaste of glory divine is exactly what Jesus was uh giving to the people of Galilee and the surrounding region uh during this time. This is like a a sample of the coming kingdom. It was a preview of coming attractions. It was like Jesus was cracking the door open to the kingdom so that Israel could just kind of take in the aroma. It was like this this appetizer of this foretaste of the divine glory. Uh both John the Baptist and Jesus uh delivered a message of repentance because the kingdom of heaven was at hand. Uh you find that in uh Matthew chapter three verse two with uh John the Baptist, Matthew chapter four, verse fourteen with Christ. And now in uh verses twenty-three to twenty-five Jesus gives them just a taste of what the kingdom of heaven is like. And uh what Jesus does would have been anticipated by the Jews. The Old Testament scriptures paint for us this stunning landscape, this portrait, this picture that illustrates for us what the kingdom of God will be like. There was an expectation that was built up for the kingdom. Dr. Barrick in a journal entry entitled The Kingdom of God in the Old Testament uh points out several aspects of the kingdom of of God described in the Old Testament. And there's uh there's many, but we'll just pick out a few to point out. First of all, the kingdom of God will be characterized by redeemed people The kingdom of God will be characterized by redeemed people. In Jeremiah 31, 33 to 34, it says, but this is the covenant. Which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. So that the kingdom of God is going to be characterized by people that are redeemed. And here you have Jesus Christ he's proclaiming this gospel of the kingdom, right? Repent It's calling for a new people. The kingdom of God is also going to be characterized by righteous standards. And for this, why don't you flip back to Isaiah chapter 2? Because there's a couple passages I want to point out to you here in Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 2 You have the kingdom of God being characterized by righteous standards. And uh you actually have a a lot of this kind of reiterated in uh the Sermon on the Mount, and we'll get to that uh next week. But Isaiah chapter 2, look at verses 19 to 3. It says, the word which Isaiah the son of Amos saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. Now it will come about That in the last days the mountain of the house of the Lord will be established as the chief of the mountains, and will be raised above the hills, and all the nations will stream to it. And many peoples will come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us concerning his ways. That we may walk in his paths. For the law will go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. So the kingdom of God, this kingdom that he says is to come. is characterized by righteous standards. Teach us your ways. This prayer that God would teach the people his ways. The kingdom of God will also be characterized by An end to warfare and an establishment of peace. If you read further down in the same chapter, look what it says in verses four and five. It says, and he will judge between the nations. And will render decisions for many peoples. And they will hammer their swords into plow shares and their spears into pruning hooks. You don't need weapons anymore. Right? Don't need weapons, you can make them into farming instruments if you want. Nation will not lift up sword against nation, and don't you we hope for that day, right? Nation will not lift up sword against nation, and never again will they learn war. Come, house of Jacob, and let us walk in the light of the Lord. The kingdom of God is going to be characterized by an end of warfare, an establishment of peace. Flip over to chapter 9 in Isaiah. The kingdom of God is also going to be characterized by justice. Justice. Justice for every race, every class of people. Isaiah chapter 9, verse 7. We're familiar with it. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and uphold it with justice. And righteousness from then on and forevermore the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. This is what the Lord is going to accomplish Furthermore, in Psalm 72, in verses 11 down to 13, it says, And let all kings bow down before him. All nations serve him. For he will deliver the needy when he cries for help, the afflicted also, and him who has no helper, he will have compassion on the poor and the needy, and the lives of the needy he will save There's this spiritual aspect to the coming kingdom, but there's also many physical aspects as well. The land itself is going to be changed in the kingdom of God. In Isaiah chapter 27 and verse 6, it says, In the days to come, Jacob will take root, Israel will blossom and sprout, and they will fill the whole world with fruit. It's going to be food for the entire world. Psalm 72, verse 16 says, May there be abundance of grain in the earth on the top of the mountains. Its fruit will wave like the cedars of Lebanon. It's so heavy, it's like these cedars of Lebanon. The fruit's going to be waving like these cedars. And may those from the city flourish like vegetation of the earth. The climate's going to be changed. You don't have to worry about climate change. Isaiah chapter 30, verse 23, it says, Then he will give you rain for the seed which you will sow in the ground, and bread from the yield of the ground, and it will be rich and plenteous On that day your livestock will graze in a roomy pasture. And even the animal kingdom is going to be changed. You don't have to worry about any uh any dogs trying to chase you down anymore, right? Isaiah 11, verses 6 down to 9. It says, And the wolf will dwell with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and a little boy will lead them. Also the cow and the bear will graze, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like an ox. The nursing child, this is the one that's just, you know, still sucking milk. Will play by the hole of the cobra, and the winged child will put his hand on the viper's den. They will not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea. This is sweet, isn't it? Kingdom of God. And another aspect of this kingdom is that there will be an end to physical deformities Disease and sickness. This is what the kingdom of God is characterized by. This is sweet. This is sweet. Turn over to Isaiah chapter 35. Isaiah chapter 35. Start at verse 1. Look what he says here. The wilderness and the desert will be glad, and the Arabah will rejoice and blossom like the crocus. It will blossom profusely and rejoice with rejoicing and shout of joy. The glory of Lebanon will be given to it. The majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They will see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. Again, it's talking about this physical creation. Then it goes on and says, Encourage the exhausted, and strengthen the feeble. Say to those with anxious heart, Take courage, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, the recompense of God will come, but he will save you. Listen to this. Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped. Then the lame will leap like a deer And the tongue of the mute will shout for joy, for the waters will break forth in the wilderness and streams in the Arabah. That is a wonderful promise, isn't it? That is a wonderful promise. There's going to be This this absence, this just banishment of all physical ailments, physical deformities, disease, sickness. In Isaiah 33, 24 it says, And no resident will say, I am sick. Nobody that's a resident of this kingdom will ever have to say, I am sick. Can can you can you uh help me out with my health insurance that we won't need it, right? Forget Obamacare, we don't need it anymore. The people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity. No resident will say, I am sick. This was the Old Testament expectation for the kingdom of God. And there was also this expectation that the Messiah would be the one who would usher this kingdom in. The Messiah would be the one who would usher this kingdom in. That's the kind of kingdom that I want to be a part of. That's the kind of kingdom that you should want to be a part of. This is the kind of kingdom, exactly the kind of kingdom, that Jesus Christ was pulling back the curtain for and saying, I'm going to give you a preview of what this kingdom is like. This this is what the kingdom has. It's like he's he's showing them the trailer for the kingdom. And at the same time, he was also presenting proof of who he was because the expectation was that whoever is able to bring in the conditions of the kingdom was also the king of the kingdom. That was the expectation to prove that. Flip over to John chapter 7. John chapter 7. Let me show you something real quick. John chapter 7. Look at uh verse 31. This is towards the end of uh Christ's ministry. This is after the crowds had seen uh so many of his miracles in John chapter seven, verse thirty-one. Look at what it says here. It says, But many of the crowds believed in him, and they were saying, Listen to this, when the Christ comes, the Messiah, when he comes, will he not perform more signs than those which this man has? When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? You know what they're saying? This has to be him. This has to be the Messiah. Why? Look at all that he's doing. He's like a racing disease from the land. This has to be him. Nobody else is going to do as many miracles as this man has, will he? You can't get any better than this. This is what they're saying. You can't get any better than this. The conclusion that the crowds were drawing from the sheer volume of miracles that Christ performed was that this is him. This is the Messiah. And that's the conclusion that they were supposed to reach. Later on in John chapter 10, verses 24 and 25, it says, The Jews then gathered around him and were saying to him, How long will you keep us in suspense? It's like, stop playing games with us. How long are you going to keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered them, I told you and you do not believe the works that I do in my Father's name, these testify of me. Says, you want to know whether or not I'm the Christ? What do you think I've been doing out here? What's the question about whether or not I'm the Christ? Look at these works that I've performed. The works bear testimony to me. You don't have to ask whether or not I'm the Christ. What Jesus was doing in Matthew chapter 4 as his ministry is being introduced is he's giving the Jews a peek at the kingdom, a foretaste of glory divine. This is what would characterize the kingdom, this banishment of disease. And it's been uh observed that there's uh four elements. essential elements to a kingdom. There needs to be a ruler. There needs to be a realm to rule. There needs to be a right to rule. And there needs to be an exercise of that rulership. And uh here it doesn't appear like there's anything lacking, right? I mean we have the we have the ruler. You know, here Christ comes. He's the ruler. He has this realm that he's going to rule over. He has the right. He's already been established as the one with the right to rule. Seems like there's nothing to prevent this king from exercising his rights to rule over the whole nation. And he's kind of going on this tour around Galilee. You'd expect it to just kind of be a victory tour. You know, let me go around Galilee and just kind of bask in my glory here. But let's take a look at this passage together. We'll just follow the action that's presented to us in this passage. There's a lot of movement here. It 's not a pretty outline, but I think you'll keep track with me. We have the the king goes around, the news goes around, the people gather around. You know, the healing goes around and the the people follow him around. Like I said, it's not a pretty outline, but I think it'll it'll keep you on track with me. And what we'll see is that Jesus offers a taste of the kingdom That we might partake of the kingdom. He offers a taste of the kingdom that we might partake of the kingdom. First of all, the king goes around. Look at uh verse 23. It says, Jesus was going Throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. And uh just like in the calling of the disciples in the previous section, we find Jesus taking the initiative. You know, Jesus is the one that's going to go out. towards the people. He's going to go all throughout Galilee. Instead of staying in Capernaum, where he settled and waiting for people to come to him, Jesus is going to take the ministry to the people. It takes this initiative to go and to bring the message. During the time of uh of Christ, Palestine existed in four divisions. Uh to the north there was Galilee, that's where Jesus grew up. Uh in the middle there was Samaria, which was on one side of the Jordan River, and uh Perea on the east side of the Jordan River, and then further south it was Judea. There were these four kind of uh districts that were broken up And uh Galilee was a district that was about 70 miles long by 40 miles wide, which isn't really that big. It's about like one quarter the size of uh the state of Maryland. But it was densely populated. Densely populated. According to Josephus, who is not only a Jewish historian, but in 66 A. D. Josephus was actually a commanding general in Galilee, so he knew the land. Uh so he knew a lot about you know the land and the people there. He says the cities of Galilee lie here very thick, and the very numerous villages are so full of people because of the fertility in the land that the smallest, the very smallest of them, and the smallest of these cities or or villages contain above fifteen thousand inhabitants. A lot of people for a a village. Uh we're not sure um but some estimate that only thirty five years after Christ that there were more than three million people that lived in in Galilee. And other facts actually would support that. We're not sure what Jesus' schedule looked like, but I'm sure it was tight It was packed. So Jesus is going throughout all this land of Galilee. If he was to reach just one city in a day, just one city a day, it would take him at least half a year. Just to reach all these different cities. Maybe he'd minister to two cities at a time or a group of cities at a time. But Jesus goes throughout all of this region of Galilee. Maybe ministered to some cities together, but no area would have been untouched by Christ because he's going throughout these areas of Galilee. And what he's doing is he's looking for the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Looking for the lost sheep. He was going to search for where the lost sheep were gathered together, and there was no better place to start his shirt search for lost sheep besides the church. And basically that's where he starts. He starts his search for the lost sheep in the church, which is essentially what the synagogue was. He goes to the synagogues first. Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues. The temple was the place where you went to go sacrifice. You're only required to go to Jerusalem three times a year. The synagogue was a place where you would go every week. And uh a lot of uh in a lot of ways it became the center of the religious life in the Jewish uh community. Uh one writer writes this, he says the synagogue Not only was the primary place of worship, but also of study, community fellowship, and even legal activity. So that the greatest tragedy for many Jews was to be this fellowship from the synagogue. To be kicked out of the synagogue was like the the worst thing that could happen. And uh if you remember that's what the the parents of the man who was born blind, remember that Who was uh the parents of the man who was born blind, they they were afraid to confirm the miracle because they're like, they might kick us out the synagogue. You know, ask ask him, you know, kind of fear their son under the bus. It's like, what's going on with that? Ask ask him, you know, he'll let you know. I I I don't know what happened to him. But they were they were fearful of being thrown out of the synagogue So much of their life would center around the synagogue. This is where you would learn the Word of God. And uh Philo, uh Philo, he's an ancient Jewish philosopher. He called uh the synagogues that the houses of instruction. in which the native philosophy was studied and every virtue was taught. This is where you went weekly. It was also the place where you prayed. In the the Babylonian Talmud, which is a collection of rabbinic Literature it says that uh the prayer which a man addresses to God has only its proper effect if it's offered in the synagogue. That's what one of the things that the rabbinic writers would say. You know, your prayer is really only effective if you pray it within the synagogue. Another rabbi said that prayer is good if a man is alone, but where there is a community of prayer, it should be offered in the synagogue. And uh many of your social and even business connections were made through the synagogue. It was the gathering place. And uh that's actually what the word synagogue means. It means a gathering. It could refer to any gathering, but it was used specifically for religious gatherings. So when Jesus was looking for the gathering of lost sheep. He he knows where to find them. He goes to the synagogue. And uh by the time of Christ, synagogues would have been established in virtually every city and that was uh populated uh by the by the Jews. And uh Acts fifteen, twenty-one it says for Moses from ancient generations has in every city those who preach him, since he is read in the synagogues every Sabbath. So they were recognizing that Moses is preached everywhere because in all these different cities there's a synagogue in them. And the order of the service of the synagogue would have actually made it easy for Jesus to contribute. According to the Mishnah, which is a oral tradition of the Jews. The order of the service of the synagogue was pretty simple. You had the recitation of the Shema, which was a confession, a common confession of who the true God was. There was prayer. There was the reading of the scriptures, both the law and the prophets. There was the blessing of the priest. It was followed by a translation of the scriptures and a discourse or a sermon on the scriptures. And then the service was closed by a final blessing. Sounds a lot like church to me, right? That's that's what they did. And we shouldn't forget that the first churches were were Jewish and were actually born out of that that kind of structure. So there was already this expectation at the synagogue that biblical instruction was going to be given. The Bible's going to be explained. That's what the synagogue was primarily for. It was called the house of instruction. And that was uh true even from its uh inception and uh we could go back into the history. I'll I won't take the time to go through all of this, but um uh back in the the history of the the synagogues it it kind of came out of the the Babylonian exile So you had uh people that were uh disconnected from the the Jewish temple and uh even people who didn't understand the language anymore, know how to read the scriptures for themselves. So you had people like Ezra. Uh Ezra seven ten it says, For Ezra had his had set his heart to study the law of the Lord, to practice it, to teach his statutes and ordinances in Ezra. This could happen after the Babylonian exile, Nehemiah eight, verse eight, it says that uh Ezra with the rest of the Levites They read from the book of the law of God, translating to give the sense, to make sure they understood. Translating to give the sense so they understood the reading. And the purpose of the synagogue was was for that. It's to give instruction. And it was common for uh visiting rabbis to be the ones selected to give the sermon for the day. So you have uh in Acts chapter 13, you have an example of this. You have Paul, he's visiting a synagogue in Poseidon Antioch in Acts thirteen and verse fifteen it says, After the reading of the law and the prophets, the synagogue officials sent to them saying, Brethren, if you have any word of exhortation For the people, say it. You know, so here 's the invitation. If you're a visiting rabbi here, brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say it. And Paul stood up and motioning with his hand said, Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen. And then he goes on to explain how Jesus is the Christ from the very scriptures. that they read. They wanted to hear from visiting teachers, and Jesus took advantage of this opportunity to give a true interpretation of what the law meant. Why don't you flip over to Luke chapter 4? I want to show you just an example of the kind of message that Jesus would give. This is fascinating. Look at Luke chapter 4. This event takes place in his hometown of Nazareth. This is before he leaves for uh for Galilee. It kind of gives you a taste of uh some of the things that he might say as he's sitting in the synagogues there. Luke chapter 4, look at verse 16. It says, And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up, and as was his custom, he entered the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read. And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him, and he opened the book and found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. Fascinating, isn't it? Recovery of sight to the blind, to set free those who are oppressed, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord. In verse twenty, and he closed the book, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. This is the position where he's going to teach. And he began to say to them, Today the scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. This guys, if if you want to know what the interpretation of this scripture is, it's me. You're looking at it. I am the interpretation of of this passage. The one who's who's uh been anointed to preach the gospel, to proclaim release, to recovery of sight to the blind, and then he went out and actually proved it when he did these these miraculous uh signs. And this was uh his pattern to teach in the synagogues. In addition to proclaiming in the streets He would teach in the synagogues, and he would also add this other element of healing. Healing. Back to Matthew chapter 4. He added this element of healing to his ministry. Verse 23 again, it says Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness among the people. The word uh healing is is therapeuo from where we get our English word therapeutic. Uh it means to heal, to cure, to restore to health. This is the first mention of it in the in the gospel of Matthew, and it it captures the attention of Matthew throughout the rest of this passage, and it's really the aspect of Jesus' ministry that seems to capture the attention of of everybody in the in Palestine. And I mean, you gotta think about this. They know nothing of this kind of ministry. They know absolutely nothing of this kind of ministry. What do you mean he can heal? What do you mean he can heal? Do you mean like he can heal a headache? Do you mean he can heal like back pain? Do you mean he can heal y you know like your legs if your your arms aren't the same length or your your legs aren't the same length? And I don't know how many times I've seen that one. with these uh faith healers. You know, you got some back pain, you know, it's because your legs aren't the same length. So sit in this chair, you know, stretch out your legs and we're gonna help your legs to grow. I don't know if you've ever seen this before, but it but it happens like all over the place. You know, sit down in this chair, we're going to help your your legs to grow. And it's like you kind of stretch your legs out and you know before you know it, it's like you know the the pastor or whatever is praying and oh yes, it's happening, it's happening, and you know, people are starting to get excited. And it's like uh it's kind of like the emperor who has no clothes. It's like you don't want to be left out, so everybody's like gets into it, oh yeah, I can see it too. And it just takes like some some young child to say, hey, his legs are the same length. You know, what what are you guys getting excited about? Right? But they they do this kind of thing all over the place. You know, this fabulous material that the emperor's wearing. He's naked. Nothing's happening up there. What are you getting excited about Like I said, it only takes a child to say that your arms are the same length they were when you went up there. Your legs are the same length they were when you went up there. Supposed uh healings of faith healers are really never substantiated. No one comes to the faith healer with the black, shriveled, withered hand. And just instantly sees it grow back, you know, the flesh come back on and it's full use. No one comes up with oozing leprosy and ears and nose rubbed off. No one's raised to the dead after four days in the grave. You don't have that kind of thing going on with the faith ministries, right? When has Benny Hinn ever gone to a to a uh uh to a uh uh a cemetery And raise somebody from the dead who's been in there four days. When does he do that? When does he go to the hospitals and you see trails of people following after him? People who are broken legs, broken limbs, their limbs are restored. When do you see that? You don't see it. You don't see it. Dr. Mahew uh states that modern miracle effects can be explained by the fact that 70% of all illnesses can be cured by placebo, a sugar pill This coupled with controlling the atmosphere of the healing meetings through the hype, protracted expectations, overloads the central nervous systems with endorphins. chemical pain blockers which are 200 times more powerful than morphine. If illness is functional, non-tissue damage, the placebo might give the appearance of healing. If it involves tissue damage, what researchers have found after extensive follow-up after such meetings is that the injury has simply returned or returned with the vengeance. Just to give you an example, I don't think I could have been much more than 10 years old. And uh I'm sitting here watching uh the 700 Club with my mom. Uh watching Pat Robertson and Ben Kinchlow, you know, and they get to that part of the program where it's like, you know, we've got a word of we've got a word of knowledge. I'm praying and I can, you know, I see that lady over there. You know, you you've got cancer. The Lord is healing that right now, right now. He's doing his work. I I see this this person over there, you've been diabetes. I know you've been struggling with diabetes. The Lord is healing that right now. Right now, I can just tell you you're healed. I can see a little boy, 10 years old. You've got asthma. Right now the Lord is taking your asthma away. And I'm sitting here watching the TV. He's like, he's talking to me. That's me. I've got asthma. I've got asthma. I called up to the 700 club, got the number, called up the 700 club, and uh told them, hey, you know, I'm I'm the one I'm the one that you've been talking about. And uh I donated like $2, you know, which is all I had. Well the worst two dollars I ever spent. Called them up to give give give two dollars. Listen to this. I actually I actually threw my medication away. I threw away my my inhalers and lived for a few days asthma free until gym class came around. Then I'm looking for my inhaler again. Asthma came back and it came back with a vengeance. In my case, it it might be comical, but for for some people it's tragic, isn't it? Uh just in the in the news last year, a Philadelphia couple were found guilty of third-degree murder of their son after pleading no contest. Herbert and Catherine uh Schlabel A seven-month-old son Brandon died last year, April 18th, from dehydration and pneumonia, when his parents decided to pray for him to get better rather than seek medical attention. At the time the Slavels were on ten-year probation after their for their two-year-old son, Kent's similar death, so they had another son that died of a similar death. The terms of their probation require the Schlabels to seek medical attention any time one of their seven surviving children got sick. They said we believe in divine healing, that Jesus died on the cross to break the devil's power That he and this is what he told uh homicide detectives after Brandon died. And and sadly that's not the only story like that There's other stories like that. And it's dangerous teaching when people say, ignore the symptoms, but believe in the miracle. Believe that you're healed. We could spend a whole message talking about that. We could spend a whole class talking about that. Dr. Mayhew in his book Again The Healing Promise, he goes on to note that what distinguishes biblical healing from modern claimants is that biblical healings are instantaneous. Instantaneous. There's one example when Jesus healed in stages, but that was only to draw out the person's faith. Was 100% successful? It's without any recovery period. It's permanent. It's done without the help of medical assistance. And it's undeniable. Undeniable. Not even Jesus' strongest opponents could deny what he was able to do. They just denied the source of the power. They couldn't deny what they saw. They just said, well, maybe it, you know, maybe you're doing it by the power of Satan. But they couldn't deny what they saw before them. He was performing real miracles. The miracles were just the facts. The man who was healed of leprosy in uh Matthew chapter eight, he was sent to uh To get checked out by the priests who examined them medically to confirm the healing. Jesus didn't say, you know, hey, believe that I can heal you, but you know, you'll still have the symptoms. That's not what he said. He said, you can go check get checked out. If you're healed, go get checked out. Confirm the miracle. There's no fear of being checked out. Jesus was able to heal every disease, every sickness, every person. Unlike the faith healers of today, and it's important to catch this. The reason, listen to this, the reason that there is nobody that can heal like Jesus today is because nobody needs to be attested like Jesus today. You understand that? The reason nobody can heal like Jesus today is because nobody has to be attested like Jesus today. Look, listen again to what it said in John chapter 7, 31. It says, when the crowds believed in him, they were saying, When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? What does that indicate? Just the sheer volume of the miracles that he could perform pointed to him as the Christ. It was saying that this person is unique. There's nobody else that's going to come like him. Nobody else is going to follow him that can do more than he can do. This Jesus Christ is unique. Acts chapter 2, verse 22. It says, Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs, which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. A man attested to you by God with miracles. You know that he's the one because of the sheer volume of miracles that he can produce. Not even the disciples matched the miracles of Christ. And the only reason they were given the ability to do miracles is so they could point back to Christ. The whole purpose. Hebrews chapter 2, verse 3 and 4. How will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? After it was at the first spoken through the Lord, it was confirmed to us by those who heard. God also testifying with them both by signs and wonders and by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will He's attesting to the gospel that they preached, attesting to the word that they communicated, and to assume that miracles remain constant and plentiful throughout all of church history. Without slowing down, it just kind of snowballs, it just grows bigger and bigger. That's to uh to deny the unique ministry of Jesus Christ. To say that everybody can do just what Jesus could do is to deny the unique ministry of Jesus Christ and his apostles. No one will perform more signs than this man has. Nobody. Why? Because his miracles pointed to him as the Christ, as the Messiah, specifically pointed to him as the Messiah. His healing ministry pointed to his messiahship. Matthew 8 points this out. Turn over to Matthew 8 real quick. Matthew 8, 16 and uh 17. Actually I'll start up at uh I'll start up at verse 14. It says, When Jesus came into Peter's home, he saw his mother-in-law lying sick in bed with a fever. He touched her hand and the fever left her, and she got up and waited on him. When evening came, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he cast out the spirits with the word, and he healed all who were ill. This was to fulfill What was spoken through Isaiah the prophet , he himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. The ability of Christ to banish all disease was pointing to his messiahship. That's the first point, alright? Jesus goes around. The king goes around. The last ones will be really quick, alright? The news goes around. So you have this this this messiah, right? This king. Matthew chapter 4. Every kind of disease, every kind of sickness among the people. I mean, can you imagine a real honest to goodness healer? Can you imagine the kind of attraction that would be? I mean this this is this is this is I mean this is mind-blowing. I mean this is for real instantaneous 100% success no recovery period it's permanent no medical help undeniable Cancer, malaria, tuberculosis, diabetes, HIV-AIDS, heart disease, lower respiratory infections Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Alzheimer's, influenza, we could just go on and on about all the things that, hey, there's a cure. Can you imagine that? There's a cure. Because there's a healer. There's one who has the cure. All he has to do is say the word. All she has to do is touch it. It's gone. Can you imagine that? What kind of parent wouldn't want to know about that? What kind of grandson or granddaughter wouldn't want that for their grandparents? What kind of spouse wouldn't want that for their husband or wife? The naming of of places here communicates that this is this just spread all over. The news of this just spread everywhere. So is the news about them spread throughout all Syria. He actually mentions some different cities in verse 25, the capitalist, Jerusalem, Judea, from beyond the Jordan. One commentator mentions that Matthew's gospel , the geographical language covers the whole land of Israel. Moving from the northwest, Galilee, to the northeast, the capitalist, to Jerusalem, probably understood as the center of the land, to southwest Judea, to southeast, beyond the Jordan. I mean this word is out and it's contagious. There there's somebody who can heal for real. The news just goes out and spreads out about this miracle worker. Then the people gather around. Verse 24 again It says the news about him spread throughout all Syria, and there were brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics. And he healed them There would be no expense spirit if you knew that there was a real cure for the one that you love, right? No sense of shame in anything that you do to try to get a healing. That's why you have uh uh Jairus, who's the synagogue official. Throwing off all sense of shame and falling at the feet of Jesus. Why? Mark chapter five. One of the synagogue officials named Jairus came up and on seeing him fell at his feet and implored him earnestly, saying, My little daughter is at the point of death. Please come and lay your hands on her so that she will get well and live. At this point, he's not caring about whether or not he gets thrown out of the synagogue. My daughter's about to die I'll fall at your feet. Whatever you can do, Jesus. Please heal my daughter. If I get thrown out of the synagogue, who cares? That's why you have a centurion A leader of Roman soldiers imploring Jesus in Matthew chapter 8, verse 6, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, fearfully tormented. That's why you have people that are willing to tear through a roof to lower their friend down to see Jesus, right? Because they want their friend to be be healed. I mean, this news is just getting out everywhere. And sometimes Jesus would uh tell people not to make their healings public because as soon as the word was out, he couldn't even get into the city anymore. It was so popular because of these crowds. And then uh all around were healed. Verse 24 again, it says, He healed them. No sickness was safe in the presence of Christ. This is all inclusive language. Every disease, every sickness, all who were ill. Ill is a word that literally means uh in a bad way. These people are just bad off. Disease is a word that's kind of general for all diseases. Pains. It's a word that actually means torture, people that were being tormented. by the the the pain that they were in, the moniacs, those who were demon possessed, and yes it's true that demon possession was distinguished from just normal sickness. Some people look back to this when commentator Lensky says that there's a strong tendency among modern commentators to deny the reality of demonic possession as recorded in the scriptures. The demoniacs are thought to have been people who were afflicted with some mania or unbalanced condition of the mind, perhaps lunatics, epileptics. And then he goes on to say, If Jesus did not know their real condition, then we have a Savior who was as ignorant as the people of his own day. These were real demon-possessed people. And Jesus cast these demons out. Epileptics. This is a different word from what we know as epilepsy today. The word literally means moonstruck. People that are out of their minds. Our English word uh lunatic actually uh comes from a similar uh kind of uh etymology. Uh English word lunatic comes from the uh The Latin word luna for moon, moonstruck, it's the same thing. Similar way the Greek word that's used here actually comes from the word moon. It's people that are just out of their minds, crazy. Same words used over in Matthew 17, 15, where Father comes to Jesus and he says, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic, very ill. He often falls into the fire, off into the water. He's going to kill himself. And then paralytics, those that were disabled and suffered from weak limbs, damaged nerves, paralyzed. And Jesus healed them all. Healed them all. Amazing. And then the result, what's the result? People followed him around. Look at verse 25. Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. It's actually the same word that was used for the disciples following after Christ. Back in verse 20 and 22. He uses the same word. This large crowd followed him. And the initial reaction might be: well, this is fantastic. He's got the crowds. They're following him. All throughout the Gospels, we see these crowds following him, even up to the final week. Triumphal entry. Multitudes crying out after him. Matthew 21, verse 9, the crowds going ahead of him, and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest, it sounds so good. It sounds so right. But it couldn't be more wrong. Because uh even though the king went around and the news went around and the people gathered around and the people were healed all around and the people followed him around The people never really came around. They never really turned around. And now Matthew chapter 11 makes that clear. Look over at Matthew chapter 11. We'll end here Matthew chapter 11. Look at verse uh 20. You have uh Jesus speaking to the same region. This is uh speaking to Galilee, okay? Same place where he had this great physical healing ministry, where these crowds, massive crowds, followed him. The news spread out all around the place, and people came to Galilee to be healed, to be touched by Jesus, for Jesus to speak a word. Well, look at what it says in Matthew chapter 11, verse 20. It says, Then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done. Because they did not what? They didn't repent. They didn't repent. Woe to you, Korazan. Woe to you, Boseidah! For if the miracles had occurred in Tyre and Sidon, which occurred in you, they would have repented long ago and sat cloth and ashes. Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, will not be exalted to heaven, will you? You will descend to Hades, for if the miracles had occurred in Sodom, which occurred in you, it would have remained to this day. Nevertheless, I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment than for you. He says you never repented. All the miracles that you saw, you never turned. I cracked the door open for the kingdom and you didn't want to go in. I'm showing you who I am. You wanted the kingdom, but you didn't want the king. You wanted to taste, but you didn't want to fully partake. You're just on the outskirts. You want the benefits, but you really don't want me. You're really not ready to turn your life over to me There were times that Jesus left people sick in a city in order to travel to another city. In Mark chapter 138, he said to them, Let us go somewhere else for the towns nearby, so that I may preach there also, for this is what I came for. What were the the miracles supposed to point to? Supposed to point to the message. The message that he had to give. But that's not the end of the story. Look at uh Verses twenty-five and twenty-six, it says, At that time Jesus said, I praise ye, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and have revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, for this way was well pleasing in your sight. There were a lot of people that were just there for the show. They were there for the sensation. They weren't there for Christ. But then there were were those that he calls Babes, infants, those that the father was drawing to himself, those that the father was revealing himself to It says, yes, Father, for this was well pleasing in your sight. Verse 28, come to me all you who are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And that's for all those that truly want the king. But truly want the king and not just the uh the benefits, the external benefits of the kingdom. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for the opportunity to behold our King, to behold the one with miraculous power, the one who gave a foretaste of glory divine. Crack the door open for the kingdom for those that truly wanted to accept the king on his terms, that truly wanted to repent of their sins and turn to Christ. Now, Father, the miracles that he did were to point to the message that he had to deliver. And Father, I pray that uh there wouldn't be uh anybody here who's still on the outside. looking in, people who see the benefits of a Christian life, but don't fully want to partake of the Christian life. My people that that want the benefits of Christianity, but don't want the king of Christianity. My Father, I pray that there's none here like that. And Father, I pray that if there is, Lord, that you would uh humble them, uh that you would convince them of the error of their ways, Lord, and that they would humble themselves and bow their knees to Jesus Christ. Now Father, we thank you for our Lord, our Savior, our King, of the one who who no man can do the works that he could do. There's not going to come a greater person who's attested than Jesus Christ. He came. He was attested through miracles. And uh one of the greatest miracles that he was attested by was his own resurrection. And for all those that would believe in him, he gives eternal life. Now, Father, I pray that uh you'd be giving eternal life to those that are humble, humbling themselves before you and repenting, turning to you, trusting in you. Father, may you do your work and draw men and women to yourself. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.