The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 5? Matthew chapter 5. Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends Jesus as the King and the Jewish Messiah, and uh this morning our church is arriving at a portion of Scripture that I've anticipated with a great deal of uh both excitement and fear. Both excitement and fear. Matthew uh chapter five. Actually let's uh start at at verse twenty-three and I'll read down to verse uh twelve together. Matthew uh chapter five Actually start at verse 4. Verse 423. Jesus was going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. Among the people. The news about him spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all who were ill, those suffering with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them. Large crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he had sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you, when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me, rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you. My Father, we come before uh this text, uh the the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that you'd help us to tread carefully on this passage. Father, that you'd help us to explain it accurately, and that you would help us. to submit to the teaching of our Lord together. Father, I pray that you'd be with me and allow me to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, like I said, I uh approach this text with uh a great deal of excitement and also a great deal of fear. I'm excited to reach Matthew 5 because it's the Sermon on the Mountain The Sermon on the Mount. James Montgomery Boyce observed that the Sermon on the Mount is the best known and most extensively studied discourse in the world. It has been the subject of thousands of books and articles, so many that there are now books about the books that have been written about the Sermon on the Mount. One book specifically on the Sermon on the Mount says this. No sermon ever preached has been more significant to the Christian church than the Sermon on the Mount. Christian writings from the close of the New Testament up until the fourth century quote Matthew 5 more frequently and extensively than any single chapter of the Bible And they quote Matthew five through seven more frequently and extensively than any other three chapters of the entire Bible. Uh even people outside of Christianity have been uh drawn sort of by like this magnetic pull to uh the Sermon on the Mount as well. One commentator says this Perhaps no other religious discourse in the history of humanity has attracted the attention, uh attracted the attention which has been devoted to the Sermon on the Mount. Philosophers and activists from many non-Christian perspectives have refused to worship Jesus, but nevertheless they have admired his ethic. In the 20th century, uh Mahatma Gandhi, a Hindu, was the sermon's most famous devotee. And uh so I come to the Sermon on the Mount with a great deal of anticipation. There's a lot of excitement. uh for me and studying the the Sermon on the Mount. But I'm also fearful because it's the Sermon on the Mountain. This is the Sermon on the Mountain. Touch this with a great deal of fear because uh this is this is holy ground that we're about to tread here. This this is holy ground that we're about to tread here. And of course all the scripture is holy. And uh it would be wrong to think that we can honor Christ by paying uh attention to the Sermon on the Mount and ignoring the rest of his teachings. That would be wrong. Uh this sermon is not all that we need to know about Christianity. Uh the most important message of Christianity is still to come in the future, uh, because Christ hasn't died and resurrected and ascended yet. So the most important message is still to come. Uh but as John Stott says, it is nearest the nearest thing, the Sermon on Mount, is the nearest thing to a manifesto that Jesus ever uttered. For it was his own description of what he wanted his followers to be and to do. Here is a Christian value system, ethical standard, religious devotion, attitude to money, ambition, lifestyle, network of relationships, all of which are totally at variance with those of the non-Christian world. This sermon is calling us to the highest standard, the greatest commitment, and the loftiest ideas. And uh I don't know how many people I've run into in the past uh that have told me, you know, I try to live my life by the Sermon on the Mount. Or actually tell me, I do live my life by the Sermon on the Mount. And I almost want to say you're you're kidding me, right? You you live you live your life, you know, you live the sermon on you live the sermon on the mount. That's what you're telling me? You live it? Look the Sermon on a Mount. Have you ever read it? And second, do you do you really understand the kind of life that this text is calling you to? Do you really believe that you live out the Sermon on the Mount? And uh usually what people are thinking about is you know the golden rule found in uh Matthew 7. 12 where Jesus says So in everything do to others what you would have them to do to you. For this sums up the law and the prophets. And people say, well, I live like that. I do to others what I want them to do to me. Really? Totally? You really do to others what you want them to do for you. They totally forget that the Sermon on the Mount is more than one verse, and they totally forget that they actually disobey that part of the verse that they do have. Matthew 5, 48 says, Therefore you are to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. That's in the Sermon on the Mount. Be perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect. They forget that verse along with the other 110 verses. out of the 111 that are found in this sermon, uh Jesus wasn't trying to set the bar low in this three chapters. No these three chapters. Jesus isn't setting the bar low. This is this is like pretty high in the clouds, okay? You know the bar is set pretty high. And for that reason, there's people who believe that this passage doesn't have any application for us today at all. They look at the Sermon on the Mount and they uh they try to argue that uh Jesus only used the sermon uh to show us our need of him. Uh that was a Lutheran uh view. There's uh they doubt that there's any uh uh uh real application. This this is kind of uh That was uh Luther's view. That this is just kind of like the law. You can't obey it, but it just smites your conscience and lets you know that you have need for Christ. And uh the truth is that it does do that. As we approach the Sermon on the Mount, it does smite our conscience and lets us know that you fall woefully short of what God really wants from your life. You fall woefully short. I remember I was uh riding with a coworker uh one time and uh we were talking about Christianity. I was trying to share the gospel with them, let them know about uh you know heaven, eternal life, and you know the the need for Christ And uh I said, hey, why don't I I had my Bible sitting there in the truck with me, so I just passed my Bible. I said, why don't you just read uh Matthew chapter five to seven? You know, and then we'll talk about after you're you're done. He got like maybe halfway through He put the Bible down, he just turned to me and he says, George, I'm just such a sinner. I am such a sinner. That was without any commentary from me at all. It's just reading, you know, a couple chapters, and he just he says, I'm I'm I'm just I'm such a sinner. There's no doubt that this passage makes us conscious of our need for Christ. But when you look at the passage, the primary group for this address wasn't necessarily the unbelievers. The primary The person that was addressed in this passage was the believer. This is addressing disciples. This is who Jesus is talking to. If you look in uh Matthew chapter 5 again, it says Jesus saw the crowds. He went up on the mountain. And after he sat down, his disciples came to him. Who's he talking to? His disciples. That's the primary audience. The primary audience is the disciples of Christ. Uh there's also some uh uh people uh some dispensationalists. I'm a dispensationalist, but there's Some dispensationalists who uh would uh say that Jesus only meant for his disciples to follow this in the kingdom to come You know, so this isn't for for right now, this is in the the kingdom to come. When when I return, that's when you're actually supposed to live by these principles, but for right now you just kinda You know, this is this is kind of like the ideal. But but really, you know, we're going to save the application of this uh for a future time. But as as you read through the sermon, it's obvious That the character and conduct that Jesus called these people to, he expected them to put it into practice immediately. This is a command. The things that he says are commands. It's not like they were free to be anxious until he comes back. free to be angry until he comes back. You know, I'm free to lust until Christ comes back. No. He's talking about commands that they're to follow right now, immediately. And there's also things that wouldn't make sense if it was just reserved for a future kingdom. Kind of like the prayer, Thy kingdom come. What are you praying for the kingdom to come if the kingdom's already here, right? So he's saying you're praying for the kingdom to come. So you're not yet in that final kind of kingdom. You know, it's not talking about, you know, these are the things that you do when I come back that you pray for the kingdom to come when I'm already here. That's not what he's saying. Saying, these are the things that you're supposed to be praying right now. Praying for the kingdom to come. But there are other people Who would agree that the sermon is to be lived out today, but they they water it down so much that it kind of loses its bite. They say, well, we can fulfill the Sermon on the Mount. We do live the Sermon on the Mount. There's people that uh preach a social gospel, they say things like uh this message was really meant to make make society a better place You know, that this is just kind of to apply to society as a whole, and we're all supposed to raise ourselves up and treat one another the way that we're supposed to and live out these principles. But Jesus didn't come to reform society. Jesus came to regenerate hearts. This is an individual command. It's not just something you push off to the, you know, let the government take care of this. You know, let the let the establishment take care of this command. This is something that people are to take care of. And then there's people that are more inclusivist. They believe that people are somehow able to merit salvation and live up to this standard. One writer actually says this, that membership is open to all men. You know, people who want to follow the Sermon on the Mount. Membership is open to all men, women, whether Christians, Jews, Muslims, or members of any religion or no religion at all, who desire to be loyal to the kingdom of God and discharge its duties. And I mean just reading that is just kind of hard. You know, I can be loyal to the kingdom of God and not even know who the king is? I'm going to be loyal to the kingdom of God and I'm not going to be loyal to the king? I don't even have to acknowledge Jesus Christ and I can live out the Sermon on the Mount. Are you kidding me? How can you be loyal to the kingdom if you're not loyal to the king? And beyond that, it's not enough just to admire Jesus' teachings. It's not even enough just to admire Jesus as a person. I admire the king. I love his teachings. I love his ethics. That's not enough. You're not part of his kingdom until you bow the knee to his authority. You're not part of the kingdom. You can talk all you want about the Sermon on the Mount and do good to others as I would have them do unto me. I live by the Sermon on the Mount. Say it all you want. If you haven't bowed the knee to the king, you're not a part of it. You're not a part of it And it's important to keep that in mind that Jesus taught his sermon to people that he preached repentance to previously. This isn't the first thing that, you know, when Jesus opens his mouth here, this isn't the first time he opened his mouth. Jesus had already previously preached repentance. And now he's talking to these disciples about the Sermon on the Mount. Okay? Repentance came first. You had to be a part of the kingdom to live this out. And you can't follow him until you've heard his voice. That's a requirement for being a part of the kingdom. And this morning we're just going to introduce ourselves to the message. Let's read verses one and two again. Matthew chapter five. It says, When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him, he opened his mouth, and he began to teach them, saying And uh this is all just preparation to hear from the the king, okay? This is preparation to hear from the king. And uh the message that I have for you this morning is is pretty simple. Are you prepared to hear from the one who is prepared to speak to you? Are you prepared to hear from the one Who is prepared to speak to you? Throughout the Gospels, Jesus will often make this statement: He who has ears to hear what? Let him hear. If you have ears to hear, hear! Listen! If you have ears to hear, right? He would use this mostly with the crowds when he talked to the crowds. But even on occasion he used this similar phrase even with his own disciples. Even with his own disciples, I found this interesting. Flip over to Mark chapter 8. Mark chapter 8. I want to show you an example of uh Word Jesus used this phrase even of his own disciples in Mark chapter 8, uh start at verse 11. Mark chapter 8, verse 11. So here's the Pharisees wanting to try to put Jesus into a trap. Mark 8, verse 11. It's a sign deeply in his spirit. He said, Why does this generation seek for a sign? Truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. Leaving them, he again embarked and went away to the other side, and they had forgotten to take bread. Talking about his disciples here. His disciples forgot to take bread and did not have more than one loaf in the boat with them. And he was giving orders to them saying Watch out! Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the leaven of Herod. They began to discuss with one another the fact that they had no bread. And Jesus, aware of this, said to them, Why do you discuss the fact that you have no bread? Did you not do you not yet understand? Do you not yet see or understand? Do you have a heart and heart? Having eyes to see, do you not see? And having ears, do you not hear? And do you not remember? When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces you picked up? They said to him, twelve. When I broke the seven for the four thousand, how many large baskets full of broken pieces did you pick up? He was saying to them, Do you not yet understand? I'm not talking about bread? Do you think I can't produce bread from a loaf? You saw me produce it for 5,000, right? Some estimates ten to fifteen to twenty thousand people. You saw me produce food for the multitudes, you don't think I can provide for you? You think I'm in here wondering about, hey, where are we going to get bread to eat? You really think that that's my problem? I'm talking about beware of these Sadducees, these Pharisees, the Herodians, beware of this false teaching. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not here worried about bread. He says, do you have ears to hear and you're still not hearing me? You're still not paying attention? You still don't understand? The ears aren't the problem. You know what the problem is? It's the heart. The heart's the problem. So if you have ears to hear it, but is your heart hardened? You don't understand what I'm trying to communicate to you? Ears aren't the problem, it's the heart. And to take that a step further, the message is not the problem. Jesus has no problem communicating. He has no difficulty with communication. He invented communication. He has no problem communicating. Jesus never spoke a word that was unclear. Never. Jesus never spoke a word that was unclear. He said some things that are hard. He said some things that are hard to understand. He said some things that were difficult. He said some things in pictures and parables, but he did not say anything that was unclear. He didn't stutter. He didn't mumble. He spoke clearly. And he says, you know what the problem isn't with my communication, I don't have to like, you know, switch up the sentence structure. What it is is that you have a heart in heart. Your heart's the problem. The problem is never with the word of God. Jesus never gives anyone that kind of excuse. When Jesus spoke to the Pharisees in Matthew 21, his question And he did this more than once. And this is just such a jab. I mean, these are the guys that are like the religious leaders, the scribes. You know, they they study for a living. Study the scriptures for a living. And you know what Jesus would come up to him and say? Have you guys never read? Are are you really that that thick? Did did you ever read the scriptures? Have you ever read it? It's just like good grief. This is the problem's not with the scriptures. Scriptures are clear. The problem is that you have this hardened heart. Hardened heart. And the question is, are are you prepared to hear the one that is prepared to speak? In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is prepared to speak, and the question is, are we prepared to listen? Jesus never When he talked about the scriptures with the Pharisees, say, you know, hey guys, I I I I really understand what your problem is. You know, those scriptures are really unclear, confusing. You know, that's that's your problem. You know, the problem is never with the scriptures. And uh the question, like I said, is are we prepared to listen? And there's uh three movements that we want to follow that we can kind of follow as we uh introduce ourselves to this passage. Uh the preparation of the crowds. For the crowds, the preparation for the crowds in verse 1, the priority of the disciples also in verse 1, and then the presentation of the message. The preparation for the crowds, the priority of the disciples, and the presentation of the message. Let's look at uh verse one again. The preparation for the crowds. Look at this. When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain. When Jesus Saw the crowds. He went up on the mountain. The crowds that we find here are the same crowds that we find in verse 23 to 25. If you were to back up in chapter 4. Uh talks about how Jesus is going throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, healing every kind of disease, every kind of sickness among the people, and the news about them spread throughout all Syria. And you bet the news spread throughout all Syria. I mean, this is a guy who can heal anything. Anything. This is not like the faith healers that people are watching on TV, you know, that heal nasal drip or something like that. This is like real disease. People that are terminal. And Jesus is healing everybody. Without exception. Here you have it. It's just like, I mean, just bring bring what you want. I can I can take care of it. Bring bring what you want. Paralytic, demoniac, epileptic, pain, suffering, torment. I can take it all. Jesus can handle everything and anything. And then in verse 25, and large crowds followed him. These are in the multiple thousands, okay? This is a large crowd, large crowds in the plural. Followed him from Galilee to the capitalist and Jerusalem and Judea from beyond the Jordan. And when Jesus saw the crowds, these are the crowds he's talking about. These people that he's healing, the people that he's doing these miracles with, these are the people that he's preparing for. When Jesus saw the crowds, like I said, they're the same crowds, the ones that saw his miracles. And his miracles, like I said, were really proof of his messiahship. If uh if you missed that, just to refresh your memory. The the Jews, when they saw the miracles that Jesus could perform, in John chapter seven, verse thirty one, it says, But many of the crowd believed in him, and they were saying, When the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? What was that saying? This is proof that this is the Christ. Proof. So why aren't we going to have somebody who can do all the miracles that Jesus can do today? Because there's not another Jesus. There is not another Christ. There is only one. All the miracles were pointing to this as the one. So that's why we're not going to have that going on today. And you can find the evidence for that right in the in the flow of scripture. So that the crowds were constantly closing in on Christ. This is the one who can actually take care of my problems. He can actually take care of my diseases. And there were times that Jesus changed locations. Because the crowds were pressing on him so much. There's an instance of that over in uh Matthew chapter 8, verse 18, when he saw the crowds closing in, he jumped on a boat. And ordered his disciples to go onto the other side of the sea. This is just kind of escape the the crowds because he had other priorities at the time. But there were uh other times that that he'd escaped from the crowd so he could spend time alone, so he could pray, spend time with his disciples. But this wasn't one of one of those times. Okay? This wasn't one of those times. And uh there were times when Jesus changed locations not to escape the crowds, but to accommodate the crowds. To allow for the crowds. And Matthew chapter 13, if you flip over there real quick, Matthew chapter 13, just a couple chapters. Starting at verse 1, it says, That day Jesus went out of the house and was sitting by the sea, and large crowds gathered to him, so he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd was standing on the beach, and he spoke many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went out to sow. And then he goes on in uh speaks this this parable here. So you have here in Matthew chapter 13 where he he distanced himself. He switched locations in order that he could accommodate more people. You know, if he would he if he just kinda sat there on the the shore with everybody else, he'd be too crowded in, he couldn't really seek to him. He says, Put me on a boat, I'll push out a little while Now I can speak to everybody. It's like um I'm I'm I'll make my own pulpit. You know, uh kind of like like uh during the summer I kind of stood on uh uh an ice cooler. It's like I'm gonna make my own pulpit, I'll make my own stand out here, you know, doing some outdoor evangelism Make your own pulpit. This is what Jesus did. Pushed out from the boat a little bit, said okay, now I can see everybody. He sits down and he speaks to these crowds that were gathered around. And uh really that's the kind of situation that you have going on uh in Matthew chapter five. He's he's Changing locations from where he is around the Sea of Galilee, he goes up into the to the mountain, not necessarily to get away from the crowds, but so that the he could actually accommodate uh the crowds and uh and speak to them uh there as well. So he moves from the crowds so he can uh have a place where he can speak to them. And the reason why we know that he's doing that is if you flip over to Matthew chapter uh seven. Look at chapter seven, uh verse twenty-eight. It says when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching. So after Jesus finishes his words, the crowds have gathered around by this point and they're actually listening in. Like I said, his primary group that he's talking to was the disciples. You know, that's who came around, that's who he's communicating to. But he's accommodating the rest of these crowds. He says, you guys can come in and listen in on what I'm talking to my disciples about. So he makes this accommodation uh for the crowds. So he goes up onto this mountain. When you hear the word mountain you shouldn't think of uh the Himalayas and the the peak of Mount Everest. He's not like, you know you know, trying to hike up a a mountain and you know people falling off the side because they lost, you know, the rope or something like that. That's not the kind of mountains you should think about. Uh these would be more more of hills. They're they're they're hills, large slopes that kind of were surrounding the the sea of of Galilee. That's what Matthew uh had in mind. The word for mountain actually can refer to a mountain region. You know, not just like you know the the peak of a mountain, but the whole, you know, region of of hills can refer to that whole range of of mountains. And uh in addition to this, uh on mountain ranges there were actually flat spots where you could have a large group that could assemble together. Okay? Uh so that's what you're to think about. Actually, uh Jennifer and I have had the uh privilege to to go to um Israel and actually see where you know some people believe is the traditional site for the Sermon on the Mount. And you know, if you look one way you know you're on a hill. If you look the other way it just looks like a plane. You know, it's just it's it's pretty flat. You know, you can accommodate a a large uh group of of people. Uh like I said, nobody knows exactly uh where uh this location was. There's a couple of sites that have been uh suggested. But there's a traditional site on the western shore where a church actually now sits and we've uh actually been able to go and visit the church there. But Luke six uh mentions uh some of these same details. But he c says it's it's on a plane. And uh some people say, hey, there's contradiction. You know, scriptures contradict themselves. It's like no. You know, Matthew's talking about the vantage point from the Sea of Galilee looking up. Luke is talking about from where Jesus was looking down, right? So you have it it looks like a plane. There's a large flat spot where you could have a large group of people. that could act that was actually part of the the hills in in this region here. So both uh sermons in Matthew 5 and Luke chapter 6, both of them begin with the Beatitudes. Both of them end with the illustration of the foolish builder, and then both are followed by a trip to Capernaum to heal the centurion servant. So we're talking about the same sermon in Matthew 5 and Luke 6. Matthew 5 focuses on different details. So it's assumed that Jesus found this large flat spot to speak to this group of people. And like I said, we know that he's speaking to the to the crowds. He's accommodating the crowds. Because of what it says later on in Matthew chapter 7. So Jesus plans ahead and provides this spot where he can speak to this large crowd of people. It wasn't an afterthought. And uh I find this encouraging That Jesus makes an accommodation for these people to come and hear him, even though he's particularly talking to his disciples. You know, that's the primary audience. But he accommodates this larger group of people to come to him. Because this is a group of people that haven't even trusted in Christ yet. Okay? This is a group of people that haven't come to trust in Jesus for salvation. They're not called followers. They're not called disciples. They're just called the crowds. And do you know that it's grace? It's God's grace even to hear his word? Do you know that? It's God's grace even to hear the good news? Sometimes people make this argument about uh you know the the innocent person in some dark jungle who's never heard the gospel, and the argument is often made that, you know, hey, that's just like wrong of God. You know, if if if everybody doesn't hear the message, if this is the the truth, you know, if if Jesus came and died and rose again and this is the message that we need to uh to believe. You know, it's it's actually in their mind wrong of God not for everybody to to have that that message. It would be wrong of God, they they say, you know, for him to send innocent people, you know, to hell because they've never heard about Christ. The reality is God doesn't send anybody to hell because they haven't heard about Christ. That's not why God sends people to hell. You know why God sends people to hell? Because they're sinners. Because they're sinners. Because they've rebelled against God. Because they've sinned against what they do know, not against what they don't know. Bible lets us know in Romans chapter 1 verse 20, it says, For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, his divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are with many excuses. That's not what it says. They're without excuse. There is nobody on this planet who has an excuse not to search for God. You got me? Nobody on this planet who has an excuse not to believe in God. God's made himself evident. Through creation, through the conscience, everybody knows that there's a God. And for those people that say, you know what, I search after this God, I'm going to seek after this God with all my heart. What does God say He'll do? You'll find me If you follow the light that's already been given to you in creation and the conscience, I'll give you the greater light. For the people that search, they find God. God is not hiding himself from people that, oh, I just desperately want to know God, and God is like hiding in the corner somewhere. That is not the God we serve. We serve a God who knows the heart. If there is somebody out there that's searching it's because God has drawn them in the first place, right And God is going to make sure that that person who's been called is going to reach all the way to glory. He's not going to lose anybody. You don't have to worry about anybody being lost. The gospel is good news, and it's even God's grace for you to hear the good news. It's God's grace for you to even hear it. The gospel is not the gospel of the deserved. It's the gospel of grace. God does not owe a rebel anything. He owes us nothing. Owes us absolutely nothing. It's a sovereign kindness that bestows grace, that draws us to himself. That allows us to hear the message. This is all of God's grace. And what blows me away is that many in this crowd, many in this crowd, were the same people that flagged Jesus down. That put him in a corner to try to heal him, that crowded around him. Same people benefited from his miracles, tasted the powers of the world to come, and he says of these same crowds that they did not repent. They did not repent. What reason did Jesus give anybody to reject him? You ever think about that? What reason did these crowds have to reject Christ? What reason could they think of for not bowing the knee to the king? Where was this crowd on crucifixion night? Where was this crowd? They should have been storming Pilate's gates in defense of Jesus Saying, ho, ho, hold, hold on. He healed me of leprosy. Hold on. This this guy calls me to walk. I used to be crippled. He calls me to walk. This guy raised my child from the dead. Release him! Release him! That should have been the cry on crucifixion night. What was the cry? Crucify him! How in the world do you make sense out of that? These crowds benefited from all of his miracles. Healed by his hand, he caused their children to come back to life. Where are they? Where are they on crucifixion night? Should have been storming the gates. Release this man. That should have been the overwhelming cry. And here you have the overwhelming cries, crucify him? How do you make sense out of that? But here you have Jesus making a commendation to these crowds to come and listen that he already knows because he knows the hearts of all men. He knows that these people are going to reject them. And he still makes room for them. He still heals them. He still touches them. Knowing what they're going to do the whole time. This is the kind of Christ that we have. He makes preparation for the crowds. Makes preparation for the crowds. Number two He puts a priority on discipleship. Puts a priority on discipleship. Now look at verse one again. When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. His disciples came. Jesus' disciples are really his primary audience. The crowds are allowed to listen in on the conversation. There are some things that he directs at the wider audience and you know later on in uh Towards the end, he starts talking about the path towards the kingdom. He talks about that. But it's clear throughout the uh the Sermon on the Mount that he's talking to his disciples. He's talking to his own. The crowds are allowed to listen in, but this is the conversation between me and my disciples. That's really what's what's going on. His disciples gathered around him. It's the Greek word mathetes, the word that's used for pupil, a follower, a learner. And there's a difference between the crowds and the committed. There's a difference between the crowds and the committed. And Jesus makes that distinction clear. And if you pay attention to the Beatitudes, there's this constant identification of those who are blessed. Who are the blessed ones? What does he say? Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven, and your reward is great, he says in verse 11. He's not speaking to everybody. It's not speaking about everybody. It's talking about them, they, theirs Everybody can't be called salt and light, as he talks about in verse 13. Verse 13, you are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has become tasteless, how can it be made salty again? Verse 14, you are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. He is not talking to the crowds here. He's not talking to the multitude saying, You are the light of the world. You are the salt of the earth. You people are rejecting me, and I know you're going to reject me. Oh yeah, you are lights and salt. You're the great influence. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking to his disciples. He says, you. This is this group right here. You are the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. He's talking to his to his own. Everybody can't be called salt and light. Only believers can And most of this sermon really has no application for people who are not committed to Christ. No application for people who aren't committed to Christ. And that's an important point to make. No application. You know, a lot of people want to, you know, say they live by the Sermon on the Mount, but if if you haven't submitted to the king, you can't. You can't. This doesn't apply. What does apply is the end. You know, when he calls you to himself, but but you can't you can't live out the principles of the Sermon on the Mount. One of the things I was I've been recently uh reminded about, even as I've been studying this, is uh just how people try to make application to themselves outside of the context of scripture. People do that a lot. One of the things I recently came across was a popular devotional called Jesus Calling by Sarah Young. In the in the booksheet. Says, I began to wonder if if I too could receive messages during my times with community with God, you know, in her time of prayer, she's, you know, praying for messages from God. I've been writing in prayer journals for years, but that was one-way communication. I did all the talking. I knew the guy communicated with me through the Bible, but I yearned for more. That's the problem. Increasingly I wanted to hear what God had to say to me personally on a given day. I decided to listen to God with pen in hand, writing down whatever I believed he was saying. I felt awkward the first time I tried this, but I received a message. It was short, biblical, appropriate. It addressed topics that were current in my life, trust, fear, closeness to God. I responded by writing in my prayer journal. And it's always interesting when people say, Hey, I received a message and it was biblical. Well, if it was biblical, why did you need to receive a message outside of the Bible? Make sense? This practice of listening to God has increased my intimacy with Him more than any other spiritual discipline, so I want to share some of the messages I have received in many parts of the world. Christians seem to be searching for deeper experiences of Jesus' presence and peace. The messages that follow address that need. She's you know kind of preface to her book. So Sarah makes this claim that Jesus is not only speaking to her, but that God is speaking through her to, you know, the people that receive this book from her. And the way that she writes this journal is as if Jesus is speaking directly to you. This is Jesus talking to you. This is Jesus calling you. This is Jesus communicating to you. Talks about in the first person, I say this to you. And people are reading this stuff and uh I had a friend that was looking at the book and my antennas immediately came up, you know, the the discernment antennas, boop, hey, you you this this book is bad news here, all right? But on the bottom it had verses. You know, I said, well, you know, read the verses, but you know, that the front half, just leave that off, okay? Just you know, you read the read the verses, but you know, this whole Jesus talking to you thing, you know, just stick to what the scripture has to say. But then I started thinking about even that. Think about it. If I have just like a list of isolated verses And I'm saying that this is God's communication to me for this day, you know, you know, April, whatever. This is God talking to me today, these three verses. Right? If I say that that 's guy talking to me, just a couple verses about, you know, God's peace, his comfort, his blessing, but I use those and appropriate that to myself without the surrounding context, what am I doing? What am I doing? I'm not rightly dividing the word. I'm trying to receive messages for me outside of the context of the scriptures. It's actually a form of twisting the scriptures. If I take a list of verses about God seeking peace and comfort and blessing and isolation from the context. of those verses? Am I still speaking God's word? Am I still receiving God's word? The answer is no. I'm not. The blessing of the Sermon on the Mount Was reserved for those who met the requirements of the Sermon on the Mount. You get that? I can't just look at this verse in uh you know Matthew chapter 5 and say, Hey, blessed am I. Blessed am I, blessed am I, blessed am I. No. Blessed are those who are fill in the blank, right? There's the context for the blessing of God. And there's oftentimes people take the blessings of God and want to just heap on this blessing and comfort and peace aside from all the requirements of those blessings. Having uh Jeremiah in Jeremiah chapter 6 verse 14, also in chapter 8, verse 11, where uh Jeremiah he's preaching a message of doom and gloom, and God is going to bring destruction. But you have these other prophets that rise up in Judea and say, Hey! Hey, peace, peace , peace. There's all kinds of peace. In Jeremiah 6:14, it says, They have healed the brokenness of my people superficially. You're trying to speak all this peace and comfort, and God is here to care for you, and He's watching out for you. You know, don't worry about His commands. He's for you. Peace and comfort and safety. Aside from the commands of Scripture. That's called a false prophet. If I speak peace where there is no peace, if I try to bring comfort where there shouldn't be comfort, now I'm a false prophet. And this is what Jesus doesn't do. Jesus is not a false prophet. He's not giving false blessings. It's interesting that Jesus would spend this time focusing on his own. Like I said, he's communicating to his own here. And he saw this is the the more immediate need that I need to strengthen my own. The crowds are there There's still the the need for for care and and mercy and and Jesus is gonna do all that. I mean Jesus he just he just takes care of everything perfectly. Uh it's like uh I wish I could have just like been there to watch it happen. You know, how does he make decisions and when does he say no to this and yes to that? I would have loved to be there for that. But here you have Jesus understands the priority of discipleship. This is the time for me to communicate to my disciples. Even in the midst of all the busyness, the midst of all the demands, he pulled away. So he can speak to his disciples and even accommodating for the crowds, but he says, this is the time for you. Specifically for you. And as you read through the gospel, there's this kind of consistent pattern where Jesus understands the priority of discipleship. Everything wasn't for everybody. There's some things that were specifically for us disciples. Flip over to Matthew chapter 13 real quick. Just want to show you this. Matthew chapter 13. Started verse 9. Here he goes again, he who has ears, let him hear. And the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? Jesus answered them, To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been granted. For whoever has to him more shall be given, and he will have in abundance. But whoever does not have, even what he has, shall be taken away from him Therefore I speak to them in parables because while seeing they do not see and while hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. So he says, you know what, there's certain things that are just for you. I'll speak to the crowds. They I'll accommodate them. I'll let them come in. I'll let them listen, but there's there's certain things that I've reserved just for you guys. There's a priority on discipleship that uh Jesus places here. So he's he's happy to have the the crowds around But when it comes to the explanation, the clarification, the further teaching, additional teaching, he says this is this is for the disciples. It's for the disciples. And uh just by way of application, there's a a lot of churches today that that starve believers and make every Sunday an evangelism rally. You know, to make it seem like, hey, when we get in here and and gather together it's uh it's really not for you. That's like the message that's communicated. You know, this is just, you know, this is an evangelism rally and we're speak preaching to all the unbelievers that come in and you know you'll have to be fed kind of somewhere else That that wasn't Jesus' approach. I remember I was actually a part of a church where uh the the teaching just kind of started taking a nosedive. I went up and talked to the pastor and I said it I said, it just it seems like he kind of changed your your approach to ministry here. You know, what's going on? And uh he says, well he actually admitted to me. He said he had. He changed his approach to ministry and I said, I said, why? He says, Well I'm you know, I'm trying to meet the people where they are. You know, the people that are coming in, visiting, I'm I'm trying to meet them where where they are. And I said, Well I just I just don't feel like I'm I'm being fed anymore. You know, I don't feel like you know we're really getting into the Word of God, you know, anymore. And you know what he told me? He said, uh well that's because you're selfish. So you're you're thinking about yourself. You know, you need to think about people and and where they are and I said, Well I'm kinda thinking about where they are and uh we need to bring them somewhere. You know, we can't just go down to the lowest common denominator, but um Anyway, decided to uh to leave but but here he is and uh I mean I understand people's intentions sometimes when it comes to that. It's like, you know, hey, we want to you know bring people in and attract a crowd, but you can't do it at the expense of feeding people. Having people that are coming to you that want to be edified and built up in the scriptures, and you're going to say, well, hey, you'll have to get that somewhere else. That's that's not what the what the church is supposed to be about. That's not what Christ was about. And the church is in a sad state if it can no longer feed its people, right? If you can't go to the church to be fed, you know, there's a problem. There's a problem. So here you have Jesus, he prepared the crowds, he prioritized the disciples, and finally he presented the message. He presented the message. Look again in uh I'll start at verse one again. When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain. After he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, And uh everything about this communicates Jesus' authority. Communicates his authority. There is uh first of all the the location communicated authority. Alright? Uh there's some who would make take note about uh Jesus speaking from the mountain. They said this would would have actually reminded the reader of Moses on Mount Sinai. I'm not convinced that this is exactly what Matthew had in mind by mentioning the detail about the mountain, but it's it's an interesting detail. One commentator uh makes this observation. He says the words He went up on the mountain in Matthew 5. 1, constitute an exact verbal parallel to the description of Moses ascending Mount Sinai. In Exodus 19, 3. This particular construction appears only three times in the entire Greek Old Testament, and all three occurrences describe Moses' ascent of Mount Sinai. And it might be that that's what Matthew's trying to indicate. That this is just as Moses went up into the mountain and gave the law. Here you have Jesus going to the mountain. So it might be that, uh but there's there's a connection that some make uh with Moses in in that regard. His uh position, his posture would have communicated authority. Okay? Uh it's been noted that He sat down. After he sat down, it's been noted that uh sitting down was actually the position that rabbis took when they were prepared to teach When a rabbi was prepared to teach, he would sit down. That was the correct position for formal teaching in that context. Today the formal position is to stand up. Right, to get before a group of people and stand up. That's like the formal position for for teaching. The formal position for teaching then was to sit down. When I sit down, that's the time when when we're formally going to uh to have teaching. And that's why you have uh certain uh uh uh speech about you know taking the chair. You know, it was a a position of uh of authority, formal authority in uh Luke chapter 4. Verse 20, when Jesus taught in the synagogue in Capernaum, it says in Luke chapter 4, verse 20, he closed the book, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. And all eyes of the synagogue were fixed on him. Why? Because he's saying, I'm about to teach. I'm about to communicate something here. He sat down. Everybody's fixed on him because they know what he's about to do. If you remember when Jesus got into the boat, I read a little earlier in Matthew 13, large crowds gathered around him. He got into the boat and he sat down. Formal position of teaching. He's about to teach. Jesus referred to the scribes and the Pharisees, and he says, Matthew 23, verse 2, the scribes and the Pharisees, they've seated themselves in the chair of Moses. They've put themselves as the formal teachers over Israel. You've put yourself in Moses ' chair. The seat was a symbol of authority. And it's kind of interesting. We use some similar language today, like we call a uh a person a like a chair person of the board, you know, chairing a committee, you know, this is the the the elder chairman or whatever. It's it's a word that we use for a position of uh of authority. We still use that word chair. Some I mean we probably don't even know why we use it anymore. You know, but we speak about the chair Why? Because it used to be the place of authority, seat of authority. The position that Jesus was in, the pasture Jesus was in, communicated authority. Also a communicated authority was this description. Listen to this. After he sat down, his disciples came to him, verse 2, he opened his mouth. Now I I looked at that and it's like Why would you have to tell me that he opened his mouth? I mean, how else are you going to teach? With your mouth closed? Right? Why would he say he he he opened his mouth and began to teach? I mean, that's obvious. Why do you have to add that detail? This description communicates authority. Communicates authority. The phrase in the New Testament was used to speak of a solemn word or a word from God. A solemn word or word from God. Jesus uses it over in Matthew chapter 13. You can flip over there real quick, Matthew chapter 13. Look at verse 34. I'll start at verse 33. He spoke another parable to them, the kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three pecks of flour until it was all leaven. Verse 34. All these things Jesus spoke to the crowds in parables, and he did not speak to them without a parable. This was to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet. I will open my mouth. In parables, I will utter things hidden since the foundation of the world. When it's talking about opening his mouth, it's for revelation. Revelation from God. He opened his mouth in parables and he uttered things that were hidden since the foundation of the world. Give you another example. Look at Acts chapter 10. Acts chapter 10. A couple books over. You guys can track with me. Matthew, uh, Acts chapter 10. This is after Peter has just had a vision, vision of uh unclean animals coming down on a on a sheet, and God tells Peter, you know, get up, Peter, rise, kill, eat. And uh that 1 Peter doesn't get it, right? It's like, you know, these are unclean animals. There are certain animals that you weren't supposed to eat underneath the the Old Testament law, you know, ceremonial law. And he says, I've I've never had any of these animals before. These are unclean animals. And God says, rise, kill, eat. Peter doesn't get it at first. He's kind of disturbed because like I said, he's never had this This kind of food, but uh God was calling it cleansed and commanded him to eat. Look at uh Acts chapter 10, verse 34. Opening his mouth, Peter said. I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality. What happened is uh he has this vision three times. After he has this vision, he's kind of thinking about what does this all mean? And he gets a knock on the door. It's a gentile at my door. All of a sudden he makes this connection. You know, these unclean animals that I wasn't supposed to have anything to do with, and now there's this gentile who's unclean I'm not supposed to have anything to do with. You know what? God is trying to tell me something here. Well he says, opening his mouth, Peter said, I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality, but in every nation the man who fears him and does what is right is welcome to him. Peter's getting this revelation and it says that he opened up his mouth and he spoke these words. Okay? Same kind of thing. It talks about the silent word, a word of revelation. One more verse. One more verse. I'll flip you over to Old Testament. Old Testament. Fifth book end, Deuteronomy. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. Flip over to Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 18. Deuteronomy 18 we have uh Moses speaks of uh this is kind of as he's preparing the people to enter into the land of uh of promise. And uh in this passage he speaks about a prophet who will come after him, who is like him, in Deuteronomy chapter 18. Look what he says in verse 15. It says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your countrymen, and you shall listen to him. This is according to all that you asked of the Lord your God in Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, let me not see this great fire any more or I will die, referring back to to Sinai and all that happened there. The Lord said to me, They have spoken well. I'll raise up a prophet from among their countrymen like you, and I will put my words in his mouth And he shall speak to them all that I command him. And it shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words which he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him Deuteronomy 18 was understood as a messianic prophecy to speak about the Messiah, the Christ. When you have Jesus here opening up his mouth, what are the words that are coming out? These are God's words. God says, I will put my words in his mouth. So the words that he speaks are going to be my words. When Jesus spoke, God spoke. The Father spoke. Can you imagine hearing direct communication from God in the flesh? Can you imagine that? Direct communication from God in the flesh? Are you prepared to hear from the one who's prepared to speak? Are you prepared to hear from him? This is God talking. It's reported that uh uh Daniel Webster, who was a leading American senator from Massachusetts, this is way back during the period of the Civil War, he had this inscribed on his tombstone My heart has always assured and reassured me that the gospel of Jesus Christ must be a divine reality. The Sermon on the Mount cannot be a merely human production. He says these these words that this man speaks, this is like nothing I've ever heard before. This isn't just human words. Nobody just sat down and made this stuff up. These are divine words. There's no comparison to it. No comparison to what Jesus is about to say here. Alfred Edersheim was born to Jewish parents, leading authority on Judaism in the centuries leading up to Christ. He says the rabbinic parallels are said to be in general only superficially similar and often opposite in spirit. Again, there is nothing that we have that is like the Sermon on the Mount. Nothing. There's no one who taught like Jesus taught. That's why by the time he's done with the sermon, like they're picking their jaws up off of the ground It's like they just can't believe what they're hearing. Flip over to uh Matthew chapter uh chapter seven. Matthew chapter seven. We're almost wrapped up here I knew we weren't gonna get far. I knew we weren't gonna get far. It's more of an overview, alright? I want to try to whet your appetite for what we're about to learn. Look at verse uh twenty-eight and twenty-nine. When Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as their scribes. They said, nobody's ever talked like this before. Nobody. Leon Morris said it was a scribal habit to appeal to authority There was a widespread respect for AIDS. Thus it was important to cite authorities if one wished to obtain a hearing. If I really want people to hear me, I've got to quote somebody, all right? But Jesus ignored the scribal commonplace, where others appealed to authorities. Jesus simply said, I say unto you, there is a clear note of authority in his words. And as a person who does a lot of uh research and understands the importance of giving credit where credit's due, documenting where I get definitions from. I find this absolutely fascinating. This is fascinating. What would I look like if I come in here on a Sunday morning and contradict every authority that you know of? What would I look like? Every reliable source that you know about. And just say, you know, I know your Bible encyclopedias tell you this, but I say unto you I know that your uh commentary says this, but I say unto you, I know what your systematic theology says, but I I say unto you, you know, trash those Bible dictionaries. You don't need them, because I say unto you, I I hope somebody would kick me out of here, like pull me down, you know, drag me down, just get me out. If if I come in here with that kind of air of authority, you know, I I know what you've heard before, but I I've got something to say. I have nothing to say. What do I look like coming in here with my own just coming up with stuff? Here you have Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. This, like I said, fascinating. Matthew chapter 5. Verse twenty two, but I say to you. Verse twenty twenty-eight, but I say to you Verse thirty two, but I say to you, verse thirty-four, again you have heard that the ancients were told you shall not make false vows, but shall fulfill your vows to the Lord, verse thirty four. But I say to you thirty-nine, but I say to you Forty-four. But I say to you, chapter six, look at chapter six, verse five. When you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners, so that they may be seen by men. I say to you. Same thing, verse sixteen. Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance, so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting. Truly, I say to you Verse 25, for this reason I say to you. 29, yet I say to you. Then look at what he says in chapter 7, verse 21. Start in verse 21. So it's not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord , I mean, has anybody ever stopped to really think about that, right? Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name cast out demons and in your name perform many miracles? Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine And acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on a rock. You want to be wise, you listen to me. You want to be wise, listen to me And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man. You're a fool if you don't listen to me Who built his house on a sand? The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. No wonder when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching. The word for uh for amazed, it's uh it's a word which means to be stricken with panic, shock, and astonishment. To be cast off by a blow, as MacArthur puts it, they were struck out of their minds. This totally blew them away. Who is this man? Who says your entire destiny rests upon whether or not I say to you? Your entire destiny is based upon whether or not I let you in. I'm the judge. If you don't listen to me , You're a fool. Who who is this? No wonder they were shocked. No wonder they were shocked. And I really believe that uh as we study the Sermon on the Mount, that we are in for a mind-blowing experience. Okay? We're in for a mind-blowing experience. You can read through this in like 10 to 15 minutes. Five to seven, but it likely uh might have taken Christ even days to go over all the material that was here It might have been a full day, might have been more than than one day. There's things that he no doubt said that aren't included in this. He didn't take him out on the mountain for 10 to 15 minutes. This is like long teaching in Matthew chapter uh uh 15 verse 32 talks about uh having the crowds three days teaching Teaching the cross for three days, and after three days he says, you know what, I think these guys are hungry by now. Why don't we give them something to eat? Been out here teaching for three days. I think they're might might be ready for a snack, right? I mean Jesus he he he went out for big blocks of teaching. It wasn't like you know no 45-50-minute sermon. What is that? You guys are whiners, right? Our sermon, what is that? I need more. There you have it, it's Jesus. He spent days teaching these people. So much to learn, so much to learn. What we're going to learn about, we're going to learn about the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven. The entire sermon from beginning to end focuses on the kingdom. The kingdom's the emphasis. It's found in the beginning with the first Beatitude in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 3. It says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And you follow it right through until the end of the sermon in Matthew chapter 7, verse 21. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. It's got kingdom of heaven. We're just going to be swimming in kingdom of heaven, kingdom of God, all the way through this sermon. We're going to learn about the nature of the kingdom. The kind of life required of those who desire to become a part of it. As disciples of Christ, we are kingdom citizens. We are kingdom citizens. We have a card. We're in the kingdom. Okay? We're kingdom citizens As disciples of Christ, and we want to know what does the king expect from us. Matthew, uh the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5 to 7, we're going to learn about that. In uh chapter five, we're going to learn about what true disciple, uh true disciples of the kingdom, what their character is to be like. In uh chapter five, verses thirteen to sixteen, we're going to learn about the influence of the kingdom. What does it mean to be salt and light? What does that mean? What does that mean to be salt and light? I'll give you two words that we're gonna look at a little later on. There's no selling out. And there's no hiding out. When we talk about uh you know what does it mean to be a true witness and influence? You can't sell out, you can't compromise And you can't hide out either. Even if you say, hey, I'm not compromising, you know, what what good is that doing if you're just underneath the basket somewhere, right? No sellout, no hideout Matthew chapter 5, 17 to 48, we're going to learn about true righteousness, the true righteousness of the kingdom. How do could kingdom citizens conduct themselves, not just their character, what they are internally, but how do they act? What are their deeds? Okay, we're going to learn about that. We're going to learn about the true motivation, true motives of the kingdom. What are right and wrong motivations? How do you know when you're being motivated properly? We're going to learn about that. What are the true riches of the kingdom? You know, seeking first the kingdom of God. All that's going to be discussed in Matthew chapter 6, 19 to 34. true discernment in the kingdom. You often hear actually say that the most quoted Bible verse in America is not John 3. 16. The most quoted Bible verse in America is not, you know, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That's not the most quoted Bible verse. You know what the most quoted Bible verse is? Judge not! Judge not lest you be judged. Nobody judging me. Most quoted Bible verse in America. We're gonna learn about what that verse means, okay? We're gonna learn about what this verse means. True discernment in the kingdom. We're going to learn about the true gift of the kingdom. And then we're going to learn about the true path to the kingdom. What does the king say about entrance into his kingdom? And how do you avoid the phony and wrong paths to the kingdom? All this is the Sermon on the Mount. Like I said, you uh approach this with great excitement and great trepidation. This is going to be fantastic, okay? Looking forward to uh to learning more from our Savior together. Final quote. I'm not Jesus, so I get to quote people, all right? After 1900 years, the Sermon on the Mount still haunts men. They may praise it as Mahatma Gandhi did. Or like Nietzsche, they may curse it. They cannot ignore it. And though some turn from it in despair, it continues like some magnetic mountain to attract to itself the greatest spirits of our race. It is the most searching and powerful utterance we possess on what concerns life. We're going to learn, all right? We're looking forward to it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for the opportunity that we have. To come before you, to open up the scriptures. My Father, we thank you that as Christ came and opened up his mouth, that he spoke truth, and that we have the opportunity to hear truth. My Father, I pray that you'd help us to submit to the truth, to the God of truth. May you be glorified and honored in all that we say and do. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.