The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're back in the book of Romans, Romans chapter 5, and we're in a section of Scripture where Paul has been describing the glories of our salvation. Through Christ and through Christ alone, we've received peace, grace, hope, joy, love, future salvation, present reconciliation All of this comes to us as a gift by his grace. Verse 15 of chapter 5, it says, by the grace of God and the gift by the grace of one man. Jesus Christ, we have all of these glories of salvation. They've abounded to the many. And it's incredible to think about that, that all that we have comes through this one man, Jesus Christ. And if the question is, how can the benefits of one man's actions be spread out to so many people, the answer is that it's just as through one man sin entered into the world and death resin. If you have a hard time understanding how Jesus' righteousness can apply to so many, just think about the reverse. How did one man's sin apply to so many? It's in the same way that death spread to all men because all sinned in Adam. Back in 2013, Time magazine posted an article titled, Who's the Biggest? the the 100 most significant figures in history. And in it they they published the results of a data-driven ranking where historical figures were evaluated, and number one on their list was right. They rank Jesus as the most significant figure in history. Who do you think number two was? Who would you say is second to Jesus in the impact they've had on the world? If we're going to be biblical about it, we'd have to say it was Adam. Outside of Jesus Christ, no single individual has had a greater impact on the human race than Adam. And that's a fact Time magazine listed Napoleon Bonaparte as number two, which I found interesting, a French military commander who conquered much of Europe and established a legal system that influences many laws today, but number two is actually Adam. The right answer biblically is not Napoleon, it's Adam. No one has had a greater impact on humanity than Adam next to Jesus Christ. Adam's only mentioned twelve times in the entire scripture, but his impact is incalculable. As one commentator says, Adam through his one sin has dug every grave, built every prison forged every chain, erected every gallow, made strong the bars of hell, not a sigh or groan or wail is heard on earth or in hell, but that sin, and his sin in particular, is the cause of it. Think about the impact of Adam's sin on the human race. And all that Adam introduced into this world by his one sin, Jesus overcomes by his one act of obedience. What Adam ruined, Jesus redeems. Through Adam came sin. Through Christ came righteousness. Through Adam came death. Through Christ came life Through Adam came condemnation. Through Christ comes justification. Through Adam came the penalty. Through Christ came the free gift. Through Adam we were subject to sin and death. But through Christ we reign in life and righteousness. And all of humanity can be summed up underneath one of these two representative heads. It's that simple. Either you're in Adam or you're in Christ. And that's the way that Paul puts it in First Corinthians chapter fifteen and verse twenty two, where he says, For as in Adam all die So also in Christ, all will be made alive. If you're in Adam, you're heading to death. If you're in Jesus, you're heading to life. And Adam all die, and Christ all live. You're either in one or the other But Paul understands his audience because he's speaking to people who would have raised their hands in objection to say that I don't know if it's just these two categories. Isn't there a third category that we need to talk about? If you remember the Roman church had a healthy representation of Jewish believers, and their question would have been, but what about Moses? What about Moses? In fact, if they had their vote for a number two of the most significant people in history, they would have chosen Moses. In contrast to Adam, who's only mentioned twelve times in the Bible, Moses is mentioned eight hundred and thirty-four times in the Bible And it's only after Israel is gathered together at Sinai, under Moses, that they're finally considered a nation. In Exodus chapter 19, God sends his word to Israel through Moses. Exodus nineteen and verse five, he says, Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice, keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you will speak to the sons of Israel. Israel was constituted as a nation under Moses. The great lawgiver was Moses The sons of Israel who multiplied in Egypt became a nation under Moses, and nothing shaped their lives more than the law that came through Moses. So the question for the Jewish people would be, Well, what about the law? What about Moses? Doesn't the law redeem what Adam ruined? Why can't we say that through the law righteousness comes? Or through the law that we have life Or through the law that we have justification, or through the law that we reign in life and righteousness. And Paul's answer would be simply, that was never the purpose for the law. You've misunderstood the law. That's actually the misunderstanding. In fact, the law didn't come to make things better. You may not be prepared for this. The law came to make things worse. The law came to make things worse. To jump from Adam to Moses is like jumping from the frying pan into the fire. Because Moses does not relieve us from the burden of sin. Moses adds to the weight of sin. That's what Moses does. That's what he does. Let's take a look at our passage. Because I know you guys don't believe me. Romans chapter 5, take a look at verses 20 and 21. Verse 20. The law came in so that the transgression would increase. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. So that as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness. to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we're grateful for your word. Your word is rich. Your word is powerful. Your word is all that we need for life and godliness. Father, I pray that we would understand the things that are written in this book. Father, that we would apply to our hearts. And Father, that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Recently, there's been a renewed interest in Jewish law, names, ceremonies, or various Hebrew roots movements. Increase in the number of people who are claiming to be the true Israel. And along with this claim, there's a desire to adhere to the Mosaic Law, as if the Mosaic Law was central to the redemptive plans of God. And there's a number of biblical illustrations that really help us think through those kinds of claims. And I just want to, just briefly as an introduction, just kind of take you through a couple of these. Because I think it'll set the stage and kind of frame out what we'll be talking about today. But uh first of all, let's flip over to Romans chapter 7. A couple chapters over Romans chapter 7. And the first illustration that we'll take a look at is how the law is considered to be a widowed spouse. A widowed spouse. Take a look at chapter 7, starting at verse 1. Paul says, or do you not know, brethren, for I'm speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives? For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. When you enter into the to the bond of marriage, that's to be a permanent union. It's not a game. It's not what you just go on a TV show and try out for size. You know, marriage is a serious engagement. You're entering into a covenant before the Lord, covenant before one another, covenant in the sight of many witnesses. But we've basically turned it into a game show. But marriage is serious. It's it's it's a a sober sober time. It's a it's a solemn event. Couples take t take a leap of of faith in in some senses, but but they're trusting in the Lord uh that they will be committed to the vows that they they make. It's not a game, it's not entertainment, it's a lifelong permanent bond. Similar kind of commitment that Israel made before the Lord at Sinai. When they committed themselves to the Lord and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, as they entered into this Mosaic covenant. All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. We're committed to this till death do us part. But if one spouse dies, then they're set free from that commitment. The living spouse is set free from that commitment. So the bond is permanent, the bond of marriage is permanent until ye die. And what Paul is saying is, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law, through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead. in order that we might bear fruit for God. He's saying you're no longer joined to the law because you've died to the law and you're now found in Jesus Christ. So you no longer have to follow the law and the prescriptions of the law. Because you've died to that, you're now joined to another. You're joined to Jesus Christ Romans chapter seven and verse six says this, but now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit, not in the oldness of the letter The law is like a widowed spouse. You've died to the law. Now you've been made alive in Christ, and now you can be joined to another. Another one. Flip over to Galatians chapter 3. Galatians chapter 3, we'll start at verse 21. Galatians chapter 3, starting at verse 21. Speaks about the law as our former tutor, our guardian. Galatians chapter 3, starting at verse 21. It says, Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be, for if a law had been given which was able to impart life, Then righteousness would have indeed been based on the law. But the Scripture has set up everyone under sin so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, being set up to the faith which was later to be revealed. And then verse 24, important verse. Therefore the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor, for you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus That word for tutor and the the Nasby, it's uh maybe translated other ways in your version that you're looking at. But that word tutor, it's an interesting Greek word. It's the the Greek word paide gogas, paide gogas. And it was the word that was used for a servant who accompanied a child from home to school and back home again In the home, he had the responsibility for taking care of the child, tutoring the child, disciplining the child, caring for the child. He was in charge of the child in the absence of his parents. In the absence of his parents, this slave was in charge. And the best English equivalent might be something like a nanny, a caretaker, a guardian, or even foster parents who are responsible for everything related to that child. A couple years ago, we took care of an international student named Joyce, and we were told by the agency that when she comes into your home, she's your child. You treat her like she's just one of your children. We had the authority over her while she was here. We told her when to get up, when to go to bed, what she could eat, what she couldn't eat. But when we sent her back home to her country, that authority ended. We weren't calling her up to say, hey, what time did you wake up today? No, that's not my responsibility anymore because now you're with your parents. I was a temporary guardian. And that's the kind of relationship that we also have with the law. The law is not our biological parent. It's a nanny. It's a guardian. It's a foster parent. It has a job to do. But once Dad shows up, that responsibility is over with. And now you don't listen to me anymore. Who do you listen to? Ask your dad You don't come to ask me for advice or what to do. Ask your dad. Because he's now the authority over your life. He's back home. So now he has the authority. So the law has become our tutor, temporary guardian, in order to lead us to Christ. And once we're led to Christ, do we now go back to the nanny? No. You listen to Christ. Because Christ is the authority. That was the whole job of the law, to bring you to Christ so that you would listen to him. And notice again the relationship that we have with Christ through faith is not a commitment through the law, it's being committed to Christ through his words. Another place that we can look at this. Over in uh Galatians chapter 4, Galatians chapter 4, taking a look at verse 21, but here we learn that the law is a maidservant. And not the mother. The law is a maidservant and not the mother. If you remember, Abraham was promised that he would have a son, and after becoming impatient with the Lord Instead of following after the Lord and waiting patiently for his promise, he instead had a son through his wife's maidservant named Hagar. And as long as Sarah was barren, it was assumed that Ishmael would be Abraham's heir. But that was only a temporary relationship. Because as soon as Sarah had her own child, all the promises and blessings now belong to who? Isaac. It didn't belong to Ishmael anymore. And listen to how Paul puts it in Galatians chapter 4, starting in verse 21. He says, Tell me, you who want to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it was written that Abraham had two sons, one by the bondwoman, one by the free woman. But the son by the bondwoman was born according to the flesh. The son by the free woman through the promise. This is allegorically speaking. So he says, I'm giving you an illustration to point out something else. This is allegorically speaking, for these women are two covenants. One proceeding from Mount Sinai, being the law, bearing children who are to be slaves, she is Hagar. Now this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. Jerusalem at this time was still attempting to follow the law. Verse 26 it says, but the Jerusalem above is free. She is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, barren woman who does not bear, break forth and shout, You who are not in labor, for more numerous are the children of the desolate than of the one who has a husband. And you, brethren, like Isaac, are children of promise. So again, we find out that the law is again like this kind of temporary placeholder But it was awaiting for the fullness of the promise. The law was like the maidservant, like Hagar, who temporarily enjoyed the benefits and blessings of the home. But as soon as Sarah bore her own child What happened to Hagar? Look at verse 29. But as at that time he was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit. So it is now also. But what does the scripture say? Cast out the bond woman and her son. Think about that. If the bond woman is the covenant at Sinai, the Mosaic law, what is Paul saying to do? Cast it out. Cast it out. For the son of the bond woman shall not be an heir with the son of the free woman. So that, brethren, we are not children of a bond woman, but of the free woman. The law had its place for a season, but now that Christ has come, the Bond woman and her sons have been cast out. I'll give you one more. Flip over to Hebrews chapter eight. Hebrews chapter eight. Speaks about how the law is part of the old covenant and not the new. The old covenant and not the new. Hebrews chapter 8, take a look at verse 6. But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry. By as much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which has been enacted on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion sought for a second. For finding fault with them He says, Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will effect a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah, not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and I did not care for them, says the Lord. They broke my covenant so that I could not fulfill everything that was promised to them underneath that covenant. So it wasn't because the covenant was bad. It was because the people were. The people never fulfilled what they were supposed to do, so the Lord was not able to fulfill what he promised to do if they fulfilled it. So the problem isn't with the covenant, the problem was with the people. The people couldn't keep it. That's why Paul says in Romans chapter 7, verse 12, that the law is holy and the commandment is holy and righteous and good We know that the law is spiritual, but I am of flesh sold into bondage to sin. I'm the one who can't keep the law. The problem isn't with the law, the problem is with the sinful people who can't keep it. So under the old covenant, when Israel sinned, God withdrew his protection over them, so he says, I did not care for them. You know, they the cattle were left out to the elements So the fault of the old covenant was the rebellious people. So the old covenant, after the new one comes in, the old one is no longer in force. Look at verse 13 of chapter 8. It says, when he set a new covenant, he has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear. And then again in verse 9 it says he takes away the first, in chapter 10 in verse 9. He takes away the first in order to establish the second. The covenant was binding as long as there was not a new covenant to take its place. One illustration that you could use is if you're renting an apartment and that apartment is taken over by new management. You know, whatever the contract you had with that old department is, is no longer binding. You have to sign a new one with whoever the new managers are, and there might be a lot of similarities, but that old contract is null and void. You have to sign a new contract with the new owners. And if you understand what's going on here, you'll start to understand a little bit about uh you know so much of the scriptures as it pertains to the law. And with that Kind of setting the framework, let's flip back to Romans chapter 5. Because what Paul is teaching us here, and he's giving us an additional illustration about the law, he lets us know that the law was a temporary resident. The law was a temporary resident. Take a look at Romans chapter 5, starting at verse 20. It says, the law came in so that the transgression would increase. But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. The word that's used here for Cayman, where it says the law came in, it's a Greek word, pareth erkomai. It's only used twice in the whole New Testament. Here in Romans chapter 5, verse 20, and then over in Galatians chapter 2, verse 4, where Paul speaks about the Judaizers, who he calls false brethren, who are secretly brought in into Jerusalem to spy out the liberty that they had in Christ. If you uh just real quick, keep your finger here and flip over to Galatians chapter 2 real quick just so I can show you this. But in Galatians chapter 2, take a look at verse 1 Paul here gives some of his own personal history. He says in verse 1, he says, Then after an interval of 14 years, you know, so 14 years after receiving his revelation from God, he says, I went up again to Jerusalem. With Barnabas, taking Titus along also. It was because of a revelation that I went up and I submitted to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles. But I did so in private to those who were of reputation for fear that I might be running or had run in vain. But not even Titus who was with me, though he was a Greek, so he's a Gentile. He was not compelled to be circumcised. So none of the leaders of the Jerusalem church compelled Titus to be circumcised. This persuasion did not come from the inside. But verse 4 says, but it was because of false brethren secretly brought in, who had sneaked in, and that's the same word. Par Ace Ercomai. It's translated as the law came in. It's translated as those that snuck in to spy out the liberty which we have in Christ Jesus. in order to bring us into bondage, but we did not yield in subjection to them even for an hour, so that the truth of the gospel would remain with you. In other words, the people who try to persuade you Or try to persuade Titus here to be circumcised were not members or leaders of the Jerusalem church. They came in from the outside. In the same way, Paul says in Romans chapter 5 that the law was not an original part of God's plan. It was introduced from the outside. It came alongside of his plan. It wasn't central to the plan. It came alongside of God's plan. And even though that the law is holy, commandments holy, righteous, good, it was not a part of God's original plan for mankind. You can think about it this way: would we even need a law if it wasn't for sin in the first place? Do we have a need for a law? Why do I need a law to tell me not to lie if I'm committed to the truth? Why do I need a law to tell me not to steal or not to commit adultery if I'm committed to love? Why do I need a law to tell me not to have any idols if I'm committed to worship the God who gave me life? It's a reminder of what Jesus says back in Matthew chapter 22 and his answer to you know what is the great commandment of the law. Remember that? Matthew chapter 22, verse 37, Jesus said, He said to them, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great and foremost commandment. The second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depends the whole law and the prophets. We wouldn't have a need for any of the other laws if we were committed to God and committed to one another. There'd be no need for it. The law had to come in alongside of the original plan of God. But if it wasn't for sin, there wouldn't be a need for any of it. I mean, do you need a law to tell you to feed your kids? No, you don't, because you love your kids. It's like that's just what you do out of love. But now we have to come up with all kinds of laws because of the sinful hearts of men. And here's the surprising revelation in Romans 5. The law was not given for the purpose of restricting sin or reducing sin. In fact, the law served the purpose of increasing transgression. Look at verse 20 again, back in Romans chapter 5. The law came in so that the transgression would increase. And what does Paul mean by that? How does the law increase transgression? One way you could understand that is that This would be the law that actually makes sin attractive. It's the idea that when we're told not to do something, it only increases our desire to do it. If you're walking down a hallway, you may never think about touching the wall until you see a sign that says, wet paint, don't touch the wall. Now all of a sudden you want to examine the wall. I wonder when they put that sign up there. Was that from today? Was that from yesterday? I wonder if it's dry now. Paint looks dry to me. Is that sign for the whole wall or just for a section of the wall? And now all of a sudden you're touching the wall. It's like, I think it's pretty dry. But you wouldn't even think about the wall until you saw the sign. But now you saw the sign and now it increases your curiosity. Now you become the pain inspector. I gotta see for myself why is that Romans chapter 7, verse 8 says, But sin taking opportunity through the commandment produced in me covening of every kind. As soon as I know that there's a law against it, now all of a sudden I want to do it. Like, what's wrong with doing that? So what does sin do? Sin exploits our weaknesses. It will attract us to what we know is sinful. St. Augustine, in his own words, describes running in the streets with a group of delinquents. How their attention was drawn to a pear tree that was ripe with fruit. And even though the boys didn't desire the pears for their taste, none of them even liked the pears. But they desired to steal the pears just for the enjoyment of stealing it. They went to the base of the tree, they sent down the right pears, and Augustine tells the story. We carried off a huge load of pears, not to eat ourselves, but to dump out to the hogs. After barely tasting some of them ourselves, doing this pleased us all the more because it was forbidden. Such was my heart, O God, such was my heart, which thou didst pity, even in that bottomless pit. It was foul and I loved it. That's how the sinful heart is. It's like all of a sudden we want to do it just because we know that it's wrong to do it. He says, I had no inducement to evil but the evil itself. I just enjoyed the evil because it was evil. What's another way that the law might increase our transgression? It makes us more aware of our sin. Makes us more aware of our sin. The law names our sin so that we specifically know what it is. Again, in Romans chapter 3, verse 20, Paul says, Through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Again in Romans chapter 7 and verse 7 he says, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. That's how I knew what sin was. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, You shall not covet. It's like the signs that are posted, you know, keep off the grass. Makes us aware of what we're doing. Chuck Swindal tells a story about delivering papers as a teen, and he would save time by cutting across a particular lawn of his neighbor. And he thought to himself, I wonder what Mr. Roberts thinks about me cutting across his grass on my bike. And then one day there was a sign posted on the property that told him exactly what Mr. Roberts thought about him cutting across his grass on the bike And it said, keep off the grass. And Chuck thought to himself, Well, he can't be talking about me. I mean, he must mean everybody else except the paper boy, and besides we're neighbors, he's friends with my dad. I mean, surely he doesn't mean me And a few days later, underneath the sign that said, keep off the grass, there was in handwriting, this means you And as much as he tried to convince himself that the sign wasn't meant for him, he knew that the sign was intended for him. The writing clarified it, even though he refused to stop crossing his neighbor's grass until his neighbor went over to tell his dad. And his dad added the additional clarity that Chuck needed in order not to cut across the grass anymore. But what the law does is it clarifies sin. It names it. Says this is what you're you're doing. The law brings clarity to our sin. It identifies it for what it is. So that's how it increases sin. The law increases sin. And the third way we can understand this is that the law intensifies our sin. It shows us how severe our sins really are. Shows us how far off the mark we really are. Romans chapter 7, verse 13 says, through the commandment, sin became utterly sinful Sin became utterly sinful. One of the techniques that professional drywall installers use when they're finishing a wall is they'll shine a bright light on the area they're working on. Why do they do that? Because the light shows the imperfections. The light shows the imperfections. And a wall can look perfectly smooth until you shine the light on it. And it's not that the added light added imperfections. It's just that the added light revealed the imperfections for what they already were. You know, sometimes my wife hates getting a new prescription for her glasses because she sees things in the house that she didn't see before Now all of a sudden the house needs to be painted. We need new floors. You know, but you can't blame the glasses for that. It was already there. You know, just take the glasses off. It'll be fine, right? But you can't blame the glasses, you can't blame the light. It just shows what's already there. And that's what the law does. It shows us what's already there So now we see sin is utterly sinful. I didn't know how wretched that was before it was pointed out to me. Now I have no excuse. Now I know how wretched I am. Psalm 130 and verse 3 says, If you Lord should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? Who could stand? Psalm 143, verse 2, Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no man living is righteous. Psalm 19 verse 12 says, who can discern his errors? I mean, who can count up how many times we sinned against God? And this is in the context of praising God for his law. After looking at the beauty of the law, he turns to himself and he says, My sins are just too many to count Who can discern his errors? And the next thing that David pleads for is forgiveness. He says, acquit me. I need forgiveness. And isn't that what the law does? It points out our transgressions so that we can turn to Christ. Like, like Lord, I can't do this on my own. The law increases sin, but it does nothing to correct it We need Christ to correct it. You know, the law is like taking the x-ray. It can say that you have a broken bone, but it'll do nothing to set it in place, do nothing to put a cast around it. It'll just say, hey, that's what's there. The law can't fix you. It can't transform you. It can't heal you. It can't save you. This version says the law comes like a policeman with a search warrant and says there's a criminal concealed here and I have come to discover him. And perhaps you say there's no criminal here. I never harbor thieves or other bad characters, but the officer produces his warrant, searches you through and through, and at last you have to own that he is right. That's what the law does. It searches us out and shows what's there. But the law is not the Savior. And this is where grace and the law are contrasted, where sin increased. Grace abounded. Look at verse 20 again. This is our second point that you know sin increased, but number two, grace abounded. Chapter 5 and verse 20. It says the law came in so that the transgression would increase, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. The term abounded could be translated superabounded. Because that's the meaning of the word. Above and beyond. The Greek word hooper resuo. It's to abound much more, to be in great excess, beyond all measure. And that's the idea that's behind our translations, which is why they use the whole phrase to translate one word. That's why they say abounded all the more, because they couldn't fit it all into one word. The context of Romans shows us that the law condemns us. We're judged by the law. The law brings wrath. The law holds us accountable to God. It doesn't save anybody. It shines the light, tells you what's there. It can't change what's there. But grace is transforming. Sin increases, but grace abounds all the more in great excess beyond all measure. And what does that mean? In summary, it's it's everything that we've been walking through in the book of Romans. Grace brings justification. Chapter 3, verse 24, it says we're being justified as a gift by His grace. The light of the law comes in, shows us that you're condemned. But what does grace come and do? The grace comes in and says, you're now justified. Your sins are forgiven. You're now declared righteous in the sight of God. The law could not do that. That's what grace had to step in and do. It abounds even more than the law. We're declared righteous in the sight of God through faith in Christ Jesus. The law is unable to declare us righteous. It only says what it sees. It's the grace of God that comes in and changes what it sees. That's the difference between grace and the law. It's the righteousness of God that's been manifested to us. And that's the term that we use. Justification, we've been declared righteous in the sight of God through faith in Jesus Christ. Declared righteous. Have you considered what abounding grace means for you as a believer? I love what Spurgeon said. He says, there are some now in this house in whom sin abounded in certain special ways, which I shall only just hint. They were drunkards, swearers, unchaste. They dishonored their father, dishonored their mother. They sinned against light, they sinned against knowledge. They disregarded God's word. They stifled the rebukes of conscience. In brief, sin abounded in them. them. There may be some of you who are here who know what your past was. And you think about those sins. Sometimes they're brought back up to you. But what do you need to be reminded of? You need to be reminded that grace abounds so much more than your previous sins. That because you now belong to Christ, that those sins have been washed clean. But you now stand in his presence righteous, just as righteous as his son. Not because of what you've done, but because of what Jesus has done for you. You don't have to dwell on your past Because grace transforms us. And that's the people that we understand that we were. 1 Corinthians 6:9. Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God, and such, I love this, were Such were some of you. But you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. You were washed. You were sanctified. Justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. The law might make things transparent, but it's grace that transforms us. Grace transforms us. We're no longer who we used to be. So grace is what brings us to salvation. It brings us justification. Number two, grace sustains us. We're saved by the same grace that we stand in. We're not at a place ever where we don't need grace anymore. Grace is still abounding in your life even now as a believer. It's not just for your sins that you committed before you came to Christ. It's for your sins that you commit even now Chapter 5, verse 2, through whom we've obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. We still stand in the same grace that we were saved by. We have the same grace. We're dependent on the same grace of God. I love again what Spurgeon says. He says, looking back upon the years since we first came to Christ, what a multitude of sins we've committed. If our own children treated us as badly as we've treated our Heavenly Father, what will we have done with them? What a marvel of patience our Heavenly Father has been in dealing with us. I look at my pulpit work and I have to confess that sin has abounded there. I look at my private life and I have to own that sin has abounded there. As you look at your Sunday school class, my brother or sister, I think that you must admit that sin has abounded there As a husband or as a wife, as a child, as a master, as a servant, as a tradesman, as a statesman, whatever may be your position in society, do you not have to say with sorrow that sin has abounded there? But dear friends, has not grace also abounded? Yes, that it has. For sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Do not ever get into such a state of heart, listen to, I love what he says, never get into such a state of heart as to groan over yourselves that you cannot praise the Lord for his abounding grace. Don't mourn so much over your sin that you don't turn to God and praise him for his forgiveness. Oh, do praise him, do bless him, for he well deserves to be praised. Sin abounds, but and be humble, but grace abounds much more, so be thankful. Sin abounds, so be watchful, but grace much more abounds. Therefore be confident that God will give you the victory through him who has loved you. Grace abounds to the chiefest of sinners. And then finally, grace leads us all the way home. Grace leads us all the way home. And don't we sing of it in our song Amazing Grace? Through many dangerous toils and snares I have already come. His grace has brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home. And when you breathe your final breath, what will you be depending on to take you home? This week our brother Mac Holloway took his last breath on this side of glory. And what was his hope in life and death? It was Christ. His hope was in Christ. And every visit that I had with him, he spoke of his hope and things eternal. He said he wants Heaven, he says, everybody wants heaven, just not today, right? But when your day comes, what will be your hope? If you're trusting in Christ by faith, You're resting on his works and not yours. You're resting on his grace. We're justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus And Max hope was in a grace that reigns. Grace that reigns. Look at verse 21. A grace that reigns. So that as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Grace abounded all the more. And we've already seen it in previous verses. Actually, can you uh pass me a water real quick? Thank you. Only got a couple minutes to go. I'm going to make it through this, don't worry. Max hope was in a grace that reigns. And we've already seen this in previous verses, that death at one time reigned over us, right? That's what it says in verse 21. So that as sin reigned in death. Sin used to reign over us in death. And from the time of Adam's transgression, not only did he die immediately, he died immediately spiritually, he was separated from his creator, excluded, alienated from the life of God. That was the case with Adam. Eventually, he would die physically. He didn't die immediately physically, but eventually he did die physically, and he heads the list of all those that died in chapter 5. But then, if And unless God intervened, Adam would have died eternally, eternally dead because of sin So it's sin that's reigning in death. It's like it's in the environment of death, in the sphere of death. Sin is reigning in all of death. And that's what this verse is talking about, that sin reigned in death. But even as sin reigned in death, even so, grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. That now we have another one who reigns. It's this principle of grace. Instead of the principle of sin reigning, you have this principle of grace that's reigning. And that's that what's more powerful than any sin. And everywhere that sin defaced us, it's Christ who redeems us. And that's what verse 21 reminds us about. That grace would reign through righteousness. And what righteousness are we talking about? We're talking about the righteousness of Jesus Christ. It's not our righteousness that's reigning. It's not because of our righteousness that we reign. It's because of his righteousness. That grace is reigning to eternal life, that it brings us all the way to eternal life. Wherever sin defaced us, Christ redeems us. And this is what verse 21 reminds us about. And again, Spurgeon says this. Sin did us untold damage, but grace has given us more than sin ever took away. Sin robbed us of silver, but grace has given us gold. Sin slew this body of flesh, but grace has given us a spiritual body which shall live forever. Sin threw us down among the masses of this fallen race, but grace has lifted us up and set us among the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. Yes, beloved, now we are the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Verily, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. We were dead spiritually, but what did grace do? Through grace, we're made alive. We're made alive Through sin we would have faced an eternal condemnation. But what happens? Through Christ we're we're made alive and we live forever. And that's what Christ says in John chapter 11. I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will live even if he dies. That your physical life doesn't end your life, that you continue on in life, that you live eternally. And even though our bodies may die physically, For the believer, that is not the end. And one day that same body will be resurrected to stand in the presence of Christ, that we will see him as he is, and we will be transformed into his likeness. This is what grace does. It's this over -superabounding kind of energy that we now have in Christ that overwhelms anything that sin robbed from us. Sin does untold damage, but but what grace does is superabounding, much more than what sin ever took away from us. And I pray that if you're here today, that you've received of that grace That you've trusted in Christ by faith, and that death for you won't be the end of you. We sing it so often, you know, marvelous, infinite, matchless grace, grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt. I mean, I heard one preacher say that when's the last time that you use marvelous, infinite, and imaginous to describe anything else? But but that's what that's what grace deserves. Marvelous, infinite, matchless grace. And it's a grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt. It's the grace that brings us all the way to glory. It's amazing grace, and grace should never lose that sense of wonder and amazement that I'm amazed that I get to be a part of this. And that death won't be the end for me, and that I can look death in the face and say, oh, death, where is your sting? Because the sting has been removed because of the grace of Jesus Christ. And I've been reminded of that so often over these past few weeks with our sweet little Sophia, with our brother Max, that the sting of death is gone. And that even though I know I'll have to face death at some point, and like Max says, everybody wants to go to heaven, just not today But even though I know that time is coming, like the fear of death is gone. I'm not saying that I'm not concerned about the process. But as far as like the other side, I don't have a fear about the other side. Because I know where I'm going and I know those who are there already. And I know that my Savior is there. And what you need to do Starting now, if you haven't started already, you need to prepare yourself as much for eternity as possible. How much do you love your Savior now? Because if he's the object of heaven, if he's the glory of heaven, that's what I should be doing now to prepare myself for eternity. Then I'm drawing as close to my Savior now as I can possibly be. If you know that heaven is a place of holiness, how much are you removing sin from your vocabulary and your practice now? Because I want to prepare myself to be in that place where He is. Because I know that when I see him, I'll be like him, and everything of sin will be washed away. I want to prepare myself for heaven now. And if you're preparing yourself for heaven, you're not trusting in your own works. Because you know that your own works aren't enough to get you there. If you're preparing yourself for heaven, you're relying completely on the grace of God. He saved us by his grace, not of works, so that no man could boast. We're trusting in him and in him alone. And it's his marvelous, infinite, matchless grace that brings us all the way to glory. Amen. Let's go to Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh this time that we've had. Thank you for your word. Uh your word is rich Your word is powerful. Your word is all that we need for life and godliness. And Father, I pray that you would use this word, my Lord, that you would allow it to sink deeply within our own hearts, and that you would be glorified through it. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.