The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we uh turn in our Bibles to the book of Matthew? We're back in Matthew chapter 7 this morning. And uh it's a bittersweet Sunday morning because we finally reached the conclusion of the Sermon on the Mount. We're finally at the end. Next week, Lord Willing, we'll have a chance to return to chapter 7 and look at verses 28 and 29. which speak about the crowd's response to the Sermon on the Mount. But here we are about to read the final words that the crowds would have heard Jesus speak This is a passage and what we have in this passage here is really the divine conclusion to the greatest sermon of of all time. So to add anything to this Closing statement is merely speculation and would contradict the uh the plain intent of Matthew's comment in verse uh twenty-eight. Where he says, when Jesus had finished these words, when Jesus had finished these words, these are the concluding words of the Sermon on the Mount, which demonstrates that it ended exactly as Matthew says it ended. In uh chapter 5, verse 2, Matthew records that Jesus opened his mouth. He opened his mouth and began to teach them. In Matthew chapter 7, verse 28, his comment was that he finished these words. And the sermon might have been expanded in the middle, but these are the definite bookends. He opened and he finished. And uh can you imagine what it would have been like? to to hear Jesus speak and to hear these final words from Jesus Christ. Uh Lunsky, the the Lutheran commentator, he wonders what it would have been like to realize that that you you had just finished listening to the greatest sermon you would have ever heard. You know, to come to the end of it, to realize that, you know, it's it's over. He kind of imagines what would it be like. He says, did a hush fall on the audience? Did they expect Jesus to say something more? To close, perhaps, as he had begun? As the silence deepened, all understood that the last word had been spoken, and that this mighty warning was the last word. The effect must have been exactly what Matthew records amazement. They were dumbfounded. As long as Jesus spoke, every eye and every ear was fixed on him in rapt attention, dreading to miss a single word. But when the voice that had held them spellbound became silent, amazement swept over the multitude. And these are the words that we're about to read the final words that this crowd uh would have heard. Let's look at it. I'll start at Matthew chapter 7 and verse 21 and we'll read down to verse 27. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we come before uh this text again, Father, the greatest sermon ever, Father, I just pray that you would open our ears, that you would open our hearts. uh to the truth of it, our Father, that we would not be those that behold the uh the perfect law of liberty and and turn away unchanged. Father, I pray that we would be transformed by the words of Christ and that you would use me to be a blessing to your people as a weak instrument. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. The first words that the crowds heard Jesus speak as he opened his mouth was the word of blessing. Those are the first words that Jesus offered. Blessed! Blessed are the poor. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the gentle. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Uh the word blessed is the the Greek word makarias. It refers to the person who's doing well, person who's prospering, who's fortunate. It doesn't necessarily describe how you feel. but rather what what God declares to be true about you. You are blessed because of what your future has in store for you. You're a blessed person. And all the people characterized by the Beatitudes in Matthew chapter 5 are blessed people. And that's the first words that Jesus would have said, the first words that they would have heard are the words blessed. Blessed. But the final words that they heard Jesus speak before he closed his mouth were the words, and great was its fall. You go from blessing to and great was its fall. The rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew, and slammed against the house, and it fell, and great was its fall. It's a word of judgment, destruction. Or even cursing by God. And as Linsky said, as the silence deepened, all understood that the final words had just been spoken. Jesus opened with the blessing. And he closed with the curse. And the difference between the two all centered on their response to the words of the king. And it's always been that way, hasn't it? Adam was given a choice between the blessing and the curse. In Genesis chapter 2, verses 16 and 17, the Lord God commanded the man, saying Here's the words of God saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it you will surely die Adam disregarded the words of the king, and all of creation fell under the curse. Genesis 3. 17, cursed is the ground because of you. In Genesis chapter 4, Cain became angry with his brother. You know the story, because uh Abel's sacrifice was received and Cain's was rejected. But he clearly heard again the words of the Lord. Genesis chapter four, six to seven. It says, Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? Why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you, but you must master it. But again, Cain disregarded the words of the king And in verse 11 of Genesis chapter 4, God said, Now you are cursed from the ground. Over in Deuteronomy chapter 11. Right before the children of Israel crossed over into the promised land, the Lord reminded them again of his words. Here he is, reminding them of his words. Deuteronomy 11, 26 to 28, it says, See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse. The blessing if you listen to the commandments of the Lord your God, which I am commanding you today. And the curse if you do not listen to the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way which I am commanding you today by following other gods which you have not known. And the Lord commanded a dramatic demonstration of the choice that was placed before Israel. He commanded the half of the tribes. Be placed on the mount peak of Mount Gerizim, and the other half of the tribes were to be placed directly across from them on Mount Ebal From Mount Gerizim, they were to shout the blessings of the Lord. These are all the blessings of the Lord. And from Mount Ebal, they were to shout all the curses of the Lord if they disobeyed. And across the valley, in between the two mountain peaks, they heard the echo bounce off the mountains. Blessed! Blessed! Blessed! And then the response, cursed, cursed, cursed! And in the the middle of the the valley there's this this valley of decision. Which which way am I going to go? Am I going to listen to the words of the Lord and be blessed, or am I going to disobey and be cursed? Now fast forward to Galilee. Greater figure than Moses sits on the mountainside in Galilee and presents the crowd with a similar decision. And he opens up with blessing! Blessed is the man. And then he ends with, Great was its fall. It's the same kind of decision. Blessing and a curse, life or death, and it all hangs on their response to the words of the king And the parallel between the Old Testament text and the words of Jesus would have been striking. And the crowds that listened to Jesus would have been quick to pick up on the comparison between the blessing and the curse. what had come before in the the the words of the law. But what would have been even more shocking for them to hear was the the way that Jesus spoke these things. Because Jesus didn't claim this for everybody who hears the words of the Lord, as Moses would have said. Listen to what he says in verse 24, Matthew chapter 7. He says, Everyone who hears these words of mine, my words. It's absolutely clear that Jesus is speaking on his own authority. And that's exactly the point that the crowds pick up in verse 29, if you want to look at verse 29. It says, For he was teaching them as one having authority. And not as their scribes. So they got it. This person is speaking with authority, his own authority. But what they might not have picked up on was the significance of Jesus speaking with this kind of authority. They knew that Jesus spoke on his own authority, but what does that say that Jesus believes about himself? If Jesus believes that he's the authority, who do you think Jesus is saying that he is? Jesus is God. And this crowd just finished listening to a sermon by God. I'm still trying to get my mind around that one. They just finished listening to a sermon by God. No wonder they were struck out of themselves. But Jesus was looking for more than just amazement. There was a decision. A decision had to be made And in each illustration that we've considered so far at the close of this sermon, the consequence of making the wrong decision is eternally devastating. There's destruction at the end of the wrong road. The prospect of being cut down and cast into the fire if you're the wrong tree. And then there's this total demolition of your life. if you build on the wrong foundation. And the and the kind of storm uh that Jesus is speaking about here in in the the close of of this sermon in uh verses uh twenty four to twenty seven the kind of of of storm that he's talking about. He's not just talking about the storms of life. You know, the the storm that life brings to you that we all face and have to deal with. Um, you know, whether that's uh sickness, a tragedy, or or death. That that really doesn't fit the context. That's not the context of what he's been saying. Everything up to this point has been speaking about the final judgment That's what everything talks about. The word therefore or then that you'll find in some of your translations in verse 24, it ties what Jesus says in 24 to 27 with what he's just spoken about. In verses 21 to 23, and the storm represents that day when men are called before the judge of the universe to give an account. That's the storm that he's talking about. It's that day. It's the day of judgment. And to be swept away by that storm is the exact same thing as hearing those terrifying words, depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. That's being swept away by the storm. That's the kind of storm that we're we're talking about. And several times throughout the scripture, a storm is used as a a picture of divine judgment. In Jeremiah chapter 23, verses 19 and 20, it says, Behold, the storm of the Lord has gone forth in wrath, even a whirling tempest, it will swirl down on the heads of the wicked The anger of the Lord will not turn back until he has performed and carried out the purposes of his heart. In the last days you will clearly understand it. Talks about the storm as the picture of the judgment of the last day. Jeremiah 23. Isaiah adds to these words in Isaiah 28, 16 and 17. It says, Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a tested stone, a costly cornerstone for the foundation firmly placed. He who believes in it will not be disturbed. And if you recognize those words, you're a good student of the scriptures because it's also repeated in 1 Peter 2, verse 6. And the stone is a reference to Christ. And then in verse 17 it says this, I will make justice the measuring line, and righteousness the level, then hail will sweep away the refuge of lies and the Waters will overflow the secret place. It's this picture again of of judgment from all the places where we like to go and seek refuge and hide. We hide in our lies. You know, we we hide in in our secret places. And the Lord says, I'm just going to wash it all away. None of that's gonna gonna save you. You think that's some kind of security? The day of judgment will prove what kind of foundation you're building your life on. And the time to make sure that you'll stand then is to check your foundation now. The only way that you're going to stand then is that you check the foundation now. And these are the last words that the king wanted to leave us with. And the the way that he communicates here is so simple. It's so memorable that that none of us should walk away confused or unaccountable for what he has to say. There's two simple points that are communicated here in these words. is defended against the coming storm in verses 24 to 25. And uh the second point is that the foolish builder is destroyed. by the coming storm. So the wise builder is defended by the coming storm, against the coming storm. The foolish builder is destroyed by the coming storm in verses 26 and 27. So let's take a look at The first point, the wise builders defended against the coming storm. Look at verses 24 and 25. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them may be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. And before we look at the differences between these two builders, let's take a look at the similarities. First of all, they both had a similar concern. They both had a similar concern. They apparently understood the need to build a house. You know, we we need some kind of structure here. We need a house. And uh houses during this time fulfilled the same. Function that houses serve for us today, the you know, privacy from the neighbors, security from the enemies, and protection from the elements. You know, same same concerns, privacy from neighbors. Security from enemies, protection from the elements. A a house is intended to be a place of safety and refuge. You know, you you call your your your your house, it's like go to my my refuge, you know, I'm ready to go home, right? It's my place of security, of safety. And this was even a special prayer that was offered by the high priest on the Day of Atonement, according to the Jewish Talmud, uh the high priest would pray this. He would pray that the Lord would grant that their houses might not become their tombs. You know, let your place of security, of refuge be a true place of refuge. You know, don't Lord, please don't allow our houses to become our tombs, to crash in, to fall on us, to collapse. May May our houses stand. That the last thing, the very last thing that you'd want would be for the place that you ran to for safety to be the place where you'd meet your doom, right? And the the greater the building, the greater the devastation when it comes crashing down. And there would have been a great incentive to to build this house to to last because This isn't a house that they're building for somebody else. They're building their own houses. They build their house. It's his house. It's a personal shelter. And even though the homes during this time were weren't constructed of uh concrete and and steel, uh they were still built to last, and uh most of the homes in Palestine were either made out of uh mud-dried bricks or stones. And uh even the mud brick homes would would hold up well under the elements. Uh when Jennifer and I had a chance to visit Israel, uh we actually saw some mud brick structures that have lasted for centuries. I mean some of them even date back to the time of Abraham, you know, these mud brick structures. So so they were built to last. And that the the two builders had this similar concern. They had a concern for a structure. We need some place of refuge. They also both built a similar structure. The the the ground from the ground up there's really no difference between the structures. I mean one built a house and the other built a house. You know, from the ground up it it looks fine to me. You know, there there's really no difference. I mean apparently uses the same words We can assume that a lot of the external layout was the same, construction was the same, they might have even built in similar locations. From the outside, there's very little to distinguish the one house from the other. Similar concern, similar structure. And the third similarity is that they both face the same storm. Same storm. In both cases the rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew, there's no difference in the severity of the storm. It's not like one faced the drizzle and the other faced the hurricane. They both faced the same category storm. Those are the similarities. But one builder was wise and the the other was was foolish. So what makes the what makes the wise builder? And this is important to think about here, and that the first observation that I want to make is this, is that a wise builder does not rely on his own personal intelligence, creativity, or skill, but on listening and obeying. A wise builder doesn't rely on his own personal intelligence, creativity, or skill, but on listening and obeying. And I say this because of how Jesus introduces this illustration in verse 24. He says, therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them. Hear these words and act on them. So the wise builder is not wise because he he comes up with his own innovative plan and creates his own rules for engineering. He's wise because he knows how to listen to instructions and act on it. We we we we live in an age where where everyone wants to create their own individual path, right? Everybody wants it their own way, you know, your way right away, right? And uh I've recently I've been visiting uh colleges with uh with our daughter. She's preparing for uh for college and looking at some different options. And uh all of these colleges, a lot of these colleges that I'm going to, they're trying to attract students because you know here you can create your own path You can do things your own way. You can break free from tradition and traditional structures, you know, and just just do it your own way. And and I can appreciate creativity, but uh aren't you glad that the person who engineered your house didn't just do it his own way? That he didn't just kind of come up with his own rules and formulas for how to construct your house. Aren't you glad that somebody follows rules? I mean uh I'm happy that there's some fundamental laws that my house was uh built by in uh 2005, uh Warren and Pam Adams. uh lost a house on the Gulf Coast in Gilcrest, Texas to to Hurricane Rita back in in two thousand five. So when they rebuilt their home the couple decided to build something that was uh much sturdier that could withstand a stronger force of of wind. So so Warren hired an engineering firm to oversee the construction of his house. You know, over saw the the contractors. that built his house. And when another hurricane, Hurricane Ike, hit the Gulf Coast in 2008, their house was the only one standing. The only one standing. It was called the last house standing. You know, there's pictures of it online where everywhere around you see devastation. Every house is flattened, but there's this one house. That's still standing. People actually thought it was like like a joke, like did somebody photoshop this house in and try to trick us? But it's it it was real. It was the only house standing. Uh when Hurricane Ike hit the Gulf Coast in 2008, their house was the only one standing on the Gulf Coast side. And in the the photograph, like I said, it looked like it was photoshopped in, but The builder said that the reason their house was standing is because they bolted it, strapped it, and did exactly what the engineers spelled out. There's a time to be creative and there's a time just to listen. Just listen and do what you're told, right? There's a time to be creative, there's a time to just act and do what you're told. You know, when it comes to the design, the decoration of my house, you know, maybe there's some room for creativity, but the engineering and construction, just just do what I just do what they told you to do, right? We don't we don't need creativity. And there's there's absolutely no place for creativity when your eternity is at stake. There's no place for that. No place for it. A wise builder isn't wise because he he comes up with his own ideas, but because he listens and obeys. Number two, though, a wise builder also doesn't turn away from long and difficult work. A wise builder doesn't turn away from long and difficult work. The process of building a house on a rock was actually a long and difficult process. Uh we might think that the the difference between the house built on the rock and the house built on the sand was just you know the location, like one person picked the beach and another person you know picked the mountain somewhere. But that's not how the crowds would have would have understood it. The word that's used for rock here doesn't just refer to stony ground or even a boulder. It's the Greek word petra. And uh the word petra means a large mass of rock or what's known as bedrock. Like the if you know anything about construction, there's there's like the the top layers of soil. that are insufficient for your house to stand on. They actually have to dig down in order to find more stable ground for your house to be settled. And that's uh especially true in a uh a hot climate, this uh like Israel where the the topsoil already feels like it's hard enough, you know, because it's dried out, you know, it feels like, hey, this is sturdy, you know, I can I can build a house on this. But but the wise builder understands that this top soil is going to be loose. As soon as the rain comes, this this is going to shift. I need to dig down until I get to some bedrock. And that's what Petra was. And the wise man goes through the difficult process of digging deep. Why don't you flip over to Luke chapter 6 Luke chapter 6, it's a parallel passage to Matthew 7. And that's exactly what 's mentioned over here in Luke chapter 6. Look at verses 47 and 48. Actually, I'll start at verse at verse 46. Listen to what Jesus says. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do what I say? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and acts on them, I will show you whom he is like. He's like a man building a house who dug deep. And laid a foundation on the rock. And when a flood occurred, the torrent burst against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built. The well-built house is a house that digs deep and gets to the bedrock. It gets to the to stable ground. And that can be a difficult process. In contrast to the to the house, the last house standard that we just read about, listen to this this other structure. In April 2013, a National Geographic article reported that More than 150 people were confirmed dead, and more than a thousand injured when an eight-story building in Bangladesh collapsed. Officials blamed the collapse on shoddy construction methods. According to an environmental engineer at Duke University, he speculated that the building's foundation was substandard and that one edge of the building was placed on much softer soil. The article continued, when designing a building, engineers are supposed to consider different combinations of how loads are placed in the structure, but calculating different load distributions can be a time-consuming process, and the result might just be skipped. Didn't do the homework. Didn't do the work. Didn't do the work of digging deep, laying on a stable foundation, and the entire structure came down. Wise building doesn't rely on your own personal intelligence, but listening and obeying? Why is building does the hard work of pushing aside the loose sand? Pushing aside the gravel, getting down to the bedrock, and wise building is also defended by the strength of the foundation itself It's defended by the strength of the foundation itself. And this is an important point to make because the strength of the house is not in the house. The strength of the house is not in the house. It's in the foundation of the house. That's what the difference is. That's what the only difference was. So what's ultimately being tested is not the house, but what? The foundation is being tested. And this is exciting to think about because the beating that the house takes is actually transferred to the foundation. And this is exactly what happens in Christ's substitution for us, isn't it? Listen to these verses, Isaiah 53. It says, but he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities The chastening for our well-being fell upon him, and by his surging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall where Fall on him. The iniquity of us all falls on him. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he made him who need no sin. To be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God in him, to be made sin is to bear the penalty of sin. The falling of iniquity fell on him. In 1 Peter 2. 24 it says he himself bore our sins. He's the structure, right? He bore our sins in his body on the cross so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. Jesus is the one who takes the wrath of God on himself for all who believe. And this is what's meant by the term propitiation. Jesus satisfies the wrath of God. in our place. First John chapter 4, verse 10, it says, and this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. He takes the wrath of God for our sins. But what I believe that Jesus does here is he takes it a step further. Because the question is, is how how do I know that I'm anchored to Christ? If I'm anchor to Christ, I know that I have a stable foundation, but how do I know that I'm anchored to Christ How can I test myself? How do I know that I've benefited from his substitution? And here's the test that Jesus gives us. Have you heard my words and obeyed it? It's back down to simple obedience. What is the test of true faith? Do I follow Christ? Am I following him? And that's actually what I believe is the bedrock in this passage. There's passages that speak about Jesus Christ as our rock, and we know that. 1 Corinthians 3. 11, for no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, Jesus Christ. There's passages that let us know that God is our rock. In Psalm 18, verse 2 it says, The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge. My shield, the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. We find our stability in God Himself. But we're also to understand that the way that we know that we're founded on the rock, that we're founded in Jesus Christ and founded in God, is that we're founded and established on His Word. That's how we know. And one example of that is only a few chapters later. Flip over to Matthew chapter sixteen. Matthew chapter sixteen, it during this time there were all kinds of opinions swirling around about the identity of Jesus Christ. There was absolutely nobody who could speak like Jesus spoke. There was nobody who could perform the miracles that Jesus performed. And the question was, who is this? Who is this guy? And everybody's trying to figure out who is he? I mean, is he Elijah? Is he a prophet? Who is this guy? So Jesus asked his disciples the same question. Which we all need to come to terms with, right? Matthew chapter 16 and verse 13 it says, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? Who is the Son of Man? Look what he says in Matthew chapter 16, starting at verse 14. And they said, some say John the Baptist, and others Elijah, but still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. But he said to them, But who do ye say that I am? Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonh, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my father who is in heaven. I also say to you that you are Peter. Greek word petras, it's the word for a stone, a boulder. He says, you are petras, you are stone, you're a boulder, Peter. And upon this petra, upon this rock bed foundation, I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it will not prevail against it. You know what the Rock Bed Foundation was? It was the truth. The word that had been Reveal to him that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the Living God. He says, Upon that word, I'm going to build my church. It's not upon Peter It's upon the rock bed foundation, the truth that had been revealed to him by the Father. Upon the word of God, I'm going to build my church. That's what Jesus says. And building your life on the word of God is to build your life on the rock. That's how you know you're anchored in Christ. Because I'm building my life on the word of God. And that's exactly what Jesus speaks about back over in Matthew chapter seven. It's not everybody who hears But it's the people who hear and what? Obey. You hear and you obey. That's the person who's built on the rock. It's not the person who hears. It's the person who hears and acts upon what he hears. And simple obedience to the word of Christ is how you know you're anchored to Christ. There's no other way. No other way. John 8:31, Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed in him, if you continue in my word , Then you are truly disciples of mine. James chapter 1, verse 22. But prove yourselves doers of the word, and not merely hearers who delude themselves. He says, If if if you listen to my word and you don't do it, you're fooling yourself. You want to say that you have a relationship with me? You are kidding yourself if you're not actually following after my word. And then when you flip, why don't you flip back to uh to Psalm 1, the first Psalm. Yeah, you have to you have to see this. Back in Psalm 1, it's I mean the the similarities are just so striking here. Psalm 1, it speaks about the blessing. Of the one who walks in the word of the Lord and the contrast between the righteous and the wicked, between blessing and judgment, it's all here. Same same kind of language, all used back in Psalm 1. Listen to what the psalmist says. How blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the path of sinners, nor sit in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law he meditates day and night, and he will be like a tree, firmly planted by streams of water which yields its fruit in its season. Its leaf does not wither, and whatever he does he prospers. The wicked are not so, but they are like chaff, which the wind drives away, therefore the wicked will not stand when? In the judgment. Nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the wick of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. What's the difference between the righteous and the wicked? One listens to the word of God and the other doesn't That's the difference. That is the difference. One obeys, the other just listens. And that's exactly what James continues on to saying James 1 twenty five, he says, But but the one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed. You want to be in the category of the blessed? You need to check your life to see am I actually obeying and following after the word of God? Does this characterize my life? Am I on that side? The blessed man is the one who obeys what he hears. That's the wise builder. And his life is founded on Christ because it's founded on the word of Christ. The hymn writer says, how firm a foundation, you saints of the Lord, is laid for your faith where? In his excellent word. That's the foundation laid for your faith. What more can he say than to you he has said, you who unto Jesus for refuge have fled. That's how we know we're we're built upon the rock is that we're our lives are founded, established on the word of God. And all of this is contrasted with the fool. Why don't you flip back to Matthew 7? All of this is contrasted with the fool. And do you know what you have to do to become a fool? You want to know what you have to do? Absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing. You listen, you hear, you observe, and then you do nothing. Do nothing with what you hear. That's how you're a fool. And when Jesus calls you a fool, it's not an insult, it's reality. The the fool and scripture is not somebody who's unintelligent. A fool can be extremely bright, extremely intelligent But to be a fool, it's not a mental judgment. It's a moral judgment. It's a moral judgment. The fool is the person who knows better, but does nothing about it. That's why it says in uh in uh Psalm chapter 14 and verse 1, the fool says in his heart, there is no God. Why is he a fool? Because he knows there's a God. And he doesn't do anything about it. He doesn't change his life because he knows there's a God. So the fool says in his heart, there's no God. I don't have to worry about it. Does nothing. But in his heart, he knows there's a God. That's what the scriptures say in Romans chapter 1. We all know. So why is this foolish builder called a fool? It's because he's been warned. You know better. You know you should have checked the foundation. But you're doing nothing about it. One author said, how often those who pity fools are one of their number. You look at per other people and say, oh, that person's a fool. Look at what he does. And how many of us who look at other people and pity fools are part of their number? We're one of them. This could be you The wise builder is defended, and the foolish builder is destroyed. Let's take a look at Matthew 7 again. Look at verses 26 and 27. It says, everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew, slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall. Why is the foolish builder foolish? First of all, he refuses to listen to warnings. He refuses to listen to the warnings. Hearing the word does absolutely nothing but increase your judgment. To just sit and hear and sit and hear does nothing but increase your accountability before the righteous judge. In Luke chapter 12 and verse 47 it says, and that slave who knew his master's will and did not get ready, you're doing nothing. You know your master's will, but you're doing nothing. You're not getting ready. You're not acting in accord with his will. We'll receive many lashes. Those who know better, those who sit underneath the Word of God who know better, you receive more lashes than those who sit under less teaching. You're more accountable because of what you know. Your knowledge only makes the devastation to come even that much more worse. Proverbs chapter 29, verse 1 says, A man who hardens his neck after much reproof will suddenly be broken, and that beyond remedy. And what makes the illustration of the fool so tragic is that the assumption is that this fool has been warned to check the foundation That's not deep enough. You're not digging deep enough. Your foundation isn't level. That's a dry bed of a stream. When the rains come, that's going to be a river. Don't build there. There's a storm coming. The forecast is certain. There's no question about the forecast. The storm is coming. And it's going to be the big one. No doubt about it. And there you are busy hanging your plants, painting the walls. If you want to flip over to Ezekiel 13, it actually speaks about the prophets who. We try to calm Israel. Peace, peace, everything's okay. Peace, peace. And the Lord gives this picture of of them whitewashing their walls, you know, kind of plastering the walls, kind of throwing up the paint, making things look pretty. They're doing home improvement projects when they should be checking their foundation. Look at Ezekiel chapter 13, starting at verse 11. It says, So tell those who plaster it over with whitewash that it will fall. A flooding rain will come in, and you, O hailstones, will fall, and a violent wind will break out. Behold, when the wall has fallen, will you not be asked, where is the plaster with which you plastered it? You know, what's the use for your home improvement project now? Therefore, thus says the Lord God, I will make a violent wind break out in my wrath. There will also be in my anger a flooding rain and hailstones to consume it in wrath. So I will tear down the wall which you plastered over with whitewash, bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation is laid bare. We're going to know what you're really built on. And when it falls, you will be consumed in its midst, and you will know that I am the Lord. A foolish builder refuses to listen to the warnings that come from God. They'd rather listen to the false prophets. Everything's peaceful. Peace. Peace. One one preacher said it's it's uh the false prophets that are selling the sand laps. Hey, it's got some great property over here. Doesn't take much to get your house up. Selling the sand lots instead of selling the plot of ground that's that's above the red box, the the bedrock of God and his word The foolish builder refuses to listen. Don't build there. You need to dig deeper. Level the ground. No, I don't need to listen to that. I got plants to hang. We've got paint that needs to come up. We're plastering the walls. We're getting the walls ready. No time for that. Second, a foolish builder is foolish because he does the quick and easy work. He does it the quick and easy way. It's no time to dig down to the bedrock of repentance and faith and obedience to Christ and his word. Martin Lloyd Jones says the foolish man is not interested in preparation. He wants a house. Can't be bothered about rules and regulations. Put it up. He says he's impatient, contemptuous of instruction, teaching, saying he wants to get on with it. So let's just get on with it. This is the typical mentality of the fool. Put it up. Let's just put it up. But if your life is not built on obedience to Christ and his word, you know what you should be saying? Tear it down. Just tear it down. And those are the painful words that some people need to hear. And it's painful because some people have spent a lifetime building on the sand. They've got this great tremendous structure. In the words of Christ, it's tear it down. It's on the wrong foundation. It's no use to build there. I don't care how pretty it looks. I don't care how many people admire it. Tear it down. It's not gonna last. It's exactly what Jesus told Nicodemus. Remember, we looked at him? Nicodemus, like we mentioned, spent his whole life building up to where he was. Now he's known as the teacher. He's the teacher of Israel. He's admired. People look up to him. They respect him And Jesus says, you know what? You need to tear it all down. You need to be born again. Just tear it down. None of this will count for anything in Judgment Day. Tear it down. It's not going to last. It's not built on faith in Christ, repentance from sin, simple trust and obedience. It's all got to come down. And there might be some of you today. Who will find it extremely painful to admit that for a lifetime I've been building my life on the shift in sand. That might be you You might have a great structure up. Religious house looks great. Other people admire it. But maybe your life has been built on the sand of tradition. But you'd rather kind of plug your ears and say, hey, don't confuse me with the truth. All right? Let me get on with my tradition. Let me just put it up. This is how I've been raised. This is what I believe. But Jesus shatters the traditions of men, doesn't he? Throughout the whole Sermon on the Mount, that's what he's been doing. He says, You've heard it said, but I say to you, I know what you're building your life on, but this is where you need to build your life. Shattering traditions. You can't build an eternal lifelong tradition. Well, this is what other people say. This is what I've heard. This is what my family says. Tear it down if it's not built on the foundation of Christ and his word. Maybe your life has been built on the sand of rituals. You know, you're totally comfortable with your religious practices. You acknowledge Jesus as the Lord. You give attention to the Word of God. You pray. You give. Maybe you even fast. Maybe it goes beyond that. Maybe you have some extreme kind of service and dedication to God. He's done many wonderful works. You've even had experiences that can't be explained through natural means. I mean, this has got to be a miracle here. I mean, God's got to be on my side with some of the stuff that's happened to me. Miracles, power over the unseen world. All of that can be true, and you can still hear the words, depart from me, I never knew you. You know what Jesus says? Tear it down. Just tear it down. Start over. Maybe your life has been built on the sand of hypocrisy. And if you're you're really honest with yourself, your chief concern is for the appearance of men, being honored by men. What what are people saying about me this week? I wonder what if if so-and-so noticed me when I did this or did that. And what you want to hear more than God saying, well done, good and faithful servant, is somebody patting you on the back and saying, hey, good job. Like that's that's what brings your heart joy. Maybe just to summarize it, you've you've built your life on the sand of self MacArthur puts it this way, he says to build on sand is to build on self-will, self-fulfillment, self-purpose, self-sufficiency, self-satisfaction, self-righteousness. It's basically everything but self-denial. Self-self -self -self. Titus chapter 1, 16 says they profess to know God, but by their deeds they deny him. Don't really know God. Detestable, disobedient for it, and worthless for any good deed. And the problem with building a house on yourself Is that when the storm comes, you only have yourself to rely on. That's the problem. When the storm comes and and it beats down, it's not transferred to anything. You take the full beating. You take the full brunt of the wrath of God. And how many will cry out on that day, Lord, but but didn't it didn't we? Didn't we do this? Didn't we do that? The house that's that's built on the rock is founded on the rock. The house that's built on the sand is just built It's not founded on anything. If you actually look back at uh at Matthew chapter 7, you know, pretty much the uh the the wise man and the foolish man they're they're parallel as you look all the way through. It says in uh in Matthew chapter chapter 7 about the wise man in his house. It says, And yet it did not fall, his house, yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. But when you look for for where the the house of the the foolish man was founded on, it says, and it fell. And great was its fall. It's not founded on anything. You just fall. There's nothing to transfer the wrath of God to. It's all on you. It's all on you. No foundation. Foolish builder refuses to listen to warnings. He does it the quick and easy way. And lastly, he's uh foolish because he's completely undefended Completely undefended. Nowhere to hide from this storm. The rains fall from above. The floods rise from below. The winds blow from both sides and slam against the house. I mean, from every angle you can think about, above, below, the side. There's no place to hide. There is no place to go from the storm. And what a picture that is of the judgment of God. There is no place you can go. Up, down, side. It doesn't matter. You're getting hit from every angle. And the word flood that's used here could actually be translated as river. According to one lexicon, it should be understood as the mountain torrents or winter torrents which arise in the ravines or the dry riverbeds. after a heavy rain and carry everything before them. Just everything in its path is going down. And what looked like a great place to to build your house in the dry heat of summer turned out to be the bullseye of the raging flood. And there's no place to escape from the devastation. You know, there's there's that old saying, the the the bigger they are, the what? The harder they fall. And that's exactly true when we get here. The fall is said to be great. Great was the fall. And why is it great? In the context, I believe it's because they they it's so great because they relied so heavily upon a false foundation. They built up so much structure of their religion and rituals and hypocrisy and self. They have this huge structure, so when it comes crashing down, the fall is gonna be great. Because they relied so heavily on a false foundation. The more you look to support your life on tradition, rituals, hypocrisy, is the greater your fall will be in the end. Because the very house that you're running to for safety is the very house that will cause your demise. The very house you run into for safety. Just a house of cards. Can't provide you with the most basic function of a house, which is what? Protect me. The most basic function of a house. There's a storm coming and the storm is God's wrath. And the only place to run from God is where? It's to God. The only place to run from God is to God. You don't have to experience the horror of divine wrath. You don't have to. If you're building your life on anything else, tear it down. Who cares what people think about you? Who cares what they say? Hey, I thought you were Christian. No, I wasn't. Tear it down. Just tear it down. And what Jesus sets before you today is blessing and the curse. The blessing if you obey his words and act on them, and the curse if you don't listen to his words And the question is, how are you going to respond to the words of Christ? These are the final words. The final words that the crowds would have heard Jesus say. This is it. This is your chance. This is your opportunity. This is your time for decision. Are you going to listen? Are you going to act? Because to do nothing is to be the fool. To say I'll wait on it, I'll think on it, maybe later. That's to be the fool. Because you have no idea when the storm's gonna hit Jesus is looking for obedience. I was looking through an old commentary and I found these words. Listen to this. Every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God ought to be listened to with solemn reverence. But there needs to be something more than solemn reverence. Something more than intent listening. The Lord could look into the hearts and thoughts of the vast multitude gathered around the Mount of Beatitudes. They were astonished at his doctrine. They had listened with interest, with admiration, with wonder, and they would go away. Sometimes they would remember the great teacher. They would call to mind that look of divine majesty, those holy eyes beaming with tender love, those tones of touching persuasion and more than human authority. They would tell their friends of the great audience of the hushed silence of the strange originality of the Lord's teaching, so utterly different from that of the scribes. But would their lives be changed? Or would they live as many? Most of them, perhaps, half intended to change while the sound of the holy words was yet falling on their ears. But alas, no. How many would very soon forget all that they had heard? They would relapse into their old ways. Some of them would join the scribes and the Pharisees in persecuting the great master. The Lord knew it would be so, for he warns them of the danger. The crowd that gathered on that day to listen to Christ. Heard these words echo off the mountain. Blessed! Blessed! Blessed! But they also heard these words, and great was its fall. And great was its fall. And the question for you is, where will you be found? That's the question. What are you building your life on? Do you have a foundation? Will the wrath of God be transferred to the rock of his son? Or will you bear the full brunt of the wrath of God because you have nothing else to stand on? That's the question. The hymn writer says, My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name, on Christ, the solid rock I stand. All other ground is sinking sand. When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, Clothed in his righteousness alone, Faultless to stand before the throne On Christ, the solid rock I stand. All other ground is sinking the sand. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you uh this morning, and Father, these words are difficult to hear because we know that for many They will be swept away on the day of judgment because they're not founded in Jesus Christ. Their lives aren't built on the solid foundation of of the words of Christ. They have no obedience. They have no faith. They have no trust. They express no repentance. But they just hear And continue to hear. And continue to hear. And do absolutely nothing. God, I pray that there wouldn't be anybody here who just hears and hears and listens and observes and does nothing. With what's been said. Father, I pray that we would all examine our lives against the words of Jesus Christ, and that we would all be found to be building our lives on the solid rock. And that on the final day that the wrath of God is transferred, because we don't have to bear that penalty anymore, it's already been transferred to Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that that's true of us. May we examine our hearts and may we help those that we love, that we would warn them about a shallow foundation. Father, we thank you for the warning that Christ gives us. It's a mercy for Christ to give us this warning. May we listen to his words. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.