The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your your Bibles here and uh open up to the book of Matthew? The book of Matthew. We're uh finally uh back in the book of Matthew in Matthew chapter 10. Welcome back from the holidays. Hopefully the holidays didn't take you away for too long that you forgot everything that we learned in Matthew and I don't have to do a lot of review today, but uh we're looking at Matthew chapter ten and the choosing of the the twelve apostles as we've uh Pointed out before, uh, the scene that we're introduced to at the end of chapter 9 of Matthew chapter 9 is really a bleak picture. It's a uh a desperate situation that in uh Jesus invites us into. And the images that he uses would have been easy for an agrarian uh society uh to to really pick up on, the shepherding and farming society to pick up on. First in Matthew chapter 9 and verse 36, we learn that Jesus saw Israel like sheep without a shepherd. They were distressed and dispirited. Uh literally it means to to be skinned, uh to pull the skin off of the body is what the the word uh was used for. Um so instead of this kind of peaceful scene uh that you might imagine with uh shepherd and and sheep and you know kind of the sheep grazing in the field. What it looks like is more like a crime scene, you know, with uh you know the bodies of sheep kind of laying around. And this is how Jesus looks at the nation of of Israel like like sheep that are just kind of tossed and discarded with the skin literally pulled off of the bodies. And uh verse 37 He talks about the uh the harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. And uh really the picture that Jesus gives here is of a harvest that will either be taken in mercy or in judgment that if the harvest isn't pulled in by faithful workers, that it will be pulled in in the end times by the angels who will throw that harvest into the fire. So if the harvest is not gathered into the barn, It's going to be gathered into the to the fire. So the situation that Jesus paints before us is really this bleak picture, uh a desperate picture. A situation is desperate. The time's short, which is communicated by the urgency of the illustration, and there's not going to be another group of twelve for Jesus to invest his time in. Because the the window of opportunity is coming to a close. Jesus doesn't have long in which to invest his time in these men. So these twelve men With the exception of Judas, going to be the foundation stones of the entire structure of Christianity. The entire structure of Christianity is going to be built on top of these men. These are going to be the mouthpieces. for Jesus Christ, to promote the kingdom of God, to proclaim his message. These twelve men, they're going to be the judges over the twelve tribes of Israel. Their names are going to be written on the twelve stones that enter the heavenly city. Jerusalem in Revelation 21, it talks about that. And after a full night of communion with the Father, Jesus selects Up to seven fishermen, a tax collector, a disciple who never speaks a word in the whole Bible, a zealot who might have been on a watch list somewhere, and a traitor. These are the twelve that Jesus picks after a full night of communion with the Father in prayer. And uh if we were here for this big announcement that Jesus had to make, uh we might have been wondering, you know, is he serious? Like these are the men that are going to change the world. These are the men that are going to turn the world upside down. You're going to rust the entire structure of Christianity on these guys. And uh that's exactly what the Lord does. These are his first-round draft picks. And you look at this and it's like, is this really the best that he could do? You know, couldn't he find somebody else? But what we would have missed is that the best that Jesus can do is not limited to the instruments that he chooses. The best that Jesus can do is not limited by the instrument he chooses. It's the the skill of the master that makes the difference. That's what I want you to see. That's the skill of the master. The weaker the instrument is, the greater the glory goes to the one who plays on the instrument. I I remember uh uh being downtown in DC and uh seeing out on a on a corner uh down on uh uh uh the the uh the main road there, I think it's Constitution uh Avenue. Uh there's a guy out there playing on a on a drum set, but uh the drum set was just full of buckets, you know, these kind of five-gallon buckets turned upside down and he's just going away on on these buckets and it's I mean it was fantastic. And it's like, you know, he could have played on a regular drum set, but but to see him play on buckets and still make that kind of sound, it's like, man, I mean I give him props. You know, he he can go for it. If he can do that with buckets, just imagine what he can do if he had a full drum set, right? And uh what you have here is a bunch of buckets. You know, these disciples are just a bunch of buckets. I love what uh MacArthur said. He says uh I'm not sure if it was original with him, but he said, if God could not use poor instruments and feeble boy feeble voices, he couldn't make music. And what he what he what he meant by that is if if God was dependent on finding like these great instruments out here in the world to do anything with, he would never do anything. Because he's not going to find any great instruments with us. He's not going to find great people, great men with us. And uh what we find is that It's not about the instruments, it's about the master who picked them up and made them useful for his service. So let's meet these uh these 12 buckets again, okay? Matthew chapter 10, uh. starting at verse 1. Says Jesus summoned his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits to cast them out, to heal every kind of disease and every kind of sickness. Now the names of the twelve apostles are these, the first Simon, who is called Peter and Andrew his brother, and James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, Philip and Bartholomew, Thomas and Matthew, the tax collector, James the son of Alphaeus and Thaddeus. Simon the zealot and Judas Iscariot, the one who betrayed him. These twelve Jesus sent out after instructing them. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh I come before you God and uh Father, as we look at this text, Lord, once again we're dependent on you to open up this text to us, Father, to uh to speak to us through your word. And uh Father, I just pray that uh you, Lord, would uh continue to be faithful as you you always are each week, Lord, to uh to feed us with your truth. And I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. According to one figure I looked at, there are 3,237 different people mentioned in the Bible. But the vast majority of them only show up once or twice in Scripture. All we're familiar with names like Moses and Abraham, people that show up you know hundreds of times in the Bible. There's also names like Archipus. If you're looking for for a baby name, you know, maybe that's one you could uh try on. Archipus, you know, we got a couple people looking for uh for new births in the in the new year, so maybe you might want to try that one on. It's it's uh Archrupus, the ruler of forces is what his name means. Great name. We don't hear much about him, but uh but Archipus was a fellow soldier of the Apostle Paul according to Philemon verse 2 and uh was recognized by Paul as having received a ministry from the Lord that he was to fulfill in Colossians chapter 4, verse 17. But uh besides those two verses, we know nothing about Archibis. Nothing. Nothing at all. But that says nothing about his usefulness to the Lord, right? We know that uh what we know about him doesn't really make the difference. You know, what the Lord did with him made the difference. What the Lord knew about him made the difference. And uh there are people in heaven today, because Archipis, somebody that Most of us, you know, pass by and don't really know about. This man was faithful. He was faithful to to fulfill his ministry before the Lord. There's people in heaven today because Archibis was faithful. There are saints that were encouraged during his lifetime because Archibis was faithful. And each of the men that we're going to learn about today had a significant place in church history, even though we don't have more than maybe one or two verses about each of them. And what history records says nothing about their eternal impact. And we can be thankful to God that uh there's these men that God selected. Uh Christ selected after this night of prayer that he supplied, he gave them the resources for everything that they needed. And uh they were sent out in verse five uh to accomplish his work. And in verse three, uh we're introduced to to four people who had an internal uh an eternal impact. beginning with a man named Matthew, the friend of sinners. And he's the most well-known gospel writer, but in reality he's really one of the least known apostles. We don't really know much about Matthew's upbringing. We do know that he was the son of Alpheus, according to Mark chapter 2 and verse 14. And his Hebrew name was uh Levi, which is an interesting piece of information. And one of the possible explanations for Matthew's name being Levi. was that his family might have come from the tribe of Levi, right? And you remember there's twelve tribes of Israel. One of the tribes was named Levi, and it's possible that even likely that Matthew was a Levite, and that's why his parents gave him the name Levi, to commemorate the tribe that they came from. And historically, uh the Levites weren't supposed to be a tribe that stockpiled treasures and wealth for themselves. They weren't even supposed to be counted in the distribution of the the land when the the Israelites went out to go and fight for the land. The Levites never went out to fight for it. And the Levites weren't involved in the distribution of the land. They they were given certain cities. But they didn't go out to war like all the rest of the tribes did. According to Numbers chapter 18, if you want to look there, you don't have to turn there, I'll just go ahead and read it for you. But Numbers chapter 18, verses 20 and 21, the Lord speaks to Aaron, and he says, You shall have no inheritance. in their land, nor own any portion among them. I am your portion, and your inheritance among the sons of Leva of Israel To the sons of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithe in Israel for an inheritance in return for their service which they perform the service of the tent of meeting. were to be a tribe that served the Lord. They were supposed to serve in the in the temple, uh, they're supposed to serve in priestly duties. So when you think about it, here you have a possible descendant of Levi A tribe that wasn't meant to stockpile treasures for themselves, and Matthew became a what? A tax collector. A greedy tax collector, out of all people to become a tax collector, here you have Levi. Levi becoming a tax collector. A man who was meant to serve the people now became a person who actually served himself by the people. Matthew would have turned his back on everything that he knew. In order to pick up the lifestyle that he chose. Uh tax collecting in these days wasn't considered an honest trade. You know, it's not something that you went to school for and everybody pat you on the back, hey, welcome to RS. That's not what it was back here. Tax collecting in these days was considered licensed robbery. Licensed robbery. Maybe some people consider it that today, but it was licensed robbery And uh Jewish businessmen, uh, they purchased these tax-gathering businesses from the the Roman occupiers to collect taxes from their own people. And uh anything coming in or going out of their town, they could collect tax on it. They made their money by jacking up the the price of the tax. Uh they had the muscle of Rome to enforce it so nobody could say no. And the taxes were arbitrary, burdensome. They took advantage of the people and what they did was wrong. What they what they did was was robbery. Uh the family heritage would have told 'em this is wrong to do. You know, th this is not what I'm supposed to do as a as a Levite. If he's a Levite, it should have been a reminder to him that I'm here to serve the people. I'm not here to to serve myself and to rip off the people. The Jewish society around him that he would have lived in. I would have let them know that it's the wrong thing to do because uh tax collectors were placed on the same level as harlots and gamblers, the the same level of thieves. They're they're called beasts in human shape. According to the rabbis, there was no hope for tax collectors. And his own conscience should have told him that what he was doing was wrong. The pull of greed would have been great to cause a Jewish man to willingly collect taxes for the Romans against his own people. But it would have taken a greater pull to pull him away from that, right? And that greater pull came in Matthew chapter 9, verse 9, when Christ said, follow me. You know, I won't rehearse everything that we learned about there, but two words, and Matthew left everything behind. Everything behind with the two words of Jesus Christ. He got up, followed Jesus, left everything behind him, just the amazing power of Christ. But he never forgot where he came from. Matthew never forgot where he came from. It's interesting to see how Matthew refers to himself in chapter 9 and verse 9 when we're first introduced to Matthew. He talks about himself as the one who's sitting in the tax collector's booth. And then the the next time that we meet him in chapter ten and verse three, he's known as Matthew the tax collector. At this point in Matthew chapter ten, he's not even collecting taxes anymore. He's already left the tax franchise, but he still refers to himself as the tax collector. I am Matthew the tax collector His association with the Gentile stuck? His past association as a tax collector stuck with him? He refers to himself as a tax collector even after he's left the business. When the when the other, and it's kind of uh interesting when you compare this with the other gospel accounts, when they refer to Matthew, they never attach his name with The occupation. They never refer to him as the tax collector. Matthew is the only one who refers to himself in this way. Actually, the other gospel writers they refer to him often as Levi. They'd use his Hebrew name They wouldn't even refer to him primarily as Matthew. They'd even use his Hebrew name to kind of disassociate himself from what he did before. On the other hand, Matthew never uses his Hebrew name for himself, and he always refers to himself as the tax collector. That's that's just how he was he was known. That's what he felt about himself. And here he's not trying to present himself in the best light possible. You know, uh some people you know they take a picture say, hey, did you get my good side? Matthew doesn't care about my good side I I I want you to see the truth about who I am. He's far more concerned with what people thought about Christ than what they thought about him. I don't care what you think about me was Matthew's perspective. And what we find from that is that, number one, Matthew was a person of great humility. Matthew's a person of humility. Biblical humility is lowliness of mind. Lowliness of mind, and that's in relationship to yourself, to others, and to the Lord. First of all, it's it's Not thinking highly of yourself. In uh Romans chapter 12 and verse 3 it says, For through the grace given to me, I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. So it's a right thinking about yourself. It's also a right thinking about others. In Philippians chapter 2 and verse 3 it says, with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. It's a right relationship to others, and then it's a right relationship before the Lord. In James chapter 4, verse 10, it says, humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord. So in those three relationships to yourself, to others, and before the Lord, it's a lowliness of mind. And the easiest way to pursue humility is by recognizing that every blessing that you have is totally undeserved Totally undeserved. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 7 it says, What do you have that you did not receive? What what do you have that that you you can boast about? As if as if you've earned it or deserved it on on your own. What do you have that you didn't receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it And recognizing that you escaped the punishment that you did deserve. And this was Matthew's perspective. I deserve punishment For who I was. I was the tax collector. I deserved judgment for the lifestyle that I lived. This is the same kind of attitude that Paul had, right? In uh in 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 15. He says it's a trustworthy statement. Deserving full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, among whom I not was, I am foremost of all. He always saw himself as a sinner I'm a sinner saved by the grace of God. I've been rescued. And Paul never got over the fact that he was a hell-bound sinner who was saved and rescued by the grace of God. And how can you boast about being rescued, right? You know, hey, I was I I was rescued, I was saved, you know. I mean you're just admitting that you couldn't you didn't have the ability to do anything, right? The moment that you admit that I had to be saved, you're saying, I couldn't do anything. Somebody had to come and get me, somebody had to pull me out. And this is what Paul recognizes that I was saved. I was rescued. Never got over the fact that I was heading for hell and somebody had to pull me out. And Matthew never got over the fact that I was a tax collector. I was on my way to hell. I was on my way to judgment. But the Lord rescued me out of the lifestyle that I was I was in. I've been forgiven. I've been saved. I've been redeemed Like Psalm 51, verse 3, it says, For I know my transgression and my sin is ever before me. My sin is always before me. When's the last time that you saw yourself as your sin is always before you? Kind of pulled out the old photo album and take a look at what you used to be like and say, Lord, that's what you saved me out of. Lord, I thank you for your grace. I thank you for your goodness. It's one of the ways to kind of make sure that you have humility in your life is by taking a look at how you used to be before the Lord redeemed you. Matthew recognized that he was a person that was saved by God's grace. He's the tax collector. He's a man of humility. He's also a person of the word as well. One of the things that uh we pick up from Matthew's gospel is his familiarity with the the Hebrew scriptures. It's been observed that Matthew quotes from the Hebrew Scriptures 99 times in the Gospel of Matthew alone. That's incredible to think about. Actually, 99 times is more than Mark, Luke, and John combined. You know, quoting from the Old Testament, one of his favorite sayings is uh this took place to fulfill. And then he quotes from the from the Old Testament. Which is really fascinating because Matthew would not have been known as being particularly religious, right? You know, being a tax collector, it's not like he hung out with the scribes and Pharisees. He's hanging out with sinners. But still he's a he's a man of the of the word. So he just had a voracious appetite for the scriptures. So Matthew's like a book that's It's the Bible filled with the Bible. You know, it's like double stuff. You know, Matthew's just like Bible filled with Bible on top of Bible. So Matthew's a person of the word. And uh he's also a friend of sinners. uh as a tax collector, uh he was excluded from the religious fellowship, uh, couldn't serve as a witness. He was considered, you know, tainted, defiling anybody who was around him. So he spent the majority of his time with the sinners and that's the implication from the the the the party that he threw at his house because the only people that came were the people that he knew. And who did he know? Tax collectors and sinners. You know, people just like me. So he invited those that he knew, but It's interesting that God would use a person like this, a despised outcast, to be the primary writer to the Jewish people, isn't it? It's kind of kind of ironic that the Lord would use a person like Matthew to be the primary person to bring the message to the to the Jewish uh nation. Uh he was a servant of the Jewish peop uh people, which is point number four. He writes primarily for a Jewish audience in the book of Matthew. Not only was this gospel written primarily for the Jewish audience, but also by historical accounts, he spent fifteen years laboring among the Jewish people. uh intending, you know, he's he was intended to be a servant for the Jewish people, and that's what what he became. He became a servant for the for the nation. And uh Matthew's gospel is uh just incredible, uh really shaping Christianity more than any other gospel. Um The book of Matthew is quoted more than any other gospel that we have from the early church even up until today. One writer suggested that even if you think you have another favorite gospel, you know, when you think about the words of Christ, you're thinking Matthew. You know, because Matthew's just so pervasive in everything that we uh we think when we uh learn about Christ. Uh so Matthew's words are just ingrained in our thinking, but guess how many times Matthew actually talks about himself? Or actually That Matthew actually speaks any words of dialogue in the Gospel of Matthew. Anybody can think of one? Not one word Matthew does not say one word in the entire Bible. We have what he did. He threw a party for Jesus Christ. We have what he did, he followed Jesus Christ. We don't have one word of dialogue in the entire Bible. You think you know Matthew, but you really don't. He doesn't say anything in the entire Bible. Matthew never speaks, not one word of dialogue from Matthew. If you look in Mark, Luke, John, not one word from Matthew. He's a silent apostle. Even after uh his life after uh Jerusalem is kind of hazy. We don't really have many traditions that we can kind of uh rely on. We really don't know the kind of life that he lived afterwards. We don't know the kind of death that he died, whether it was stoning, burning, natural causes. We don't we don't know anything. But we're grateful for a service to all of us, right? Matthew, uh difficult to get to to know somebody who doesn't really speak, but but there you have it. Matthew is is this this silent witness, the silent apostle, uh, but he speaks powerfully, doesn't he? You know, his life speaks powerfully, and uh Matthew is known uh to us as the one who was the tax collector and the the friend of sinners. So here here there you have it, Matthew. And try if you thought get getting to know Matthew was difficult, try the next three. Next three disciples here. James, Thaddeus, and Simon the Zealot. You know, if you ever tried the You know, name all the apostles. You know, these are the guys that you always forget. You know, like nobody remembers Stadius, right? So here you have James, James the less. Uh I call him the background disciple. Uh James is is known to us in in scripture more because of who he's not than because of who he is. Uh he's not James the son of thunder You know, like the uh uh the the brother of uh the Apostle John and the part of the inner circle. Uh he's not James, the brother of our Lord, you know, a pillar of the early church. Author of the book of James. That's not that James. He's the other James. He's the different James. He's the we only know him because of his father, Alpheus. You know, that's the only way that he's kind of distinguished. uh that in another term that's used for him. But that's how you make sure you don't get him confused with any of the other James that you know. You know, he's James the son of Alpheus. The only time he's mentioned outside of the listing of disciples is in Mark chapter 15, actually, if you want to turn there, in Mark chapter 15. And in Mark chapter 15, he's not even the focus. It's his mother. That's the focus in uh in Mark chapter fifteen. In Mark fifteen and uh verse forty, his mother was uh one of the uh the women who followed Jesus and ministered to him while he was in in Galilee and uh It was one of the ones who uh kind of looked in on the crucifixion as Jesus was um giving up his life. It says in verse 40, there are also some women looking on from a distance Among whom were Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James, the less, and Joseph Joseph and Salome. When he was in Galilee, they used to follow him and minister to him, and there were many other women who came up with him to to Jerusalem. But we learn nothing about James himself. Nothing else is said about James. We just learned that his mother was devoted to Christ, that he had another brother named Joseph, and uh James is really himself in the in the background. Uh we don't know anything that he said, that he did, that he thought. Actually, we know more, I mean, think about this. We know more about Judas than we know about James. You know, put that one on precise, right? We know about his father, mother, brother, but there's still a lot of questions about his family. Like he's he's called the son of Alpheus in uh Mark chapter 3, verse 18. Uh but so is Matthew. Matthew's called the son of Alpheus. And you can start to wonder, it's like, well, are they brothers then? Is uh Matthew the brother? Of James the Less? You know, is that the connection we're supposed to make make? But we don't find that connection being made. It's like maybe he is, maybe he's not. Like, we don't know And if if he is a brother, I mean why don't the text just come out and say it? But it's like are we just supposed to make that connection? That, you know, if Matthew's father is Alpheus and James's father is Alpheus, they're the you know product of the same father. We don't know. There's some speculation that James might have been related to Christ, but That's never mentioned in the Bible either. And uh all that we know, he's just compared with the rest of the apostles, and he's called uh called the the the little James. James the less, which is what uh less means, it means little. It's the Greek word micros. We use it in English for uh you know talking about things that are very small. Micro. It's a word that could could have been used to refer to as physical size. You know, maybe he's just a little James because he's short. Call him micro-James, you know. Somebody who's small, Jesus actually uses uh my cross for the the smallest seed in uh Matthew chapter 11, verse 11, so maybe it's just that he's small. Or it could be that he was just younger in age, you know, micro-James, because he's young, younger than everybody else. In uh Matthew 18, verse 6, uh Jesus refers to children as micros, micros, you know, so maybe it's just because he's young Or it could also mean that he was just small in influence. And uh if you look at uh Matthew chapter eleven and uh verse eleven it says uh Jesus is talking about uh John the Baptist and he says, Truly I say to you, among those born of women there has not arisen anyone greater than John the Baptist. Yet one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. So it's talking about small and influence. The word least is used there And we really don't know how it's being used, but what we don't want to make too much out of the name, but it's interesting to note that James is probably the least known out of all the disciples. Even the traditions after his uh about his life after Pentecost were scarce. He just kind of disappears from from history. You know, we don't know anything else about him after this. And as uh And if we think about it, you know, James disappears from history just as most of us will, right? There's there's not a there might be a few of us in here who history will report on us, you know, hundreds of years after we're gone. Uh but for most of us the the dust will erase the memories of you know the time that we're here. You know, our kids might remember grandkids, but after that it's like, you know, we're we're done, right? Anything gives your life significance. It's not what people think about you what when you're gone. That's not what gives your life significance. You know, if that's is if that's all that your future holds, you know, your future is pretty pretty bleak, right? Um if your life is centered on what God wants you to do while you're here, right? That that gives your life significance. That's what uh Moses determined in from uh Psalm 90. And Psalm 90, you want to flip back there real quick. You have Moses who's watching an entire generation of Israelites die out in the wilderness over 40 years I mean you talk about a wake-up call. You know, imagine seeing, you know, close to two million people die, you know, just one after the other after the other over a period of forty years until everybody's wiped out and the new generation you know comes in. That's what Moses was uh was witnessing in Psalm 90 is written about that period of time. Uh says in verse 12, look at uh Psalm 90 and verse 12. He says, so teach us to number our days so that we may present to you a heart of wisdom. So like we don't we don't have long here. You know, teach us to number the time that we we do have. That we can present to you a heart that's that's living life based on your commands and your principles. Teach me to live a life based on wisdom. And then in uh verse 17, uh listen to what he says. I love this. He says, Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us. and confirm for us the work of our hands. Yes, confirm the work of our hands. The only way that that your work, the things that you do now, can really be established, confirmed, is that you live for something that's beyond you. You need to live for something that's that's beyond you. You need to live for the for the glory and the honor of God. But if you invest your life in only what you see in front of you, uh you you you're already kind of building in your expiration date, right? I mean all that that I do is all that's in front of me and that's it. You you haven't built a life that's going to be established to anything. The only way that we can build a life that's going to last is that we direct our efforts at the majesty of God in his service. That's the good work that we're supposed to be building our lives towards. And that's what James lived his life for. For the for the Majesty of God and his Savior Jesus Christ. And we don't know where he ministered. We don't know how he died. Some traditions say he was stoned. Probably mixing him up with another James is probably what's going on there. But what we do know is that his life is recorded where it matters most In the records of heaven, where the Father who sees what's done in secret rewards you for what you do, rewards you openly for what you do. And that's a lesson all of us need to learn, right? It doesn't matter what kind of you know influence you might have, as long as you're doing what God wants you to do, right? As long as you're living for God and for his glory, your life counts. Christian theologian D. A. Carson wrote a book about his father, Tom Carson, and he called it uh Memoirs of an Ordinary Pastor. I wrote about his uh father that ministered in uh Quebec, Canada. And in the preface, this is what he wrote. He says this. He says, most pastors will not regularly preach to thousands. let alone tens of thousands. They will not write influential books. They will not su uh supervise large staffs. They will never see more than modest growth. They will plug away at their care for the aged, at their visitation, at their counseling, at their Bible studies and preaching. Some will work with so little support that they will prepare their own bulletins and thank God I don't have to do that. And he says, and most of us, let's just be frank, are just ordinary pastors. So let's just be frank. We're just all ordinary people. You know, none of us in here are great, you know, gonna make this big mark and splash for, you know, the rest of the ages to to see. And what Carson tries to point out is that there's a far loftier goal to try to reach. It's not about becoming great. It's about being faithful to the one who is great. That's what makes your life matter. That's what makes your life count. Are you trying to be great or are you serving the one faithfully who is great? You need to think about that. Uh uh he reminds us that that all that is gold does not glitter. But all that's gold doesn't necessarily glitter either, right? You can have true value where it isn't necessarily shown to everybody on the outside. And what you have here in a faithful man, a faithful minister of God, is true gold that wasn't glittering True gold. The true friend of uh uh you have a have a true friend here in in James, right? And he's glittering now You know, in in heaven he's glittering now, but while he was on earth, it was just little James. You know, nobody know what he did, nobody know what he said, nobody know where he ministered, nobody knows how he died. But but he was one of the ones that was called out by Christ uh to lead his church. And I hope you're starting to get an idea of the kind of people that God uses. Are you starting to get that kind of idea? You know, that that it doesn't matter who I am, what kind of gifts I might have, that God can use me for a service and that can matter for all of eternity if I'm serving God now? And if you uh and the next one is uh another disciple, like I said, if you ever forgot a name of one of the disciples, this would this would be the guy, Thaddeus. Nobody remembers Thaddeus. People can't hardly pronounce his name. He's called Thaddeus in Matthew chapter 10. Some manuscripts add the word Levius. Another name that he goes by is the name Judas, but not Iscariot. You know, always adds that because it doesn't want to confuse you with anybody else. According to most students of the language, Thaddeus and Levius are both related to the word, the Hebrew word for breast or heart. So he's like a heart child is is actually like a a term that was used for him or breast child. And you can try to make that sound tough if you want, but uh it's pretty hard to convince me that that's anything else but just, oh tender heart child that is. I mean that's that's what he is It's a nickname for him. Look at the heart child. Look at look at the child that tries to stay close to mom. MacArthur said it's the mama 's boy. You know, look at him. He's staying close to mine. Look at the little heart child. This is just a tender character. That's who Thaddeus is. And uh this observation would seem to be backed up over in uh John chapter 12. You want to flip over there where we meet uh Thaddeus as well. In uh John chapter 14. In uh John 14, Jesus is uh preparing his disciples for his soon departure. It's uh really a tender scene that you have here, the kind of Relationship that Jesus has with these disciples is like a father to uh to children. You know, that's how Jesus relates to his disciples. Several times throughout the Gospels. Jesus refers to the disciples as children. In John 13, he calls them little children. In uh John chapter 21, he calls them children. And uh here in John chapter 14 he speaks to them as as children. Let's them know he's about to leave, uh, but he doesn't want to leave them as as orphans. You know, you know, your dad's about to leave, but I'm not going to leave you alone. You 're here again referring to them as as children. In uh John chapter uh uh fourteen, look at verse verse eighteen He says, I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. After a little while the world will no longer see me, but you will see me because I live, you will live also. In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you and me, and I in you He who has my commandments and keeps them is the one who loves me, and he loves me will be loved by my father, and I will love him, and I will disclose myself to him. And Judas, not as scary, you know, this is the same Thaddeus Levius that we've met earlier. He said to him, Lord , What then has happened? That you are not that you're going to disclose yourself to us and not to the world? And here uh Thaddeus, you know, it's a really a tender thought here, but but basically he's asking, you know, has the plan changed? You know, I thought I thought you know the kingdom was going to come and you're going to reveal yourself to everybody like like what's happened that you're only going to reveal yourself to us and not to the to the whole world. You know, I thought the kingdom was going to be a public event. How could it be that we're the only ones that you reveal yourself to? And uh Jesus responds in verse 23 by saying, uh, if anyone loves me, He will keep my word and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. And then later on he talks about the Holy Spirit in verse 26. who by the way would be their father figure after Jesus left, you know, that the Holy Spirit uh would be there and uh you know act as a father to them. Uh but he he lets them know that the Holy Spirit will explain everything to you. But uh Judas was like like this child who needs to be reminded the plans haven't changed. You know, it's it's o it's okay, Judas. You know, it's uh it's okay. You know the the ones who should be revealed who I should be revealed to, I will be revealed to. And uh you know that's not going to change but what he's trying to explain to him here is that uh you know the the kingdom really the king the promise of the kingdom hasn't been been changed but Those that will see me in my glory are going to be the ones that truly love me. And Jesus is going to come back to a future generation that will recognize him and will submit themselves to him, but the time hadn't come yet. But he says, but for those that do love me, I will reveal myself to him. I'm not going to leave people out. You know, so Judas kind of needs to be reminded that the Lord's not going to leave anybody out, and that the people that should be revealed, he should be revealed to, that he will be revealed to you. But here you have uh this James uh uh uh the less and Thaddeus, you know, this kind of tender, childlike person. Kind of reminds me of the the words of uh of Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 where you know he's he's really making a specific reference to the to the spiritual gifts, but the truth is is that God shapes and places us exactly where he wants us to be. Everybody's not going to be the same. And 1 Corinthians chapter 12, it lets us know that in verse 14 of 1 Corinthians chapter 12. This reminds you about what it says there in verse 14. It says, For the body is not one member but many. If the foot says, Because I am not of the hand, I'm not the hand, I'm not a part of the body, it's no not for this reason any less a part of the body. If the ear says, Because I'm not an eye, I'm not a part of the body, it's not for this reason any the less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he desired. If they were all one member, where would the body be? But now there are many members, but one body, and the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you. Or again the heads of the feet, I have no need of you. And on the contrary, it is much true that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. And uh here you have these uh these apostles. Which might seem to be weaker to us, you know, not the you know kind of outgoing personalities like a Peter, you know, not the you know kind of electrifying personality like a James, but each one of these individuals was important and necessary for the body of Christ. And here you have, again, it's the master who makes the difference. And everybody in here within the BBC, everybody's not going to be the same, right? Everybody's not going to be a teacher, everybody's not going to be a preacher, everybody's not going to be, you know, number one disciple or whatever else. But each of us has a part to play within the body. And we should be content with whatever role God has given us to play. And it's not about like where am I in the body, but it's about who am I serving? Right? Am I serving God by what I do? Am I truly seeking to care for one another by by the acts that I do? Or am I out here trying to seek a name for myself? And here's where you have uh some of the uh the the differences in in people when they're aspiring to certain positions, is it because you want to care for people or because you want to care for yourself? Is it because you really want to serve somebody else or you want people to serve you? Now this it kind of gets into the to the motives. Why do you do what you do? Is it really about serving God? Or is it about something that you're trying to get for your own glory? And here you have uh Judas Thaddeus, you know, one of the uh known as one of the first apostles to be sent out. There's some evidence that he visited a place called Edessa, uh, and later on uh Armenia in uh Iran. But uh They actually uh credit uh uh Judas Stadius with uh starting the church in in Armenia. Armenia is known as one of the the first Christian Christian nations And uh they believe that it was uh Judas Stadius that which is the the first one that to bring the the word of God to them. It was said in later on in the nineteenth century that uh the Roman Catholic Church came to Armenia to ask if they wanted to be brought into you know the Holy Roman Church. And they said, uh they said this is how they responded. They said, why should we go from apostle to apostle? What Peter is the same as also Thaddeus. It's like we've had Thaddeus bring the word to us. Why do we need to go to Rome and be under Peter? You know, it just doesn't matter to us So you find that Thaddeus isn't behind the chief apostles, and it's believed that he was actually martyred in Aram because of his faithfulness to the Word of God. And the last person that we have on our list is Simon. And I'm going to finish all the faithful disciples today so we can just spend next week in the dumps with Jesus. So uh so here we go. We have the apostle Simon the Zealot, who I call the Apostle on the Watch List. This is the apostle on the on the watch list. And uh the only thing we know about Simon is by what what's attached to his name, and that says a lot. The term zealot was actually a reference to an ultra-nationalist party in the first century. Josephus, the Jewish historian. He identifies four Jewish groups during this time, the Pharisees, the Sadducees. We know about them from the Gospels. There's another group called the Essenes, which were, you know, they kind of live like monks out in the desert, you know, just kind of contemplating and meditating. And then there were the zealots. Listen to how Josephus describes the zealots. He says, of the fourth sect of Jewish philosophy, the zealots, these men agree in all other things with the Pharisees. But they have an inviable attachment to liberty and say that God is to be their only ruler. They also do not value dying any kinds of deaths. Nor do they heed the deaths of their relations and friends. They don't care if they die, they don't care if their family dies. As long as it's like the objective is reached. It's like that's all we care about. And since this movable resolution of theirs is well known to a great many, I shall speak no further about the matter, nor am I afraid that anything that I have said about them should be disbelieved, but rather fear that what I have said is beneath the resolution that they show. These guys were the first century terrorists. Like, we're we're concerned about the objective. I don't care if I die. I don't care if the family dies, as long as the goal's met. We're about Preserving the nation, Israel comes first. And that's that's how they were. They they and we kind of went from uh you know uh the the heart child to to the brave heart, you know what I mean? This is the the the Simon the zealot He's the guy who comes from the party that doesn't mind being killed or being killed. His group was known as being militant, violent, revolutionaries. They were convinced that paying tax to a pagan king was treason, and in uh six AD they uh led a violent revolt And uh they were crushed by the the Roman government, so they kind of went, you know, secretive and uh carried out this kind of guerrilla warfare, you know, coming out stabbing people and running away back into hiding. That's what they did. Uh MacArthur notes that they formed a party of secret assassins called a Sakari, uh which is from the Greek term for for dagger. They used the word for dagger and you know applied it to themselves because that's what they're known for, carrying the daggers around. They kind of hold it in their cloak. come up behind a politician or somebody that was uh pro-Rome and stab them in the back. Outlaws. You know, these were the people on the watch list for for Rome. Many of the Israelites were considered uh consider them heroes. Rome considers them enemies and outlaws. And uh many believe that uh Barabbas, remember uh Barabbas when he's you know being called out, you know, release Barabbas Uh Barabbas was uh uh known uh by being a murderer during a rebellion, uh, and he was next in line for the crucifixion according to Mark chapter 15. He was part, probably part of this zealot party. You know, one of these guys that went out, you know, trying to stir up trouble, cause a revolt to the people, he's a hero. To Rome, he's an outlaw, he's a criminal. But he's he's pro-Israel, he's pro the people. And Simon would have been known as one of these men. And we have no idea what kind of baggage Simon brought to the to the twelve apostles. We have no idea. But we know that he had a past. There's a rough character here, Simon the the zealot. And I'm not sure how well Matthew slept at night, you know, knowing that he has a guy uh that that was, you know, so pro-Israel that he would have taken down a tax collector, and here Matthew's probably like sleeping with one eye open. It's like, you know. Are you sure you're converted now? We're cool, right? But here you have this zealot who's part of the twelve that Jesus calls to himself. Amazing. The kinds of people that Jesus is going to change the world with. Amazing. People with the past. But even Simon, who couldn't be intimidated into calling anybody Lord, recognized Jesus as Lord. Jesus is Lord. In uh John chapter 18, verse 36, you have to learn the lesson that Jesus taught that my kingdom is not of this world If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. So Simon had to learn that. That it's not about fighting for this kingdom here and now. And it's kind of interesting that in the garden it's not Simon the Zealot that pulls out the sword. It's Simon Peter. If Simon the Zealot pulled out a sword, I'm sure it would have been more than an ear. You have Simon Peter is pulling out, doesn't know what he's doing, it's like, you know, come on, just give me the the dagger here, Simon. But here you have Peter, you know, flinging out the sword and cutting the air. If it was Simon Azelle, it would have been a different story This guy is skilled, this guy is is trained. But but Simon Azalot doesn't pull out his sword. You you have something that's going on in this guy's life where where he was tamed. Uh he was put in his in his place and Yeah, but uh uh this this conversion that that took place in Jesus made him useful for service. And there's uh many different traditions about Simon uh that put him in parts of Africa, Iran, even Britain, you know, as far as Britain, but um The last place according to church history that he ministered was in uh in Persia, right next to to Thaddeus, right next to the heart child. You have Simon the Zealot, you know, this rough character right next to this tender, tender man ministering together. According to one account, there were local rulers in uh in Persia who attempted to persuade Simon and Jew to sacrifice to their local deities, which of course they refused And they stirred up this howling mob which converged on the two elderly men. And uh listen to this, I love this. It says uh Jude turned to Simon calmly. You know, after this, like as he sees this mob approaching, you know, about to take his life, it says the Jew turned to Simon calmly and remarked, I see that the Lord is calling us. Like it's it's uh it's time to go home. Yeah, I I see that the Lord's calling us. The crowd began to pelt them with stones, and at length the man with the spear came up and ran G through There's another tradition that says he was actually clubbed to death, and the traditional symbol for Jude is a club, you know, Judas, Levius, Thaddeus. And Simon was seized by several thugs and sawn in pieces. And what an example we have of just faithful men. Just upholding the truth, willing to take a stand for Christ, whatever comes. And you have uh this wonderful example that God doesn't need great gifts to do great things, right? He doesn't need great men He doesn't need uh men that have great personalities, you know, these kind of outward, outgoing personalities like a Peter or James. He doesn't need that to do great things He doesn't need uh untainted backgrounds. You know, he picked up a guy like Simon, surely he could use you with whatever background you have. And the Christian message hasn't been borne throughout history on the backs of the great men of history, but by faithful men in obscurity. That's how the Christian message continues. It's through just faithful, ordinary people like us. It's uh there's a lot of interest today in family history. You know, what would it be like if we could trace you know our family history and see who we're connected to? I wonder like what would it be like if we could trace our spiritual history? Like we we have no idea who we're connected to. No idea. What if you could connect your spiritual DNA back to like who witnessed to who, who witnessed to who, who witnessed to who, and it's eventually going to get back to these twelve men. It's eventually going to get back to these 12 men. We're all related to these 12 men because they're the ones who began to be faithful. But who how about all these people in between? All these nameless ones. Have no idea. And whoever's in the future, we're the connection now. We are the connection. We're the spiritual heritage of whoever comes after us. So the call for us is uh is to be faithful. Be faithful with whatever ministry God's given you to do. Be faithful to open up your mouth wherever God's called you to be Be faithful to preach the gospel. You have no idea who you're going to impact for the sake of the kingdom. Just by being faithful, just by being an ordinary Christian. Just do what you're called to do. Just be faithful. I love what 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 1 talks about. I think it's 1 or 2 where it says that, you know, what does God require in stewards? That one be found trustworthy. Faithful. All all we're doing is just being faithful to put one foot in front of the other foot, in front of the other foot, until the Lord calls us home or until he returns, right? That's all we're called to do. And just be faithful to the Lord. Amen. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for an opportunity to look at these men, just uh ordinary men, not people just like us. But uh the people that were picked up to do extraordinary things in the hands of the Master, uh Father, they're uh nothing more than just mere buckets, uh, but you can make beautiful music on buckets. Father, you can uh do great things, Lord, in the lives of people like us, uh people that don't necessarily have uh great resources, great personalities, uh have done great things, Lord, that uh others can look at, and Father, that's not what you've called us to do. The things that you've called us to do is just to be faithful to your commands, faithful to live out the principles that you've given us in your word. And Father, I pray that we would be content. With that, Father, that we would be content with uh serving you, Lord, knowing that uh the greatest thing that we can do with our lives, the greatest thing that we can do with our lives is to serve the great one. Not to try to become great ourselves, but to serve the one who is great. So Father, I pray that you'd help us to uh to do that. And uh Father, that you would encourage us in our service towards you. In Jesus' name, we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.