The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? We're back in the book of Romans, Romans chapter 3, and uh we're going to continue to climb This Mount Everest of Paul's epistles, Romans, has been a steep mountain to climb, but the views that we've been able to take in are worth the trip, well worth the climb. And if you've been with us for our journey through the book of Romans, you'll remember that for the last three chapters of the book of Romans, Paul has been laboring to demonstrate that all of mankind is guilty before God. In chapter 1, he shows us that the pagan Gentile unbeliever is accountable before God. Why? In chapter 1 and verse 19, it says, because that which is known about God is evident within them. For God made it evident to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. Chapter 2 He also shows us that the religious Jewish believer is accountable before God. Why? Chapter 2 and verse 11, it says, for there is no partiality with God. For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified. Being the people of the law only made the Jewish people more accountable to that law. And as a result, they also have no excuse. And that's how chapter 2 opens up in verse 1. Therefore, you have no excuse. And as we turn the page to chapter 3 of the book of Romans, Paul is now going to charge the entire world of being guilty before God. So we've gone from the Gentile pagan unbeliever to the Jewish religious believer, and now Paul just turns to the entire world. It says the entire world is guilty. Jew, Greek, and anybody in between who can't figure it out, red or yellow, black or white, all are guilty in his sight. It's a universal indictment Look at verse 10 of Romans chapter 3. It says, as it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. I'd say that pretty much covers everybody, right? Everybody is included in this passage. And then there's the second half of Verse 19 that gives us the purpose statement for all of this. If you look down to verse 19 of chapter 3, it says now we Know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God. The whole world. Everybody's accountable to God. And I've said it before, but the important question in the book of Romans that Romans addresses is how is God's righteousness being put on display? How is God's righteousness being defended? And that's really what's being addressed here in chapter 3. There's a case that God is making against all of humanity. And after he makes this case, it's going to be so crystal clear that when God carries out his judgment, that every mouth will be stopped. There's not going to be one peep of protest to say, God, I don't I don't think that you quite got that right. God, I think that that this person actually deserved the pass. God, I think I deserved a pass. Every mouth is going to become shut. Every mouth will be closed and accountable before God. There will be no appeals to this court. Your arguments won't work on the day of judgment. None of your excuses will be accepted on the day of judgment. There will be no exceptions made, you know, for you know special pleading, you know, understanding my unique situation. None of that. When your judgment is read, there's just going to be a somber silence that recognizes your condemnation is just I'm getting exactly what I deserve, and all excuses will be silenced. I know I called the book of Romans the Mount Everest, but what we're walking through here seems more like the valley of the shadow of death. This is a deep valley, it's a dark valley, but until you understand the darkness of this valley, you won't be able to appreciate the brightness and the glory on the summit of salvation. So let's take a dive into this text and we'll start at verse 9, Romans chapter 3 and verse 9. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all. For we have already charged both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless There is none who does good. There is not even one. Their throat is an open grave. With their tongues they keep deceiving. The poison of asps is under their lips. whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and the path of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. Now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that the mouth may be closed, so that every mouth may be closed. And all the world may become accountable to God, because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight, for through the law comes the knowledge of sin. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for another opportunity, Lord, to look at this text Now Father, to be reminded of the truth of the Book of Romans. Father, we thank you for the glory of the gospel that we find in the book of Romans. But Father, until we understand the bad news, the good news won't make sense to us. So Father, I pray that as we walk through this dark valley, as we examine the sins that That this world is plagued by. Now, Father, I pray that it would only turn us to this glory and praise at our great salvation, at what Christ has accomplished for us. Because he's saved us from what we could not save ourselves from. So Father, I pray that you would help us to understand these things and that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This passage hits the mute button on all the excuses that we could offer to God on the day of judgment. And the first excuse that Paul removes is the sinful comparison of ourselves among ourselves. Comparing ourselves with ourselves. Our excuses are silenced when we stop comparing ourselves to others. Look at verse 9. It says, what then? Are we better than they? Not at all, for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. If you remember the last time we were together in the book of Romans, we were in a section of Romans that addressed the religious Jewish believer who relied upon the law, who boasted in God, who placed a great value on his circumcision. And if you remember, Paul recognized the advantage of being part of the Jewish nation. He recognized the advantage of this covenant relationship with God, the sign of circumcision, and being entrusted with the very oracles of God. That's what the Jewish people had. They had the word of God that they were given to manage, to guard. But that did not give them an advantage on the day of judgment. They would not be better off because they were Jewish. And that's the point of verse 9. When Paul says, what then? Are we better than they? I understand the we here to be a continuation of the previous argument where he's been giving answers to a Jewish objector. There are some who would understand Paul using the word we to refer to himself and also to the Christian community, but in the previous context, Paul has consistently been putting questions in the mouth of the objector, like in verse 1 where he says, Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what benefit is circumcision? Those are not his questions. Those are the questions of those who object to his teaching. In addition to that, The explanation that Paul gives for saying we are not better than they is found at the end of verse 9, where he says, Not at all, for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. He's mentioning Jews and Greeks because that's the context that he's speaking in. And that statement makes sense if you're comparing Jews to Greeks. That's who he has in mind. And then finally in verse 19, where Paul says, now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. Those who are under the law are the Jewish people. And the argument that Paul is making is that if Jewish people can't escape condemnation, Nobody else can. If they can't escape the condemnation with all of the privileges that they have, who do you think you are that you're going to escape? So they start as the example that if if they are held accountable before God, then the entire world is held accountable before God. That's his point. So back to verse 9. The question is, what then are we, meaning the Jewish people, better than they, speaking about the Greeks or the Gentiles? If there's an advantage to being a Jewish person and there's a benefit of circumcision and being entrusted with the law of God, does that mean that we're better off when it comes to time, comes time for the judgment? Now does Paul answer that question? Not at all. Not at all. There's no advantage in judgment The word for better, are we better than they, it's the Greek word pro echo, it's the word that was meant to hold something out in front, or to protrude, or to surge forward, to excel. And basically they're asking, you know, do we excel others? Are we in front of others? Do we get a front seat? Do we get some kind of advantage when we stand before God? And the answer is absolutely not. And the context here is speaking about God who inflicts wrath, about being judged as a sinner, about being held accountable before God. So what Paul is saying is when it comes to being held accountable before God, your Jewishness does not matter. Your background does not matter. The question won't be, you know, what nation did you come from when you stand before God? Not at all. Both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. And the point that Paul has been making is that we're all charged with sin. We're charged with it, a word that means to accuse beforehand. Even before the judgment is finalized, Paul can say, I already know what's coming up. You're under sin. That's what's coming up. And it's not merely that you have sinned. Listen to what he says. You are under sin. That's far worse. It's a statement about the realm you belong to. You belong to sin The preposition under and the form of the word for sin indicates that the person is in subordination to sin. It was used for those that appeared in military or political context, for soldiers that were underneath their commanding officer, about subjects being under the king. It says here that you are under sin. You're under it. And ever since the first act of disobedience, sin has dominated every human being. We have been under sin. And being under sin is a much more serious situation than simply committing sin. The person under sin is controlled by it. He's mastered by it The book of Romans teaches us that sin dominates mankind. Sin is personified as the tyrant that rules over his subjects. Like God told Cain that, you know, sin lies at the door and its desire is for you. It wants to rule over you. It wants to take control of you. And that that's why we have to be so careful with sin. It's it's enslaving. It wants to take over. It doesn't just want, you know, hey, hey, just give me a little uh you know taste. It wants the whole meal, it wants everything. And sin will not be satisfied until you're face down in worship to Satan himself. You know, when Satan finally pulled the mask off. You know, when he's tempting Jesus, what did he finally ask for? I'll just give you everything if you just bow down and worship me. That's what sin wants. It wants you bow down, face down, and worship. Giving everything over to sin. That is what sin wants. Paul tells the believers in Romans, and if you flip over to Romans chapter 6, What should the attitude of believers be towards sin? Look at Romans chapter 6, look at verse 12. In contrast to being dominated by sin, what does he tell the believers? Verse 12, chapter 6. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lust. You can resist sin Don't let sin rain in you. And if you're a believer, you have the power not to let sin rain in you. Don't let it rain. You can resist it. Look at verse 14. For sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under law, but under grace. Look at verse 22. But now having been freed from sin, freed from its domination, freed from its power, and enslaved to God, you derive your benefit resulting in sanctification. You can Grow in your holiness and the outcome, eternal life. Believers have been set free from the domination of sin. We are no longer subjects of sin. And back in chapter 5 and verse 21, it says, so that as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. The person who is uh who's been given over to the Lord has been set free from the domination of sin You know, the person, we can no longer say, you know, I've I've fallen and I can't get up, right? To borrow an old phrase. But the person who says that I'm a believer, but I just can't stop filling the blank. I'm a believer though, but I just can't stop. If you can't stop, are you saying that you don't have the ability to stop? That you don't have the power to stop? Are you saying that you're a slave to your lusts? Are you saying that sin is still your master? And could it be an indication that you are still under The domination of sin. If I have no ability to say no to sin. Believers are given power by the Spirit of God to resist sin and fight temptation. And maybe if there's a sin that you say, I just can't stop it, this is just what I do, I just just can't help myself. Maybe if that's you, maybe it's because you're still a slave. Maybe it's because you're still a slave to sin. Maybe there's no victory because there's no vitality. Maybe you haven't been given life Because if we've been given life, the Bible says that we can say no. We can say no to sin. And the inability to deal with sin is a sign that you might still be under the power of the evil one. If I have an unbroken pattern of sin in my life, there's no power to say no to temptation. Maybe it says I'm still under that power. 1 John 5, verse 19 says, we know that we are of God, and that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. We're no longer those who lie in the power of the evil one. And if you're still under the power of the evil one, it doesn't matter if you've been circumcised, baptized, catechized, how many verses you've memorized. It's not going to give you any advantage in the day of judgment. Your your background. Like the like the Jewish people could look back to to being circumcised and having the law. Does that give you any advantage on the day of judgment if you haven't been given new life? Your church attendance doesn't count, your communion doesn't count, your offering doesn't count. According to Romans, there were Jewish believers who were still under the dominion of sin who would not escape the judgment And the charge of being under sin is supplied equally to both. And that's what he says back in chapter three. Look at verse nine again. Not at all, for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. That was the condition for everybody That's how we showed up, like you know, fresh out the box. We're under sin, under its domination. The charge of being under sin is applied equally to Jews and to Greeks. And does it make sense to think about what advantage do I have when you're both headed to judgment? Like what does it matter? What advantage do I have? Does it matter? You're still under sin. Knowing more of God's word on that day will only be more of a witness against you. And all will be silent when they appear before God on that great day. There won't be any comparing yourself with anybody else. Hey, do I have an advantage over that person? Or what about my background? Didn't that count for something? It will count for absolutely nothing. We're silent. Our mouths are silenced when we stop comparing ourselves. among ourselves. Number two, our excuses are silenced, our mouths are silenced when we start examining ourselves according to the scripture. Take a look at verse 10 in Romans chapter 3. It says, as it is written. That's a common expression for an introduction to the Word of God for a quotation from Scripture. As it is written. There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside, together they have become useless. There is none who does good, there is not even one. And in this section, and really in verses 10 down to 18 , there's multiple references to Old Testament texts. You know, just rapid fire in succession, just like I like it. Just verse after verse. So if you're ever tempted to complain that, you know, you give too many verses in a sermon, I just can't keep up. Just remember that Paul did the same thing. Just verse after verse after verse, okay? That's what he did. Jewish rabbis would actually refer to a series of texts like this as a string of pearls. Just a string of pearls. And what we have here is a string of string of pearls from Scripture. Connected series of verses all strung together like pearls on a necklace. And what do these scriptures teach us? Number one, it teaches us that there is none righteous, not even one. And I know we know this verse. I know that we've memorized this verse. We've quoted this verse. But have you ever thought about just how disturbing this verse is? That there's not even one? The one thing that you can say about any person that you've ever met in your life is that he's not righteous. Because there's none righteous. Out of all the billions of people on the planet, you can say about every single one of them, he's not righteous. I know that for sure. Sin has so defaced the human race that nobody escapes its corruption. Nobody Ecclesiastes 7 verse 29 says, Behold, I have found only this, that God made men upright, but they have sought out many devices. Ecclesiastes 7. 20. Indeed, there is not a righteous man on earth who continually does good and never sins. Nobody. In the first six chapters of the Bible, we descend from creation to chaos, from paradise to pollution, from delight to death. Genesis 131, God saw all that he had made, and behold it was very good. And by the time we get to Genesis chapter 6, the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth. and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Went for from from innocence to this continual evil. And the verdict of scripture is that we're all guilty. Flip over to Psalm chapter 14, or Psalm 14. Psalm 14 is where Romans chapter 3 is quoting. Romans 3 is quoting from Psalm Ben It's also repeated in Psalm 53, where David is lamenting the folly of the wickedness of his generation. We take a look at Psalm 14. Look at verse 1. Psalm 14. It says the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have committed abominable deeds. There is no one who does good. The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there are any who understand, who seek for God. They have all turned aside, together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one And again, that's a universal statement, no exceptions. And this would have actually been a powerful rebuke to the Jewish people who boasted in the law of God, who were entrusted with the oracles of God, because those same scriptures condemn them. Isaiah 1 in verse 4 describes the nation of Judah, and it says, Alas, sinful nation, people weighed down with iniquity, offspring of evildoers. Sons who act corruptly, they have abandoned the Lord, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they have turned away from him And likewise, every one of us has been corrupted by the fall, Jew and Gentile, every part of us has been corrupted by the fall, including our thoughts, our words, our actions. Sin permeates every aspect of our existence. Nothing has been left untouched. In Romans chapter 3, verses 10 through 18 is the classic text on the total depravity of man. Tom Leake, who is my pastor, has a great summary of this doctrine. Listen to what he writes. He says depravity means that man is corrupted and unable to do anything to save himself, either from his predicament. the situation that he's in, or the punishment that is due to him. He's not neutral, but he has a bias toward evil. He's polluted and this affects all his relationships. He cannot gain merit toward God because of his fall into sin It's depravity. And it's also total. What does total mean? Total means that man in his entirety has been corrupted. There is not a part of man that remained unfallen or innocent. All aspects or capacities of man's nature are sinful. It is not just man's body, but also his mind, his motives, which are corrupted. And furthermore, there are no remainders of original righteousness in man. Man is born in sin, lives in sin, often enjoys sin He's dominated by sin, yet he has no power or desire to pull himself out of sin. Although he would like to avoid the consequences. And that's what people mostly talk about. The consequences of my sin. It's not the sin itself that I despise, it's what happens because I sin. That's what I hate. I despise that Total depravity does not mean unredeemed people indulge in every kind of sin. It does not mean that fallen man always acts as bad as he possibly can, but it does mean that there's no part of fallen man which is pure and uncorrupted. Sin has permeated every single aspect of who we are. And Romans 3 takes us on this tour through depravity. And the first stop on this tour is our thinking. Back to Romans chapter 3. Romans chapter 3. It says in verse 11, there is none who understands. Nobody understands. Back in the context of Psalm 14, where this is taken from, David says, The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men to see if there are any who understand. Is there anybody who understands? Then later in verse 4 of chapter 14, or Psalm 14, it says, Do all the workers of wickedness not know? Don't you understand? Who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord? Don't don't you know that there's consequences for this And the idea that's contained in Psalm 14 is that the workers of wickedness should be calling upon the Lord because judgment is near Actually, flip back to Psalm 53. This is a parallel passage to Psalm 14 and Psalm 53. Yeah, if David's speaking here in verses 4 and 5. Look at verse four and five. It says, have the workers of wickedness no knowledge? Again, don't don't they understand? Who eat of my people as though they ate bread and have not called upon the Lord? There they were in great fear, where no fear had been. Why? For God scattered the bones of him who encamped against you And again, the idea here is that the judgment is coming, but you had no fear until you saw the bone scattered. That's all of a sudden when you wanted to wake up When the bones started scattering. Don't you have any idea what kind of danger you're in? But the wicked seem to be oblivious to the coming judgment until it's too late. And in the same way, there's an eternal judgment, and the wicked seem to be completely blinded to its reality. They don't understand. They can't perceive. They don't have the ability to perceive spiritual reality In 1 Corinthians 2 and verse 14 it says, But a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him. Doesn't make sense. It's not that they can't read the words on the page. I mean, you can pass them your Bible, they can read it, they can understand the words. I mean, the sentences make sense But it's that they don't have any appreciation for that. Why would I do that? It doesn't make sense. I can't perceive that For their foolishness to him, they cannot understand them because they're spiritually appraised. The unbeliever doesn't have the capacity to understand until the Spirit of God gives him eyes to see. Can't understand it. And for those of you who still listen to the radio, it's like the Lord is broadcasting an FM, but the sinful heart only has the AM receiver. The broadcast is just fine. It's just you don't have the receiver to receive it. And it just sounds like static to the human heart. And it takes the Spirit of God to give us a new receiver so we can pick up the signal. Charles Wesley captured in the hymn, And Can It Be, where he says, Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin in nature's night, Thine eye diffused the quickening ray, I woke the dungeon flamed with light My chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed thee. It's like the Spirit of God gives you sight, and all of a sudden you look around, it's like, I'm I'm in the middle of a bunch of bones. Like I I need I need help and you run towards the light like irresistibly drawn to the light. It's a picture of salvation. That the Lord gives you sight, and now you can see, and now I want to get out of here. And you run irresistibly to the light. The Bible says we're dead in our trespasses and sins. We're blind to the truth. Deaf to the general call to salvation, but it takes the work of regeneration to give us the eyes to see and the ears to hear. Besides that, we don't understand it. So we don't, our thinking is depraved, but also our desires are corrupt. Look at verse 3 and verse 11 again. Chapter 3, verse 11. Not only are there none who understand, there's none who seeks. You don't understand and you don't want it. You don't seek after it. Our desires are corrupt. And think about that, that the only one who is truly desirable in himself, we want nothing to do with Jesus, the precious Lord Jesus, the fairest among 10,000, and we want nothing to do with them Want nothing to do with them. David says in Psalm twenty seven and verse four, One thing I have asked from the Lord, that I shall seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to meditate in his temple. That's the the cry of a believer, right? Oh Lord, I want to see you. Oh Lord, I seek you. To behold the beauty of the Lord. I mean, that's the greatest Gift that the Lord could ever give us is Himself. Oh Lord, I seek after you. That's the response of the believer Psalm twenty-seven, verse eight. When you said, Seek my face, my heart said to you, Your face, O Lord, I shall seek. Lord, I I want you. Do not hide your face from me. Do not turn your servant away in anger. When Moses had the opportunity to ask God for a request, he wanted nothing more than to do what? To behold your glory. Lord, can I just get a glimpse? Lord, I pray you show me your glory. I want to see you. That's the cry of a believer. I seek after the Lord. But do you know that that's the last thing that the unbeliever wants is to see the Lord? Revelation 6 verse 16. They said to the mountains and to the rocks, fall on us and hide us. Hide us from the presence of him who sits on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the believer, that's what we long for, to see the Lord. Oh, the presence of the Lord, right? In that same presence of the Lord, the unbeliever is saying, hide us, let the mountains fall on us. We would rather be crushed in the rubble rather than see God. Completely opposite reaction. For the believer, the presence of him who sits on the throne is all that we want. You know, be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. But apart from God's work, we don't want anything to do with that. We don't want the vision of God. And Romans says that that's universal, that we do not seek Him. John chapter 3 and verse 19, you remember, everybody remembers John 3. 16, right? A lot of people don't continue to read after that. But John 3. 19 says, this is the judgment that the light has come into the world. But what? Men love the darkness rather than the light. What does that say? I don't want it. I don't want the light. I'd rather have the darkness. Give me the darkness rather than Christ. For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. It's not the deeds that I hate, it's the exposure. That I hate. Don't allow the deeds to be exposed. I mean, I'll keep my deeds. Just don't expose me in those deeds Book of Ephesians connects our ignorance, you know, wanting, you know, that we don't know God to our callousness that we don't want God. You know, people talk about what's the difference between ignorance and apathy. I don't know and I don't care, right? Here you have these people they don't understand, they don't know. And then they also don't want to seek after God because they don't care. They don't want any. Ephesians 4, 17 says, for the So this I say and affirm together with the Lord that ye walk no longer as the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind, being darkened in their understanding. They don't know Excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them. But why do they have this ignorance in them? Look at this. Because of the hardness of their heart, because they don't want it And they, having become callous, have given themselves over to sensuality for the practice of every kind of impurity with greediness. I love my sin, and I have no desire for the Lord. We don't know and we don't want to know. That's the sinful heart that wants to keep your eyelids glued shut together. And that makes sense out of what Paul says in Acts 17. The God who made the world and all things in it, since he's the Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he gives He himself gives to all people life and breath and all things, and he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on the face of the earth, having determined their appointed times and boundaries and habitations that they would seek God If perhaps they might grope for him and find him, though he is not far from each one of us. God's not far. He's right here. It's like open your eyes, but no, no, no. You close them tight together because you don't want to see it. I don't want to see the Lord. God's not hiding. He's obvious But those in Athens would not seek him. And that's what Paul is saying. God's right here, but you don't want to seek him. You're not seeking after him. Even though Athens is littered with all of the objects of worship, that was not an indication that they were seeking after God. And sometimes that's what we think, that religious people are really seeking after God, don't we? Oh, but they're so devout. Oh, they're they're they're dedicated. You know, certainly they're just seeking after after God. Look at how how humble they seem to be. MacArthur says, judging from the vast number of religions in the world with millions of zealous adherents, one would think that a great many people are diligently seeking after God. But Scripture makes clear in this passage and in many others that all religious systems and efforts are in reality, listen to this, attempts to escape the true God They're not seeking God. They're seeking to escape the true God. So what do they do? They run to false religion. They're escaping God. One theologian of the thirteenth century was asked on one occasion why there seem to be non-Christians who are searching for God When the Bible says no one seeks after him. Listen to this. He replied that we see people all around us who are feverishly seeking for purpose in their lives. pursuing happiness, looking for relief from guilt to silence their pangs of conscience. We see people searching for the things that they that we can know Only in Christ, but we make the gratuitous assumption that because they are seeking the benefits of God, that they must therefore be seeking God. People want the benefits, but they don't want him. They don't want him. The whole seeker-sensitive movement is based upon a wrong theology. And you can't structure a church around seekers who are out there looking for God. If there was a true seeker service, it would be empty. Because nobody's seeking. Nobody seeking. People do not seek God. After Adam sinned, it wasn't Adam running around the garden. God, where are you? God, God, where are you? You know, he's hiding in the bushes, and God has to come and say, Adam, where are you? Because we don't seek God. We hide ourselves from God in our sin. And if you've come to Christ, you might be saying to yourself, but but I did have a desire for Christ. You know, I responded to the gospel, wasn't I? I seeking after Christ. I love what R. C. Sprohl says. He says, no one seeks after Christ until he has first been found. We seek after him because he first loved us. John six forty-four says, no one can. That's that's a word of ability. Nobody can Come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. So you know who the true seeker is? God God is a true seeker. John 4. 23 Jesus says, But an hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people the Father seeks to be worshipers. God is the one who's seeking. And until God seeks us, we don't seek after him because we don't want him. Our thinking is depraved. Our desires are corrupt. And number three, our direction is deviant. And I really thought I was going to get through verse 20, but you can see that's not happening. Our direction is deviant. Our direction is deviant. Back again in chapter 3, it says, all have turned aside. Together they have become useless. All have turned aside. The word for uh turned aside is the Greek word eklino, to bend out of the way, to bend outwards. Used for the donkey that turned aside out of the road in Numbers 22. Job chapter 34 uses it for the men who turn aside from following after him, have no regard for his ways. It's leaving the path that's marked out for you and turning to another path. Making your own course. When we sin, we miss the mark, and we also step across the line. Not only do we not hit the target, we aim for the wrong target. Whether it's the law of God that's written on our hearts or the law of God that's written in his word, we've decided that there's another way that looks better. So we've turned aside. We we turn aside Isaiah 53 describes it like this in verse 6. All of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. Each of us, all of us, that's everybody. It's total depravity right there in the Old Testament. And what's the result of our deviance that we've turned aside? What's the result of that? They have become useless. Together, they have become useless. Useless for what? Useless for any good thing. Romans 8 verse 8 says, those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Hebrews 11, verse 6 says, without faith it's impossible to please God. And even the good that you do apart from faith in Jesus Christ is absolutely worthless. Even the good that you do It's actually less than worthless. It's despised. The good things that you do. Over in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus called the Pharisees, who were the most externally righteous people. He called them whitewashed tombs, which on the outside appeared beautiful, but inside they're full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Workers of iniquity and sons of hell. It's not just neutral. Isaiah speaks about the righteousness that we offer to God. Isaiah 64, 6, all of us have become like one who is unclean, and our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. And the word for filthy is the word for menstruation. A clean garment would be worth something. But a filthy garment Is worthless. And it's worse than worthless. It's not worth saving. Right? You don't save a filthy garment. But then we sing songs that say, you thought I was worth saving. You thought I was to die for. God says if he put us all together we would be useless. Useless for any good work. Psalm 62 verse 9 says they are together lighter than breath. The only value that we have is the image that we bear, because we bear his image. We've been made in the image of God, so all life has value. But when we are defiled and defy our Creator, we become unclean like an unclean rag and something that's not worth saving. Which only makes salvation that much more sweet, doesn't it? I mean it would be one thing if, you know, like we just kind of walked around saying, I was just like this diamond in the rough. I was just sparkling and God I caught God's eye, caught his affection, and he said, I just I just gotta save that. That is so valuable. I just gotta have it. And son, will you go down and die for that? Because I just gotta have it. You know, that makes us feel a little something about ourselves, right? Like the Lord had to have me Came to search for me because of my my value. It's something totally different when it's like, no, that has been defiled and it's worthless. And it it needs to be thrown out. But you know what? I'm still going to give myself for that. To clean it up And to present it before myself. And to unite myself to that, that's something completely different. That 's the kind of love that your God had for you. It's not because you were so valuable. God died for us. He sent his son to die for us while we were yet sinners. For the ungodly, he gave himself It makes his love so much more amazing, doesn't it? Amazing grace. We sang it earlier. It's amazing that God would give himself for us But I don't want you to miss the point and we'll stop here, but drop down to verse 19. We'll come back to the rest of this next time. But verse 19, just so you don't miss the point, it says, now we know that whatever the law speaks, whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. And the word law here is used in a broad sense because we've been quoting from Isaiah, from the book of Psalms. So it's using law in the broad sense of just the Old Testament scriptures. So he says, now we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law. And Paul actually uses it the same way in 1 Corinthians 14. He quotes from Isaiah and calls it the law. But here he says that we know that it speaks to those who are under the law. And who are those who are under the law? Again, it's the Israelites, the Jewish people. You know, Romans chapter 9 speaks about the Israelites as those who were who belonged to whom belonged the adoption of sons, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the temple service, the promises. The fathers and from whom is the Christ? I mean, how privileged they were. All that could be said about them. But still, what could also be said about them is that there's still not one who is righteous. No, not one. So again, if those who are under the law can be said to be not righteous, then how much more the rest of us? If God's chosen people can't escape the wrath of God, why would anybody else think that they could escape the wrath of God? That's the point that he's making here. So when God judges, what? Every mouth may be closed and the whole world may become accountable to God. And I've said it before, but the important question that's addressed in Romans is how is God's righteousness being put on display? How is God's righteousness being defended? And the case that he's making against humanity is so crystal clear that if If the Jewish people are considered totally depraved and that there's none righteous, known not one, then the entire world is totally depraved, and there's none righteous, known not one. And that's the bad news. But there's none righteous. All mouths are shut. All the world's accountable to God. Verse 20, because by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. No flesh will be declared innocent in God's sight. For through the law comes the knowledge of sin. So we're all done for, right? Not quite. And I'm excited about getting into this the next section in Romans chapter 3 because this is the heart of the gospel. And I won't make you wait for it because that'll be two weeks. But Romans chapter 3, look at verse 21. Now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Apart from the law, meaning apart from law-keeping. It's not by obedience to the law that you're going to be declared righteous. It's apart from the law that you're going to be declared righteous. But it has been witnessed by the law and the prophets. So this is is in agreement with what the scriptures have already told us, and we'll see how that happens later on. Even the righteousness of God, how? Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. What is he saying? There's no distinction. There's no distinction between Jew and Greek. Between the Jew and the Gentile, it doesn't matter. Again, they don't have an advantage in the judgment, but also here, they don't have an advantage in salvation either. Because they've all sinned. Everybody has sinned. So now when God gives to us this invitation to salvation, he could say, I'm being impartial. Because I'm offering the same thing to everybody. Everybody's equally guilty, and everybody is equally offered this gift of salvation because all have sinned. and fallen short of the glory of God. So many times we'll use that in isolation from the surrounding context, but within this context it's a powerful statement. I'm offering this to everybody because all have sinned. And I'm an impartial God. It's for everybody who believes there's no distinction. Because all have sinned and fallen short of his glory, the glory of God, and being justified, not because of the works of the law, but being justified, declared righteous in his sight as a gift. By his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. If you want to have this gift of eternal life, it's not going to come by way of your obedience. It's not going to come by way of of your uh rituals and ceremonies. It's not going to come by way of your background and how you grew up and what family you were connected to. It's not going to come by way of any of that. Is going to come only by way of a gift. And we've received that gift through faith, and it's through faith in Jesus Christ, and that's the only way that we can be saved. But you have to accept the bad news before you can accept that, right? The bad news is that we're sinners in the sight of a holy God, and there's absolutely nothing that we can do. You have to abandon Every other path towards God except through his son. That he's the way. He's the truth. He's the life. And no man comes to the Father except through him. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for uh just this introduction to Romans chapter three, and uh Father, all the uh the riches, Lord, that are found here, Lord, we're uh looking forward to uh all that we'll uh discover and the summits of the gospel and the glory of God that's contained in it. Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, as we give our attention to it, Lord, that we would have a greater appreciation for what you've done. through the cross and through your son. And Father, that we would have a greater appreciation for what you've done because of who we were not. Father, we were not these just lovely jewels that you just had to get for yourself. Father, we weren't the pearl of great price. Jesus was. Father, we weren't the treasure hidden in the field. Jesus was. That we go to the kingdom of God, that we give everything so that we can be part of that kingdom, part of his kingdom. It's not we who are the ones who are valuable. It's your son who is the one who is valuable. And it's because we're attached to him, Lord, that we have value. It's because we're made in the image of God that we have physical value, and it's because we're attached to the Son that we have spiritual value. So, Father, I pray that you would remind us of who we are in Jesus Christ. And it's because of our identification with Him, Father, that you will receive us into glory. So, Father, I pray that you would be honored and glorified through this church, Lord. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.