The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. It's a privilege this morning to return to the Gospel of Matthew as we continue our exposition Of a gospel that declares to us that Jesus Christ is the promised king, the one who came the one who was rejected, the one who is resurrected, and also the one who's uh returning as as well. Uh Matthew chapter six and uh we'll be looking at uh verses uh five to eight uh this morning. Matthew chapter six verses five to eight. Follow with me as I read. Says when you pray, you are not to be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and on the street corners so that they may be seen by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full. But you, when you pray, go into your inner room, close your door, and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition, as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words. So do not be like them, for your father knows what you need. before you ask him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you once again for uh the great privilege that's ours to uh come before your word, uh Father, to be instructed uh by you, and uh Father, I pray that you Help us to have uh attentive ears, uh Lord, and in hearts that we'd uh want to obey and not just be hearers of your word, but to be doers of your word. And our father, I pray that uh you'd use me to be a blessing to your people in Jesus' name. We pray. Amen Throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus has been demonstrating for us what the kind of what kind of uh kingdom he's come to establish. It's a kingdom of of righteousness. uh which is exactly the kind of of kingdom that uh the Old Testament prophesied uh that the Messiah would bring about. In Psalm chapter 89, it speaks about the throne of David and the future messianic reign. of the king and then verse 14 of Psalm 89 it says, Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth go before you. The kingdom that was promised from the time of David was a kingdom of righteousness. And Jesus, who was the promised king, the promised messianic king, displays for us his concern for righteousness. He pronounced a blessing on those who would hunger and thirst after righteousness. He pronounced a blessing on those who were willing to be persecuted for righteousness' sake, as we just sang even a little while ago. And then in chapter 5 and verse 20, he says that without true righteousness we won't even enter into the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of God is characterized by righteousness. But the kind of righteousness that that Jesus emphasizes uh for us here in the Sermon on the Mount is not the kind of righteousness that his disciples were were used to to seeing. And it's not that the disciples weren't used to seeing a a kind of righteous activity. Uh that's not the problem. There that there was a great interest in spiritual things for the the people during Jesus' day. And that was true no matter if you were in Jerusalem or in Rome. It was still the same kind of concern for for righteous activity. Uh the religious instinct found an expression in in both the uh the kind of well-ordered traditions of the Jewish people and also in the spontaneous and energetic uh free worship of the the Gentiles. And Jesus never accused the culture around him of being irreligious or being unconcerned about supernatural reality But he did issue a warning and plenty of warnings about the goal and the motivation of their spiritual activity, which should really get our attention. Because it's possible to practice righteousness in an unrighteous way. There's an unrighteous righteousness That's not recognized or rewarded by the Father. And this is what Jesus addresses in this passage. And he takes uh three religious practices, giving, prayer, and fasting, which uh are sometimes referred to as the pillars. of Judaism and he demonstrates that even these religious practices can be completely shot through with sin. And our motives can be self-centered and our actions can be Directed it, bringing glory to ourselves rather than to the Creator who is blessed forever. So before the Lord uh gives his disciples some instructions on prayer , He warns them about the pitfalls that are found on either side of prayer. In verses five to six, he warns them about the pitfall of praying hypocritically. These are the prayers that dress up in a costume. You know, wait for the curtain to be drawn and uh the stage lights to to come on before it you know comes out to make its debut. They're the prayers that are meant for the applause of of men And uh for all of the the work that's involved in hypocritical prayer, there's no compensation for the performance. There is no paycheck at the end of the performance after the actor takes the bow and you know, receives the nods of approval from those that are around him. I mean that's that's all he gets. That's it. If you pray for the approval of of people, um I hope you're happy with whatever approval you're receiving from those people because that's it. That's it. It's a crushing blow because some of the most beautiful prayers that have ever been uttered have done nothing more than bounce around on the walls that they've been been prayed in. And how shameful will it be for people to appear before the Lord Knowing that that even though uh the Lord's name might have been on the package, the address was really their own address. It wasn't really addressed to the Lord. It was really addressed to their own glory. And that's the first pitfall of prayer, hypocritical prayers. Prayers that are directed to our own glory. Uh in a real sense we're to pray like nobody else is listening. You know, it's it's for the Lord when we pray. It's for the Lord. We pray uh to the Lord, not for the benefit of those uh that are around us. And a a prayer that's meant for the ears of of men won't be heard by by God. And uh what the Lord reminds us of is that the uh the secret of prayer is prayer in secret. And uh we should really uh have uh an emphasis on our secret prayers to make sure that they're they're purified of of uh you know this kind of tainted motive of uh doing it for the for the praise of men. We're to pray like no one is listening and even make steps to pray so that no one can listen, you know, at times that we you know go away for for times of prayer uh by ourselves. So the first pitfall that the Lord warns us about is the pitfall of praying hypocritically. But then the other pitfall that we can fall into is just as dangerous, and it's the the pitfall of praying ignorantly. Praying ignorantly. And uh that's what's found in verse verses seven and eight, where Jesus instructs his disciples to pray like someone is listening, because somebody is. Somebody is. Look at verses 7 and 8. It says, And when you are praying, do not use meaningless repetition as the Gentiles do, for they suppose that they will be heard for their many words. So do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him Twice he warns us about against being uh against praying like pagans. Don't pray like a pagan. Don't use meaningless repetitions as the Gentiles do. Verse 8. So do not be like them We're not to pray ignorantly. Gentiles were known for their spiritual ignorance. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse 5 it says, Gentiles are those who do not know God. They don't know God Ephesians chapter 4, verses 17 and 18, it says, the Gentiles also walk in the futility of their mind, the emptiness, the vanity. of their mind being darkened in understanding excluded from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardness of their hearts. And in uh uh First Peter chapter one In verse 18 it says, the Gentiles have a futile way of thinking inherited from their forefathers. Futile, empty, meaningless, ignorant. And the Gentiles were were characterized by their spiritual ignorance. But even as uh Christians who've been enlightened to the truth, we can still fall into the same traps that the Gentiles did and pray in a way that either emphasizes our our human effort in prayer. You know, they suppose that they'll be heard for their many words, emphasizing our human effort in prayer. or ignoring our heavenly provider in prayer. And verse 8, you n your father knows what you need before you ask him. So let's take it the first way, not to pray like a pagan. Number one, we're not to pray in a way that emphasizes our human effort. Uh like I said, ignorance was uh characteristic of the the Gentile people, uh but ignorance of the true God didn't prevent the Gentiles from being people of prayer. Just because they didn't know the true God didn't mean that they didn't pray. They still prayed. They're fervent in their religious devotion. Gentiles prayed and Jesus recognized that their practice of prayer was would even be a temptation for his own disciples, or else he wouldn't even mention it. Don't be like them. Why? Because the temptation is to be like them. And that the same difficulties in life that that we have are experienced by all people in life, the dangers, the illnesses, the physical needs, the pressures of life. So people everywhere pray. The the natural instinct is to pray, even if you you have no relationship with the true guy. Like uh uh if you remember uh Jonah's shipmates, you know, Jonah's he's uh You know, the the waves are crashing and the storm's brewing and you know, they're just waking them up. Hey, you know, pray to your guy, I'll pray to my guy. Just everybody pray. Everybody pray. Somebody out there hear us. And save us. It doesn't matter that they didn't know the true God, just somebody out there. Is anybody listening? Gentiles pray. I remember uh reading an article uh about the president where the the press secretary was defending uh his identity as a christian. He says, of course the president is a Christian. He prays every day. As if that's like the irrefutable evidence that you're a believer. You know, hey, I pray every day. That makes me a believer, doesn't it? You know, I pray. Like that's all you need to know. Praying alone is not irrefutable evidence of faith, right? The classic example of this is over in 1 Corinthians chapter 18, if you want to flip back there. First Corinthians, uh excuse me, 1 Kings 18, uh, where there was a showdown between Elijah and the prophets of Baal , the children of Israel were caught up in in Baal worship. Uh Baal was the the god of the the Canaanites, he was considered the god of the storm and uh which really explains why God stopped the rain in Israel for three years, you know, just to show up this god of the storm that you can't even bring a drop of rain from the sky. So uh it kind of explains what was going on uh back there in this the showdown, but even after three years without rain, the children of Israel are still worshiping Baal. Still worshiping this guy who can't produce a drop of rain from the sky. They're still worshiping worshiping Baal. And in uh 1 Kings 18 and verse 21 Elijah said, it's time to make a decision here. Stop hesitating between two positions. Look at 1 Kings 18, look at verse 21. It says, so Elijah came near to all the people and said, How long will you hesitate between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him But if Baal follow him, but the people did not answer him a word. Then Elijah said to the people, I alone am left the prophet of the Lord, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Now let them give us two oxen, let them choose one ox for themselves, cut it up, place it on the wood, but put no fire under it, and I will prepare the other ox and lay it on the wood, and I will not put fire under it. Then you call on the name of your God. And I will call on the name of the Lord. And the God who answers by fire. He is God. And all the people said, that's a good idea. So Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, Choose one ox for yourselves, and prepare it first, for you are many, and call on the name of your God, but put no fire under it. Then they took the ox which was given them, and they prepared it, and called on the name of Baal. From morning until noon, saying, O Baal, answer us. O Baal, answer us. This is six hours straight. O Baal answer us this over and over and over again. But there was no voice and no one answered And they leaped about the altar which they made, and it came about at noon that Elijah mocked them and said, Call out with a loud voice, for he is the God Either he's occupied or gone aside, or he's on a journey, or perhaps he's asleep and needs to be awakened. So they cried with a loud voice and cut themselves according to their custom with swords and lances until the blood gushed out of them When midday was past, they raved until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, but there was no voice, no one answered, and no one paid attention. Nobody would have doubted the sincerity of these prophets of Baal. I mean, anybody who's going to cut themselves until blood is gushing out of them, I mean, they're serious about their prayer. Serious about prayer, but that seriousness and that sincerity has nothing to do with the prayers being heard at all. The text says, nobody paid attention. There is no God paying attention to this gushing of blood, to this raving about for hours on end. O Bel answer us. Nobody heard. Sincerely wrong. Sincerely wrong. And even though I don't think anybody here would be tempted to slash themselves and rave about like a lunatic for hours to get God to to hear 'em There's ways that we're tempted to pray just like pagans, even today. We can be tempted to trust in our own human efforts as a pathway to God. And this is what the Gentile customs taught. If you're fervent enough If you're sacrificial enough, if you're long enough, some deity somewhere will finally pay attention to you. And you might get your answer to whatever you request. And we could go through the long history of the the Gentile gods and see the same kind of pattern. There are ancient Mesopotamian gods that the patriarchs dealt with, the gods of Egypt, the gods of the Canaanites, gods of Babylon, Persia, Greece, Rome, they all had their customs, they all had their practices. But what they all had in common was that they placed emphasis on the person who was praying rather than the God who is being petitioned. Somehow you were responsible for getting the God's attention. And this helps us make some sort of sense out of the extreme practices. That they had. The golden calf, you remember that? The children of Israel. You made the little golden calf. They said, Hey, this is the the God that brought you out of Egypt, remember that When the children of Israel turned from the true God to this molten calf, what did they do? They started to dance around the calf in some kind of wild frenzy. To praise and worship this this calf. They cried loudly like it was a war. And Josh, you know, Joshua's on the on the hill and he says, hey, is that a war going on down there? Then he starts thinking, it's like that's not the sound of war, that's the sound of sin. I mean they're just loud, extreme, raving around, this golden calf. The prophets of Baal, like uh like we just saw, they cut themselves to get Baal to pay attention. Molech, if you remember Molech, the god of Ammon, uh part of the worship for Molech was actually to To receive a child sacrifice? The people would actually give their own children, their own flesh and blood, up to this God. In Leviticus 18, 21, it says, You shall not give any of your offspring to offer them to Molech Nor shall you profane the name of the Lord your God. I am the Lord. The Greek and Roman gods, they were glorified through uh physical strength and beauty. That's why part of their uh uh worship to to their guys was that the athletic competitions, you know, the Olympic Games and things like that, to somehow get the guide's attention. Look how strong I am. Look how much I've I've disciplined myself. Even the temple prostitution was considered worship. And you just think about it. If uh the Greek and the Roman gods were basically nothing more than a larger version of you. You know, why why wouldn't they pay attention to that? Why wouldn't they pay attention to how beautiful I am and how strong I am and how engaged I am in even sexual and fleshly pleasure? But in all of that there was this emphasis on the human effort and what the petitioner could do to get the attention of the of the gods. And here Jesus calls attention to the prayer itself. Back over in uh Matthew chapter six. Calls attention to the prayer itself. In verse 7, he says, When you are praying, do not use in the Nasbi it says meaningless repetition. King James's vain repetitions, NIV babbling like pagans, ESV heaping up empty phrases It's the it's the the Greek word bata -le-geo. Bata -le-geo. It's uh only mentioned here in the Bible, and we don't have any occurrence of it, you know, outside of the Bible uh during this time, but the best understanding we have of this word is that It was a onomonopietic word, which uh basically meant that it it's it's a word that sounds like what it represents. Okay, an onomonopia. It sounds like what it represents. So like in English when we use the word buzz for like, you know, the sound of a bee, you know, it's like we're making the sound that the bee makes when he flies around. When we use the word drip, you know, drip drip drip, right? It's the sound of water, you know, leaking from a a faucet. When the word bata was used, it was an an imitation of the speech that kind of droned on and was meaningless or even unintelligible. In in English we might use the word like jabber or chatter or blah blah blah blah, right? Yak yak yak yak yak yak Use the same kind of kind of words to today. There was a similar word barbarized, barbarized, which is where we get our English word barbarian. And uh basically the the word uh uh bar bar, that was the the Greek imitation of how other languages sounded then. It's just bar, bar, bar, bar, bar, bar, bar. Doesn't make any sense. Unintelligible. Doesn't make any sense at all. It's nonsense And the repetition is really not the main point, it's the meaninglessness of the words that are being used. A. T. Robertson uh comments that the Words carried the idea of stammering, repeating words, repeating the name of the deity over and over and over again. O Baal help us, O Bael hear us, O Bell hear us, O Bael hear us, just over and over again. Repeating the name of of your deity, kind of like the Hindu mantras. But when it came to to worship, this is exactly what the Greeks did. The Greeks and the Romans would do this. They they'd use this kind of unintelligible speech, this repeating over and over again. And people can even do the same thing with the name of the Lord, can't they? Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus. Over and over again. And just thinking that if I just keep saying it long enough and fervently enough, oh Lord, oh Lord, oh Lord, right? Somehow that He's just gonna hear me. He's gonna answer my prayer. And there's nothing wrong with repeating prayer. Again, the idea is that it's repetitious. Elijah prayed repetitiously. In 1 Kings 17, 21, he prayed three times for the resurrection of the boy that had died. Remember that? You know, stretched himself out three times over him. 1 Kings 18 and 43, it appears that he prayed seven times for the rain to return to Israel. He kept sending his servant back out. Check again, check again. Is there a cloud yet? When he finally saw the cloud, he stopped praying, said that the rain was coming. Daniel prayed for three weeks for an answer from the Lord in Daniel chapter 10, verse 3. Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane he prayed three times in Mark chapter 1439 says he prayed saying the same words he repeated the same prayer to God so there's there's nothing wrong with repeating a prayer There's nothing wrong with repeating a prayer. Jesus encourages us to be persistent in our prayers before the Lord. In Luke 18, it gives the parable of the persistent widow. uh who came before the judge with the same request, you know, persistence in prayer. That's not the the problem. Jesus doesn't discourage repetition in prayer anywhere in the scriptures. It's not a lack of faith to come to God with the same request. Some people would would teach that. If you come to God with the same request, that means you didn't really believe he heard you the first time. That's not what the Bible says. You know, even Jesus came with the same request more than than once. It's an expression of the heart, right? Jesus also doesn't discourage us from long prayers. You know, we shouldn't uh pray long in order to be seen by men like the Pharisees did. You know, the Pharisees prayed long prayers for pretense for a show. We shouldn't be totally oblivious either to uh people who are praying around us if we're in a corporate sett setting, you know, called on to pray and you just kind of go on and on, you know, in your prayer. Uh there is a a story told of a of a young minister who uh uh opened his uh his uh his the uh a service in in prayer and really turned the prayer into a speech. CL Moody was uh was there during the time. And uh while he's praying, you know, going on and on in prayer and really kind of preaching during his prayer, you know, Moody notices that there's a young man, uh Cambridge student, who's getting up to leave. And uh Moody gets up real quick and says, uh, well let's sing a hymn while our brother finishes his prayer. You know, just let's get the service going on. And the student, you know, came back to his feet. And uh the story's told that he actually got saved after hearing the the preaching of the word, but he was about to leave. You know, Moody says, I can't let this guy get away because of the the prayers going on and on. Let's sing a hymn while our brother finishes his uh private prayer up here Sermon uh Spurgeon said preach in a preach in a sermon and pray in a prayer, right? Uh but it's not wrong to to pray long prayers. Jesus prayed long prayers on occasion he he'd pray all night long. I remember that. Luke chapter six verse twelve it says that he went off on a mountain all night to suspend in prayer to God and there's many occasions of uh Jesus praying Praying long. So there's there's nothing wrong with with long prayers. Even in uh Ecclesiastes 5 2 where it says, you know, let your words be few. Uh that could actually be uh uh translated as uh Let your words be well chosen, you know, that you don't just come before God with everything and anything, you know, just you know, not thinking, meaningless kind of words before God. It's like think about what you're gonna say. If you're going to come before God. Even if you're going long, that's not a problem. But you know, at least have something intelligible to say to God. So that's not a problem. Long prayers aren't the problem. But what the Bible does warn us against is this mindless chatter and thoughtless gibberish before the Lord. And do you think that that's found anywhere in Christianity? You better believe it. Better believe it. Books on prayers and uh memorized prayers can become wrote, repetition. Thoughtless, kind of like uh the rosary liturgies that we sometimes use. Dia Carson said that the Lord's Prayer that follows is it's ironic that the context which forbids meaningless repetition in prayer is the context for the Lord's model of prayer. And has been repeated more times than any other prayer. And very often without any understanding. And sometimes we just are Father, we are in the heaven. Halloween. Without really thinking about what am I saying here? Right? We need to think about what we're saying before the Lord. We can say the Lord's Prayer without really praying the Lord's Prayer, right? We even need to be uh careful about the songs that we sing in corporate worship. You know, the the songs that we're singing, you're not just singing to one another, right? You're also singing to the Lord. Do you just kind of mumble through the songs? We need to think about that. Just mouthing the words without understanding what you're saying doesn't honor the Lord. And that's not just a problem with modern music, that's a problem with the the ancient hymns as well. You know, sometimes we can sing words. It's like, I don't even know what that means, but you know, hallelujah anyway. You know, just keep it going. We can mumble through the words without engaging the mind. So uh that's something that we need to be careful of. What about speaking in tongues or having a private prayer language? And Lord Lord Wilman will have a whole class on spiritual guests, so uh we won't try to cover it all here, but There's a lot we could say about tongues, about the biblical purpose for tongues, about the proper use of tongues, the consistency of tongues between the book of Acts and the the epistle. Some people try to make a dichotomy between all Acts is one kind of tongues and you know what we find over in First Corinthians is something totally different. You know, it's not. It's not But you'd have to admit, and we're not going to get into all of it today, but you have to admit that the modern practice of speaking in tongues is in conflict With the context of what Jesus says here. If anything sounds like bada bada bada, it's the modern day speaking in tongues, right? It's gotta be. Mod modern tongue speaking heaps up words that are meaningless, at least for the person who's speaking them. So not understanding what he's saying. He's just going through the through the words, which is what Jesus argues against here, to speak meaningless repetition. Most of it's repetitious, which is exactly what scholars agree the word bottom meant is just kind of repetitious speech, stammering, stuttering speech. The point of speaking in tongues today is really the same point that the Gentiles used back then in their prayer that they supposed or thought they would be heard because of the words that they used. Not because of the relationship that they had. Some people think that if I speak in a tongue, you know, this is like my direct line to God. I'm going to be heard by God because I can speak in a tongue. You know, this is the direct line. And many charismatics teach that the tongues are especially heard by God because the words that are used, uh, and not like I said, because of the relationship, people like uh Paula White say that we're able to get directly through to God because Satan can't intercept it Like he can with other prayers. And and where do you ever find Satan intercepting, you know, like it's a football? I mean what what are you talking about here? You know, he's just catching your prayers in the air and, you know, collecting them, running for a touchdown. Goes against what Jesus teaches here about coming before the Lord. He doesn't say we have to come in some kind of special way. Ecstatic speech or speaking in unintelligible language was something that the Gentiles practiced during Jesus' day as well. There were mystery religions. There were oracles like Delphi where you'd go to a certain place to hear a message from a prophet. And uh this person would speak in some kind of unintelligible language, and then somebody else would try to interpret what was being said. Uh so that that was common in the the Gentile uh world as as well, speaking in unknown languages, and here he's saying, Don't be like the Gentiles. And if speaking in tongues or having a private prayer language was so powerful, why didn't Jesus teach his disciples how to do it? Because he doesn't say, you know, uh pray then in in this way in verse 9, bada bada bada. He says, pray then in this way, our Father who is in heaven, he speaks in intelligible language. This is how you're to pray. You want to know how to pray? This is how you pray. And he gives a model of intelligible language. If it was uh, you know, hey, this is the language that really reaches God, he would have taught them. But he didn't. So it goes against the context to say that this is got kind of like the special language that we need for for prayer Another thing that this would argue against is uh this idea of uh you know, I need to break through to God. You ever heard that? It's the idea that God and the blessings are on one side and you're on the other side and I've got to push through, I've got to break through and get to my blessing. You know, if I can just pray long enough and hard enough and if I can just release the praise and get into worship, really get into it, right? I'm gonna break through and and come to God. Where is that anywhere in the scripture? Where does the Bible ever say that? Listen to what uh T. D. Jakes says about this idea of breaking through in a leadership conference back in 2008. He says, God will not leave you in debt. He will not leave you empty. He will not leave you hurting. He will not leave you operating in the red, not spiritually, not financially, not emotionally, not intellectually. God is going to balance your books this week. You are going to be in a state of restoration. But listen to this, in order to see such a change, you'll have to bring about the change yourself. Your breakthrough is up to you, Jakes told them. You have to be aggressive. Nothing's going to happen until you move. You're waiting on God to move, but God's waiting on you to move. And he urged pastors to prepare for big things because God responds to capacity. Here it is. It's depending on you what you can do to break through to God rather than the God that you're praying to. It's self-effort, human effort, something I've got to do. Joyce Meyer in her book, Never Give Up, she says, I wonder how many times people give up just before a breakthrough. On the very brink of success I want you to know there's always a way. It may not be easy, it may not be convenient, it may not come quickly, you may have to go over, under, around, through, but if you simply keep on keeping on, refuse to give up, you will find a way. God has a plan for you. He has heard your prayers. You may not realize how close you are to your breakthrough. Even if you have to wait three, four, five more years, if you'll keep pressing on, you'll have the victory you need. Whatever you do, do not give up on the brink of your breakthrough. Do not stop hoping, believing, trying. Instead, I'll never quit, I'll never give up, I'll never say no way. Because it's up to you. You've got to break through to God. It's human effort for you to get through to God. Joel Osteen speaking about his book Breakout. I don't know what's breaking out, but something's breaking out here, okay? Breakout! It says, don't accept things in your life that are far less than God's best. Be breakthrough-minded. No matter what's happened in your past, this is a new day. New seeds have taken root in your heart. I believe the God of the breakthrough is about to visit your house. Not with a trickle of favor, not with a stream of blessing. No, no, get ready for a flood of God's favor, a tidal wave of his goodness. Today I encourage you to release your faith in a greater way. If you don't pray for that breakthrough, it won't happen. Dare to believe he wants to give you something to talk about. He wants to give you some new landmarks so that in the future you can look back and say, I know that God was the God of the breakthrough. And it's your responsibility to break through to God because God is like desperate on the other side trying to get to you, right? You've got to break through. And the idea, again, like I said, it's these, you know, if you're fervent, energetic in your worship experience, the more exercise you are in your prayer, the more likely you are to get to God, and God will hear you and answer a prayer. And there's churches that set aside the preaching of the Word of God. I've seen this, you know, pastors just kind of closed the Bible, set it aside. Oh, we gotta get a breakthrough today. Somebody's gonna get their breakthrough and they just kind of turn the service into this kind of frenzy, right? Kind of reminds you of the golden calf a little bit. Anybody Gotta get the breakthrough. The longer the prayer, the more words you use, the more you can speak in a tongue, the more odds you have of being heard by God. And it's scary to think that uh A lot of churches have more in common today with pagan practices than they do with Christianity. Than they do with what the Lord taught us. Don't trust in your human effort for any kind of breakthrough. Alright? We're not to trust in our human effort. Number two, the way not to pay like a pregnancy We don't pray in a way that ignores our heavenly provider. Don't pray in a way that ignores your heavenly provider. Look at verse 8 So do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. Your father knows what you need. That's so good, isn't it? And it's a rebuke to us because there's the here's the other thing that praying ignorantly betrays about us. It demonstrates that we really don't recognize that we're related to God as our Father. Philip Graham Riken says that sometimes we pray like orphans, as if we have no father. Listen to what he says. He says When it comes right down to it, some Christians are not absolutely certain of God's fatherly care. They think they have to pray in exactly the right way or for precisely the right amount of time to get God to hear them Why do God's children still pray like orphans? One of the common characteristics of uh children who believe that they're unloved or uncared for is that they'll go over the top to get what? Attention. I need somebody to pay attention to me. They go over the top to try to get attention. It's a fearful thing to pray like a pagan. Because you don't know if anybody's listening. Don't know if anybody's listening. Like an orphan child without a home. And this is really one of the sad realities. About Gentile prayers, because they never knew if anybody was on the other end of the line. Look over at uh Matthew chapter 6. Look at verse 28. Says, and why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. Do they they don't toil, nor do they spin? Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? Do not worry then saying, what will we eat? What will we drink? What will we wear for clothing? Listen to this. For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. That's what Gentiles do. Gentiles worry about what they're going to eat and drink because they don't know if anybody's listening. They don't know if anybody's caring for them. Gentiles eagerly seek those things. For your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. Trust in your Father. That's what Christ is saying The word that's used for uh for Gentiles seeking after these things, it's uh a word epi zeiteo, which means to search for, to inquire after, even to clamor after. They're they're busily engaged, trying to like, where am I gonna get it from? Where am I gonna get it? Because they're not trusting in their in their father. There's this earnestness, a desperation. And the way that it's played out was in meaningless repetition. Bada bada bada Blah blah blah. I need I need something. I need some kind of breakthrough. Who's gonna get me through to God? And here's the encouraging way this uh truth really really kind of warmed my heart. This week and should really bring comfort to all of us who might struggle in prayer, it's the fact that if God is our Father, it means that He knows and anticipates your needs. If God is your father, he knows and anticipates. He doesn't wait for it. You don't have to get his attention. He already knows what you need before you ask him. It's not like you have to get his attention, hey God, I'm over here. I need this and that. It's like God already knew before you even came before him, right? You don't have to be like the Gentiles. We don't have to exercise when we come into church, you know, run around the building a couple times. Roll on the floor, you know, break out into sweat, dance in circles, speak in tongues. We don't have to do any of that to get God's attention. You already have God's attention if you're his child. He already knows what you need before you even came to him. That the Christian concept of God as a loving father was a foreign concept to the Gentiles Like I said, they they didn't even know if their gods were paying attention to them, much less watching over and anticipating their needs as the loving father. They didn't know anything about that. Uh for the Gentiles, first of all, there was this uh growing suspicion that the gods really didn't exist at all. Uh Dr. Merrill uh Tenney he's uh writes this. He says, during the civil wars that plagued Rome In the first century before Christ, the older state religion fell into decline. Among the educated classes a growing skepticism decreased religious leadership Though many maintain an outward allegiance to the ancestral gods for the sake of public relations. So there are a number of people who just started like, I don't I don't know if these gods really are out there at all Because 'cause they're not getting anything. There's like no interaction between them and the gods. It's like, are these guys really here in the first place? Second, there was a belief that if the gods did exist that they really didn't pay any attention to men, as has already been shown. Three, in addition to that, there was uh also an acknowledgement that I might not even know the right God to pray to. That's why over in Acts chapter 17 you had this altar with the inscription to an unknown God. Maybe there's somebody out there that I don't even know to pray to yet. And he's the one that can answer my prayers. And I'm not even praying to the right one. Archaeologists have actually unearthed the stone in Pergamum, and the top line says this, it was dedicated to the unknown gods, very similar to what we find in Athens. It was It was a reality and it was a common reality for people. People are out there. There might be a God that I don't even know to pray to yet. And fourth, even if the gods did recognize and even paid attention, they didn't know if they cared for him. They didn't know that they cared for him as a as a as a loving father would care for for a child. They they might have acknowledged the gods as a father in the sense of, you know, their creator You know, they they're the originator of life, but that didn't translate into to loving care. The the Greek poets spoke of children uh being the children of of God, but that was by creation, not by relationship. Even the Jews didn't immediately think of God as their father in a relational sense. That wasn't the primary designation for God. I mean, search the Old Testament for yourself and see how often do the Jews call God Father. They don't do it. The Jewish people thought of God as their as primarily their father in the sense of being creator. Deuteronomy 32, 6. Do ye thus repay the Lord, O foolish and unwise people? Is not he your father who has bought you? He has made you and established you. He's Father by creation. Isaiah 64, 8. But now, O Lord, you are our Father, we are the clay, you are the powder, and all of us are the work of your hand Malachi 2. 10, do we not all have one father? Has not one God created us? That's the way they relate it to God as Father. That's not to say there's not any references in the Old Testament to the relationship that God had to his people, but it wasn't primarily the way that they thought about God as Father. R. C. Sproll points out that it was so familiar, what's so familiar to us, so common to our life and to our liturgy, we rarely give any thought to it. And we fail to grasp what a radical thing it is to refer to God in this way. The German theologian uh Joachim Jeremiah A New Testament scholar did a study in which he searched through the Old Testament writings and existent rabbinic writings from ancient Jewish sources. He could not find a single example ever. Of a Jewish author addressing God directly as father in prayer until the 10th century. They didn't refer to him as father. He found examples of God being referred to as the Father, but the word Father or Our Father was never used in a direct form of personal address. In a very real sense, when Jesus was introduced to us as the Son, He introduced us to God as the Father. Introduced God to us as our Father. We've been made sons of God through Jesus Christ. We now have this relationship, a family relationship, and we're secure. Uh Philip Riken, again, he shares a story about how uh orphans don't feel secure or in the the love that they're often given. They feel a need to test it, sometimes even run away from it. He writes this, he says, some friends of mine have opened their home to the needy street children of Brazil, many of whom are orphans. One day my friends went to Sao Paulo in business. They walked through the city, they noticed a boy huddled in a blanket. There was something vaguely familiar about him. They drew closer and they realized that they knew the boy. He had lived in their home for a while and then suddenly disappeared. They were so overjoyed to see the boy again that they ran to be reunited with him. After they embraced him, they asked him, Why did you run away? The boy answered sadly, I didn't think you wanted me to stay. The question is, is do you do you trust the Father's love for you? Do you trust the Father's care for you? Do you know that there's a God who exists? A God who anticipates your needs, a God who relates to you as a loving and a gracious father. The existence and attributes of God should be enough to transform your prayer life. We don't have to live in fear that God's not paying attention to me. So I need to make myself obvious by my human efforts. We don't have to live in fear that God's not loving towards me, so I need to make myself commendable. Commendable by my human efforts Jesus' point is that that's not the kind of attitude you typically find when approaching a loving father. That's not the kind of attitude that we have. A caring father anticipates the needs of his children even before they ask it. So Matthew seven It says this in verse 7, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find, knock, and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be open. What man is there among you who when his son asks for a loaf will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish he will not give him a snake, will he? If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children How much more will your Father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him? We can approach God with trust and confidence because he knows what's best, he knows what we need. And the first word that Jesus teaches his disciples to pray is Father. That's the first word in the Our Father prayer, Father. First thing that we uh understand about our God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you that we can relate to you as Father, that we come before you as a God who hears and answers our prayers, as a God who cares for us, who loves us. A God that we don't have to try to get the attention of by some kind of personal human effort, by long prayers, by fervent excitement, by running around, showing energy. Offering our children, cutting ourselves. Father, none of that's necessary. You've taught us how to pray through Jesus Christ, how to approach you, that we can just come before you as our Father. Understand that your name is holy, that we desire for your kingdom to come, for your will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. We come before you to give us our daily bread. To forgive us of our sins, to lead us not into temptation, and that yours is the glory for now and forever. Father, we thank you that you've uh taught us how to approach you. And uh that we relate to you as a as a father, as a father who cares for his children. Uh Father, we uh thank you for uh this wonderful uh opportunity that we have and uh we pray that we would Introduce others to a Father who cares for them as well, and that they can be rightly related to you through the blood of your Son Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name for age and give you thanks. Amen You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.