The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you uh take your Bibles and uh open up to the book of Colossians, Colossians chapter one? It's uh it's been our practice uh over the the last number of years to take Sunday to celebrate the Protestant uh Reformation and the recovery of the truth of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. The church historian uh Philip Schaff referred to the 16th century Reformation as next to the introduction of Christianity the the greatest event in history. But you shouldn't Go away with the impression that the 16th century was something that was unique in church history because there's always been a battle for the truth. Uh the battle of the sixteenth century that was fought by men like Martin Luther, Erlwick Zwingli, John Knox, and John Calvin for uh the salvation by grace through faith. was really just a part of this long battle for the truth, a long war for the truth. And believers have been engaged in this battle for a long time. For example, the prophets of Israel took a stand against the idol worship and polytheism of their day. That was the battle for the truth In 1 Kings chapter 18 and verse 21, Elijah came near to all the people and said, How long will you hesitate between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him This is part of a war for the truth. Who are you going to believe if you're going to follow God, then follow him. And don't be distracted by this idol called Baal. There was a scathing denunciation of the Pharisees and Jewish legalism during Jesus' day. Jesus was also participating in a battle for the truth. Matthew chapter 23 and verse 13, Jesus says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you shut off the kingdom of heaven from people. For you do not enter in yourselves, nor do you allow those who are entering to go in. So again, it was about the truth. He's battling for the truth. There's the uh the rejection of all forms of of Gnosticism, which was supposed to be this higher knowledge. The word uh gnosis uh comes from the Greek word for knowledge Gnostics believed that they had some kind of higher spiritual knowledge, and they believed that the spirit was good, that the material was bad, and You have the Apostle John who points out that Jesus himself had a material body. So how can you believe that a physical matter, physical bodies are bad if Jesus himself had a body? 1 John chapter 4 and verse 2, it says, By this ye know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. We believe in the incarnation. And that is worthy of being fought for. We believe in the truth and we fight for the truth. And if you continue to read through the epistles of the New Testament, it doesn't take you long to realize that the majority of the New Testament epistles are talking about strategies for war. Christians are identified as soldiers. We're to put on the armor of God, not because we're in a play field, but because we're on a battlefield. Constantly we're in a in a fight, facing the enemy of our souls, and the sword that we carry is the sword of truth. Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 17 says, take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. It's about the truth. It's not a battle for trivial things. It's a battle for weighty matters like who is God, who is Jesus Christ, what does it mean to be saved? Those are the things that we fight for as believers. And those are the matters of primary importance, and the people of God should be prepared to join the ranks of faithful servants who have been prepared to suffer and to die for the truth. In Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 7, it says, Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. And that's one of the reasons that we study church history, to remember, to consider the faith of others, to imitate their faith. Because the the battles that we face are not new, and we've have other brothers that have uh been an example in fighting for the truth. And today we're going to do uh a little bit of uh of of history, uh looking back a little further in church history and uh even going beyond the Reformation to look at leaders of the past who spoke the Word of God to us. A man who preceded the Reformation was involved in one of the most important church councils in all of church history. Actually, a man who was from the continent of Africa. We're going to return to the African church father known as Athanasius of Alexandria. But before we get to Athanasius, let's take a brief look at the book of Colossians, which in many ways is just going to set us up for what we'll learn. Because the the book of Colossians is just a a another another uh uh chapter in this this long book uh that speaks about the war for the truth And the specific false teaching that Paul is fighting against in Colossae was a false teaching that's a little bit hard to define uh because uh uh what the those in classe were really doing was kind of you know taking a piece from one religion, a piece from another religion, and kind of combining it to make like a brand new religion No, so it's kind of hard to identify, well, what was the specific religion that's that's that's being discussed because they're really kind of taking like a patchwork you know from uh a multitude of religions and kind of mixing it all together. This is like the uh the the the the false you know teaching of gumbo you know it's just like bringing everything to together mixing it all together and coming up with a new religion of their own. Many have identified this as like this kind of local folk religion uh that pulls from all the elements of known religions uh kind of a syncretistic religion, uh, which is very similar to uh what many people follow today. You know, people who say that, you know, well, I'm not religious, I'm spiritual. You know, it's like well what do you mean by that? I I kind of pick and choose what I want. I take a little bit from here, a little bit from there, you know, kind of mix it all together, and uh I kind of follow my own way. I'm I'm spiritual. You know, I'm not religious, I'm spiritual But here we have the the different errors of this Colossian heresy that are discussed in the book of Colossians. Just to give you at least a couple of the features of this false religion. Number one, there was the feature of legalism. Take a look at uh Colossians chapter 2 and verse 16. It says, therefore, no one is to act as your judge in regard to food or drink or in respect to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath day. Things which are a mere shadow of what is to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Basically, this is the feature of legalism. Legalism is the view that holiness can be achieved by keeping external rules Which really amounts to a religion of human achievement. It says that you can either gain God's favor or maintain God's favor by keeping an external set of rules And really reduces holiness to a list of extra-biblical standards or misinterpretation of biblical standards The Colossian heresy made a big deal out of holy diets and holy days. You know, festivals and new moons and Sabbath days and food and drink. Holy diets and holy days This is a piece of their religion that they robbed from Judaism. In the minds of many Jewish people, you know, what you ate or didn't eat or what you did or didn't do on certain days was really like the the measure of your spirituality. In another place, Paul says in Galatians chapter 4, in verse 10, he says, You observe days and months and seasons and years. I fear for you that perhaps I have labored over you in vain. If if that's all you think about Christianity, you know, what you do and don't do on a certain day, or what food you eat or don't eat, if that's all you think it is, have you have you just lost the whole the whole message of the gospel? He says, I'm fearful for you. Maybe I've labored over you in vain. I've come to Galatia. I've preached the gospel. Maybe you didn't even take it in. Maybe you didn't understand what I was talking about. 1 Corinthians 8 and verse 8, Paul says, Food will not commend us to God. Do you think you're any closer to God because of what you had for breakfast today? It's like that doesn't commend you to God. That doesn't bring you any closer to God. Your spirituality is not based off of days and diets Another aspect of this false religion was asceticism. Look at chapter 2 and verse 23. He says, these are matters, and actually I'll, and I always do this, go back up to verse 21. He says, do not handle, do not taste, do not touch. Which all refer to things destined to perish with use, in accordance with the commandments and teachings of men. So it's about, you know, not not Participating in certain things, not touching certain certain things. Like that's what their spirituality was foiled down to. He says, these are matters which have to be sure the appearance of wisdom that looks wise. And self-made religion, self-abasement, severe treatment of the body, but are of no value against fleshly indulgence. Asceticism is the view that holiness is achieved through a life of self-denial. Things like extreme fasting, self-punishment, and belief to bring you closer to God. Many of the medieval monks took this approach, the monastic life. included, as one author said, the renunciation of self-will, scant diet, rough clothing, vigils by night, labors by day, mortification of the flesh, the reproach of poverty, the shame of begging, the distastefulness of a cloistered existence. This is actually what Martin Luther fell into. Sometimes he fasted for three days on end without a crumb. He laid on upon himself vigils and prayers in excess of those stipulated by the rule. He cast off the blankets permitted to him and well near froze himself to death, all in an effort to try to get closer to God. God, look at how dedicated I am. And seeking to be closer to God, all in an effort to win God's favor. Another aspect of this religion was mysticism Mysticism. Mysticism is the view that holiness can be achieved through connecting internally with God through experience or intuition. Dreams, visions, out-of-body experiences. You know, you can see all this in false religions Even in today, Colossians chapter 2 and verse 18, take a look at look at that, it says, let no one keep defrauding you of your prize by delighting in self-abasement and the worship of angels. Taking his stand on visions he has seen, inflated without cause, by his fleshly mind. If you want to know where some of these visions are coming from, it's coming from people's fleshly minds. You know, they're not receiving direction, revelation from the Lord. It's from their fleshly minds and relying on their experiences. And this is exactly what you see so much in the charismatic movement today, where people are being led by dreams and visions and supposed revelations from God. And far from adding anything to your spiritual life, Paul says that these things rob you of your spiritual life. They defraud you, they cheat you, they disqualify you. The frauding, and the idea behind that word is that you're robbed of your prize. The false teachers, false religion, it's like it's like the judges who've taken a bribe against you. Those who are getting paid off and rigging the game, even though you're playing by the rules. They try to rob you of what's rightfully yours and what belongs to us in Christ. And the final feature of this mystery religion was based on this hidden knowledge, a form of masticism. And Gnosticism is a. This belief that, you know, the physical, material universe was evil and uh that the invisible and spiritual world was good and you know that God can't be corrupted by the physical universe, so he's got all these kind of you know people in between you and him. You know, that you kind of have to work your way through in order to get to him. But Paul says if we have Christ, we have a direct line to God. We don't have to go through angels and other mediums to get to God. Because Colossians chapter 2 and verse 9 says that in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. If you have Christ, you have everything that you need. Over in Colossians chapter 1 and verse 15, and this is kind of a central text for us for today, on Colossians 1 and verse 15, look at what it says. He is the image of the invisible God. the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And what we find from the book of Colossians is that if you have Christ, you have it all. You have everything that you need. You're not looking for anything above him, anything besides him. Jesus Christ is supreme and Jesus Christ is sufficient. And that's really the message that we walk away with from the book of Colossians. And you can keep your finger here as we uh introduce ourselves to the church figure known as Athanasius. So why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer as we begin? Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word, and Father, we pray that your word would instruct us. Father, we're grateful, Lord, just for this book that really points us to Christ. And Father, we thank you for those figures in church history you've also pointed us to Christ. Father, we thank you for the way that you've providentially worked through history, Lord, in order to preserve the truth for us. Father, the uh the truth will prevail. And not even the gates of hell, Hades, could could come against the church, could prevail over the church. Father, we thank you that we stand even today on the promises of your word. We stand today as a church because of the promise of Christ. And that the church would remain, and that the church would remain until Christ returns. So Father, we thank you for these precious promises, Lord, that belong to us. And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's introduce ourselves to Athanasius Athanasius was born in the city of Alexandria in Egypt in the year 298 A. D. And as I mentioned before, Athanasius was of the African Church Fathers, one of the African church fathers. And uh for those that like to attack Christianity and say that, oh, Christianity is just the European religion, it's just the white man's religion, I like to remind them, number one, as 2 Corinthians 5. 16 says Therefore, from now on we recognize no one according to the flesh. It wouldn't really matter where our salvation would would come from. We'd still have to receive it, right? You know, you don't don't care like uh what's on the side of the boat if it's rescuing you from the you know from the ocean, uh but we don't recognize anyone according to the flesh, and even though we've known Christ according to the flesh, yet now we know him in this way no longer So, you know, answer number one is, you know, why is that really the the the biggest uh you know uh point of controversy? But number two It's clear, you know, just as you look at history that Christianity began in Jerusalem. I mean, on the day of Pentecost, you know, Christianity began, you know, the Christian movement began right there. The church was born on the day of Pentecost in the Middle East. And then third, many of the earliest church fathers were actually African. Origen, Tertullian, Cyprian, even Augustine was born in North Africa, and Athanasius comes from Alexandria in Egypt. And actually, Alex uh Athanasius was of such a dark complexion that his enemies referred to him as the Black Dwarf. Because he was both dark and short. Now that was his his background, the black dwarf. And we know very little about his youth, but we do know that he was brought up under biblical teachings. One of the early stories recorded about Athanasius was about him as a child playing church by the shore. And Athanasius is baptizing his friends and preaching a sermon as a child by the shore baptizing his friends and preaching his sermons. One thing that I might just throw out there is if he was by the shore, he obviously needed a lot of water to do the baptisms. That's just that's just an aside. I'll just I'll just leave that there for now. But the services that he carried out were in an orderly and solemn manner, and at the close of the service a verse of a hymn was sung. Even as a child he's singing hymns Pronouncing the benedictions, and he actually pronounced the benediction in Greek. Alexander, who was the bishop of Alexandria, happened to see this whole event, you know, watching uh Athanasius as he's playing church. And he went up to Athanasius and asked him, What was he doing? And Athanasius replied that, you know, he's he's playing church, but he actually had a great interest in religious matters. The things of God were an interest for Athanasius even during his youth. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, 1 encourages us to remember our Creator in the days of our youth. Amen. Before the evil days come, the years draw nigh, and you will say, I have no delight in them. If you spend all the years of your youth just chasing after pleasures, This chasing after what fulfills you, you will come to a time when you will look back and say, I have no delight in them. Like, why have I wasted my life, the life that God gave me? In order to serve him, that the energy and the youth that God gave me to serve him, and I've wasted it serving the enemy instead of serving God. And it says that you can come to a time when you'll when the evil days come and you'll say, I have no delight in them The bishop called for his father, Alexander the Bishop of Alexandria, called for his father, father of Athanasius, and urged him to put his son through the most complete and thorough education to fit him for office. It said that he was brought up from the first in religious habits, practices, meditating on every book of the Old and the New Testament with such a depth such as none else has applied even to one of them, and he grew rich in contemplation and rich in splendor in life, which is a reminder to all of us as parents. uh to bring up our children in the fear and admonition of the Lord and uh that they would know from even their youth the scriptures which are able to lead them to salvation, right? 2 Timothy 3. 15, from childhood, Paul says to Timothy, You have known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. After his training as a youth, he was taken into the bishop's own family as a private secretary Uh when he reached his twenty-third year, he was ordained into the ministry. Uh he has assisted the Bishop Alexander in the work of the church And one of the earliest responsibilities that Athanasius had was to help the Bishop of Alexandria answer a letter from a deacon named Arius. Who wrote a letter that dropped like a bomb in 319 A. D. And in this letter, Arius argued that if the Son of God were truly a son, then he must also have a beginning. One author described this letter as the shout that was heard around the world. And to understand the significance of this controversy, you have to understand something about the times that Athanasius and these other men lived in. First of all, religion just wasn't a casual interest. You didn't, you know, talk about sports and talk about politics when you got together with people. When people got together, they talked about religion The people who lived during this age would have been old enough to remember the reigns of the emperors Theseus and Diocletian, who had this emperor-wide uh empire-wide reign of terror against Christians. So people understood that my faith is something that I'm willing to die for. And that I'm willing to talk about these things. This is something that's important to me. I value my faith. Diocletian in particular was most savage in his persecutions of the church and sought to purge the kingdom of Christianity. He commanded his officials to destroy church buildings, prohibit Christian worship, burn the scriptures. Bishops were rounded up, imprisoned, tortured, many put to death. And the power of the imperial throne was turned loose on the Christian community. So you have this This kind of world where Christianity was seen as most important. It's not just a casual interest. People were very interested in what they understood. Also, you have uh another uh uh uh kind of view of of uh uh just like I mentioned before, uh you had this this understanding of uh uh of like when they got together that this is what they would talk about. You know, the one person said that whenever you went into town And uh you asked for, you know, like a a piece of bread, you know, you'd hear whether or not uh Jesus is the the the Son of God or you know, is he greater than the Father? Is he equal to the Father? Is he less than the Father? It's like, you know, okay, like I'm just shopping here But people are talking about these things all the time because this is what was important to them. And Arius started to receive a lot of attention because of some of these things that he was saying about who Christ was. Uh again saying that if he's a son, he must have a beginning. And uh uh and if you think these arguments are familiar, you know, if uh thinking about Jesus is not you know, the Almighty God, but maybe a mighty God or somewhere beneath the Father, if those arguments sound familiar to you, uh, you might be familiar with Jehovah's Witnesses. Because this is the same thing that Jehovah's Witnesses believe. It's really a playbook straight from the heresy of Arius. Satan really doesn't have new tricks. I mean, all the old plays still work, so he still brings them back. It was a powerful deception, spread rapidly across the empire, and uh Arius had this charismatic personality, and he set his teachings to songs that became very popular during this time. His followers would actually carry signs and march through the streets and say that there was when the sun was not. Basically, there was a time before Jesus. There was a time when the sun was not. And they they sing songs about this, and uh the bishop, Alexander, knew that something had to be done, sought to correct the error through sermons, letters, and then eventually he calls a meeting. A hundred bishops, he gathers them together. In Alexandria to hear from Arius and to render a verdict. And all these bishops got together, and after they heard what Arius believed, they all said that he was guilty of blasphemy, guilty of heresy. And they dismissed him. But that wouldn't be the last that they heard from him. He began to stir up confusion, dissension throughout the empire. Arius and his friend Eusebius of Nicod uh Nicodemia began a letter writing campaign to the bishops who weren't present for the meeting, you know, basically to try to defend themselves. And listen to how the letter sounded. I mean it sounds so good as it opens up It says we acknowledge one God who alone is unbegotten, who alone is eternal, who alone is without beginning, who alone is true, who alone is mortal, who alone is wise. Who alone is good, who alone is full of power. It is he who judges all, who controls all things, and his and and uh all are subject uh to him, no change or alteration in him. He is just and good, he is the God of the law, the prophets, and the new covenant. All sounds so good, doesn't it? Until you get to this part. This one God before all time begot his only begotten Son, through whom he made the ages and the universe, God's perfect creature. Speaking about Jesus. Begotten, yes, but unique in the manner of his begetting. But we say that he was created. Saying that Jesus was a created being. Arius wanted to give Jesus a place that just wasn't the first place. Believed that he was mighty, just not almighty. He was some kind of super creature, but he was still a creature. But like Jay Gresham Machin says, anything that's less than infinite is infinitely less. And back in the Roman Empire, powers were shifting. Diocletian, the one who was brutalizing the Christian world, died. And then his kingdom was divided into four parts. There was one part in the east, and the west was divided into three parts. And over one of these parts in the west, there was somebody who was named Constantine, who was set over one of these three sections. Constantine started to grow in power, gain more territory, and before one of his battles, he had a dream. And in Constantine's dream, he saw the sign of a cross in the sky with the words, In this sign conquer. And after his victory on October 28, 312 A. D. he credited his success to the power of Christ and the superiority of the Christian religion, which was really more superstition than anything else. He didn't he didn't really know the Lord. He's just, you know, dreaming and coming up with like, hey, this must be why I I won this battle. And from that year he favored Christianity openly. February of 313, he and another emperor developed the Edict of Milan, which stated that Christians should be allowed to follow their faith without oppression. He allowed Christian ministers to enjoy the same exemption from taxes as pagan priests were. He abolished executions by crucifixion because that's the way that the Lord died. He called a halt to the battles of the gladiators that made a spectacle of Christians, and he made Sunday a public holiday. Then in three hundred twenty-four, Constantine finally defeated his last rival Became the sole emperor of the Roman Empire, and finally there was somebody in power who favored Christianity, and Christianity was now named the official religion of the Empire. Constantine saw Christianity as a way to unite his empire. You know, he had other reasons for trying to unite the empire, and Arius was a problem. Because he's thinking that Christian churches are going to be able to unite my empire, but the Christian churches aren't even united among themselves. So in 325, Constantine calls on the bishops of the church to settle the issue. Get it together. It says he says, my design then was to bring the diverse judgments found by all nations respecting the deity to a condition, as it were, of settled uniformity and to restore a healthy tone to the system of the world. So Constantine calls for the Council to meet at Nicaea. Three hundred and eighteen bishops gather together, most of them as one author points out, would have had fresh memories of persecution. So think about this. You know, in the the last you know the last couple of uh emperors were persecuting them and now this em emperor is is inviting them to a feast and like, hey, you know, I want you to be on my side. Some of them had memories of persecution themselves. There was one who was there who had lost an eye under persecution, one who had lost a hand. And now they're the personal guest of the emperor and have a full expense-paid two-month retreat to talk about doctrine. I mean talk about a turn of events. Bishop Alexander led the charge with the help of his assistant Athanasius, who presented the views of Arius. You know, let him know like this is what Arius believes, that there was a time when the Son of God was not. That that he was made, that uh that he was actually capable of changing, that he's not uh immutable. And the assembly denounced it as blasphemy. No, no, now obviously this is wrong. And only two friends of Arius voted in his favor. And the Nicene Creed was put into writing. We believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. of all things visible and invisible, and in one Lord, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, begotten from the Father, before all ages, God from God, light from light, true God from true God, begotten not made. Of the same essence as the Father, through him all things were made. And even though Athanasius wasn't a bishop at the time, the council used his wording for the work of Nicaea. And it was Athanasius who wrote on the incarnation and described the relationship between the Father and the Son Athanasius was only a secretary to the bishop, but he insisted that the term one essence be used to describe the relationship between the father and the son. And the Greek word was homooousias, which means of the same substance. Homoousias. And of course God is spirit, he's not made of any material substance, but the word was basically used to say that whatever the Father is, the Son is. Whatever essence the Father has, the Son has. Arius, on the other hand, preferred the term homoiusias, adding the letter I or the Greek letter Yoda. Which means he's not of the same substance. He's of a similar substance. He's not one essence with God. He's of a similar essence to God. The single letter I was worth being fought over. The smallest letter in the Greek alphabet was the difference between orthodoxy and heresy, and even a small stroke can carry an enormous amount of weight. The story is told about a woman who is touring Europe and she telegrammed her husband and said, I found a wonderful bracelet. The price is $75,000. May I buy it? Her husband replied, No, comma, price too high. No, comma, price is too high But when the message came back, the comma was gone, and it simply said, no price is too high. A single comma can make the difference between a yes and a no. And a single letter made the difference between orthodoxy and heresy. Arius and the two bishops who supported him left the council under the condemnation of the church. Athanasius and the bishops who remained celebrated with the banquet. By the emperor himself. You know, he's again thinking this is the way to unite my kingdom. But the battle for Arianism was just beginning. This was just one series in the battle for the truth. Because Arius and his followers remain undeterred. His songs were still sung, which should be a reminder we need to be careful what we sing. His songs were still sung throughout the streets. His teaching continued to gain popularity, and over time people were added to the church that had no real appreciation for the battle that was fought over theology And they adopted the thinking that if it doesn't make sense, it must not be that important. If it's hard to figure out, it must not be that important. But it's eternally significant what we believe about Jesus. In Matthew 16, the disciples acknowledged that there were people who believed in Jesus. They said to him, Some say that you're John the Baptist, and others Elijah, but still others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. And he said to them, But who do you say that I am? It's important that you know who I am. And Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. How you answer the question is of eternal significance. And for Arius and those who followed him, they said that Jesus was simply like God. Three and one doesn't make sense. That's too hard for us to figure out. A son who doesn't have a beginning, that doesn't make sense. That's too hard for us to figure out. But on the other hand, we can understand a father who has a son who's one step below him. That makes sense to me. And it even kind of matched up with this idea of Gnosticism that, you know, you have these kind of different series of mediums to get to before you get to God. You know, that God creates somebody who can create somebody else who can create somebody else until they can create the world and God has somebody else do his dirty work for them. You know, I don't want to put my hands on a dirty world, you know, so I'll let somebody that I've created do that work for me So it made sense to them. So this battle for Nicaea, even though it was already won on paper, the long war for the truth was still pressing on. And in popular opinion, the truth was starting to lose. Ultimately, Constantine wanted to do something to unite the Empire, but it seemed like the Trinity wasn't going to be it. And Constantine began entertaining the possibility of reversing Nicaea. He was being pressured by those who sympathize with Arius, that the council might have been too harsh and that they should reinstate Arius. And at the same time, the emperor is being pressured to change the creed. Bishop Alexander that Athanasius was the secretary for dies. So Athanasius is appointed as the new bishop. At the young age of 30 years old. 30 years old, he's appointed as the bishop, and only four years into his ministry, and now Athanasius is going to face one of the biggest trials of his entire ministry. The year 332, Constantine restored Arius as a minister against the Council of Nicaea, ordered the new bishop of Alexandria to accept him back into communion. Think about this, you know, that the emperor, you know, is now seeking to take control over the church. And here he's putting this pressure from his throne and the nation against Athanasius. You know, Nicaea 's losing in popularity. You know, Athanasius, you don't have to change your mind. All you have to do is compromise a little bit and let Arius back in. You don't have to agree with Arius, just give him a seat. But Athanasius refused to receive Arius unless Arius would affirm that Jesus is one substance with the Father. God from God, light from light, true God from true God, begotten not made, of the same essence as the Father. And as the Emperor respected the decision initially, Athanasius was still put under more pressure, and then finally he started to be attacked, and people made up lies about him. He was accused of all sorts of crimes. He was accused of being too young to be a bishop. He was accused of supporting criminals. He was accused of collecting illegal taxes. He was accused of using magic. And in one of the most bizarre attempts to get rid of Athanasius, his enemies bribed a bishop in southern Egypt to go into hiding so they could say that Athanasius actually killed him. They managed to bring Athanasius to trial for a murder he didn't commit. You know, this bishop has disappeared, and they, you know, brought Athanasius to say, you're the one that put him to death. You know, we've got evidence on you. What they didn't know is that Athanasius had friends who actually found the bishop who was supposedly murdered. So here he is at the trial And they produced a hand, a dead hand, to say, hey, here is the hand of the bishop that you murdered. We found the evidence of this bishop you murdered. Who knows where they got the hand from? And Athanasius was ready. He says, Well, do you know this bishop personally? We said, Yes, we know the bishop personally. So you'd be able to recognize him if you saw him. We said, yes, we'd be able to recognize him. Then Athanasius pulled uh had had the bishop enter into the courtroom in a sheet and then pulled back the sheet and said, here's the bishop. With both of his hands. You know, where did this other third hand come from? So here you have Athanasius who's who's being uh being accused, uh he's being maligned, uh he's having this pressure not just from those around him, but the emperor himself is putting pressure on him. But Athanasius is continuing to stand for the truth. 366, Arius is put back into office, and uh in the providence of God he died the same year he's put back into office. Next year Constantine dies, and Constantine's son is Brought Athanasius back because he was actually put away on in an exile. Constantine's son wanted peace and also wanted Athanasius to budge And then because he went budget, he sent him back into exile again. Seven years, Athanasius is in exile, put away from the empire. But he was brought back again for a period of time, uh, but basically because uh you know they thought that uh Athanasius could maybe do him a favor and kind of you know uh bring some people together for them. But this next son of Constantine, Constans , who supported Athanasius, was murdered by his brother, and Constantius uh moved upon Athanasius again, so you have like different family members who are you know going one way and the other. And the story is told that this this son Constantius moved upon Athanasius on a Thursday night Athanasius is presiding at a crowded service in preparation for a communion. Suddenly the church was surrounded and the doors were broken in. And just after midnight, an infinite force of soldiers came in, and Athanasius calmly took a seat and ordered the deacon to begin the 136th Psalm. People responding at each verse, for his mercy endures forever. Soldiers steadily made up their way to Athanasius as the people are replying, His mercy endures forever. And when they finally made their way up to Athanasius, a number of uh uh monks and clergy surrounded Athanasius and took him off to safety. You know, basically Athanasius was waiting until everybody else had a chance to escape, you know, before he made an escape. So he's waiting for the soldiers to get to the front so that nobody else is left and uh that he can get out. Went into hiding for another six years. I mean, for 45 years, 45 to 46 years of his ministry, half of his ministry is in exile or in hiding. I mean, this guy is just, you know, dragged back and forth by different emperors. And at one point, Athanasius was told, the whole world is against you, Athanasius. Yeah, basically everybody's just telling you like just just give up already. Just cave in. You know, just play nice with this this heresy and Everything will be okay. You know, you'll stop being exiled, you'll stop being persecuted, the emperors will stop coming after you. The whole world is against you, Athanasius. But Athanasius replied, Athanasius contramundum, which means then Athanasius is against the world. If everybody turns against me, I will stand alone on the truth of God. If the whole world is against me, then I'll be against the world. Athanasius will stand by himself, Athanasius Contra Mundum. Because it wasn't about him. It was about the truth of the gospel. And at stake was the full deity of Christ, and it was a battle worth fighting. And he took these attacks as those that were aimed at the very heart of Christianity itself. He preached, he argued, he wrote, he defended the faith, and many of his writings are still with us today, and in his writings on the incarnation against the Arians, he argued, if Jesus is not the same substance as the Father, then how can he be the Savior? How can he be the Savior? Isaiah 45, verse 21 says, speaks about God. It says, who was long since declared, is it not I the Lord? And there is no other God besides me? a righteous God and a Savior, there is none except me. If God is the Savior, then we can't have Jesus being a Savior unless Jesus is God. In the New Testament, we read that Jesus is the Savior. Acts 5. 31, he is the one whom God exalted to his right hand as prince and a savior. Matthew 1. 21, she shall bear a son. You will call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Jesus is the Savior. How can you have two saviors? Number two, he argued if Jesus is not the same substance of the Father, how can he receive worship? How can he receive worship? Matthew chapter 4, verse 10, Jesus quotes from Deuteronomy 6. 13, which says, Ye shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. But then in Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 6, it speaks about the Father who again brings the firstborn into the world, and he says, Let all the angels of God worship him. How can you have Jesus being worshiped if Jesus is not God? Even have the Father directing worship to the Son Universal church worship Christ. But he says, Well, how can we do this unless he's God? How are we going to explain the worship of the church to Jesus as God? Actually, just real quick at the Museum of the Bible. There's what they found was the uh the the earliest evidence of a space that was dedicated to Christian worship. And in the mosaic on the floor, like they uncovered this mosaic floor, and it says, this building is dedicated to Jesus as God. They discovered this from like the first century. It's incredible. From the very earliest days of the church, they recognize that Jesus is God and that Jesus deserves worship. And he says, how are we to explain the worship of the church? We've got Christians who are worshiping him. How are we to explain this unless Jesus is God in the very scriptures? You have the Father who recognizes him as God. Another argument that Athanasius made was that the one who created Is also the one who is God. And he's also the one who will recreate us. Salvation and creation belong together for Athanasius in John 5. 21. It says, just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, Even so, the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. He creates and he recreates. How can the Son of God do this unless he shares the same essence of the Father? And how, and this is another argument, how can Jesus be the righteousness of God unless he is God? Jesus himself is the righteousness of God. Athanasius preached, he argued, he wrote, he defended, and finally at the end of his life, he was brought back to Alexandria in 366, where he's reported that carried on an extensive correspondence, giving encouragement to the church and defending orthodoxy around the empire. And he died on May 2, 373 A. D. Only six years after the death of Athanasius, another emperor came to power by the name of Theodosius, who again wanted to settle the ongoing debate over Christ, and he calls another ecumenical council. Who met at Constantinople in 381, and the bishops assembled at this council not only reaffirmed but strengthened the main arguments of the Nicene Creed The bishops of Constantinople remembered the one who led them, who spoke the word of God to them, and considering the result of his conduct, they imitated his fate. Athanasius finally won. Even after his death. And not only did they expand the creed and the section on Christ to clarify that Jesus is divine, they also affirmed the Holy Spirit is divine as well. And it's been observed that since the Nicene Creed As uh has been written, it's remained for 17 centuries as a secure foundation for the church's theology, worship, and prayer. Succinctly summarizing the facts of biblical revelation stands as a bulwark against persistent tendency to prefer logical deductions over biblical revelation. It was a fight worth having, and the battle for the gospel is a fight worth having. This is the same kind of battle that Paul was engaged in, back to Colossians chapter 1. Colossians chapter 1. I told you we'd get back here eventually. But Paul wants to make sure that the Colossians have an accurate understanding of who this Jesus is. Who is Jesus? This passage can be summarized by What the second half of verse 18 says, He himself will come to have first place in everything. The entire book of Colossians could be summarized by that statement. Jesus takes first place in everything. Arius wanted to give Jesus a place. Scripture says that he's first place. First place. Jesus, number one, is defined. As first place. Look at verse 15. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. Paul just front-loads this passage with two titles that declare the supremacy of Jesus Christ. I just want to make sure quickly you understand what these mean. Number one, he says that Christ is the image of the invisible God. The word image that's used here is the word icone. That's where we get the English word icon. The basic meaning has to do with a resemblance or a likeness. And you might assume that it's a word that defends areas Doesn't this verse teach that Jesus is merely like God and not God Himself? But what we find in the scriptures, Isaiah 40 and verse 18, says, to whom then will you liken God? Or with what likeness will you compare with him? Isaiah 46, verse 5 says, To whom would you liken me and make me equal and compare me that we would be alike? Again, in Isaiah 46 and verse 9, it says, Remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God and there is no one like me. But when we find that Jesus is the image of the invisible God, we're saying much more than he just represents God. We're actually talking about Jesus' equality with God, that there's nothing that the Father has that the Son lacks. Actually, over in the book of Hebrews, if you flip over to the book of Hebrews real quick. I love this. Speaks about uh Christ in uh Hebrews chapter 1, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, many ways. In many portions and in many ways, in these last days he has spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. And listen to this And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. That's the Greek word character. It's a word that means really speaking about Christ bearing all the marks of divinity. Everything that God the Father has, that Christ the Son has. He's the exact representation. There's nothing that sets the Son apart as God that does not also set the Father apart as God. He's the most supreme. He is the image. of the invisible God. And that's why Jesus can say in John chapter 10 and verse 30, that I and the Father are one. We're one. Not only do you have Jesus being called the image of God, you also have Jesus being called the firstborn. And again. There's heretical groups that would like to say, well, oh, this verse is just saying that he was the first person that was created in creation. That's what firstborn means. That is not at all what the word firstborn means in this text. This is actually a text that's proving that Jesus is not created. It's the very opposite. This is not proving that Jesus was created. It's proving that Jesus was not created. The word firstborn, it's the Greek word proto -takas, proto -takas, and it means first in rank or first in priority. I'll give you an example. In Genesis chapter 25 , story about two brothers, Jacob and Esau. Esau came out first, but Jacob received the rights of the firstborn. He had the birthright, he had the preeminence. That's how the word was used in Exodus chapter 4, verse 22. God gave Moses a message for Pharaoh. He says that Israel is my firstborn. Does that mean that Israel is the first nation in the world? No, it means that Israel has the priority. They have the preeminence. Israel wasn't the first nation. Also in uh uh uh Psalm 89 and verse 27 when speaking of King David, God says that David was his firstborn. Firstborn, was David the firstborn son of Jesse? No, David was the lastborn son of Jesse, but he became the one who had the preeminence What we're talking about here in the word firstborn here is talking about the one who has the preeminence. I'll give you one more example in the text itself, verse 18. It says he is the head of the body, the church, he is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. What does that mean? Was Jesus the first to die? Was Jesus the first to be resurrected? No. What we're saying is that he's the most important person who ever died. And he's the most important person who was ever resurrected. So again, when you have these titles, he's the image of the invisible God. It's talking about an equality with God. And we're saying that he's the firstborn of all creation. We're actually saying that he's the preeminent one over all creation. He takes first place. That's what these titles are meant to describe. And then it's defended. It's defined and then it's defended. How is it defended? How do we know that he's the firstborn? How do we know that he's the image of the invisible God? How do we know that he deserves first place? Number one, verse 16, for that's the word of explanation, by him all things were created. How do we know that he's first place? Because he created everything Created everything. By him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. Actually, in the book of Hebrews, it uh speaks about Jesus being the creator, the one who created all things, and it quotes from uh the book of of psalms which uses the word Jehovah multiple times Psalm 102 that uses the word Jehovah multiple times in the Old King James uses that word and it's clearly a reference to Jesus Christ That the Yahweh of the Old Testament is the Jesus of the New Testament. That he is the one who is the creator. All things were created by him. He is the creator. That's why he's def it's a defense of Jesus being in first place. Why else is Jesus first place? He is, verse 17, before all things. There's nothing that preceded Jesus Christ. He's eternal. He's before everything. Priority in time. So before all things were, Jesus was. This is a statement about the eternity, the eternality of Jesus Christ. Psalm 90 in verse 2 says, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Speaking about Jesus Christ from eternity past to eternity future He is before all things. You can have you can only have one. Listen to this. You can only have one who is before all things You can only have one. And it's the one who was before all things who created all things. And that one who is before all things is Jesus. Jesus is the one who's before everything. There's only one. There can only be one. And that one is Jesus. And third Jesus is also the one who sustains all creation. Another defense. How do we know that Jesus Christ observes first place? Verse 17. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Do you know that the universe would cease from existing if Jesus did not hold the universe together? He's the one who sustains us. Because we're all dependent on him, the universe would vanish without Jesus Christ. And that's the kind of argument that Athanasius was making in the fourth century. And to be faithful to Scripture, you have to be faithful to the deity of Jesus Christ. We need to stand up for the truth today. Wherever the truth is being attacked, we need to stand up for the truth. And just a few final lessons before we close. Number one, what can we learn from Athanasius in his battle for the truth? Number one, argue for things that matter. Argue for things that matter. Athanasius wasn't involved in silly disputes Titus chapter 3 verse 9 says, avoid foolish controversies and genealogies and strife and disputes about the law, for they're unprofitable and worthless Don't argue about unprofitable and worthless things. And those who want to make trivial issues into like primary issues are falling into this trap, arguing over foolish controversies. About days and diets and you know all the rest. The Bible actually says that these are the factious men that you reject Athanasius wasn't concerned about trivial disputes. He was concerned about things that touched on the heart of Christianity. And that's what we need to be engaged in. Argue about things that matter. Number two, if you do argue, make biblical arguments. Make biblical arguments. The strength of Athanasius was not that he depended on his logic and comparison and analogies. The way that he argued for the deity of Jesus Christ was by using Scripture. We use Scripture. If we're going to argue about something, we're going to use Scripture to argue about it. Athanasius based his arguments on the truth of Scripture. It's not a coincidence. That Athanasius is also the one who gave us one of the earliest affirmations of the books of the Old and the New Testament in 366 or 367 A. D. He spoke about the books of the Old and the New Testament as the fountains of salvation, and that they who thirst may be satisfied with the living words they contain. And these alone is proclaimed the doctrine of godliness. Let no man add to these, neither let him take from these, speaking about the same sixty-six books that we have. He listed them all out. This is what I die on I'm willing to give my life for this. Bathanacius made biblical arguments. Number three, we have to obey God rather than men. We have to obey God rather than men. The Roman Empire went from hunting Christians down to honoring Christians and inviting them to banquets to turning around to hunting them down again. You can't depend on the government. You can't depend on those who are over you in order to say, well, I'll wait until they say I can be obedient. No, it's like we obey God rather than men. Even if I were to have to lose my life for following the truth, I'm willing to lose my life for the truth. When the empire was in favor of the church, it sought to control the church. And what did Athanasius say? No! You're not in control of the church. You're not in control of my conscience. And if if you can't prove by scripture and by scriptural reasoning, there's no way that I'm going to let Arius back in. He has to affirm what the Bible affirms So Athanasius was willing to stand up even before the emperor. We need to do the same thing. We need to be willing to stand up for the truth no matter who is opposing it, to stand up even against the world if necessary. Number four. We should be careful with what we sing. Be careful with what we sing. Smaller point, but in the same way that the church held on uh to the worship of Christ through their their hymns. Arius sought to combat that by raising up his own hymns, you know, raising up his own songs that people sing. We need to be careful what we sing. What we sing needs to be scripture. What we sing needs to be consistent with the scriptures. Colossians 3. 16 says, Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with what? Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. The way that we teach and admonish one another is in what we sing. We need to make sure that as we're gathering together as the church, that we're singing scriptural songs. And number five You need to have the courage to say what you mean and mean what you say. Say what you mean and mean what you say. Second Corinthians four thirteen Paul says, but having the same spirit of faith, according to what is written, I believed, therefore I spoke. We also believe, therefore we also speak. When the emperor requested that Athanasius receive Arius back in the ministry, he was able to answer without hesitation because he had a conviction about who Jesus was. And he wasn't primarily concerned about offending the emperor. He was primarily concerned about offending his God. And that's the kind of conviction that we need to have. That that it doesn't matter, you know, who's in front of me, I have the courage to say what I mean and mean what I say. Because I'm convinced by the scriptures. He's concerned about Christ. And Athanasius said this, considering that this is that this struggle is for our all. Let us also make it our earnest care and aim to guard what we have received. This is for our all. Our all. Like this is everything. We lose Jesus, we lose everything. Remember what we said if we have Jesus, we have everything? Right? I mean the the the book of Colossians is to show that Jesus Christ is supreme and he's sufficient. If we lose Jesus, we've lost everything. So he said, this battle is for everything. This battle is for our all. Everything is wrapped up in this. And as John Knox says, as reported to have said, one plus God makes a majority. If I have God on my side, it doesn't matter who's against me. So if it means that I'm contramundum against the world, then so be it. Let me be against the world if I'm for Christ. Let me be against the world if I have Christ. Because if I have Christ, I have everything. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this example that we have in history for Athanasius and just this battle for the truth. Father, for giving us examples, Lord, that we can follow. Father, ultimately you've given us the example of Jesus Christ Himself, but even the Apostle Paul says to follow me as I follow Christ And that we're to have examples, those that we can follow among us. Even Timothy was to be an example of what he taught, Lord, in his life. Father, I pray that we would live lives that are worthy of being imitated because we're willing to stand up for the truth, that we're willing to lay our lives down for the truth. Now, Father, I pray that you would uh cause this church, Lord, to be a church where uh where the truth is upheld, where it's defended, where it's believed And Father, that every argument that we would make would come from the Bible. Father, that we would be willing to defend the things that matter. And uh Father, that we would unite uh around the truth. So Father, I pray that you would uh help us, uh Lord, as uh as your church, uh Lord, that we would be uh committed uh to your truth, Lord, that we would defend it And uh Father, that we would not only defend it, but that we would love it. Because we love Jesus. Because we love what Jesus stands for. And we're willing to side with him even if the whole world is against us. Now, Father, give us that kind of conviction in our souls. In Jesus' name we pray. Give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files