The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't we open our Bibles to uh the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter one? As I told you before, this is going to be a little different message than we're uh used to uh here at especially at BBC. Um as I mentioned last week it's not our normal practice to uh uh to preach in a topical fashion and to kind of bounce around a little bit around the Bible because the really the best way uh to make sure that we have a balanced diet of God's Word is to move verse by verse uh through the scriptures so that we're not missing all that God has for us. You know, we don't skip over the vegetables and, you know, go to the meat section and skip over that and go to the the dessert aisle or whatever else. It's like we as we go through the Word of God Every word of God matters. Every word of God is inspired. We want to make sure that we're getting everything that God has for us and not skipping things that might be more difficult. uh for us, maybe uh not as exciting for us on the surface, but we want to make sure that we get all the nutrition that God has prepared for us in His Word. But the scripture also lets us know that uh our job as shepherds of God's flock is to uh to do what Titus chapter 1 verse 9 uh speaks of, which is to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. And as believers, we're to be constantly nourished on the words of the faith, the faith speaking about the content of doctrine that we have, the words of the faith and the sound doctrine according to 1 Timothy 4 and verse 6. and we're to contend earnestly for the faith whenever it's attacked according to Jude chapter 1 and verse 3. So this morning we're uh returning to what I'm calling back to the basic Sunday. We're hoping to do something like this maybe twice a year, where we'll summarize the key doctrine of the faith in a more of a classroom-style approach and uh affirm our core convictions. uh together and we'll begin our time in Hebrews chapter one. Uh if you're here and you didn't get a a set of notes on the way in, if you just raise your hand, we'll have some ushers that'll uh get those uh notes to you so just Keep your hands up and um and we'll make sure that we get that uh that T so you can follow along because uh there's a lot that we'll be covering and I want to make sure that uh uh that we don't miss anything and uh that you're not you know feverishly trying to write down uh notes while we're uh uh trying to trying to move through. So uh keep your hands up and they'll they'll get to you. We'll start at uh Hebrews chapter one. I'll Take a look at verses one and two. That'll be uh kind of our starting point. Uh and I'll let you know ahead of time that we'll start here, we'll end here. But we'll have a long introduction before we get back to Hebrews chapter one again. Hebrews chapter 1, starting at verse 1. Says God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets, in many portions and in many ways, in these last days has spoken to us in his son. Whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world, and he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature, and upholds all things by the word of his power when he had made purification of sins He sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh do come before you this morning, and uh Father, we thank you for your word. Uh your word is sufficient. It's clear, it's authoritative, it's necessary, it's inerrant, it's inspired. And Father, we do thank you for every book that's contained within this book that we call the Bible. Father, we know that this is your word for your church. This is what you've revealed to us. And Father, I pray that you'd increase our confidence in it. Because uh through growing in our confidence of this word, we also grow in the confidence in the Savior who's revealed within these pages. Uh so Father, I pray that uh we would uh grow in our uh ability to understand and and uh and receive and accept and rejoice in uh the the word that you've delivered to us. Uh Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people this morning. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Hebrews is a book that focuses on the supremacy of Jesus Christ, almost like no other book within Scripture. One author said that the book of Romans That's why the book of Hebrews has been called the Book of Better Things, because everywhere you turn in the book of Hebrews Christ is compared to some character or ritual or symbol or event, and every time Jesus is said to be better. Jesus offers a better hope. A better covenant, a better ministry, better promises, better blood, a better tabernacle, better sacrifice, better possession, a better country, and a better resurrection. And chapter 11, verse 40 puts it this way. God has provided something better for us. And uh the idea that you and I should walk away from uh walk away the the book of Hebrews with is is that if I have Christ, I have the best. Because there's nothing that's better than Jesus Christ. Everything that I compare Jesus Christ to, Jesus always comes out on top. And right up front in the book of Hebrews, it lets us know one of the ways that Jesus Christ is supreme, superior to anything that came before him, is that Jesus Christ is the supreme revelation of God Himself. Jesus Christ is the supreme revelation of God. And verse 1 it says, God after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the prophets in many portions and in many ways, in these last days. He's spoken to us in his son. And what it does is it compares the previous revelation with the revelation of Jesus Christ, and it shows that Jesus Christ is supreme. That Jesus Christ is. . superior to any revelation that would come uh before him. And and right up front in the book of Hebrews it lets us know that. The creator of the the universe is not silent. The creator of the universe has revealed himself to us and it would only make sense that the the one who created us with the ability to reason, created us with the ability to communicate, could himself reason and communicate with us. That's not a far stretch, is it? You know, the one who created language, created us with the ability to communicate in language, reason can reason with us, can communicate with us. This is the God that we serve. We've we serve a God who is The God of manifold wisdom, it says in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 10. He's the only wise God, Romans chapter 16 and verse 27. So why wouldn't he be able to speak and to communicate with his creation? And uh Hebrews chapter 1 lets us know that he has in fact spoken. He has revealed himself. He expects his voice to be recognized and heard and obeyed, even if his word came through the voice of a prophet. Uh just a simple illustration, if I speak to one of my children and I say, you know, hey, go and tell, you know, another one of my children to go and clean up the room or go and do something. I'm expecting that child to hear and obey and recognize my voice, even though I'm sending somebody as a representative for me, right? I don't need them to question my authority just because it came through somebody else. You know, so if one of my children says, hey, this is what dad says. The children are supposed to recognize, obey, and follow the voice of their father. And the same thing is true for us when we hear the words of God that are communicated through his prophets, that are communicated through his apostles. God expects to be recognized. He expects to be heard, he expects to be obeyed. And the believing community was expected to recognize where God was speaking and where God wasn't speaking. To recognize the consistency of God's voice. And God actually gave them a clear and specific set of criteria to judge where his words were and where his words weren't. Just as a review from last time, and you can take a look at your notes there. According to Deuteronomy chapter 18, verses 18 to 22, it lets us know that the words of the prophet could be verified. You know, somebody who comes and claims to be a prophet, what he says never comes to pass, uh what he says happened never happened, you check do you do a fact check on 'em. You know, we're talking about, you know, truth checkers, fact checkers today. If you did a fact check on a prophet and what he said didn't come to come to pass wasn't true. He is a false prophet. Don't be afraid of him. Don't listen to him. Actually in the Old Testament, one of the ways they got rid of false prophets was they stoned them. Get rid of the person who's claiming to speak for God when he is not speaking for God. If he spoke a word of prophecy, did it come to pass? Was it something true? Was it something that could be confirmed? If not, get rid of him. He's a false prophet. He shouldn't be listened to. He shouldn't be obeyed If it's the word of the Lord, it has to be true. Not just some of the time. You know, not like these prophets that are kind of like 50-50. You know, if he's a true prophet, he has to be true a hundred percent of the time. Why? Because God does not lie. If he's speaking for God, he cannot speak lies for God. He cannot represent God while he's speaking lies. Hebrews 6 verse 18 says it's impossible for God to lie. According to Deuteronomy 13, 1-5, were the words of the prophet consistent? Consistent with previous revelation? Did they agree with what already came before them, or did they contradict what came before them? Did they try to lead you astray into a different view of God than what you've understood before? What was revealed and could be understood from a plain reading of Scripture Did they try to lead you away from the God that was revealed to them within the scriptures? Did they agree with what already came before them? And we'd expect the God of truth to be consistent with Himself, wouldn't we? It's not like God has amnesia. You know, I I remember I can't remember what my character was yesterday. Can somebody re No, that's not God. God knows who he is. God knows what he's revealed. So he we expect God to be consistent with himself. Number three Were the words of the Prophet recognized by the people of God? Were the words of the Prophet recognized by the people of God? There was a general recognition of the Prophets among the believing community that really can't be overlooked. He was recognized. When Moses spoke, the people recognized the voice of God. When Joshua spoke, people recognized the voice of God. Samuel spoke, people recogniz The voice of God there was a unique character and authority that the word of the Lord had that even unbelievers would recognize the voice of the Lord. Uh we talked last time about uh King Ahab in 1 Kings 22. He says, yeah, there's one man by whom we we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him. It's like, you know, he may hate him, but he still knows where the word of the Lord is. He may not like what he hears, but at least he recognizes where the word of the Lord is. And then finally for us, those of us who are New Testament believers, the final test is, did Jesus Christ himself affirm it as the Word of God. Does Jesus recognize it as the Word of God? Uh when the scriptures uh said that uh Uh when Jesus said that the scriptures would be fulfilled, that the scriptures couldn't be broken, uh he was recognizing a defined authoritative list, which uh we find in our Old Testament canon, the very same books. that we find in our Old Testament today are the very same books that Jesus Christ was looking at. The very same books that he quotes from, that he alludes to, that he trusts in. Even though And think about this, even though the word from the time that Moses wrote in uh 1400 BC or you know a little bit after that, even though he's he's he's talking about a uh a revelation that's been given over a thousand years ago. Jesus still trusted it over a thousand years later that this is the very word of God, that I can count on it just like Moses counted on it the first time he heard it So Jesus, even though it's gone through this process of transmission, you know, and copies of copies of copies, Jesus still looks at that copy and says, this is the Word of God. You know, he's not doubting the word of God just because it came through the channel of transmission over time. And uh like I said, the the books that he had are the very same books. that we have today and the the manuscript evidence is just amazing uh when it comes to this fact. The Old Testament was affirmed by Jesus Christ, plus or minus nothing. And the believing community was expected to recognize God when he was speaking. And God designated prophets to be his representatives. But Hebrews points out something different to us as well. Because it points out a dramatic shift that happens because it talks about the former days, the days long ago. And then it talks about these last days. And these last days, something different has happened. You know, sometimes people ask, you know, when are the last days? And I tell them you're living it. You're living in the last days. And the last days started from the time that Jesus Christ was revealed. And we're expecting Jesus Christ to come back. We are in the last days. We are in the last days, and in these last days, God has chosen to speak to us through the revelation of His Son, Jesus Christ. It's through him. That's the point that Hebrews is making here. That Jesus Christ is the supreme revelation of God to us. In John chapter 1, verse 18. No one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him. Jesus Christ himself explains who God is to us. Actually the the Greek word is exegeomai, uh to exegete, you know, to to to fully kind of pull out you know the the the attributes the character of who God is. Jesus Christ does that for us. Colossians chapter 1 verse 15. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. That Jesus Christ Himself is The representation of the invisible God. We can't see God. Nobody's seen God. But when we see Jesus Christ, you know what does what does uh you know Jesus say to say to Thomas, you know, or or Philip, you know, that when you've seen me, you've seen what? You've seen the Father How how can you say show us the Father? Haven't you been around with me? Haven't you seen me, Philip? If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Matthew chapter 11, verse 27 , which we'll get to uh Lord willing in a in a week or two from here But in Matthew chapter 11, verse 27, it says, All things have been handed over to me by my Father. This is Jesus talking. No one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son And anyone to whom the Son wills to reveal him, Jesus Christ reveals the Father to us. Jesus Christ is the supreme revelation, the final revelation of God to us, and he surpasses the prophets in all their portions, in all their ways. Jesus Christ is his supreme revelation of God. And as Michael J. Kruger points out in the book, The Question of Canon, he says, early Christians believed that Jesus was not just another prophet, but the prophet. He was not just a giver of the law, but the embodiment of the law. He was not just the king like David. He was the king of David. He was not just one who worships at the temple, but he himself was greater than the temple. This is who our Jesus is. Supreme revelation of God to us. But here's the question that we want to consider today as we examine the foundation of our faith. Because the question is this, where do we turn for the revelation of Christ to us? We understand that Christ is the supreme revelation of God, but where do we turn To access that supreme revelation of God. Where do we turn? And you might miss this connection. Follow with me back in the book of Hebrews. Look at chapter 2, starting at verse 1. He says, for this reason, we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, so that we do not drift away from it. For if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every transgression and disobedience received the just penalty, how will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? After it was first was at the first spoken through the Lord. It was confirmed to us by those who heard. God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by various miracles, by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will. Listen to this. BBC, if you want to hear the voice of the Lord, if you want to hear the voice of the Lord and sit under the revelation, the supreme revelation of Jesus Christ, who surpasses the prophets in all their portions, all their ways. The only way that you're going to do that is by listening to those who heard Jesus Christ. That's the only way you can do it. The only way that we have that kind of access to Jesus Christ, the supreme revelation, is that we listen, we pay attention, that we don't drift away from those who were there to hear him. We don't drift away from that. And if you want to know why why do we listen to these 66 books? Why these 66 books? Here's the reason. Jesus affirms the books of the Old Testament as the Word of God, and he is concealed in them, but he reveals himself in them that, you know, through all the scriptures they were speaking of him, right? And Jesus authorized the books of the New Testament and confirms that he is revealed in them. Jesus Christ is revealed in the books of the New Testament. that he designated those that were his representatives. Jesus Christ is revealed in their words. And if you're truly going to know Jesus Christ, you can't do that by going to some unauthorized source. To get your information. These books and these books alone, the books that we have in our Bible, are where we're going to find Jesus Christ. Why don't you flip over to John chapter 14 with me? John chapter 14. Because I think this is important for us to see. This is on the night before Jesus' death, and Jesus offers a word of hope to his disciples Word of hope and a word of comfort to them over in John chapter 14. As he's preparing to go away, and he says, you know, don't be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. He's talking about going. I'm going to prepare a place for you, but he wants to give them some comfort as well. Look at verse 25. It says, these things I have spoken to you while abiding with you. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all that I said to you. All that I said to you. And sometimes, you know, preachers will pick that up and say, you know, you know, that's why I don't have to study. You know, because the Holy Spirit is just going to bring all things back to my remembrance. All right. Don't have to worry about what I'm what I'm going to teach on Sunday because the Holy Spirit's going to give me help. I heard I heard about uh you know one preacher who's, you know. You know, stayed stayed you know all week. He knew he was going to preach for his first time. And uh he says, I'm just waiting for the word of the Lord, waiting for the word of the Lord. And he got up on Sunday and he says, he says, Congregation, I've received the word from the Lord. He told me I should have studied. Told me I should have prepared myself. Right here where he's talking about, you know, uh hearing from the Holy Spirit and being reminded, he will bring to you remembrance all that I said to you. That's not a blanket statement for every Christian everywhere. Because the question is this, when have you heard the Lord physically, bodily, visibly, speak anything to you? Anybody remember that? He's talking about the words that I've said to you. I'm speaking words to you, and the Holy Spirit is going to bring back to your remembrance the things that I'm speaking to you. So this is this is a a reference to the the first century apostles that they're going to remember the things that the Lord said and be able to recall them accurately, without error. The Holy Spirit is going to bring it back, they're going to remember it. And this is actually God's way of reminding them and assuring them that you're not going to forget what I've said. Even though Jesus says I'm going away, my words aren't going to go away. You're going to remember my words. Even after I leave, you'll remember all that I said to you. It's really a word about the inerrancy, the inspiration of Scripture. He brought his words back to their minds. Flip over to John chapter 16. John chapter 16. Look at verse 12. Because not only did the Lord promise the disciples that they would remember his words, he also promised these same disciples that the Holy Spirit would reveal even more about himself to them, things that they were not able to handle at the time. Look at John chapter 16 and verse 12. It says, I have many more things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. But when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own initiative, but whatever he hears he will speak and he will disclose to you what is to come. He will glorify me, for he will take of mine and will disclose it to you. All things that the Father has are mine, therefore I said that he takes of mine and will disclose it to you And these disciples, these first century apostles, became the authoritative representatives of Jesus Christ. Mark chapter 3, verse 14. He appointed twelve so that they would be with him and that he could send them out to preach Acts chapter ten, verses forty to forty-two. God raised him up on the third day, granted him to become visible, not to all the people, but to the witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God, that is to us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead. Flip over to John 17. One more thing. John 17. We're already in John. Why not keep flipping, right? John chapter 17. Look at verse 8 He says, the words, for the words which you gave me, I have given to them. This is Jesus' prayer to the Father. The words that you have given me, the words that you gave me, I have given to them, and they received them and truly understood that I came forth from you. And they believe that you sent me. The words that you gave me, I gave to them. I revealed myself to them. He's revealing himself to them. And then he prays in verse 20. I do not ask on behalf of these alone, but for those who also will believe in me through their word. Jesus is authorizing his disciples, his apostles, to speak his word, and that others would come to believe on him through the words of the apostles. So if you're a believer today, it's because the word was passed down through the apostles. And if you disregard or disbelieve these books, there's no other way that you can believe in Christ. Because this is the access to him. This is where he's revealed. It's in the in the scriptures. You can't find Christ outside of this. This is where you're going to find Jesus Christ. So the battle for the Bible is nothing less than a battle for the faith in Christ himself. Your eternity hangs on this one. Your eternity hangs on this And quickly I want to give you four reasons that you can trust in the testimony of Jesus Christ and trust in these books over any others that would claim to be the revelation of Jesus Christ. And like I mentioned last week, uh whenever we start talking about what books belong in the Bible and what books don't, we're talking about the study of canonicity, uh the canonicity of of Scripture, you know, the books that uh that have met the qualifications and it's really it's you know the Scripture's own qualifications. You know, how do we know that we have the right sixty-six books? You know, who made those decisions to accept or reject, you know, what's in the Bible? And, you know, what about the books like uh the Gospel of Thomas or uh You know, the Gospel of Judas or all these other gospels. Every every year it's like they're coming up with something else and another gospel that's that's been lost that the church never had in the first place You know, but Time magazine is all of a sudden found another one that the church has lost. Hey, it's like I I I don't remember losing that, you know? But here they are. You've lost another one. It's like that wasn't mine. You know, don't try to give it to me You know, those gospels don't belong to the church. Don't give it to us. But every year they come up with something something new. Some new gospel that the church has supposedly lost. And um I want to give you at least four reasons you can trust in the testimony of Christ. In the New Testament books over any others, and much of this I uh got from a lecture from Dr. Michael J. Kruger and his two books on canonicity, and uh you'll actually find those books in your uh uh your sample biography at the back of your uh your handouts there. But number one The canonical gospels, you know, the biblical books, the books that we have in our Bible, are the earliest accounts we have of the life of Christ. the earliest accounts we have of the life of Christ. And there's this idea that that floats around that, you know, it's been made popular by, you know, Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code and uh by people like Bart Ehrman uh that there's dozens of gospels. You know, there were just like tons of them. They were just circulating around in the church, and people just kind of had their pick. It was like a smorgasborg, you know. You know, like uh you know, Baskin Robbins, you know, you just kinda pick your flavor of gospel. You know, 'cause there's just like all these gospels to choose from. And then there's some sort of power struggle in the early church and uh somebody kind of rose up to the top and says, Well, we're gonna make these four and no more. Shut the door. And that's kind of like how they explain history. Dan Brown in his Da Vinci Code he says, Constantine created the New Testament canon, and the Roman Catholic Church instigated a cover-up of some eighty gospels that shed new light. on the identity of Jesus Christ. But that's just playing fast and loose with the history. That's not what happened. They don't have a shred of evidence for that happening in the early church. It's just these speculations that they come up with. It's a fact that the canonical gospels are the only accounts of the life of Christ that are dated to the first century. Between all the all the gospels between 50 and 90 A. D. Between 50 and 90 A. D. between that and that that first century. The same century that Christ lived in. Our gospels date back to that time. That's the same century Christ lived in. We we have no record of the life of Christ that will take us back further. than the gospels that we have. In contrast to that, the apocryphal gospels are dated uh that are uh try to date themselves to the first century. It it's it's always When they actually start doing the history and the work on it, it's always second, third, fourth century that we find these other gospels being, you know, trying to be added to the canon of scripture. But like I said, everybody tries to make it seem like they're all around at the same time and vying for the prominence. That is not the history. They're playing uh fast and loose with the the the history there. In contrast to that, there are no apocryphal gospels that are dated to the first century. None of them. None of them show up in the first century of the church. Letter C there. It also means that the New Testament gospel that you have in your Bibles would have been written during a time when the facts could actually be verified. And checked. The life of Christ was not lived in a closet somewhere. I love what Paul says when he stands before King Agrippa in Acts 26. Remember that? Standing before King Agrippa. And he says, The king knows about these matters. You know, he's speaking about Christ. And he says, Hey King, you know about these matters. And I speak to him also with confidence. I'm speaking to you with confidence, since I am persuaded that none of these things escape his notice For this has not been done in a corner. You know who Jesus is. He's not in a closet somewhere. Jesus lived his life in public on purpose. So everybody knew exactly who he was, exactly what he did, exactly what his character was. Jesus Christ lived in the open. So so when they're writing these gospels in the first century, people could fact-check it Oh, that that's exactly what I remember. You know, I was there when he fed the 5,000. I was there when he walked along the Sea of Galilee. I was there. I remember that. So when they're writing down this history, they're writing to a group of people who could actually verify what they were saying. This is the history that can be verified. When Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 about the resurrection, in verse 6 he says And Jesus appeared to more than five hundred brethren at the same time, most of whom remain until now. You know what he's saying? If if you want to check me, talk to these five hundred brethren. I've got witnesses. Check follow up on my references, please. You know, somebody check me. You can't tell me that these things aren't true. You can't tell me Going all the way back to the first century when people would have recognized it, seen it, witnesses that they're calling on to give reference to what they said, this is a document that can be trusted. Number two, the canonical gospels are the only gospels that have a credible connection to the apostles. Credible connection to the apostles. And that could be proven just by the date itself, but there's early witnesses to the connection between the gospels and the apostles. For example, there was a bishop known as Irenaeus. who lived during the second century was uh bishop of lines. And this listen to what he says. We have learned from none others the plan of our salvation than from those who through whom the gospel has come down to us. Which they did at one time proclaim in public and at a later period by the will of God handed down the scriptures to which is the ground and pillar of our faith. He's talking about the four gospel witnesses that we have today. They've handed these things down to us. And we follow no other plan. No other plan. Irenaeus actually connects the Gospel of John to John himself, and he said that he learned it from Polycarp, who just happened to be a disciple of the Apostle John himself So when he's talking about these gospel, he is one person removed from John himself. He knows what he's speaking about. He was an eyewitness. He's talking about somebody who was an eyewitness of these things. Why don't you flip over to 1 John. 1 John chapter 1. And I I love like as as you go throughout the scriptures that it's like the the the way that the the disciples speak is just like, you know, like are you kidding me? You know, when these people start coming up with different views of who Jesus is and what he did, they're like like are are are are you serious? You're going to try to tell me who Jesus was. You're going to try to tell me about the life of my Savior. Look at what John says. What was from the beginning? What we have heard, what we have seen with our eyes, what we have looked at, touched with our hands concerning the word of life. And the life was manifested, and we have seen and testified and proclaimed to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was manifested to us What we have seen and heard, we proclaim to you also, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. And it's like he's just like finding every which way he could I was there, we saw him, we touched him, we handled him, we were it's like Give me a break when you try to tell me that this is not who Jesus Christ is. I was there. We walked with him. We we we ate with him. We slept. It's like, how are you gonna tell me who Jesus Christ is The apostles were there. No apocryphal gospel has anything to say about the life of Jesus Christ. None of them. Because they weren't there. They weren't there. They came centuries afterwards. And now they're going to try to tell you about the life of Christ. Why would you believe in that? Why would you give it the time of day? In uh 2 Peter, if you flip back one book, 2 Peter in uh chapter 1, look at verse 16 Look at what Peter says. For we did not follow cleverly devised tales when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, such an utterance as this was made to him by the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. And we ourselves heard this utterance made from heaven when we were with him on the holy mountain. Don't tell me who Jesus Christ is. I was there I was there. In contrast to the apocryphal books that have no connection to the apostles. No connection. But they they name themselves after the apostles, like you find the the Gospel of Thomas or the Gospel of Peter or the the Gospel of Barnabas. But we know that none of those were written by any of the people that they claimed to be written by because they were all written too late. You know, and if you wanted somebody to listen to your gospel, what would you call it? The Gospel of George, you know. Listen to the gospel of Dean. The gospel. It's like, no, you're going to call it by the name of somebody you think people actually listen to. I'm writing to you the gospel of Peter. You know. But it's not true. This using a false name is false advertisement. It was not written. So just when you hear those names, it's like, ooh, the gospel of Thomas. I wonder what Thomas had to say. It's not Thomas It's not him. It's somebody who's writing using his name. Number three, the canonical gospels lack the embellishments, embellishments, you know, adding on like fluff and flowery kind of stuff, you know, fanciful, mythical kind of things that goes on here. The canonical gospels lack the embellishments of the apocryphal gospels. For example Anybody ever hear the story of uh Jesus when he was a boy that he made these clay pigeons and then he uh made them come to life? Anybody ever heard that story before? I remember I've heard that before. That comes from the infancy gospel of Thomas, where Jesus also kills a boy from for bumping into his shoulder. This is not the kind of Jesus meek and mile that you want to run into. This is like a bully Jesus. You know, you bump them on the on the street, it's like zap, you're down. That's the kind of stuff you find in the infancy gospel of Thomas. You know, and actually these these uh clay pigeons that supposedly he made into birds, he was he was playing on the Sabbath day. And he got caught playing on the Sabbath day, so instead of saying, Oh yeah, I'm caught, he makes the birds alive. Presco change, like no evidence is there. This is not the kind of Jesus that we follow in the scriptures. This is not consistent with the Jesus that we find in the gospels There's also this gospel known as the Gospel of Peter, where Jesus comes out of the tomb. You ever, you know, in the Gospels, you know, the canonical, the biblical gospels. You know, it's just very restrained when it talks about the resurrection of Christ and the infancy of Christ and all that. It doesn't give a whole lot of detail. But lo and behold, you know, the gospel of Peter, you know, Peter with quotation marks around it, he he he sees the whole thing. He sees Jesus emerge from the tomb, but it's not the Jesus that we know, it's a giant Jesus whose head reaches to the clouds, and he's followed by the cross itself. The cross itself follows Jesus. I'm just telling you what it says. The cross follows Jesus out of the tomb, and then the cross starts speaking. This is what you find in these other gospels that that every year, you know, around Easter or whenever else, they say, oh, look at the hidden books that the church is covering up The church is not trying to cover this up, please. Like give me a break. And then there's the Gospel of Thomas, which is the one that's you know most touted as you know believable. Uh but at the in the last verse of the Gospel of Thomas, listen to what it says Uh and for those of you who are women, I'm just sorry about this, but this is what it says. Every woman who will make herself a male will enter the kingdom of heaven. If that is not a strange way to enter into heaven, I don't know what is. Every woman that will make herself a man. This is the kind of stuff that people try to come out with and say, hey, this is the new gospel that you need to pay attention to. What Jesus was like as a child. What how the miracles actually took place. You know, the walking-talking cross and you know everything else and making your what kind of ridiculous stuff is this? This is not consistent with anything that we know. The Bible is not given to fill in all the missing pieces and scratch your curiosity. Actually, in John chapter 20, verse 30 and 31 it says, therefore many other signs Jesus also performed in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these have been written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in his name You know, all these other gospels, they try to fill in all the missing pieces, all the stuff that you wondered about. You know, the infancy of Christ, you know, how the resurrection will happen. Well, I'll give you the pieces, but it's all the wrong pieces. And the Gospel of John says, you know, there's a lot of things that Jesus said that I don't, you know, I'm not going to write about and you know all the books in the world wouldn't be enough, but I'm going to write what's necessary for you to believe, for you to trust, for you to know who Jesus really is. That's what the gospels tell us. So don't tell me you have something to add to the life of Christ if you don't understand the central purpose and the focus of the life of Christ Himself. Everything else is just a distraction. You know, all these other gospels that come out. Number four The canonical gospels are the only gospels the early church was reading. That's the only gospels they read. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They didn't recognize any other gospels You have a witness from the early church, Irenaeus again, from the second century century. He says that it is not possible that the gospels can be either more or fewer than the number they are. And then if if you don't think that he's talking about four, he says there's four zones of the world and we live on uh in four principal winds. You know, he's talking about the the the four, you know, north, south, east, west. It's just like You know, just like the compass. You know, you have four points on the compass. We have four gospels. You know, he says it's four and only four. There can't be any more, there can't be any fewer. The muratorian fragment, which is an early second century document, mentions the four gospels we have and only four. Clement of Alexandria, an early church father, mentions four and only four. And when the apocryphal gospels are mentioned, they're either condemned or just totally ignored. Like nobody gives it the time of day. Not a single early canonicalist. Has a an apocryphal book in there. Manuscript evidence also supports the gospels in our canon. There's a no collection of gospels where it's mixed a canonical with a non-canonical. And then when you think about the sheer number of manuscripts that we have of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John to demonstrate how the church copied and used and passed around these gospels. Um and I mean the the the numbers go into the thousands when you take the entire corpus of scripture. But if we just take the gospels themselves, over twenty-five thousand ancient manuscripts of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And then these gospels that they try to put out every year, and you know how many we have, you know, the Gospel of Thomas, which is their most famous? Only three. Three manuscripts they found, and one was the full one and the other one were just fragments. And they want to pass this off as if like this is some contender with the the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. It is a joke. But people would rather, you know, build up the joke. You know, make it seem like Christians are missing out on something, that we've been bamboozled, we've been fooled, there's all these other books out there that we need to be paying attention to And and and when we look at the evidence that they have, it is so flimsy and weak and pathetic. This is not the kind of Christ that we're looking for, the the one that we find in these extra books. And like I mentioned last week, we'll we're really only scratching the surface here. Uh but it's really not as confusing and convoluted as people make it seem like it really is. You know, when they start looking at what you know, what books do we how do we know? How do we know? It's like it's pretty clear. It's pretty clear. The Apostle John puts it this way in 1 John chapter 4, verse 6. We are from God. He who knows God listens to us. He was not from God, does not listen to us. And by this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. And what we find is that in the early church in Acts was devoted to the apostles' teaching, right? Devoted to the apostles' teaching, what they heard from the apostles. Just to kind of go over just kind of the rest of the uh of the New Testament, uh, we'll try to go over this quickly. But these letters of instruction, like as the as the church is devoting itself to the apostles' teaching, the letters that the apostles started to write were read and circulated from church to church as they're hearing the apostles teaching, as the apostles are starting to write down their teaching to give instruction to the church Those letters are collected by the church, they're read by the church, and they're circulated throughout the church. They're passed from church to church. Colossians chapter 4, verse 16, Paul says, When this letter is read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans. And you, for your part, read my letter that is coming from Laodicea. And it's just an indication that letters were passed around. Went from one church to the next church. Hey, when that city finishes with it, you get it, and read my letter that's coming from them, and you give my letter over it's like it was passed around This is how it worked in the early church. First 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 27. Paul says, I adjure you, in uh ESV it says, I put you under oath by the Lord to have this letter read among all the brethren. Like like Get up in front of the congregation and read this thing. Like this is God's truth for you. This is God's instruction for you. It's coming from an apostle. And there was an obligation to read and pay heed to what was written in 2 Thessalonians. Chapter 3 verse 14, it says, If anyone does not obey our instruction in this letter, take special note of that person. Anybody who ignores what's written here, take a special note of that person, and do not associate with him. If he's not listening to this book, do not associate with him so that he will be put to shame. Number two The books of the New Testament were being equated with the Old Testament. In 1 Timothy chapter 5, in verse 18, it says, listen to what Paul says. The scripture says, Ye shall not muzzle the ax while he is threshing, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. The first part he quotes from Deuteronomy 25, verse 4, where it says, You shall not muzzle the axe while he's threshing. But then in the same breath, he quotes from Luke chapter 10, verse 7, which says, For the laborer is worthy of his wages. Same breath. All scripture. Scripture says, you shall not muzzle the axe while he's threshing, and the laborer is worthy of his wages. Quotes from the Old Testament, quotes from the Gospels, both scripture. It was recognized as scripture in the early church. Same breath. Number three. The writings of the New Testament were recognized as scripture. Second Peter chapter 3, verses 15 and 16. And all of this is at the time they were written. It didn't wait till some kind of church council you know, three hundred years later for them to figure out like, hey, what books are in the New Testament? That is not what happened. From the time they were written, they were recognizing it as scripture. This is God's breath You know, the the the Greek word for uh inspire, uh Theod Nustas. You know, God breathes his breath. Second Peter 3, 15 and 16, it says, Regard the patience of our Lord of salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul. According to the wisdom given him, wrote to you, as also in all his letters, speaking in them of these things, in which some things are hard to understand, which the untaught and unstable distort, as they do the rest of. Guess what? Scriptures. The rest of scriptures. They distort his scripture as they do distort the rest of scriptures. Because Paul's writing scripture. Recognize from the time that he wrote it And number four, when the last apostle died, the Apostle John on the, you know, after he was exiled on the Isle of Patmos, when the last apostle died, it was understood that the New Testament canon was closed. Shop is closed. Nothing else to be written. The last apostle wrote the last book of the New Testament. Last words. And I understand this is a particular warning about the book of Revelation, but really could have application to all who would tamper with the Word of God in Revelation 22. Verse nineteen, it says, And if anyone takes away the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and from the holy city, which are written in this book. And who in the world would want to be on the wrong side of that kind of warning? Whoever adds or takes away from this book, let his part be taken away from the kingdom. Who would want to be on the wrong side of that warning? You've got Proverbs 30 verse 6, do not add to his words, or he will reprove you. Deuteronomy 4 verse 2, you shall not add to the word which I am commanding you, nor take away from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord, your God, which I command you. Now no we left a whole rack of questions unanswered, but that's why we're calling it back to basics, not back to advanced, okay? So uh there's a lot of questions that you'll you'll probably have about this and and that's why I've provided a sample bibliography for you if you're really eager to jump in on the deep end. Uh I'd recommend uh uh first of all, it's like a first step. Nathan Buzenit's book, Reasons We Believe, 50 Lines of Evidence that Confirm the Christian Faith by Nathan Buzenitz and John MacArthur I'd start with that, and if that's not enough for you, there's the two books by Michael J. Krueger that I'd highly uh recommend, which have been really helpful for me working through some of these issues. But really when we when we think about this um like I said Jesus is the determiner of canon. And and we need to look to him. He should go off there and finish with the faith, right? You know, we look to him And the question that I have for you is, do you have the same canon that Jesus had? Do you have the same canon and the test for the canon that Jesus had? And I'll just run through these really quick so you can fill in the blanks here. But the first one is, has Jesus affirmed it or authorized it? It's question number one. Has Jesus affirmed it or authorized it? Number two, does it edify the church? You know, 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse 16 uh lets us know that all scripture is inspired by God and profitable, right? It edifies the church. Does it edify the church? Number three, is it self-attesting? Self-attesting? What does it say about itself? You know, does it even claim to be the Word of God, or are we just trying to make it into the Word of God? Does it claim that for itself? Number three, is it universally recognized by the church? If you are the only one who's recognized this in Scripture, 100% chance you're wrong. It's just it's it's the the scripture is recognized by the people of God. My sheep hear my voice and they follow me, right? Now, if you're the only one that's recognizing this as the book of God, it is not a book of God. Number uh the letter S here is itself authenticating, self-vindicating. There's a character to the word of God that speaks of its own authority. It vindicates itself. Letter H here. Is it historically accurate? Historically accurate. Again, God is true, right? Let every man be a liar. God is true. He's going to speak the truth. Have the apostles and prophets wrote it? Was it written by an apostle or prophet? Was it written by somebody connected to an apostle or prophet? Or was it written by somebody a couple hundred years before or after the prophets? You know, who are just writing things that they were hoping, you know, and making up stories about what the people of God were doing or what Jesus Christ did. And the last one, is it doctrinally accurate? Is it doctrinally accurate? Does it speak the truth about who God is? Is it consistent with his revelation? And uh just real briefly as we close up, why don't you flip back over to uh to the book of Hebrews? I told I told you we'd we'd come back here, right? Book of Hebrews. Because I want to want to make sure that you understand that if if you fail to correctly identify the true canon of Scripture, If you fail to correctly identify the true canon of Scripture, you will fail to correctly identify the true Christ. Because Jesus Christ is revealed in this book. This is where we hear from him. This is where he's revealed. It's in this book. No more and no less. And the aim of the author of the book of Hebrews is to magnify the person of Christ. And uh through comparison uh to urge his readers not to turn away from such a glory savior. Don't turn away from such a glory savior. Indeed, the only savior that God will offer and and The final message that God will give. And as Christ is compared to previous revelations, we're given seven credentials of the supreme revealer. Look at this, look at this. Starting at verse 3. And he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. And upholds all things by the word of his power. When he had made purification of sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on on high, and if you flip uh over to verse two Who is appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world. Seven credentials of the supreme reveal of Jesus Christ. Number one, Jesus is the heir of all things, the heir of all things. That includes the physical earth, the people in it. Everything they possess, you know, when Jesus Christ was born and he was refused a place at the inn, not only did he own the inn, he owned the innkeeper who refused them to come into the inn. Jesus Christ owns everything. He is the heir of all things. All things belong to Jesus Christ. Number two, Jesus Christ is the creator of all ages. It's through him that he also made the world and Uh when we're talking about uh making the world the word for for world here is actually the word for ages. It refers to to every planet, every body in the universe, uh every period that you dwell in. Every idea, every square inch of this entire creation is created by Jesus Christ. He puts it all together I love what a uh it's uh uh a theologian named Abraham uh Kypery says that there's not one square inch in the entire universe that Christ does not cry mine. Mine belongs to me. He creates the creator of all ages. Number three, he's the radiance of God's glory. Radiance of He's the radiance of the glory of God. There's a dazzling brightness which so far exceeds any natural or artificial light And it's the glory of God. And we only catch glimpses of this throughout the New Testament, but each time when there it's just like a crack, just a smidgen of the glory that's revealed, it's enough to make people tremble to fall on their knees in adoration of who Jesus Christ is. Number four, he's the representation of God's person. Again, in verse 3, he's the exact representation of his nature. When it uses this word, it's talking about the authentic marks of divinity, that there's nothing that identifies the Father as God, that does not also identify the Son as God, because he's equally God. And I know Mac went over that in a bite-sized theology today. Jesus Christ is fully God. There's nothing that he lacks of Godhood. In him, the fullness of the Godhead dwells bodily. He has every character trait of Godhood. Number five, he's the sustainer of all creation. Not only does he create it all, he holds it all together. If Christ were to let go of the responsibility of holding the universe together, we'd all disintegrate. We'd go out of existence. There would be no more us. Christ upholds the entire universe by the word of his power. Number six, he's the purification for man's sins. And sin is the the great stain of the of the the the the soul of mankind, a defilement in this world, and Christ is the one who purifies it. Cleanses us from sin. And number seven, he's the occupant of God's right hand. He sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. And the right hand of the king was considered the place of power, honor, prominence. And that place belongs to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the occupant of the right hand of God. And by being seated on the right hand of God, it lets us know that he deserves the highest place of glory and honor and that his job was complete. When Jesus Christ sat down, he says, it's done, right? It's done. It's over with. And that's who we are introduced to in the canon. You lose this, you lose Christ. You lose this, you lose who Christ is. The revelation of Christ is lost to you because it's through the words of those who heard that we hear. About who Christ is. Amen? And I pray that you're standing on the promises of God this morning. Let's let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do come before you, God, and uh we're just so grateful for uh this opportunity to take a look at scripture and Father, to be reminded of the things that you say are true. And Father, I pray that we would recognize your voice when you speak to us and that we would be convinced of that. Father, that we be protected against error, and uh Father, we do pray for those that have lapsed, have drifted. Um for those who who aren't holding firmly to the truth, Lord, and we just pray that you would uh rescue them, Lord, and um that you'd bring them uh back to uh an acknowledgement of who you are and uh how you've revealed yourself uh through the pages of your word. Father, I pray that those who are your sheep lord would hear your voice, that they would follow you, that they would listen to you, and that they would not follow another. My Father, we pray for you to have your mercy, God, and that we as a congregation would be faithful to look to you, to trust in you. You are the God Of your word. You're the one who's revealed this to us, and it's through your word that we know you. And our Father, we don't want to let go of Christ. So, Father, I pray that we would not let go of your word. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.