The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Hey, well it's a joy to be here. It's uh it's a joy to uh finally Be enjoying and celebrating our uh our uh first anniversary service uh together and uh I was really gonna try to keep this short because I know we're outside and But as I as I thought about uh uh speaking to you today about the the marks of a faithful church, I'd like I said I I tried to keep it short and I'll I'll try to make it as brief as I can, but um Uh but but these are are just all so important, you know. And uh I remember going through this uh this series uh Twelve Marks of a Faithful Church And uh just just really enjoying uh the time. There's so much that uh that I know I learned personally uh during my time uh in the in the scriptures and um And I I know many of you have said the same thing about uh just your experience going through that that series together uh uh with us. And uh today we're gonna try to cover all twelve marks of a faithful church all in one shot. So uh so kind of keep keep keep tuned in. You know, we'll we'll see if we can uh can finish at the uh at the end together. Uh but if you have your Bibles, why don't you turn to the book of First Corinthians? First Corinthians chapter four We're not going to stay there, but it'll help to introduce us to what we're going to talk about this morning. Like I said, I've taken on this challenge of trying to summarize 12 expositions in one message. But I at least want to start here just to kind of set our minds on uh what we'll be talking about. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. I'll start at verse 1. Says, let a man regard us in this manner as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards That one be found trustworthy. That one be found uh trustworthy. Uh let's bow our heads for uh for a moment of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh uh pray that you uh use These words in the the life of uh uh your people here, Father, we thank you for uh your body, Lord, the local expression of uh the body of Christ. that's gathered at Baltimore. And Father, I pray that we would gain wisdom, knowledge, encouragement, Lord, through the scriptures that we read and focus on today. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. There's a perspective that Paul gives us into to ministry here that's that's really important uh for all of us to understand. And uh as Paul thought about himself, as an apostle as he thought about the ministry uh that was uh given to him as well as to the other apostles and uh delegates of the apostles uh in this context he talks about uh Apollos and and Cephas who's uh Peter Uh he wanted to make sure that people didn't get the wrong idea about himself and and of his ministry. And uh first of all, you you really have to snow that that he wasn't really that interested in being elevated above other ministries. That really wasn't his concern. If you look at uh chapter three and verse uh twenty-one he says so so then let no one boast in men for all things belong to you says I I really don't have a desire to be elevated above anybody else. He was really wasn't interested in um in people's opinion about him. Wasn't interested in people's opinion about him as well in uh verse three in chapter four. It says, But to me it is uh a very small thing that I be examined by you. I'm not really concerned about people's opinion of me He wasn't even all that interested in his opinion of himself. If uh you look at uh uh verse three again at the end of verse three he says, In fact I do not even examine myself. He's not really interested in his own opinion of himself. What really mattered to Paul was the judgment of the Lord. That's what really mattered to Paul. Look at verse 4. He says, For I'm conscious of nothing against myself. Yet I am not by this acquitted. But the one who examines me is the Lord. That's the one whose opinion I'm really worried about. Not really worried about mine or other people or put putting me above somebody else. I'm really worried about God's opinion about me. That's what I'm really concerned about. Paul understood that He was a man under authority. And he uses two words to describe himself in verse one of uh chapter four. He says, Let a man regard us in this manner as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God He first of all says that that I'm a servant. The Greek word is hyperites. It's the the word for somebody who's underneath another person's authority, a subordinate, somebody who ministered for uh for others, who rendered service to another. He says, I'm I'm a servant. Uh uh one when uh uh lexicon talks about this work of paratase being an under rower. You know, I'm I'm just an underling And then the second word that he uses is the word steward, oiko namas. It's the the word for a household manager, it's a house slave. Uh if you remember uh Joseph in uh Potiphar's house, he was a house slave, managed the affairs of somebody else. And uh the house that that we're in is the household of the living God. And we are nothing more than servants. Nothing more than house slaves. And uh first Timothy chapter three, verse fifteen. Paul says, But in case I am delayed I write, so that ye will know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. He says, This is not your house It's not your house. That's why church planning is not like starting a business. It's not like being an entrepreneur. We're not owners of anything Where we're managing something that belongs to somebody else. We have an account to give. And the master of the house is soon to return And a proper understanding of who we are and whose we are leads us to a proper understanding of what success looks like. Uh I just started reading through a book uh by R. Kent Hughes entitled Liberating Ministry from the Success Syndrome. And uh I thought he just had some uh really powerful testimony, but uh but he had this to say. uh about his his own start as a as a church plane, uh a pastor of a church plane. Listen to this. He says from the start we had everything going for us. We had the prayers and predictions of our friends who believed the vast growing work was inevitable We had the sophisticated insights of the science of church growth. We had a superb nucleus of believers. And we had me, a young pastor, with a good track record who was entering his crime. We expect it to grow But to our astonishment and resounding disappointment, we didn't. In fact, after considerable labor, we had fewer regular attendees than during the first six months. Our church was shrinking and the prospects looked bad, really bad. My long-established world of bright prospects and success had melted around me. I was in the darkest, deepest depression of my life, and I wanted out And then he goes on through the rest of the book to explain how he had the wrong gauges for success. He had the wrong gauges to measure success and uh which is really a common pitfall of of many ministries that they look to the wrong gauges for success. But as we listen to Paul, his gauge for success was not popularity. What do what do people think about me? His his gauge for success was not how large is my ministry becoming? How many people can I pack in here every week? That wasn't his gauge for success. It wasn't about how much his influence was. How many people are listening to me As if that's a gauge for success. The only proper gauge for success for a slave is am I fulfilling my master's will? That's the only proper gauge. If you're a slave, it doesn't matter what the outside world is doing, right? It matters what does my master tell me to do? Am I being faithful to what my master has called me to do? That is the only gauge for success. Am I pleasing my master? That's it. And if I know that I'm a servant and a steward, my only gauge for success is did I do what was required of me? Was I faithful to the master? And this is exactly what Paul says in uh in chapter four, uh in in verse verse uh uh two, if you look at that again. He says, he says this. He says, in this case, moreover, it is required of stewards that one be found what? Trustworthy. Another word for that is faithful. Am I faithful? And there are at least twelve marks of a faithful ministry that we've identified in Scripture, and it's our goal at BBC to be a faithful church. Not to be a popular church. Not to be a big church. Our goal as a church is to be a faithful church. That's what we want to be. Churches aren't hard to find in Baltimore, right? I mean ye I don't know how many churches you drove past coming in here, right? I mean they're they're everywhere. Every corner, like they they say in the in the city, there's a uh uh a liquor store and a church on every corner, right? You know, that that's how it is in in Baltimore. Churches aren't hard to find, but churches that are biblically driven, theologically sound, and spiritually healthy are hard to find. Finding a faithful church is hard to find. And I know that there's faithful men and faithful churches in Baltimore, but they're getting fewer and fewer all the time, right? And it like I said, it's our goal to be a faithful church. There's there's many of of of men in the ministry now that are disqualified from ministry. Uh uh womanizers, and I just recently heard a another story about it's it's it it gets I mean it is filling in your stomach don't you It's like you know, another one. It's like good grief. People keep up the facade and have this facade that you know the Lord is blessing my ministry, knowing that they're disqualified from it. Unfaithful. There's uh churches who abandon what the scriptures teach about what sin is and they want to call it you know it's an alternative lifestyle now. We've got to be accepting instead of just saying what the scripture says. Let's be faithful to what the master said There's people who exchange the beautiful truth of the gospel for a lie. And instead of a gospel of a savior who redeems us from sin, it's a gospel of prosperity, health, wealth, success, success. You know, that's what uh what God has come to give you. And they abandon what the scriptures teach about denying ourselves, picking up our cross, following after Christ, repenting of sins. They abandoned what the scriptures teach, and the scary thing is that not all of these churches started out that way. That's the scary thing. So the true test of a ministry is not how do we begin, but how do we end? What's the end of this ministry? The goal of our church, like I said, is to be a faithful ministry, not for the next five, ten, fifteen years. But as long as we're around until the Lord calls us home or comes back to get us, we want to be a faithful ministry and pass along a faithful church to those that follow along behind us to the next generation. Like I said, there's 12 marks of a faithful church that we've identified in Scripture. And uh whether or not a church makes these marks explicit is not the point. Uh some churches identify nine marks. Uh some churches identify three, the reformers identified three. Agreeing on the number isn't the main point. The main point is that you have each one of these in your church, okay? That's the main point. Whether you you you make it explicit or not. These twelve need to be a part and are they're vital to a church's faithfulness. And I'll just list them for you. The twelve marks are the sufficiency of Scripture The authority of Scripture, the glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men, a qualified leadership, a sound theology, a holiness of life. A love for the saints, a heart for evangelism, a commitment to discipleship, and a faithful practice, which would include things like uh baptism, the Lord's Supper, and fellowship So we're going to go go through all of these. Like I said, I'm going to try to make it brief. But like I said, these are all important. All of these are vital to the faithfulness. of a church. And I would argue that if these are absent from your church, it might not just be that you're an unfaithful church. It might be that you're not a church at all. If these are not a part of the fabric of your church, and I just pray that the Spirit of God will instruct us during our time together and remind us of some of the things that we've already gone over before in detail. First of all, the sufficiency of scripture. Sufficiency of Scripture. And 2 Peter, if you want to turn there, 2 Peter chapter 1. You have Peter saying this in 2 Peter 1, starting at verse 2. He says, Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. Through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. What Peter is saying is that all that is necessary For you to live life in a way that honors God is given to you. That the knowledge to live a life that glorifies and honors God has all been given to you. You have sufficient information to live for the glory of God. And where is it found? It's found in Scripture. That's what the word sufficiency means. Nothing's been left out that God requires of you. Second Timothy uh puts it like this in 2 Timothy 3 16 to 17. He says, All scriptures inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate Equipped for some good works. Every good work. You have everything that you need in the scriptures Everything that you need to glorify God is found in the scriptures. And a commitment to the sufficiency of scriptures is one of the marks of a faithful church. And and really I think uh for us it's it's really what distinguishes us more than any other mark from from other other churches. Many churches might say, you know, we're committed to the glory of of God, but do they allow the scriptures to define what the glory of God is And what glorifies God? There's people that say, you know, we're committed to discipleship. But do they allow the scriptures to define discipleship? There's a difference. When we say that the scripture is sufficient, we mean that it trumps anything. Any so-called science, psychology, supposed revelations, dreams, visions, all must be subject to this book All must be subject to this book, and that by no means puts God in a box. It might put you in a box, but that's okay, right? It might put you in a box, but it doesn't put God in a box. He's just saying I'm consistent with my word. That's all God is saying here. The Westminster Confession says it this way The whole counsel of God concerning all things necessary for his own glory, man's salvation, faith, and life is either expressly set down in Scripture or by good and necessary consequence may be deduced from Scripture, unto which nothing at any time is to be added, whether by new revelations of the Spirit or traditions of men. We don't add anything to God's word. God's word is final. We're saved by the truth. So faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ, the word of God. We're sanctified by the truth. Now Christ prayed, uh sanctify them in the truth, your word is truth, and uh through scripture we're provided every spiritual benefit that we could ever need, all that we need for life and godliness. has been given to us in his word. That's what we call sufficiency. Second point. Actually before I get to the second point, I was uh just listening to a uh a sermon by R. C. Sproll Jr. R. C. Sproll son, R. C. Sproll Jr. Talk about how he lost his his wife and his daughter in the same year. He has been married to his wife for twenty years. His daughter was fifteen at the time that she died. Lost both of them in the same year And he says that that during that time, he says during most people, you know, when they're going through a difficult time in their life, they say, Oh, don't give me those platitudes of scripture, I just need, you know I just need somebody to listen to me or you know give me some other kind of advice. They don't want scripture. He says, that is the last time you don't want scripture. When you're going through a difficult time, that's the time that you need scripture the most And he says, often when people start going through something, they say, oh, you don't understand. Well, the Bible does. The Bible is sufficient for whatever you're going through. You need to remember that. Second point. The authority of Scripture. A faithful church will be marked out not only by the sufficiency of Scripture, but also by its authority. The authority of Scripture is communicated, and that's communicated through the exposition of God's Word. That's why every week I get up here and I open up the Bible. Because there's no authority in my words, in the opinions of men, and some kind of discovery. The only authority comes from this book. This is where authority comes from. And that's why we don't share the word, we preach it. We don't share the word, we preach it. Second Timothy four, uh, verses one and two. I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction. And according to Titus chapter 2 and verse 15, it's to be done with authority. Done with the authority. Titus 2. 15. These things speak and exhort and reprove with all authority. Let no one disregard you. And like I said, the reason that you allow nobody to disregard you and you speak with authority is because you're not standing there giving your message. You're a herald of the king. The king has authority. All we're doing is communicating the authority that comes from the king. That's what you do when you open up the scriptures and let the scriptures speak. And that's why as a motto of our church, we say, loose the scriptures and let them speak. Lose the scriptures and let the scriptures speak. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 13, it says, For this reason, we also constantly thank God that when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men. But for what it really is, the word of God which also performs its work in you who believe. You who accepted the scriptures, not as my word. You accepted it as what it really is. This is the word of God And as we open up the the the scriptures, we understand that we're hearing the voice of God. Third thing, the glory of God. A faithful church is committed to the glory of God. There's absolutely nothing that doesn't exist for God's glory. Uh Colossians chapter 116, it says, All things have been created through him and for him. Everything that exists is exists for God's glory. It's for him. The heavens exist for the glory of God. Psalm 19. You know, the heavens are telling of the glory of God. The earth exists for the glory of God. And Isaiah chapter 6 it says the whole earth is full of his glory. Unbelievers exist for the glory of God and one day will be forced to glorify God, whether they want to or not. Every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the what? To the glory of God the Father. You're gonna glorify God one way or the other, right? And as believers, we have the great privilege and opportunity to glorify God willingly. To bow the knee before him willingly. The church exists for the glory of God. Ephesians chapter 1, if you want to flip over there. I know I'm flipping real quick here, but uh try to stick with me, alright? Ephesians chapter 1 Verses 5 to 6, listen to this. It says, He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the kind intention of His will, to the praise of the glory of His grace. Why do we exist at the church? We exist for the praise of the glory of his grace. To be a be an example, a display of God's grace showered on men. That's what the church is. It's an example of the glory of God. This is God's grace showered on men to glorify and honor the king. So when we're looking for an answer to the question, why are we here? What are we here to do? Just glorify God. That's what you've been created for. You've been created for the glory of God. Number four, the church exists. For the Lordship of Christ. A mark of a faithful church is the Lordship of Christ. The common confession of every faithful church is that Jesus Christ is what? Lord. Jesus Christ is Lord, and it's through the work of the Spirit that we make that confession. It's only by the work of the Spirit that we can call Jesus Lord, that we can confess Jesus is Lord. Flip over to Philippians chapter 2. Real quick, Philippians chapter 2. You have uh earlier in uh Philippians chapter 2 it talks about the humility of Jesus Christ and then later on it gets into its exaltation in verse 9. Listen to what it says in verse 9. It says, For this reason also, God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. The primary uh Greek word for uh for Lord is the word curios. It was uh a word that was used for the master of the of the house, uh an owner of a slave, that came to be used for ultimate allegiance that was to be given to somebody. Caesar was considered kurias. In the Roman times, they would call him Lord with ultimate authority. But here Jesus says, I have a name that's above every name, every authority. At my name, every knee should bow. Every time chicken fest, he's claiming total authority, right? Total authority. That's what uh the word curios means. It recognizes the authority of Christ But not only that, in this passage we also recognize the deity of Jesus Christ. Because uh Ephesians, uh I mean uh Philippians chapter two is actually uh a quotation. Uh verse 10 is actually a quotation of Isaiah 50 uh 45 and verse 23, which clearly speaks of Jehovah God. Same exact language that every knee will bow. She's the creator, the omniscient creator. This is a a defense of the deity of Jesus Christ. Not only is he ha does he have authority, he also has deity. And we need to recognize both. The church bows the knee. to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is Lord and that's the confession of every believer. Number five, the conversion of men. The conversion of men. And it really should go without saying that uh the church is made up of redeemed people, you know, that were saved people. The church is a gathering of those that have been rescued. From the domain of darkness and transfer to the kingdom of God's beloved Son, as it talks about in Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2 As uh believers, we're we're those who have been given spiritual life. Spiritual life. Look at uh chapter 2 I'll read down that verse 10. Listen to this. It says, And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. That was your condition, right? In which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air Of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest But God being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and not not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of a result of works, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, so that we would walk in them. Your your condition was was death. Spiritual death. I just uh uh recently listened to an illustration, you know, the illustration that people give about you know the guy that's kind of floating out, drowning. and he reaches up his hand for the rope that's coming off the side of the boat. You know that that's not really the accurate picture, right? The accurate picture is you're at the bottom of the ocean as a corpse Decaying. And the master jumps off the boat and dives down and gives you life. Resurrection, life. That's the picture of salvation. You were dead in your transgressions and sins. But Jesus made you alive. You've been created anew in Jesus Christ. That's what we call the conversion of men, the conversion of men. And of course we invite and welcome unbelievers to come here and participate with us. We love that. We love to see unbelievers come here and and hear the word of of God. But if they leave and say, You know what, that really didn't do anything for me. You know, I didn't I didn't really get anything out of that. I wasn't really entertained. Nothing really happened. You know, could it be that it's because you're spiritually dead? The gathering of believers is meant for people who've been given spiritual life. And people come in here and they're they they don't have a heartbeat yet. They don't have a pulse. They're not breathing. So you don't create a service first People who aren't breathing yet, right? Like the the service is for those that are alive. And we invite you to come and it's under the hearing of the word of God that spiritual life happens. So come in, listen, and we pray that spiritual life will occur in your life. But this is for those that believe. This is for those that believe. Next thing, qualified leadership, number six. One of the first things that uh Titus was to put in place. If you want to flip over to Titus, that's where I'll be One of the first things that Titus was supposed to put in place on the island of Crete, he was uh he ministered there with Paul, he was sent back there by Paul And uh there was uh gatherings of believers, and uh what Paul tells them to do is when you get out to Crete, I need you to do something for me. All right? Look at uh chapter one, verse five. He says, For this reason I left you in Crete. That you would set in order what remains. How is he going to set things in order? Appoint elders in every city as I have directed you. How is he going to set things in order by A qualified leadership. That's what it goes on to talk about. Namely, if any man is above reproach, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, not accused of dissipation or rebellion. For the overseer must be above reproaches, God's steward, not self willed, not quick tempered, not addicted to wine, not pugnacious, not fond of sordid gain, but hospitable, loving what is good, sensible, just devout, self controlled, holding fast the faithful word, which is in accordance with the teachings so that he will be able both to exhort and sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. And uh there there are so many churches that choose to neglect this aspect of faithfulness and still expect God to be blessing their ministries You know, well the guy he's gifted. But the question isn't, is he gifted? The question is, is he faithful? That's the question. Is he faithful? Is he trustworthy? In this case, moreover, it is required of stewards that one be found trustworthy. Is he trustworthy? That is the mark of a faithful uh leadership. And if the man disqualifies himself because of uh moral failure Forgiveness isn't the issue. That's not the issue. Forgiveness doesn't restore credibility. It was uh if it was just a matter of being forgiven, everybody would be qualified, right? Everybody who's forgiven is qualified. The qualifications wouldn't even exist. They just say, hey, be forgiven. What's the need for qualifications if forgiveness is the only issue? There's a there's actually a a a measure for for those that that should be uh uh in in spiritual leadership. If if If people can't listen to you with credibility, they shouldn't be listening to you. Right? And that's that's the point of uh of Titus chapter one. And this is a mark of a faithful church. This is what Paul left Titus and Crete for. You need to pay attention to that. Six more to go. You with me? Six more to go. We're going to cover the rest more quick, okay? A little more quickly. We've already talked about sufficiency of scripture, authority of scripture. The glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men, a qualified leadership, and Mark 7 and 9 are all found in the book of 1 John. Flip over to 1 John with me. The purpose of 1 John is found in uh in chapter five of 1 John and verse 13, where it says, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This was written to believers so that they would know that they have eternal life. Give them assurance and over and over again throughout the book of first John He continues to say this phrase, by this we know, by this we know, by this we know. This is how you know that you're in the faith. And John is presuming that he's uh uh uh primarily talking to believers here That's why he calls them little children. He says, How are you going to know that you're in the faith? How do you know that you're you're really a believer? He applies three tests throughout the book of uh of a true faith, asks them to examine themselves. Applies these three tests, there's the assurance of belief, the assurance of obedience, and the assurance of love. The assurance of belief, the assurance of obedience, and the assurance of Of love or you can call it a sound theology, a holiness of life and a love for the saints Those are the the three marks that are found in uh in 1 John. A sound theology, a holiness of life, and a love for the for the saints. First of all, a sound theology. A true church will have a proper theology. Proper theology, specifically as it relates to Jesus Christ. We understand who Jesus Christ is. We believe in who Jesus Christ has declared himself to be and what the scriptures declare him to be. In first John chapter 4 If you look at verse 6, it says, we are from God. He who knows God listens to us. He who is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. You know what John is saying? If you pay attention to me and listen to me, what I'm telling you about Jesus Christ, that means you're from God. You're of God You can be assured you're from God. But if you're listening to me and you're saying, I don't know about that. He says, you can be sure you're a child of the devil A faithful mark of a church, though a mark of a faithful church is that it has a sound theology. It understands who Jesus Christ is specifically. Verse 2 of chapter 4. The church believes that Jesus Christ came in the flesh. Chapter 4, verse 15, that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Chapter 5, verse 1, that Jesus is the Christ, the anointed one, the Messiah. The church is said to be the pillar and support of the truth. First Timothy three fifteen it says this, but in case I am delayed, I write so that you will know how one ought to conduct himself in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the church. of the truth. A faithful church will uphold the truth of Scripture. If if you're in a church that doesn't uphold that's not really concerned about theology, you know, don't give me all that theology, just give me Jesus, right? I don't want to worry about all that theology and doctrine and stuff. Doctrine divides. Doctrine protects. Doctrine assures that you're in the faith, that you're believing in the right Jesus, that you have the right Savior. What do you mean, doctrine divides? Yeah, it divides. It separates the sheep from the goats, the believers from the unbelievers. We want that. Give me doctrine. Give me theology. I want to know who Jesus Christ is. A faithful church is concerned about that. Faithful church is also concerned about a holiness of life. A faithful church has a concern to display a holiness of life. Look at chapter 3 of 1 John, verses 7 and 8. It says, Little children, make sure no one deceives you. You know what that kind of assumes? The people are out there trying to do what? Deceive you! Somebody's trying to trick you, I just want to let you know, okay? John tells you about it. Don't let anybody deceive you. Little children, make sure no one deceives you. The one who practices righteousness is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who practices sin is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. The Son of God appears for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil. He's he's saying it's it's it's really not that difficult and I'm not worried about the them cranking up over there, okay? I'm gonna keep talking. Alright A holiness of life is something that the church is concerned about. A church that allows sin to run rampant is a contradiction in terms. A church does not allow sin to run rampant. The Son of God appeared to destroy the works of the devil, not to make room for it. The Son of God appeared to destroy the works of the devil. And it's expected that a church will have sin in it, okay? Because I'm here. You're here A church is going to have sin in it. The question is, what is a church's attitude about sin? Do we mourn over our sin? Do we hunger and thirst for righteousness? That's the mark of a faithful church. And when people persist in their sin, the church disciplines them in order to restore them to the truth. A church doesn't say, ah, you know, sinners will be sinners. You know, boys will be boys, you know. A church says, I'm concerned about sin. We address sin within the church, and that's what Matthew 18 talks about. That it's actually uh uh uh sins that we go after to try to restore people to the truth. We don't play around with what the Son of God came to destroy. Okay? Mark number nine, a love for the saints. How does the world know that we're disciples of Christ? By the love that we have one for another, right? It's a mark of a faithful church. John 13, verse 35. It says, By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. And this is essentially what John repeats in chapter 4 of 1 John , verse 7. Look at verse 7 of 1 John 4. It says, beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God, and everyone who loves God is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. By this the love of God was manifested in us that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world so that we might live through Him. God's love is displayed in those who truly belong to Him. It's the mark of a faithful church. You don't have a church with love, you don't have a church. Because you don't have redeemed people. A church is made up of redeemed people. Number ten. Only got two more to go after this, okay? Number ten, a heart for evangelism. Heart for evangelism. A faithful church not only has a love for the saints, but it also demonstrates a love for the lost as well, right? In 1 Peter 2 verse 9 it says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. So that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. As believers, we've been called out of darkness. We were in the dark We were dead in our trespasses and sins, and God has called us to light. He's called us to the light. And those that have been called out into the light, they still look back into the darkness to try to rescue somebody who's still back there, right? You get pulled out of the darkness, and you you're concerned now for those that are still remain in the darkness, those that still remain in the darkness. We want to see others reconciled to God. And we're given this ministry of reconciliation And uh 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, flip over there real quick. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Let's just know about Those that are reconciled. Reconciled. 2 Corinthians 5. Look at verse 18. Actually, I'll start at verse 17. Because it starts out with us being redeemed. Therefore If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. Okay? So we've been redeemed. We're new creation now. Verse 18. Now all these things are from God, who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us who's the S? The people that have just been redeemed, right? The people that have been made new creations. He's given to us the ministry of reconciliation Namely, that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Reconciliation in the Bible it's a rich term. It's a term that's uh used metaphorically for the uh uh exchange of peace for war. For love instead of anger, friendship instead of hostility, enmity. It's a word which means to bring back to a former state of harmony. In the garden, we were at harmony with God. After Adam and Eve sinned, we were at disharmony with God, dissonance from God, right? What we're trying to do is we're trying to call men back to God. Don't turn your back towards God. Don't keep going in your own direction. Turn around to God. Repent. Turn from your sins. Turn to the Lord. And He's given to us this ministry of reconciliation that we're calling people to become united with Jesus Christ. We're calling people to be united with God. This is how we have eternal life. It's through the knowledge of God, through union with Christ. In John 17, 3 it says, this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you sent. It's a it's a this relational word You're an enemy with God, apart from the reconciliation that happens through Jesus Christ. And our ministry is one of calling people to be reconciled with God. That's an important mark of a faithful church. Number 11, a commitment to discipleship. Commitment to discipleship. Matthew chapter 28. Before our Lord ascended into heaven, he gave these words in Matthew 28. Verses uh eighteen to twenty uh says And Jesus came up and spoke to them saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit Teaching them to observe all that I commanded you, and lo, I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. If if you're a disciple, this word's for you. If you're a disciple, this word is for you. And it's actually a self-perpetuating kind of command. And what I mean by that is that in the command itself, there's the repetition of it. Meaning that that if if you're a disciple and you've just been commanded to do all that the the Savior's commanded you to do, right? What's the the last command that the Savior's just commanded? To do what? Make disciples. And when you teach somebody else, you make a disciple of somebody else, what are you going to teach them to do? Make disciples, because that's what the Savior commanded. And it just keeps on going, right? Until we're here today, and what are we supposed to be doing? Making disciples were involved in the same work, in the same work. Jesus Christ is worthy of that. He came and he says, I have all authority. All authority has been given to me. He speaks with all authority. He says, I'm worthy of all nations. He says, disciple, all nations. I'm worthy of every one of them. It's not like, hey, you know, just make sure you kind of take care of Jerusalem, you know, because that belongs to me, but I don't know about the He says, no, all nations. All nations belong to me. Go and disciple every nation. He's worthy of all dedication. I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. A disciple is a learner, a student. Faithful church won't be satisfied with just a mere profession of faith. We want to see people imitating Jesus Christ, learning after Jesus Christ. That's what we're commanded to do, to reproduce Christ in others. See maturing, obedience. believers and we all have a part to play in that. Number 12. Last one. We made it, okay? We made it. Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2. Look at verses 41 and 42. Twelfth mark of a faithful church. Is that we will have a faithful practice. A faithful practice. Look at uh Acts chapter 2, starting at verse 41. It says, So then those who had received his word were baptized. And that day there were added about three thousand souls They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. That word devote, it's the Greek word pras kartero, it means to adhere to, to persist in. It's a compound word uh which actually strengthens the the force of the word. It's like to really adhere to, that we don't depart from this. When it's used of an activity, it's something that you're busily engaged in. This is this is my activity, this is what I'm diligently occupied with And the early church was busily engaged with and occupied with at least five commitments. They were committed to baptism in verse 41. Those who had received his word were baptized. And then they were added to the church, right? They were baptized and added to the church. There were three thousand there were souls that were were added. So baptizing believers They were committed to biblical preaching. They were continually devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching, to listening to the word of God. They were committed to biblical preaching. They were committed to regular fellowship, to the fellowship. They're committed to the observance of the Lord's supper as well. The breaking of bread refers to the Lord's supper, communion And they were continually devoted to prayer, to praying together as a church. These are this is the practice of the of the church And these are the things that every faithful church is going to continue to devote themselves to. That's why we make it a practice even during our service to make sure that these things are happening Because this is what the Lord has left us with. This is the example of the disciples fulfilling the Great Commission. This is how they they completed it. This is how they fulfilled it. Baptizing, preaching, fellowship. The Lord's Supper in corporate prayer, praying together, and just as a plug, uh every every uh every Sunday before service for at least 15 minutes, what are we doing? Praying. We're praying. And I want to see more of you out there together with us praying. We want to be faithfully practicing what our Lord commanded us to practice. We want to be devoted to that time together. These are the practices that marked out the church as the church Marked out the church from the the rest of the world around them. We can't deviate from these things and consider ourselves faithful. I I mean any any one of these, what are you gonna take out? What are you gonna take out and say I'm still faithful? I'm still faithful to Christ, but uh, you know, I don't I don't know about all that prayer and all that. I'm still faithful to Christ, but I I don't know about, you know, preaching the gospel I still want to be faithful to Christ, but I'm not really concerned about the glory of God. Which one are you going to take out? And be faithful to Christ. You can't remove any one of these things. These are the practices that marked out the church as the the church. And um I know I shared the story before, but I was uh uh going through seminary, I remember going through seminary and uh talking to one of my my fellow classmates and uh we had I mean just fresh, just green, you know, we're green on campus, you know, don't know where anything is, still trying to figure our way around. And I remember turning to him and I I I I just said to him, it's like I want to make sure that we go through this time without any regrets. Because we we heard stories about people who crashed and burned, you know, going through seminary. Actually they they told they tell everybody the story like you know uh first day, you know, pretty much you walk in master seminary. They tell the story about a guy who's going, you know, his graduation day. He's going up to to receive his diploma and but but before he had went to his graduation he's like looking around for his wife and he can't find his wife anywhere. And he says, Well maybe she she you know went there ahead of me or something, but he can't find his wife. So he goes through the the process, you know, sees his diploma. Looking around for his wife, can't find his wife, he comes home, and uh on on his bed are a pile of books. And it says, uh, you spent the last four years with these, now you can sleep with them It's like faithful to, you know, hey, I want to get my studies done, but wasn't faithful to his family. And he it's like it's over. You know, ministry was over before he even got started, you know, before he wasn't hired. You know, he's it's over. And I I remember turning over to my friend, I was like, I I don't want to be that guy. You know, we we can we can get through seminary with our lives intact. And I say the same thing to you. If we're going to be a faithful church, these are the things that we have to continue to devote ourselves to. We need to be devoted to the things that the scripture tells us we need to be devoted to. By the time the the Apostle John wrote the book of Revelation, uh the church was only uh about sixty years into its history About sixty years, and if you read uh Revelation 2 to 3, you find that there's a list of churches. By 60 years in, there were churches that already abandoned their first love, that already tolerated false teaching Or is the church that was considered dead? There's a church that was considered nauseating. He says, I mean you just lukewarm. I just want to spit you out of my mouth. Like you sicken me. Sixty years into church history, I mean these are people that knew knew the apostles. Apostles still living, and the church is already sickening and spitting and out being spit out of the Lord's mouth? I mean, seriously? Sixty years in? We're only one year in, guys. We're only one year in. We got a long way to go. We need to be faithful. And my prayer is that uh we as Baltimore Bible Church will be doing the same thing 60 years from now that we're doing today, right? Preaching the word, reading the word, praying the word, living the word, singing the word, right? We want to be doing the same thing 60 years from now that we're doing today because we we want to be a faithful church. And uh personally I want to come to the end of my ministry like the Apostle Paul in 2 Timothy 4. 7 where he says, I fought the good fight. I finished the course. I've kept the faith. It's all about the fourth quarter, alright? It's all about the fourth quarter. Let's let's be faithful to the end, amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you God so much for uh this time that we've been able to share together. May you, God Burn into our consciences, just a commitment to faithfulness. Father, you don't reward us for being gifted. You don't reward us just for showing up. You reward us for our faithfulness, God. So Father, I pray that we as a church would be faithful to you, faithful to the commitments of Scripture, that we'd be able to pass along a faithful church to the next generation for the glory and honor of Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.