The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online. at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. And so we're thankful to have Pastor Tom Leek from Hope Bible Church with us this morning. And um For many of you, he needs no introduction, but I know there might be a few of you in here that are not familiar with him. And I I know if uh Pastor George was here this morning, he would want to communicate uh the many ways that the Lord has used uh Pastor Tom in his life um uh to disciple him, to shape his his life and his ministry. And I can give personal testimony that in the relatively short amount of time that I've known Tom , I have personally been helped. and encouraged and strengthened by his ministry to me and to my family. His example of faithfulness has already had a great impact on my life and just this uh short amount of time. Um and a couple words that came to mind when I I think of Pastor Tom are humble, uh wise, earnest, devoted, kind, genuine, a man of conviction. And I'm sure that uh those of you that know him uh could add many more to that list. And we know it's the grace of God in him, but I'm just thankful to God uh for the privilege of of knowing him. As most of you know, uh he is the senior pastor teacher at Hope Bible Church in Columbia, Maryland. Um and for those of you that are newer to BBC, You might not know that our church was actually planted out of Hope Bible Church, so we have a very uh great connection to that church. We're very thankful for that church and uh just their support and uh ongoing ministry to us. Just a quick biography here on Pastor Tom. He entered into a saving relationship with Jesus Christ through the ministry of inner varsity while he was in college. where he met his wife and lifelong friend Susan, who is here with him this morning. After graduating, Tom taught in Christian schools for 10 years. He served in his local church in a number of capacities and earned a Master of Arts degree in theology from Capitol Bible Seminary. Later, he and his family moved to Southern California. while he attended the Master's Seminary where he earned a Master of Divinity and degree uh in in nineteen ninety-seven, which as you know, which is where Pastor George and myself also graduated from. And while in seminary, the Lord impressed on Tom the need for planting strong Bible preaching churches, particularly in Maryland. So he returned there in the summer of 1997 to help establish Hope Bible Church along with a core group of believers. And uh just it's interesting to think back and realize that in God's providence and sovereignty that, you know, we being here today, you know, have the Lord worked through uh those desires and through that conviction that He gave um through without which we probably would not be here today. So we're very thankful for God's work there. Tom testified that he has truly seen the Lord work in Planning Hope Bible Church, growing its leadership. deepening the walk of God's people and even extending the church's influence in the region. And by God's grace, Hope Bible Church was used of God to plant Baltimore Bible Church in the summer of 2013. Currently, Tom's primary ministries are expository preaching, teaching, discipleship, guiding ministry development, and supervising the planning and development of Sunday worship services and the celebration of the the Lord's Supper. He also focuses on developing leaders and helping all the members of the congregation to become mature co-laborers in Christ. In addition, he serves on the board of directors for Grace Advancement Atlantic. a fellowship of like-minded churches in the Mid-Atlantic region. It is Pastor Tom's passion to see God work through word-driven, dynamic-body churches where doctrine is placed into the life of the local church And the Holy Spirit works fruit through Christ's body to the glory of God. Tom is always amazed that the Lord can transform sinners such as himself to bring glory to his matchlessness. Tom and Susan have been blessed with four children, Hannah, Grace, Faith, and Josiah. Brother, we are very thankful to have you here with us. Please come and preach the word to us. I feel a lot taller up here, I tell you. This is high up here. Thank you for that very warm welcome. Oh my goodness. I got two things out of college. I got Jesus and I got Susan. That was pretty good. Pretty good deal, I think. I didn't really need a degree. I don't know what uh I don't know what I learned in college, but And thank you for praying for me also. I've been uh cancer free now for two and a half years, and I know that your prayers are back on the I don't really think of myself though as a cancerous survivor for some reason. I don't like that way of talking. It makes me feel like I did something. It's just God 's mercy that's all it is and so I guess he still has something for me to do and maybe this is part of it. Thank you for having me. And I know some of you don't know me and uh I'm not as special as that write up Gabe. I have no idea where you got that write up from by the way. I couldn't even remember some of those things I told Micah today, I said, Micah, I've known you for 18 years now, but but then I realized he's only 17 years old. So I knew you when you were a thought, you know. So But it's kind of neat. I've known George for eighteen years now and he was always very energetic. Always. There was no I didn't give him any of his energy. Please understand that. I just tried to make sure he was running in the right direction. That's all. Um I want to talk about the church today. And I hope it'll be applicable to you. Some of you are more involved in leadership. Some of you maybe are newer. Some of you are trying to figure out your spot at BBC. One of my um passions is to make sure that everybody in the church knows where their spot is, where they can serve, where they can minister. It's like I'm a gardener and people come to my house and they say, You're a good gardener. And I said, Well you only see the plants that lived. The ones that died, I I pulled them out and threw them away so you couldn't see them anymore. So that's why it looks like I'm so good. But um I really it really is important that everybody finds their spot. And just from seeing what everyone was doing up here this morning, I think, yeah, a lot of you have. Maybe some of you haven't, and you're trying to figure out where do I fit in? What's the church supposed to be? If you kind of take a look at the whole local church for a moment, which is kind of what I want you to do this morning. then maybe you can figure out where do I fit in there with my giftedness. Maybe I'm a servant, maybe I'm a exhorter, maybe you are um, you know, a leader, someone that's kind of afraid to step up for leadership. And your fears holding you back. It might be anything, but maybe the Lord will use this message here today to help you figure out where you would be. What is a local church? What is a good local church? What are the ingredients of a good local church? There's this pastor named Pastor George Lawson. And I found that he had a little quote, and I actually use this quote in my doctrines of the church class, ecclesiology. And I want to quote him, ingredients of a good church. A good church is focused on, so says Pastor George, the sufficiency of Scripture. The authority of the Bible, the glory of God, the Lordship of Christ, the conversion of men. Heard you talk about evangelism already today a qualified leadership, a sound theology, a holiness of life, a love for the saints, a heart for evangelism , A commitment to discipleship and a faithful practice of baptism, Lord's Supper, fellowship, and prayer. I think that's a pretty good list. It's kind of hard to improve on that list. It's really well thought through. That's what a local church, a good local church is about. By the way, how long do I have? It says 1115 up there. I don't want to Don't pay attention to the clock. You shouldn't say that kind of thing to a creature. That is a definitive mistake. Let me know when your stomachs are growling, and then we'll be done here, okay? I've been a part of a number of churches in my life. One thing I've learned is that some churches stick to the Bible more closely than others. It's been asserted that the sincerest form of flattery is, and you probably know the quote, imitation, right? Imitation. In some ways, every church imitates other churches. There's no way you can invent church. Some people are trying today, but they're really not doing that. A lot of what our church, Hope Bible Church, strives to be, we imitated from Grace Community Church in Los Angeles, Dr. John MacArthur's church, a man who's had a profound impact on my thinking and on my ministry. Um I love their commitment to try to keep everything that they do in their church biblical. There's no perfect church. If you find something wrong with my church, I could find ten things more wrong with my church than you could find. And if you find something wrong with Baltimore Bible Church, then your attitude ought to be, how can I help uh in that area of weakness? How can I help the folks there rather than just to sit in the pew and you know kind of criticize? So it we all need to kind of find our spot and know how um God is working. I read the biography of John MacArthur by Ian Murray. I don't know if you've read that or not, but uh in it it records some of Dr. MacArthur's words about how he felt about ministry when he came to Grace Church. He said, when I first came to Grace Church, I had a new idea about how to run the Sunday school. I wrote out my idea and presented it to the Education Committee. They unanimously turned it down. They said, who are you, kid? We've been here longer than you. And then Ian Murray goes on. He says, this incident contributed to a lesson that would guide his whole future ministry. I wasted a lot of energy when I was young trying to create concepts and programs to get everyone conforming into a slot. He learned that life is more important than organization and life is the result of inner attitudes. So the first Need was for hearts moved by God through Scripture, not for new methods or new programs. And then MacArthur goes on. The goal of a pastor and the leaders of a church should be to generate proper spiritual attitudes in the hearts of the people. They can't just say you need to do this and you need to do that. If the right kind of spiritual attitudes are present in a church, the structure will take care of itself because scripture spirit-controlled people are going to do spirit-led things. And I think that's so true. Spirit-controlled people are going to do spirit-led things. My experience at Grace Community Church, the two years I was out in California, showed that when you have consistent expository preaching like you have right here, it does end up filtering down into the fabric of the church. It works its way into the children's ministry. I watched and saw because I knew a lot about children's education. It works its way into the youth ministry. Saw that also I've been a youth pastor. It works its way into even the special needs ministry. The small groups, everything, and it's exciting to see. It's really the right plan. And I know that you're following that pattern here at BBC, and that's great also. You guys are a kindred spirit with our church. You love the same Savior. You sing many of the same songs. You um preach from the same word, and so we're really very alike, and uh you have the same philosophy of ministry. But I want you to remember this that whatever we are here in the 21st century, we're only following the pattern of churches that came before us. There were churches a hundred years ago that were following this pattern. They may have had some things that were different from us, but It was the same pattern. Follow the Bible, preach the word, and grow. And then two centuries before them, there were Protestant, conservative Protestant churches. that we're doing what we're doing now. And then if you go back to church history, you see, well that's what they were doing. They were reading the word and they were singing songs and they were preaching the word and they were taking care of one another. They came together for prayer. That's what they've been doing. I remember reading a quote from Justin Martyr in the second century, just a hundred years after the last apostle died. And he gave a description of what happened in their worship service. And I was reading through it and I was like, that's what we do today. I mean a few different orders, but it was basically the same thing. We're not inventing church today. We're not. We're following a pattern. But really the best pattern goes all the way back to the first churches, the New Testament churches. the churches that were actually started by the apostles. And I want to take you to one of those churches today. If you have your Bibles, flip open to 2 Thessalonians. There are two Thessalonian letters there. We're going to go to 2 Thessalonians. We're going to look at the beginning of the letter that Paul wrote to them, verses 1 through 5. And I'm going to read it for you, but the reason we're going there is just to try to imitate that church. They weren't a perfect church, but they had some aspects of them that were worthy of imitation, and I hope as you're hearing about it, you'll be thinking, yeah, that's how we want BBC to be. In some ways, that's the way BBC is. And then you can kind of think about how can we grow with this pattern as well. It's 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 1 through 5, and I'll read it. Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians, in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace to you and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because your faith is greatly enlarged, and the love of each one of you toward one another grows ever greater. Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions. Which you endure. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment, so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which indeed you are suffering. It's good to know what you're aspiring to be as a church. And today, again, I want to encourage you from this model what you or wanting to be, to be a model for other churches. Right now you might not think there are a lot of other churches that are looking at your church and thinking That's what we want to be like. Right now you might be thinking, you know, we've moved around a lot and we haven't even settled. Well, you've got a great place now, by the way. But there will come a time, and maybe it's already started, where there are other churches that are turning their head a little bit and saying, what are you all doing over there at DBC? I'd like to know. We'd like to make some changes at our church. We'd like to make some improvements. And what you're doing now isn't just about you. It is setting up a testimony, and then over time God uses that testimony, and other people Turn left or turn right, they begin to think about the things that you're doing there, and they start saying, we want to begin to model that. We want to begin to do that, and that will be a wonderful day for you. So think about that. Think about your activity, your love that you're showing, your faith, your prayer, all of it connects to the church. And as the church is strengthened, then maybe you'll be a model for others. I know you're still young. as a church, but think about Baltimore City, and maybe you do a lot. How many broken churches are there in Baltimore City? How many false churches are there in Baltimore City or in Baltimore County? Or even further in Maryland. How many churches are there that are not following the pattern? They've gotten enamored with some of the latest fads that go through the evangelical church and they've been kind of led astray, they need a good model like you guys to be able to say, okay, we got off the path a little bit. We've strayed a little bit. We need to come back to gospel preaching. We need to come back to biblical teaching. We need to come back to the fundamentals so that God can really work in our church as well. There are many attributes needed by a church, but this passage focuses on five. So there's five portraits of a model church. And I'm going to go through them with you. Five portraits of a model church. That's our outline for today. First, they're connected to Christ, and that's right in the introduction, in verses one and two, if you'd look at that again. Paul and Sylvanus and Timothy to the church of the Thessalonians, in God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. From God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Said twice, God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you hear that? And this is wonderful. This is a wonderful connection. It shows right away. It's just an introduction. I know it's not that thrilling, but it reveals to us the connection that this church had with God and that this church had with Christ. I want to give you a little bit of background about the church. It's Paul who planted this church. He planted the church in Thessalica. He did it in his second missionary journey. And a man named Sylvanus and another man named Timothy were still with him. Paul chose Silas to go with him. His Roman name is Sylvanus, same man. He chose him as his traveling companion. And he did it when he parted ways with Barnabas over their disagreement about John Mark. You may remember that story in the book of Acts. According to Acts chapter 16, Timothy was picked up in Lystra on Paul's second missionary journey. And eventually he became Paul's most trusted and valuable companion. In fact, he wrote two letters to Timothy in the New Testament Thessonalika itself, the city, was the capital of the region of Macedonia. It had 250,000 people in it at that time. That might not sound really large for those of you that are living in Baltimore, but for an ancient city, 250,000 people was an enormous city. It was very large. It was also a seaport, and it was on a very important Roman trade route. That meant that when Paul went there, he knew he was choosing to plant a church in a strategic area where a lot of other people would hear about this church. That was kind of Paul's pattern. Paul did not shy away from cities. He went right to the largest populated areas and he planted a church and then he used that church to begin to spread other churches and the gospel from that region. It was intentional on Paul's part. It was ver really very wise. As persecution broke out while Paul was in Thessalica, Paul then moved on next to the city of Berea, and then he went to the great city of Athens, and then he wound his way over to Corinth. And you can read Acts chapter 17 for more of that background. Shortly after Paul arrived in the city of Corinth, Paul wrote 1 Thessalonians. And then a few months later, maybe three months or six months later, he wrote this letter that we're studying today, 2 Thessalonians. The year was about 50 or 51 A. D. There are very few scholars that would question that Paul was the author of this letter. The evidence, both internally and externally, is overwhelming. The letter was written in response to a report he got about a church. Imagine being a church planter and you've gone to some city, you've planted a church, you love the people there, now you've moved on, you've done preaching elsewhere, you've started other churches And a report from this church that you started comes to your ears. Well your ears would be perked up. You'd be very interested. You love that church, and you'd want to respond to the concerns that were there. So in this letter, 2 Thessalonians, Paul gives a threefold response to the report that came to his ears. First Since the persecution that broke out while he was there was still going on kind of intermittently, this letter was meant to encourage them. You're facing persecution, and he wrote this letter to encourage them Second, though Paul had instructed them a lot about last things, a lot about ecclesiology, a lot about eschatology, they loved last things in this church There were some people that were still confused, and they'd gotten some false teaching, and they thought maybe the day of the Lord had already come and he had to write them to clear up that confusion and to give them some good doctrine about the end times. And then interestingly, the third purpose about writing this letter is because some people thought that the Lord could come back at any moment, and that's true, the Lord can come back at any moment. They decided they didn't need a job anymore and they didn't need to work anymore. They decided this is great, the Lord's gonna come back, I don't need to work, I'll just kinda hang out, and then when he comes everything will be fine. Well he basically told them if you don't work you shouldn't eat And that's a good model, I think. If you don't work, you shouldn't eat. Idleness is the wrong response to the doctrine of Jesus' second coming. Good call, because it's been 2,000 years and the Lord hasn't yet come back. The theme of the letter is living in light of the second coming. All of your life you think about Jesus is coming back, and when he comes back, he's going to snatch us all. How should I live my life when I see that he comes back? By the way, that's a good kind of side note, isn't it, when you think about your life and you think about what decisions should I be making? in my life. Always live it in light of the second coming. Live it in light of the fact that one day you're gonna have to walk up those steps, probably a little higher than these steps. to the famous seat of Christ and you're going to go up there and he's not going to ask you what your husband did or your wife did or your kids did or your mom did or Aunt Maybell did It's going to ask you, what did you do for me? How did you live for me? Where was your faith? And you ought to live in light of that. You ought to make all of your decisions about schooling and all of your decisions about work. and all of your decisions about your relationships and even the music that you listen to and everything in light of that day. Because it's going to be a very embarrassing day for some people. And it's going to be a very glorious day for other people. And so that's the greatest accountability any of us can have. Amen? That's the way it really should be So that's the theme of the letter, living in light of the second coming. Now I want you to notice in verse 1 that this is a local church. The church of the Thessalonians, a local church in one city. But though it is in Thessalica, its real address is, you know, you look up an address on, you say, what's the address? Here's the real address of every local church. Ready? In God. and in Christ. Pretty easy to find us. We're in God and we're in Christ. That's the real address. That's very, very important. Because it shows that this is a true church. This was not a false church. This didn't just look like a church building. The people in the church had a right relationship with God and Christ. Christ is the head of every local church. Would you agree? He is the head of every local church. What is a false church? A false church is a church that Jesus said, I'm not the head of this church because they're not teaching the things that I told them to teach. It's a church that doesn't have a true connection to Christ because it doesn't give the true message about Christ. Christ warned some of the churches in Revelation when he was walking among the lampstands in that vision, he said, you need to repent, otherwise I'm taking your lamp and I'm removing it from its place. You're no longer going to be a true church. That's not a church losing their salvation. That's a church drifting into apostasy over time. and going off with the wrong message, trying to be popular, trying to be liked by people around them. And eventually, maybe it takes a generation, but eventually you look at them and they're no longer a true church. I mean their building's beautiful, stained glass is marvelous, you know. They got a lot of money in there, but they don't have a lot of the treasures of heaven. Today there are a plethora of false churches. What one teaches about Jesus Christ and the gospel of Jesus determines if they are truly connected to Christ. John warned in 2 John 9: anyone who goes too far And does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. There's some mistakes you can make, there's some teachings you can get wrong, but if you go too far and don't abide in the teaching of Christ, you're no longer a true church. You don't even have God. What is not the true teaching of Christ? I'll tell you this for a quick survey. Any system of work salvation that does not connect you to Christ by faith is not of God, and that's a false gospel. Yes? Any system of work salvation, any denial of Jesus as fully God, fully eternal, that's false religion. Any disbelief in the verbal inspiration of the Bible, down to the words. They say they believe in the inspiration of the Bible. I say, what kind of inspiration do you believe? Down to the words. If it's not down to the words, they don't really believe the words. If they don't believe the words, they're not believers. They may teach from the Bible, but they don't really believe it. I grew up in a church like that. I won't tell you the name. But it was a church. I mean they had the Bible, but they talked more about readers' digest than the Bible because they probably believed readers' digest more than the Bible It was a good thing too. I didn't because they didn't talk a lot about the Bible, I didn't get a lot of false teaching, I just didn't get any teaching. And so when I got saved they could put good stuff in my head and rather bad stuff. Some people you gotta clean bad stuff out of the head and not me. I didn't have anything in my head. I was ready for God to stuff it with whatever He wanted to stuff. Any attempt to attach to Jesus through a system of sacraments, did you come out of that? If you're Catholic or something like that, you say, you're going to get connected to God through the Church and the priests, and no, no. That's all a ruse. It's not true. Any replacement of the desperate need for each of us individually to be born again, to go out and now we're going to replace it with social work or social justice or helping the poor, which are fine things, but you cannot replace the work of the church with that. That is not, that is a that is a deviation from the work of the church. Listen, you can't save society. You can't save society. You can make it a little better, you can sprinkle a little salt on it. That's you guys. You're the salt of the earth. But you really are not going to make the world better. That's where those Psalms come in, by the way. God's going to destroy his enemies. True churches, I should say false churches are also after the health and wealth, right? They might even say the right words. Jesus is Lord, He's God, and He'll get you rich. Oh my, how many tricks the devil has. Right? You can go this way and that sounds good, but then they say that and you're like that's not right. Then you go this way, oh that sounds good, and then they go this way, that's not right. And so you have to make sure it's the true message. True churches, though, have God and have Christ. And they teach the true gospel. To these true churches, God and Christ communicate their divine resources. Two resources are mentioned in those verses, those first two. verses. Did you see them? They're so common we don't even think of them as resources. Grace and peace. So if you kind of feel poor, you kind of feel like you didn't get a lot in life, So far what we've learned is you got God, you got Christ, you got grace, and you got peace. Well, you're richer than just about everybody else. God's your inheritance. Christ Jesus and his glory is going to splash all over you. You have chorus, you have grace, what's that? Undeserved favor, right? You didn't deserve it, you got it, and all the blessings that come from. And peace, peace with God. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 5. 1. Peace with God, peace with one another, most times. And peace inside your heart, most times. Be anxious for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. You got a lot of good stuff. You got a lot of good stuff. And so true churches are joined to Christ. That's the first thing. They have the correct doctrine about Christ, and Christ brings them to God, and you must hold tenaciously to that. Because nothing else about your church matters if you lose that. And I know you know that, so I won't say any more on that. Second portrait. They're growing in faith. Look at verse 3. We ought always to give thanks to God for you, brethren, as is only fitting, because and here it is, your faith, your faith is greatly enlarged. that verse. Because we always talk about the fact that we're believers. But I've noticed that one of the hardest things to do in the Christian life is to believe. We're believers. Yeah, but we don't believe. I mean we believe, but then we don't believe. God's gonna take care of your needs. We don't believe. God's going to grow your church. You don't believe. God's going to help your husband to learn the things you've been praying for him to learn for the last 20 years. You don't believe. But their faith was greatly enlarged. Oh, I like that. Their faith was greatly enlarged By the way, I'm not going to get into the grammar here, but verses 3 through 12 is like a long thanksgiving that Paul is giving to God. He's giving the thanksgiving really to God, please notice, not to the church. He's giving to God. But he doesn't just say that he gives thanks. That would be fine. But he says he ought to give thanks. I don't know if you ever thought about giving thanks as an obligation. Ought to. Yeah, the Greek word says that, by the way, in case you're wondering. Ophela. Othalo. To have an obligation. You ought to give thanks. And he said, I ought to give thanks for you, because you're a work of God. I give thanks for Baltimore Bible Church Because you know you can read all that stuff, but I didn't do anything. What did I do? I I just let God we just opened up a few people, a little bit of money, a little bit of time, and God does all the rest, right? Remember how he said, you know, we plant water, God causes the increase. Everything that happens is God. He gets the glory. That's the neat thing about church work is it's really impossible, you can't do it, and then God does it and you're like, wow and then you get the credit for you should not get the credit for it, God gets the credit for it. But we give thanks for what God is doing at BBC. For you, for you guys. God is doing it. He's growing you, and it's really neat to see. And we give thanks for that. What kind of a person gets a gift of Christmas and then doesn't say thank you? You ever seen that? You know, you give a special gift to someone and they don't say thank you. I've had people like that in my life. They don't say thank you. And um we owe God thanks when he doesn't work among us. Thank God for what is going on here in your own church. Unbelievers don't give thanks. You ever notice that about unbelievers? They don't give thanks. It's one thing that really distinguishes you from an unbeliever. Unbelievers can quote the Bible. Unbelievers can come to church. Unbelievers can do a lot of the religious things that we do out really. Unbelievers can't really from the heart give thanks. But you can. It's a wonderful thing. And we ought to be doing it all the time. And I said the giving of thanks is not to the Thessalonians but to God. And the church, of course, is something to be thankful to God for. You look at a local church, and what I see is in a local church is this is where God's working. God's working here. Evangelism spins off of a local church and praise spins off of a local church and parents are helped through a local church and marriages are put together through a local church. And yes, sometimes things are improved in the neighborhoods as well because of a local church. Friendships are made. Missionaries are sent out because of a local church. It's a work of God. It's something to give thanks for. But they had to grow in faith, and he's thanking them that their faith is greatly enlarged. Greatly enlarged. I like that. I like when people's faith is enlarged. Do you know that you can only do things for God as your faith is enlarged? If your faith is kind of small, God still kicks in and does some things. There's a parable of the mustard seed. But as your faith is enlarged, God does more through you. So as you're thinking about yourself, what you ought to be thinking about when you come to church is not so much Am I going to learn two new things to do at home this week? That's okay. That's good if you learn that. But what you ought to be learning every single Sunday is my faith growing? Am I believing God more? Am I able to exercise the muscle of faith more so that when he brings trouble and confusion into my life, I don't doubt his goodness towards me. I keep making decisions that are strong. When I get asked to do something at church and I think, that's not me, oh no, that's not me, I can't do that, I say, but God can do that through me. And so growing in faith is needed of believers. You You really do need to grow in faith, and you'll grow collectively as a church in faith, and as you do that, God will be using you more and more. And so I think that's important to focus on growing over and above really. Greatly enlarged means growing over and above what your faith was before. By the way, this is not growth in numbers. here. Oh, there's nothing wrong with that. Growing in numbers is fine. Some people want to stay small. Please don't want to stay small. You want to try to grow in numbers, but this is talking about growing in faith. That's even better. Their faith began when Paul preached the gospel to them. God granted them faith in the first place, but then it burgeoned and it matured. And yes, faith is like a muscle. Some of you asked me how I was doing this morning. I said kind of I'm kinda sore. I'm kind of stiff up here really. I went and I was excited about the fact that my muscles were getting a little stronger now. It's been taking two and a half years and I was like, oh I can lift a little more. And so I did, I tried, I pushed on the machine, I lift a little more, and now I'm paying for it. You know. But you have to have a little bit of pain so that you can your muscles can get stronger. That's what they tell me, isn't that right? So you have to try some things that you're afraid to try. You have to go out on the evangelism team that I heard advertised this morning. You have to go talk to that person this Christmas that you've been meaning to talk to in the office that you've never talked to. You've got to go do that. And no, they didn't talk to me. I don't know who they are. That's between you and the Holy Spirit. You've got to try some things in your life that before you're like, I don't think I can do that. Sometimes leaders have to kind of gently push you into some things. Go try that. Grow in faith. Yes, you might feel like you failed at first. You might feel afraid, but God will use you. But he doesn't use cowards. He uses those who trust him and move forward, okay? When I planted Hope Bible Church, I was scared to death. I am not a church planning pastor. I told God that. In fact, I tried a number of maneuvers to get out of it. I chased after the church planning professor on the campus. And I we only had I think like three families that were committed to start the church. And I knew I wasn't really good at door to door evangelism and things like that. And so I was chasing after him and I said, Professor Montoya. You I'm a professor Montoya, I'll How many families do you need to plant a church? And I'm hoping he'd say 10, 12, 15, something like that. Then I could call the folks back home and say it's off. I'll go do something else. And he turned to me and it was like, I don't know if he was in a bad mood, I don't know what it was, but God used it, he turned to me, he said, You don't need any families. If the enemy's on the hill, you storm it and you take it. And that's literally all he said to me. It wasn't polite. It wasn't cordial. It wasn't neighborly. It wasn't gentle. And I was like, man, man. Because I knew he was right. I knew he was right. And that's what I needed to hear that day Alright, third portrait of a church is they're not only enlarged in faith, they're growing in love. Look at the last part of verse 3. And the love of each one of you toward one another grows ever greater. Now please understand when you're reading a Bible verse they're not lying. This is not flattery. They're not exaggerating. Paul's not writing this and saying I'm just going to tell them that their faith is enlarged. And I'm just going to tell them that their love is growing stronger. No, that's what was happening at this church. That's why it's a model church. Their faith was growing. They were connected to Christ. Their faith was growing. And as their faith grew, Their love grew right along with it. Have you made that connection in your Christian life yet? That in order for your love, compassion, patience, kindness, forgiveness, in order for that to grow. Your faith has to grow. Back to the gardening illustration. Is that okay? Too much gardening, I know you know. Faith is the root Love is the fruit. In fact, you're going to get that. Faith is the root. Love is the fruit. When you look at a tree and has bad fruit, you don't like blame the leaves. You blame the roots. The roots, if the roots have not enough water, not enough nutrition, some insects got in there, whatever it is, the roots are being attacked. Then you look up at the tree. And you see the tree and its fruit isn't right. Maybe its leaves are even, you know, withering and it's not good. When you look at a person's life, Look at your life. Look at my life. Look at someone going to church and you say, what's going on in their life? And you see them so busy and distracted by the 101 things that are out there. Yeah, some some of it's gaming, but some of it's more serious. Stuff you gotta take care of at work. Sick people you're trying to care for. I know about that Susan. I've been caring for my uh Monse brother, he's in a terrible terrible auto accident. He really should have died from It got hit in the head and his his recovery is taking a while, so it's taken up some of our time as well. And we're glad to do it for him. But it's a it's a It's a time consuming thing. They're time consuming things in your life. And you don't plan for them. They come, they hit you, and they start to take and they can kind of take your mindset away and they can kind of sour your disposition. And then someone comes along and talks about love. And you're like, I got enough of my life, don't talk about love. But that's not good. You need to realize that God is the one organizing your life. He is orchestrating and he's not making mistakes. And so the things in your life were planned by God, and yes, the hard things too. So your faith has to enlarge because he wants that fruit of your life, which can be summarized by love, to grow too. Do you love Your brothers and sisters. Do you show when you get together with them that you're willing to do things for you? Are you the kind of person that makes promises and doesn't keep your word? Love, when love is increasing, we're really talking about is people being patient with one another. Right? When Paul described love in the love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13, you guys, love is what's the first thing he says? Love is Patience. Why do you have to why do you have to pick the own patience first? You know, an impatient person is like could have put that like fifth in the list or twelfth, but he had to put patience first. I'm not patient. Yeah, I'm not patient patient because you're not loving. Love is patient, it's kind, it's not jealous, it's not brag, it's not arrogant. It's a lot of attributes to love, you see. That's the fruit of your life if you're becoming Christ-like, loving other people, caring for them, at this church, in your family, in your neighborhood, at the workplace. You're volunteering to serve them. You don't gossip about them. You uh you care about them. Someone recently told me that you know they they hoped they could still be friends with me, but they'd stuck a couple of knives in my back. You know, it kinda hurts when you get a knife in your back. And like you can't be a friend like that. That's two-faced, you know. You have to be straightforward with people. You have to love them. You have to be who it is you present yourself to be. That's love. You have to really give of yourself. We know that that uh there are many, many attributes of love. If you look at this phrase here There's kind of different elements here of love. First it says uh love itself is that agape kind of love, right? It is it is love that comes from God, and we know that that we open ourselves up to God and then He works to enlarge our faith and our love. But please also know that love needs to grow. If you have love in your heart, you shouldn't think, okay, I've got enough. Static love Plateaued love is not really what you want. You want to spend your life growing in love. And that's why difficult people are in your life, so you can learn to love greater. Because difficult people are the hardest to love. Trust me, I know. You know, I asked God for a lot of people that would do a lot of evangelism with me early in the church and I got a bunch of hard people. And I was like, Lord, this doesn't make any sense. Send me the evangelist to help build the church. And I got a bunch of difficult men that didn't want to learn anything And it didn't make any sense to me. Now it does because God was working on me more than he was working on, you know, the size of the church or something like that So s you know God has his ways of working. But I also want you to notice that um it love from each one of you. You can't wait around for someone else to love you and then say, well now that someone has loved me at BBC, I'm going to start loving other people. You have to take on the responsibility yourself. Some of you are a little more needy. And some of you, you know, are a little more responsible. Some of you that are needy, you need to learn. You need to ask God, help me to become, to grow, to be the kind of person where I can be meeting the needs of other people rather than everyone always having to meet my needs. You know, I'm I'm not always quickly offended by someone saying something in the wrong way to me. I want I want to learn how to cover a multitude of sins with love. I don't want to be easily offended. I want to grow in that way, you see. And so you should not wait for someone else to come to love you. Someone else around you is loving. You ought to say, no, I'm going to love I'm going to grow in love. I'm going to pick some somebody that needs help and I'm going to you know I'm going to be the first to volunteer and I'm going to love them. When you love people, you're you're asked to love people. And as far as I've learned through the fifty whatever years I've lived on this planet, people are imperfect. I mean my wife loves me. I mean that's that's a great thing because I'm a very flawed man. You know, in fact she's my hero. You know, she's really my hero. When we're told to love people, the people we're told to love are imperfect people. So if you say, well I'm doing pretty well with love because you're just hanging around your best friends, you're not doing all that well with love. You know, and so you have to think about that. There are people who let you down. You have to love them. Yeah, but they promised they should have kept their word. Okay. I agree. But now you have to love that person. But they're no good. They're no good. I I don't like them. I don't like them either, but you gotta love them. You know, you gotta love them. You don't you don't have to, you know, you don't have to you don't have you don't have to do a dance with them. You know you you have to love them. You have to care about it, you have Think about a pray for them. Meet their needs There's some people that are hypocritical. You have to love them. There's some people that are not like you. Listen up, all you young people out there. You have to learn to love older people. People with wrinkles. People who like classical music. Or big band from the twenties. So my mom was You have to love people different from you Listen up, old people. You have to love the young people. Those millennials. Those millennials, I tell you what, they they grow up so slowly now 30's the new 18, you know. What are they making of their lives? You have to love them. Give them time, patience, show interest in that music that they're listening to. Show interest in their games that your thumbs can't keep up with them about. Love them. Enter into their world. There's some people in church that love to debate theology. There's some people in church that love thrilling church music. There's some people in church who love to stand up in front of other people and talk. There's some people who love to look good and get compliments. But there are not enough people who love the people of God. In this church there were. Alright, fourth portrait is that they were persevering in trials. Verse 4. Therefore, we ourselves speak proudly of you among the churches of God for your perseverance and faith in the midst of all your persecutions and afflictions which you endure. That therefore shows that following is the reason that Paul speaks so well of this church. Please notice how Paul puts it. We ourselves. That's kind of emphatic. The writers were boasting about this church. By the way, when you boast about another person, that's fine because you're boasting about what God has done in them, not what you have accomplished among them. them. They're really boasting about God's work in them is what they're talking about. They gave thanks for what God did with this church. And so Paul spoke proudly of this church. Wow. The church got high praise from the apostle. He went around from church to church and he talked about this church. Oh, is it this church? And they had a lot of faith and they had a lot of love. And he mentioned it. In fact, if you go to the Corinthian church, Corinthian church didn't get a lot of praise, by the way. Corinthian church got a lot of correction. And the Corinthian church in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 1, Paul wrote this. He says, Now brethren, we wish to make known to you the grace of God which has been given to the churches of Macedonia. That in a great ordeal of affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty overflowed in the wealth of their liberality For I testify that according to their ability and beyond their ability they gave of their own accord. Churches of Macedonia, churches of Macedonia, what was that? He's talking about the Thessalonians. Church. And he's bragging about the Thessalonian church to the Corinthian church to try to provoke the Corinthian church to give, like the Thessalonian Church gave. This was a financial offering they were collecting for those that were poor. And he said, look, they didn't have a lot of money, and they were being persecuted, and they were under affliction, and they willingly gave. for the work of the gospel. Wow. Wow. What a church. How did they get there? Faith greatly enlarged. You don't give if faith isn't enlarged. Love was growing. That's why they were able to endure an affliction and do all of that. They spurred one another on by good examples. Well, there's much that we can learn from positive examples. Here, what we're supposed to learn is to persevere, persevere in faith in the midst of difficulties Now, you never really know if a soldier is a good soldier until he's faced battle. Would you agree You never really know if a farmer is really a quality farmer until he's faced a bit of a drought or something and he's had to persevere through that. So you look at yourself and you're like, how are we doing as a church How are we growing as a church? How are we doing? You have to face some affliction. You have to face some difficulty. Moving around's been a challenge out of the. But you have to face some things like that because if you don't you don't know what you're made of. You don't know the work of God inside of you. But when you go through really, really difficult things and you come out the other side and God sustains you through that It helps you have confidence of God's work in and among you. So when there are challenges and Pastor George faces those challenges, Pastor Matt faces those challenges, you face them with them. You hold up their arms, you hold up their head, you continue to encourage them, you stand with them, you know? When the going gets tough, the tough get going, right? No, some people run for the hills. They run for the hills because they're not they don't persevere. This was a church that did hoopamone. They bore up under trial. They were sustained through their difficulty. Why does God allow difficulty? So you can learn to persevere And that is the truth. As you see God move you forward, you're going to endure trials. Every Christian that wants to count for God has to endure trials. And every church that wants to be used of God has to endure difficulties. It's part of the plan. It's a fallen world. Ain't nothing you and I can do about it. It's just going to be that way. Believe me, I tried to avoid trials. It doesn't work. It's like running through a rainstorm trying not to be hit by by the drops of water. It ain't gonna happen. You're going to have trials, you're going to have difficulties, you need one another, you need God at that time, you need to uphold one another, and that's what it's all about. Some of you are gonna have to endure illness. Some of you we've had at our church to endure a divisive man recently. We had to mark him as a divisive man. He was one of our elders and he left very poorly. He did a lot of gossip and hurt and talk about things. things that were not true, always slanting things to make the leaders look as bad as they possibly could look. That hurt. That caused some families to leave our church. They didn't even didn't even come to talk or ask one question. It hurts. There's not too much you can do about it. You just have to try to become wiser and to love people and to trust that God's going to work these things out in the long run for good. You're gonna face things. I don't know. You're gonna face stuff. I don't know what it is. If I knew I'd be a prophet. I'd tell you. I don't know. There's gonna be some people that are gonna come in here and they're gonna mess stuff up. There are going to be some people that um are going to hurt you. And there are going to be maybe something that the city of Baltimore does, or you you just never know. And um Um, you heard about this church, it was in Haiti, I think it was, whoever was reading it, that is dealing with a dispute with the landlord. And you're like, why do they have to deal with that? They're just trying to get the gospel out. Well, you have to deal with that so you can learn to persevere. And when you learn to persevere, then you're an example to other people as well. You remember that. It's always about how God wants to show you off. If you're wondering why you're being chiseled at and why you're being polished and why you're being honed, it's because God wants to use you and he wants to show you off. For other people. There's a reason why you're here in Baltimore. And God wants to use you in that way as well. You're going to be tested. Your faith is going to be tested. Your love is going to be tested. And you need perseverance. The church at Ephesus was not perfect either. In Revelation 2, Jesus said these good things. He said to the church at Ephesus, you have perseverance. And you have endured for my name's sake and have not grown weary. And that was good. Jesus said, that is good. When a church hangs in there Through the thick and the thin. Then God is pleased with that. Alright, the last portrait of this model church is in verse 5, and this one's a little harder to interpret. We saved the hardest for last. They were taking God's side against men. They were taking God's side against men. Look at verse 5. This is a plain indication of God's righteous judgment so that you will be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which indeed you are suffering. This is hard to interpret. It speaks of something being a plain indication of God's righteous judgment. I don't think that God is saying that they're suffering is God's righteous judgment against them as believers, because God's chastisement of believers is not the context here at all. It seems more likely, considering the verses that follow this, that Paul is showing that the fact that they are being persecuted is a plain indication that God's judgment will fall on the persecutors. Look at verse 6. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. When you ever wonder who's watching my back, who's watching us as a church, if someone picks on us, answer is God is. Leave room for the wrath of God. And Paul says this is right. It's just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you, poor Thessalonian church. No, not so poor. God's going to take care of them. I think it's a similar thought expressed in Philippians 1:28. When they were being persecuted, the Philippians were as well, and Paul writes this: in no way being alarmed by your opponents. Which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you. You remember what Jesus said, when you're persecuted, rejoice and be glad, for so the prophets were persecuted before you Isn't it weird, right? If you're persecuted because you took a stand for the gospel, for the truth of the Bible, for the name of Christ, you said crazy things like, no one gets into heaven except through Christ Not so crazy, right? You said we believe all of the Bible. You spoke against the sexual perversions of the day and age. You take a stand on things that are right in society. And then people speak against you, people don't want to associate with you, people don't like you, people distance from you, you are blessed. God is basically saying now you're the kind of people that have enough character, enough faith, and enough love that it's being noticed and it's being noticed and Satan's noticing and he doesn't like it. You're you're a fly in his soup. He doesn't like you You're messing things up in his kingdom. He's got other people fooled, but not you. You're the problem, and so he's got to turn the heat on you. And he's basically saying, look , This is a sign that you're worthy of the kingdom of God. Not that you're worthy and that your works made you good enough to get in heaven. This is not work salvation. This is just saying Your faith is genuine. You've been tested. You've been put through the fire and you've come out the other side and you're refined. And God is looking at you and He's saying, now these are real believers indeed. And because of that, you're counted worthy of the kingdom of God, which is coming. That king is coming, and he is going to deal out retribution to those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. as it says later there. He is going to destroy them. They are going to have to deal with him. He is angry at them. He is holding his anger back. And giving a time of salvation, but he's coming. The king is coming. He's coming with an army. And ain't nobody gonna beat him. Ain't nobody gonna defeat that king. Rides on a white horse, his eyes are aflame of fire. This is the time where he's sending out people like you and me, way ahead of his armies, saying, The armies are coming, you're gonna lose, surrender now And by the way, these are the terms of surrender. Repent of your sin and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Call him Lord. That's what you're out there doing now, you see. But he's coming and he's going to judge them. And when he judges them, it will be righteous. That's our blessed Jesus. So as we're closing, I just want to remind you. You're not growing a social club here. You're taking your stand on the side of God against men. You can't be for men and for God. You're gonna have to pick. Remember what James said? You adulteresses, do you not know that friendship with the world is hostility towards God? There is a prevailing mindset out there. That's the world. The world's a mindset. We'll do life without God and without his word. We'll do life our own way. There's a prevailing mindset out there and you don't fit it. You have to take your stand with God. When God says that he hates something that men practice, you have to say, I agree with God against men. You take your stand firmly with God. And how do we know we're standing with God? Because we're staying close to what God says. That's the only way we can know. Is this what God says? It's in His Word. We can't jump into heaven and give him an interview. He's already sent down the book from heaven, right? No prophecy was made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. It's God's word. It's all there. We take a stand with the Bible. We take a stand with God, and that means that we offend men. That means when we're pushed And we have to decide, we've decided we're going to stand with God and not with men. Sorry you guys, I didn't mean to say you guys are the bad side over here. But just for illustration's sake, we're going to take a stand with the Lord and with what he says, we're going to preach his word, and if people don't like it, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. We're not being unloving. We're pointing people to truth where they can find a loving God, a compassionate God, where all of their sins that they've done and all the foolish things they've practiced up till now, every last one of them can be pardoned by this king. Say, but I had an abortion. That can be forgiven. Say, but I I was put in jail. That can be forgiven. But I treated my wife terribly. I was a drunkard. That can be forgiven. This is a very benevolent, magnanimous, generous king. He's coming. Now, if you get on his side, all's forgiven. And not just forgiven, you get the benefit in all of the joys of the kingdom. But if you want to stand in front of him and act like you can stand there when he comes, he's going to trample you down. You're going to lose. You follow Allah, you're going to lose. You worship Mary, you're going to lose. You worship yourself and money or any other ism out there. I'm drawing blank right now. Mormonism, whatever it is. You're gonna lose. Come to Christ. Get on Christ's side. And that's what you're saying as a church. We're on we're on God's side. We're not on man. We're not trying to be offensive. But we know push push comes to shove. We know which side we're going to stand on. Amen? Father, please bless this congregation as you already have with many eager hearts to learn your word, grow in faith, increase in love, persevere through the tough things, and keep their stand firmly on your side. Help the young people to make that decision early. Help the older people that are getting tired to re to recommit to that. And help the leaders that are in the midst of it constantly just to be be reminded. They're doing a great thing. Remind them, encourage them, Father God, and thank you for your work in us. We owe it all to you. Thank you for your grace and peace. Amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.