The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, let's take our Bibles and open up to the book of Romans, Romans chapter 6. As a church, we've been walking verse by verse through the book of Romans, and we're in a section of scripture. in Romans chapters six, seven, and eight, uh, that are generally agreed, these chapters are generally agreed to be normative, the normative passage for Christian living If you want to learn about the Christian's pursuit of holiness , these are the central chapters that you would turn to because these are the chapters where Paul specifically addresses the issue of personal holiness and the Christian's battle uh with sin. And even though these chapters can be challenging to understand, there's much gospel hope. and practical help uh contained in these chapters and that's worthy of slowing slowing it down and taking it all in. So uh we as the hymn writer says he breaks the power of canceled sin and sets the prisoner free. And that's what we learn specifically in Romans chapter 6. And if you can get a firm grip on the truth contained in this chapter There's a freedom that you're able to walk in even today. So let's take a look at our passage together. Romans chapter 6, and I'll start at verse 1. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death, so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in the newness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death. Certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is freed from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again, death no longer is master over him. For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all, but the life that he lives, he lives to God Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. If someone were to ask you the question, If God forgives me of all my sin, why does it matter if I continue in sin? how would you respond? Or if someone were to say, if God's grace is great enough to cover all of my sins, what difference does it make what I do? Or maybe, and maybe you've even had a thought like this, if I sin today and repent tonight, should I be okay tomorrow? Or maybe you've had someone say something like, don't Christians just teach that you can live any way that you want and that God will just forgive you of everything in the end? Isn't grace just a get out of jail free card that you can use whenever and however you want? In the words of Paul's critics in Romans chapter 6 and verse 1, what shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin So that grace may increase. And how would you answer that question? And there's a variety of ways that you could answer that question. We might say, no, it wouldn't glorify God to continue in sin. Or no, it would ruin your testimony for Christ if you continue in your sin. Or there are serious consequences for those that continue in their sin. Or you might prove yourself to be an unbeliever if you continued in your sin. But I'm not sure that any of us would answer the way that Paul does. Paul says in Romans 6, 1 and 2, what shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it? Paul's immediate response is this this vehement response, almost involuntary reaction. First of all, like, are you crazy? Like, are you seriously asking this question? And he uses the the strongest form of negation in the Greek language, may uh Genoita, it's uh like saying, N let there not even be the potential of a possibility that that would be the case. How could you even think Such a thing. Perish the thought, or God forbid, as one translation puts it. But then the reason that he gives for responding in that way seems to be so foreign to the way that we normally think, but it's thoroughly biblical. Paul says, how shall we who die to sin still live in it? Basically, the response is, don't you know that you're dead? Don't you know that you're dead? When was the last time you counseled somebody by telling them that they've died? You know, this is how I want to counsel you. You know, to stop sinning, to turn away from sin. Don't you know that you're dead Don't you know that you've already died, but that's the first thing out of Paul's mouth. And there's no way that you can be dead to sin and still live in your sin. The two are incompatible. And while the believer may fall into sin, the believer is not able to make a home for sin anymore. The word translated continue in sin was actually used for abiding in somebody's house as a guest. And Paul was saying you can't cohabitate with sin as a permanent roommate anymore. You're spiritually incompatible. And that person that you used to be That person that used to exist when you lived in your sin, that person is dead and buried. That person does not exist anymore. That's the reality. And that death occurred when you were united to Jesus Christ by faith. But that's not the only thing that happened when we were united to Jesus by faith. In verses 8 through 11, it focuses on the reality that we've also been united to Jesus in his resurrection. You've died with Christ, and you've been resurrected with Christ. So why is living in sin for the unbeliever such an outrageous idea? Look at verse 8. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. It's because he lives. That's why you need to walk away from sin. That's how we don't continue in sin. That's why it's incompatible. It's impossible for you to live in your sin as a believer. It's because he lives. And because of his life, you also live in him. And because he lived, not only can I face tomorrow, but I can also face any sin and temptation that comes my way as well, because of Christ's life. Life is my life and I'm connected to my Savior. And this is really like an Easter passage here because we're really going to jump into talking about the connections between the historical physical resurrection of Jesus. and our experience as believers and the practical effect that it should have on our lives as well. But we all understand that because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we have the forgiveness of our sins. We have eternal life. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse 17, it says, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless. You're still in your sins. And it's because of the resurrection that Jesus Christ is proved to be the Lord. He's proved to be the Son of God with power. And by that same power, he'll also raise us up as well, raise us up as well. But there's more. Jesus' resurrection also has a direct impact on your sanctification. on your personal holiness. And that's the connection that Paul is making here when Paul says in verse 8, now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. Paul is really connecting in that verse the historical event of the resurrection with a spiritual event that's true in your life today. The historical truth of Jesus' resurrection connects to a spiritual truth that we experience right now in the present. And that's what Romans six has been doing consistently. If you look back at verse one, where Paul says, What shall we say then? Are to we can are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? May it never be, how shall we who die to sin still live in it? The question might be, well, when did I die to sin? And when did I die? How did I die? What's the answer to that? Paul explains, verse 6 Chapter 6. Knowing this that our old self was crucified, how? With him. It's in our union to Jesus Christ that we've died, that we've been Crucified and in the same way we've also been raised again because of our connection to Jesus Christ. What happened to Jesus physically says something about what happened to me spiritually. And the same thing is true about Jesus' resurrection. Jesus physically rose again from the dead. That's a historical fact. But that says something about me today spiritually. Look at verse 4. Therefore we have been buried with him through baptism into death, and that word for baptism is used to speak about our spiritual union with Jesus, so that as Christ was raised from the dead, and there's the resurrection right there, through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. So the physical resurrection of Jesus not only guarantees my future resurrection, but it also guarantees that I will walk in a newness of life. One commentator, Leon Morris, writes, our death with Christ is not an end in itself as the believer identifies with Christ. and his death, he enters into newness of life. We've entered into a new life, and it's all connected to this resurrection of Jesus Christ It's saying those who've united to him now have a new life. And Paul says, notice this, he says, this is what we believe. Look at verse 8. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. This is supposed to be a well-known Christian belief. This is something that we are to say that, well, yes, I agree with that. This is something that you're supposed to call to mind to even do battle against sin and temptation. You need to have this in your arsenal as a believer, that I'm alive in Jesus Christ, and that I've been introduced to a new life as a believer. And there's four arguments that Paul makes to increase our confidence because of our connection with Jesus'. resurrection. And these are really practical ways to think about the resurrection that should really make a difference in your life as you think about your personal holiness. Number one, there is no more death for Jesus. There is no more death for Jesus. Look at verse 9. Knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead, is never to die again. Christ is never to die again. There's a number of resurrections that we find in Scripture in the Old Testament. There's the raising of the widow of Zarephath's son in 1 Kings chapter 17. If you remember the widow who only had a handful of flour and a little oil in her jar during a time of of famine, she was going to make her last breadcake for her and her son to eat before they died, and Elijah says, make me a cake first. First implies that there's more to come, right? Make me a cake first, and that cake was not to be her last cake because the Lord increased the flour and multiplied the oil. But later on in that chapter, her son, uh, that she thought was going to die earlier actually passed away. So she said to Elijah, What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to bring me? uh uh to to uh come to me to bring my iniquity to my remembrance and to put my son to death. But Elijah prays for her son and he's raised back to life. Resurrection. Second Kings chapter 4, there's the Shinemite woman's son. Remember, she was barren. Elisha prayed that she would have a son, but when the child grew, He experienced some kind of pain in his head after working in the field and died, and Elisha prayed and his life was restored. 2 Kings chapter 4. Then you have the story in 2 Kings chapter 13, after Elisha died, was buried, the Moabites invaded Israel. A man who died during the invasion was cast into the grave of Elisha, and when the man touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet. Incredible. Talk about the living dead, right? It's been pointed out that with this miracle of Elijah, he doubles the miracles of Elijah. And if you remember, he asked for a double portion of uh Elijah's spirit and actually doubled the miracles as well. When you cross over into the New Testament, Jesus stops a funeral procession, raises a son of a widow in Nain. Luke chapter 7. Luke 8, Jesus brings Jairus' daughter back to life. And then in John chapter 11, he says, Lazarus come forth. There were a number of resurrections throughout Scripture. But do you know what all of those resurrections had in common? All of those people had to die again. They all died again. I mean, can you imagine Lazarus coming to the end of his life? It's like, oh, here we go again, right? But the difference in Jesus' resurrection is that he never had to die again. He never died again. There was no more death for Jesus. So, in that sense, Jesus is the first to experience a true and lasting resurrection, never to die again. 1 Corinthians 15 verse 20 says, Now Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who are asleep. And then over in Revelation chapter 1, verses 17 and 18, Jesus says, Do not be afraid, I am the first and the last. and the living one, and I was dead, and behold, I am alive forevermore. Jesus is not in danger of losing his resurrected life. And guess what that means for you as a believer. You are never in danger of losing your newness of life. Jesus is not in danger of losing his resurrected life, and you are not in danger of losing your newness of life. You don't become a new man and then an old man and then a new man again and just kind of keep going around like a revolving door. That's not how it works. When you become new, when you're giving a new life, you stay new It's not new like a new that kind of wears out after a while. It's like that's just who you are. You are a new man. You're a brand new, different type of person now. That's who you are as a believer. And you don't just have a resuscitated life that can die. You have a life that's going to last forever. The life that you have now, think about this. The life that you have now will never die. You've been given a new life. So you're not just resuscitated, you are resurrected. And that life will not perish. And even though a believer may sin, you cannot become unborn again. You can't become the old man again. If you've died with Christ, you will live in a newness of life. And because you have a new life, you can't make a home with sin anymore You can't make a home with sin anymore. There's no more death for Jesus, and there's no more living in death for the believer. Number two, there's no more tyranny for Jesus. Look at verse 9 again. Says knowing that Christ having been raised from the dead is never to die again, death no longer is master over him. And what does that mean? Well what what does it mean that death no longer is master over Jesus? I mean, didn't Jesus demonstrate power over death? I mean, we just talked about that, didn't we? You know, he's raising Lazarus. He's raising the widow of Nain's son, and I mean all these people are coming back to life. Jesus mastered death. Jesus can stop a funeral procession. Jesus can refer to death as sleep, like I'm just going to wake this person up from resting from their sleep. Jesus can speak to a body that's been in the grave for four days and say, loose him and let him go So in what sense can we speak about death being a master over Jesus? Only in the sense that Jesus submitted himself to death. Again, Morris writes this in his commentary, as Christ trod the lowly path of suffering on behalf of doomed sinners, he submitted himself to the rule of death In John chapter 10 and verse 18, Jesus acknowledges that I will lay my life down, but it's going to happen at my initiative. It happens when I say so. No one has taken it away from me, but I lay it down on my own initiative. I have authority to lay it down. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 8, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. Even the death on the cross. And I do want you to flip to this one over in Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2 speaks about Jesus being delivered over to death. And listen to what it says over here in Acts chapter 2 and verse 23. Acts chapter 2 and verse 23 Actually, I'll start at verse 22. Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs. Which God performed through him in your midst, just as you yourselves know. This man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death But God raised him up again, putting an end to the agony of death, since it was impossible for him to be held in its power Which implies that Jesus was held under the power of death for a period of time, but could not continue in that state So Jesus was under the power of death. Jesus, the incarnate Son of God, physically tasted the tyranny of death in the flesh. He subjected himself to it. And over in 1 Peter chapter 3 and verse 18, it says, For Christ also died for sins once for all, the just for the unjust, but why? So that he might bring us to God. having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. The tyranny of death was was temporary It was voluntary. Jesus yielded his life as an atonement for sin, but in his resurrection, the tyranny of death was permanently destroyed. And what does that mean for you spiritually? Spiritually, that means that you are no longer dead in your sins. You are dead to your sins. You're dead to your sins. And the dominion of sin and death has been broken over your life. Jesus dies to sin, and we are those who now die to our sins. I love the illustration of Martin Lloyd Jones. We shared it last time about how it's like we come from a different field. You know, where we were under the power of the enemy, slaves of unrighteousness, and now we've crossed over. We've died to that old master. We don't have to listen to him anymore. We're dead to sin. But he goes on to say that I always have a hard time not paying attention to what he's telling me from over there. Even though I'm not under that master anymore. But we're dead to sin. There's no real tyranny there. There's no dominion there. We still fall prey from time to time, but we're delivered. We're set free from the bondage of sin. And that's what we learn from Jesus is he's also the one who says, Scripture says, die to sin himself. Jesus also, number three, has nothing more to do with sin because of his resurrection. Look at verse 10, back in Romans chapter 6 It says, for the death that he died, he died to sin once for all. And there's a number of passages which speak about Jesus dying for sin. Like in uh Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 10, by this by this will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. He died once for all. Well, if we're here right here in Romans chapter five, if you look at verse 18, it says, So then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men, even so, through one act of righteousness There resulted justification of life to all men. What was that one act of righteousness? It was Jesus laying down his life. That one act of righteousness, that one sacrifice for sin resulted in justification for all. And this is a non-repeatable event, one time for all time. There's no ongoing sacrifice of Jesus. He's not still on the cross suffering. We don't bring Jesus back on a communion table when we celebrate the Lord's Supper. It's not another sacrifice of Jesus on the altar. He died once and for all, and we're familiar with that. And we normally think about Jesus' death in relationship to us. He died for our sins. He died for our transgressions. He died for us. 1 Peter 3. 18 uses the Greek preposition hooper to say in the place of, on behalf of. He died as a substitute for you. But think about this. Jesus did not only die for sins, Jesus also died to sin. He died to sin. And what does that mean? Of course, it doesn't mean that Jesus ever ever sinned. I mean, that would be a blasphemous idea to think about Jesus sinning. Jesus was tempted in all points as we are, yet without sin. There would be no way for him to be a sacrifice. for sin if uh he wasn't able to offer himself up as an unblemished sacrifice to God. So what does it mean in Romans chapter 6 where it speaks about Jesus dying to sin? Verse 10, for the death that he died, he died to sin once for all. What does it mean for Jesus to die to sin? There's only one kind of relationship that Jesus personally had with sin on the earth, and that was to be the sin-bearing substitute. Jesus was the sin-bearing substitute. Over in 1 Peter 2, verse 24, it says He Himself bore our sins and his body on the cross, so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness, for by his wounds you were healed. When Jesus died on the cross, he died uh to sin. And before you you pick up your your Bible and run off to the next healing conference when it says by stripes you're healed, uh that's talking about healing from a spiritual sickness. It's not talking about every physical sickness. And it's used in the same way over in Isaiah 53 where it's spoken of in relationship to sin He was pierced through for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities. It's talking about a spiritual reality that Jesus comes to heal. Eventually we'll be healed from every disease that we have. Praise God. Hallelujah, right? You know, there there's no affliction that the believer has that one one day will not be uh uh healed completely uh in the presence of of God. Uh but uh for the time that we have now we pray and uh we still pray for those who are sick among us. But we know that there's not a promise that every disease is going to be healed in this lifetime. This is a passage about spiritual healing. Jesus died for sin, and he also died to sin. And uh what we find out is uh the same passage, uh uh uh the same truth is pointed out over in Hebrews chapter 9, where it says, So Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time for salvation. without reference to sin. And what does that mean? That Jesus, when he died to sin, there was no longer anything else to do with it That there's like this this complete break between him and his relationship to sin. He died for sin and he died to sin. There was no more relationship with sin when Jesus died. John Murray in his commentary says Christ was identified in such a way with the sin he bore that he not only dealt with its guilt, but also with its power. It was by his own dying that he destroyed the power of sin, and it is because Christ triumphed over the power of sin in his death that those united to him in his death die to the power of sin. Jesus died to any relationship to sin. After his death, there was no more ongoing bearing of sin. He was done with sin completely forever. It's finished. And what does that mean for you as a believer today? There's no need for an ongoing relationship between you and sin anymore. Do you ever remind yourself that Christ died for the sins that you commit? That you don't have to commit those sins because Christ died to break the power of sin over you as a believer? That the sins that we commit that He actually shed his blood for, so that we wouldn't have to continue in those sins? That his wounds on the cross were not just for sin, to forgive us of our sin, but actually to separate us from our sins when Jesus died on the cross. Sin it sends a canceled service. We don't have to pay attention to it anymore. We have no obligation to sin anymore. Our sister uh Shireen passed away back in August of 2022. Actually, we still get mail that comes to our house with her name on it. But I know it brought me great delight when I saw bills coming into my house, and I said, I have no need to open that. I have no obligation to that. You know, they they say that you know you halls don't follow a hearse. You ever heard that one? You know, you can't take it with you. Uh you also don't see bill collectors following the hearse because there's nothing that you can get from those people that have passed away But the obligation is over. Once you've died, you're done. Right? And once Jesus died, he was done with his relation to sin. Like there 's nothing more to do about sin. I've already borne the consequences for sin. I'm done with my relationship to sin. And for us As believers, we don't need to have any ongoing relationship to sin either in our lives. Christ has died so that we would be set free from sin that we also would die to sin. And that's the truth that Romans chapter 6 is speaking about. Now that doesn't mean that we can expect to be sinless And we'll get to Romans chapter 7 soon enough. But that means that we don't have any obligation to sin. I don't have to pay attention to the temptations that come my way anymore. I can say no to the power of temptation. And number four, and this is the last point. There's no more distraction for Jesus anymore. Back in Romans chapter 6 and verse 10, it says it says this That the life that he lives, that he lives to God. The death that he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life that he lives, he lives to God. There's no distraction for Jesus. The kind of life that Jesus lives in heaven is an unburdened, undistracted, uninterrupted, unbroken fellowship with his Father. And this is another evidence in the scripture of this inter -Trinitarian relationship that we only catch glimpses of throughout the Bible We learn about Jesus' love for the Father and the Father's love for Jesus. Jesus directs worship to the Father, the Father directs worship to Jesus. Jes Jesus hears from the Father, the Father hears from Jesus, just on and on. It goes, Jesus honors the Father, the Father honors, Jesus Jesus glorifies the Father. The Father glorifies Jesus. There's this just this wonderful inter-trinitarian relationship that we see throughout Scripture. And here we see that after Jesus died and after his resurrection. That Jesus is in heaven and the life that he's living right now in heaven, that he's living to God. I mean, an incredible thought to think about. That Jesus as God is living for God In his life that's dedicated to God. He lives for God. Jesus, who is God, is living for God. And that's an unbroken relationship. It's uninterrupted. It's undistracted. His life is completely dedicated to the Father. And we'd often see during Jesus' time on the earth that he would slip away early in the morning to be with his father. that he'd stay awake late at night to be with his father. He'd often slip away into the wilderness to pray to be with his father, and it seemed like the only thing that interrupted those holy moments was the solicitation of Satan or the sinfulness of his disciples. To to break that un unmitigated just relationship of love between him and the Father. It was Satan coming in to barge in, his disciples tripping themselves up and coming to disrupt that. When Jesus is in the wilderness for 40 days, he's fasting, who is it that interrupts that holy communion? Satan comes in to tempt him if you are the Son of God. Jesus, he's praying in the garden, being in agony, praying very fervently, sweat like great drops of blood, falling to the ground. And when he rose from prayer, what did he see? His disciples sleeping. Instead of fraying. Like that's what interrupted the the kind of communion that he had. It was like the distractions that were around him And then while he's speaking to his disciples, telling them to get up, you know that you may not enter into temptation to pray, who comes in? Behold, the crowd came, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was preceding them, and he approached Jesus to kiss him. The crowd comes in to interrupt the prayer meeting with their protests. It's not the first time that church service has been interrupted with the protests. It happened over here as well. As the disciples are together, Jesus is there praying. You have these people coming in to interrupt the uh the prayer meeting, and Judas kissing Jesus to identify him and betraying the Son of Man While Jesus moved through this earth, he was often interrupted. He was burdened by temptations, Satan and sins of his committed followers, and even the persecution of unbelievers. But in his death and resurrection, Jesus completed the work that was given to him to do, and he was removed from the distraction of this earth, and now he's in glory, living before his Father, glorifying him who he glorified on the earth. And that life that Jesus now lives in uninterrupted way in heaven is supposed to be the kind of life that you start now That we're to start that kind of relationship with the Lord now. And yes, we might be interrupted by the things around us and distracted at times, but we're supposed to be bringing heaven down to us. That Lord, I want more of that relationship with you even right now. I want the kingdom to start in us, in my heart. I mean, isn't that our desire? That's the prayer, right? That that your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And how do I know that I'm applying these verses in the right way? Talking about the relationship that it has to us as believers. We think about the resurrection of Christ, but it has application to us as believers. The reason I know it has application for us is because of what follows. Look at verse 11. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its lust. Do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead. and your members as instruments of righteousness to God, for sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. There's a number of commands that we find here. We won't go through these today. But this is the application of what we've just seen in the verses before. As we're talking about Jesus and his resurrection and the relationship that it has for us, this is the outflow of that, the application of that. That we're to consider ourselves to be dead to sin and alive. That we're not to let sin rain. We're not to present our members, the members of our body to sin. Present yourself to God. We're to be dedicated to God even now as Jesus was We're to be dedicating ourselves to the Lord, presenting our members before the Lord. And there's a number of commands that we'll get into in the next section, but Just taking a look at this first command, what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to consider. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin. Greek word is uh legizomi. It's a word that was used for calculating things, adding things up. It was a word used in accounting, a word of reason, to think carefully. And the question for us is how do we think of ourselves as believers? If your view of yourself and the new life that God has given you looks something like this, you know, well, well, I'm just a sinner. You know, what more can we do? What more can we expect? We're all sinners, right? We're I'm only human. You know, boys will be boys. They might even throw a label on it. You know, that's just my disposition. You know, I'm I'm I'm just an addict of this sin or that sin I have this condition. You can't expect me to walk in obedience. This is my upbringing. You know, I came from this kind of home. I came from that kind of background You don't know the past that I've been through. You don't know what I've what I've experienced in my life. You know, that you can't expect this walk of obedience that the scripture speaks about. Brothers and sisters, I'm just telling you that you're allowing your labels to place limitations on your obedience to God. Because that's not how we should think about ourselves. That oh I'm just a sinner. Yes, yes, we sin, but guess what the Bible also calls you? A saint. You've been one who's connected to Jesus Christ. You can't allow these labels that we put on ourselves to be the consideration that we have. Like, what are you to consider? I'm supposed to consider what God says about me. What does God say about my relationship to Jesus Christ? What does God say about my ability to walk in obedience to him? What does God say about who I am? We've allowed ourselves to uh interpret our own circumstances, and then we live according to that instead of living according to what God says we need to be thinking about. You need to think about yourself differently You've died with Christ. You don't have a tyranny over you anymore. You're not a slave of sin. You have nothing more to do with sin, no obligation to sin. We need to be those that are dedicating ourselves to God. Like that's that's where we live now. The life that we live, we live for God. We're to be dedicating ourselves to God. And it's because of our union with Jesus Jesus Christ, that we've been baptized with Him, united with Him, that these things can be true of us. And the union with Jesus provides you all the resources that you need All that you need to live the Christian life God has given to you. And recognizing that Jesus provides all that you need doesn't mean that we just kind of lay back and wait for God to drop it out of the sky. You know, just drop holiness on me You know? And you just go to a service. You know, I used to think that you go to a service, get get some hands laid on you, some oil poured on you, something like that. It's like instant holiness. You know, you wish it could come like that. You know, just just lay you out on the floor, you slain in the spirit, and it's just like, oh, now I've got it. Or if I can speak in a tongue, you know, now I've got it. You know, somehow I I reached this kind of kind of high point in my my experience with the Lord, and now I've got this holiness that I can just ride the wave That's not how it happens. There's that view that we spoke about known as quietism, which was a word used to describe a 17th and 18th century. uh kind of uh movement that all we need to do is just simply like let go let God. You know, God will just take care of it and there's nothing I need to do. You know, I just wait for it to happen. You know, I actually had a family member, you know, ask him, you know, uh, how is he doing in his walk with the Lord? He says, Well, I'm just waiting for God to do it to me. I'm just waiting for it to happen to me. And it's like, well, I mean there's There's progress that you can make in this. You don't just like wait for God to zap you from the sky. And there's other view that we uh kind of on the other end of the spectrum known as Pietism Or it's like, you know, I've got to pull myself up by my own bootstraps, I've got to do it myself, uh place emphasis on self-discipline, practical living, law-keeping, and uh really kind of place more emphasis on what you do than what God does. And there's this emphasis kind of both ways and and sadly it led to an over-emphasis of self-effort. But this is where the scriptures are just just so helpful. And we'll just We'll just close with this. But this is where the scriptures are so helpful because no truth has to be sacrificed in Scripture. You know, no truth left behind in Scripture. And what we find here is that how we live is always rooted and tethered to what we believe. How we live is always rooted in and tethered to what we believe. Look at verse 11 again. Even so consider. That's the belief. Consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, so here's the connection. Do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lust. Our belief is connected to our behavior. And there's a reason that Paul reminds us of who we are before he tells us what we're to do. We're to become who we are. We're growing into what is true about us. And this isn't just positive thinking, like, hey, just just think good things about your thoughts. y about yourself. You know, think happy thoughts. You know, think holy thoughts and somehow, you know, holiness will just come to you. It's not just think these things and somehow they might become true. He's saying think on these things because they are true. You get the difference? It's not like uh you know one of my my my friends said it's like, you know, the the little engine that could. You know, it's like I think I can I think I can, I think I can. You know, and somehow that's going to motivate you to actually do it. It's not I think I can, I think I can, I think I can. It's I know he did. I know he did. I know he did It's placing trust in what is true. And that's what gives us the ability to overcome. So there's there's a difference. And once you start seeing this in scripture, It's like the the FedEx sign, you start seeing it everywhere, right? You know there's an arrow in the FedEx sign, right? But once you see it, I never saw it before until somebody told me there's an arrow in the FedEx sign. I'm like, okay, I looked at it and it's like, now I can't see anything but the arrow, right But once you start seeing this in scripture, it's like it shows up everywhere that the way that we live is connected to what we believe, and it's because of his power that's at work in us. It's his power that's at work in us. Once you see the connection, it's everywhere. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 10. I'll just take you to a couple passages. 1 Corinthians 15, verse 10. By the grace of God, Paul says, I am what I am. And his grace toward me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me Why do I labor? Why do I strive? It's because there's grace of God, a power that's working within me. So I'm working because God is working And the reason that I can work and I can accomplish what God is telling me to do is because God is the one who's supplying me with the power. So I work because of his grace in me. Galatians 2. 20, you already know it. I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. The way that I live and the reason that I can live For Christ is because Christ is at work in me. It's not my life, it's his life in me. Philippians chapter 2, another passage That's often misunderstood, but uh Philippians chapter 2 verse 12. So then, my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence Work out, and pay attention to the propositions. He doesn't say work for, but he says, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work. in you both to will and to work of his good pleasure. God is working in you both for the desire and the ability To do what he's commanded you to do. Colossians chapter one, verse twenty-eight, we proclaim him, admonishing every man, teaching every man with all wisdom so that we may present every man complete in Christ. For this purpose also I labor, but how? Striving according to his power, which mightily works within me. And then just the last one, Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20-21. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly, but beyond all that we ask or think. According to the power that works within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. And all God's people said, Amen. It's not just let go and let God And it's not just, you know, hey, you know, just crank out your obedience in your own strength. What it is is grace-empowered enablement. That it is God's grace at work in me, and I can work hard and strive and expend all my energy, but I can do that why? Because God is already at work within me to accomplish his good pleasure. So so the strength that I'm relying on is not my own. The the strength that you rely on for your obedience doesn't come from you. You're you're not digging into your your own pockets and pulling out the lint, you know, and trying to you know, accomplish what God has told you to do. What you're doing is you're digging your hands into the rich resources of his treasure bank, right? And you're pulling up what what he supplied you to accomplish what he's given you to do. That's the difference That the way that we obey Christ is because Christ is at work in us. His power is at work through us. His grace is there helping us to accomplish his good pleasure. It's not about you. So so I can put to death sexual sin. I can put to death the sins of anger. I can put dishonesty in speech and and dishonest practice to death. I can live graciously with ungracious people. I can forgive. I can live a Christ-centered life. I can allow the word of God to richly dwell within me. I can't allow the name of Christ to govern everything that I do. Why? Because God is at work in me to accomplish those things. That's the difference. It's because I'm dead. And my life is sitting with Christ in God. It's because I'm alive. I'm alive in Him. It's because I'm free. I've been set free by God. I'm no longer a slave of sin. And it's because I have the power of Christ at work in me that I can walk in obedience. That's how we live the Christian life. It's because of his work in us, and it's because of his resurrection that we can say, I live. That I'm alive. That I have the power. That I have the ability. Because Jesus is at work in me. Because he lives. We can face tomorrow, right? Because he lives, all fear is gone. Because I know he holds the future and life is worth the living, and we're able to live that life all because he lives and he lives in us. Amen Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you so much for your word. And Father, we pray that your word would Instruct us, Father, I pray that you would encourage us through your truth. Father, we uh thank you that you've given us all that we need for life and godliness Father, that we're not just laying back and waiting for you to do the work for us, that we're not just running ahead and trying to accomplish your work in our own fumes, Father, but we're relying on your power to do the work within our hearts. And Father, it's because of Christ and our union with Him, Father, that we've died to sin, that we're alive to God, that we're set free from sin, and that we have the power to accomplish that which he's given us to do. So Father, I pray that you would be honored and glorified in our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and digital files