The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. And uh I pray that Christ is truly your vision. this morning and uh and that's actually what we're gonna take a look at in Matthew chapter twelve beholding the Son uh making sure that uh Christ is uh In our sights, in our uh thoughts, in our affections, uh that uh Christ is uh being beheld and and treasured So uh let's open up our Bibles to Matthew chapter twelve. Uh we're in Matthew chapter twelve uh this morning. Uh last Sunday when we were together in uh Matthew chapter twelve as well, we saw that uh Jesus was rejected. by the same men who should have been the first to recognize them. The Pharisees were uh men who made it their life's work to study and apply the law of God, and if anybody should have recognized Jesus for who he was. It should have been the the Pharisees, those that were spending all their time with their nose in the book. When they witnessed the miracles that nobody else could do, they should have recognized that Jesus was like nobody else was. But instead of these men recognizing Jesus for who he was and pointing people to him and stepping out of the way, they rejected him because Jesus broke their rules. Jesus didn't fit their standard. And uh beyond their rejection, they concocted this uh foolish plan uh to actually snuff out the life of the Son of God. Uh beyond their rejection, they uh uh they went to the ultimate form of rejection, which was plotting his death. You know, there 's no no worse rejection that you can receive than somebody saying that you're not even worthy of living. You're not even worthy of life. The Messiah that they were looking for was not the Messiah who showed up. They were looking for a Messiah who would approve of their conduct and applaud their accomplishments. Uh they wanted a Messiah who would follow their rules and elevate them in the eyes of the people. They wanted nothing to do with the real Messiah. They didn't want a Messiah who would uh take off the mask off of their hypocrisy to show people who they really were. To show them up for being the frauds that they they really were. And according to Luke chapter uh 11, the Pharisees looked down on the people. They loved to sit in the chief seats in the synagogues. They loved to receive respectful greetings in the marketplace. They love to be known as the teachers and the fathers and the leaders among the people, and they were merciless. But here you you find Jesus Christ, who is the epitome of mercy. And uh last week we we saw this that uh uh Jesus uh healed a man whose hand was lame. We don't know how long it was, but it hung useless by his side, and Jesus Had mercy on this man, and instead of the uh the the Pharisees and uh the scribes rejoicing, and one of their members receiving uh a working hand again, instead they they walk out and plot the murder of the Son of God Because they they didn't have any any mercy. Here comes the sympathetic shepherd, the one who saw the people scattered as sheep without a shepherd. And here comes the sympathetic shepherd to these neglected sheep. Here comes the Messiah, who doesn't sit in the chief seats like like they do, to be elevated above the people. It's not what he taught his disciples. He taught his disciples that he would be first, should be last of all, should be servant of all, and that's what he came as is a servant. But like I said, this wasn't the Messiah that they were looking for. They were looking for somebody else, but they should have been looking for this kind of Messiah because this is the Messiah that the scriptures predicted, and this is what we find in Matthew chapter 12. starting at verse uh 17 that this was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. They should have been expecting Jesus to look exactly like the scriptures said that he would look, right? But instead they were looking for their own ideas of what this Messiah would look like. Let's take a look at Matthew chapter 12, starting at verse 17, and we'll read down to verse 21. Since this was to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet. Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A battered reed he will not break off, and a smoldering wick he will not put out, until he leads justice to victory, and in his name the Gentiles will hope. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh I thank you guys so much for uh this opportunity that we've had to take a look at your word. Father, we pray that uh you would open up your word uh to us. Our Father, that as we've read it, that we would understand it, that we would apply it, that we would put it into practice in our lives, Father, that we would truly behold the Son, that we'd have a greater vision of who Jesus Christ is. And now Father, I pray that you'd use me. This morning is the weekend instrument to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Throughout the scripture, there are dozens, if not hundreds, of titles for Jesus Christ. Hundreds of titles for who the Messiah is described as. In uh Revelation chapter 1, verse 8, he's described as the Almighty Which is a problem for our Jehovah's Witness friends because uh they don't recognize Jesus Christ as the Almighty God, but that's exactly who he's described as in Revelation 1, verse 8, who was, who is, to come the Almighty. He's also the Alpha and Omega, Revelation 22, verse 13. I'm the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. He's the author and perfecter of our faith in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2. He's the chief. cornerstone in 1 Peter 2. He's the great high priest, Hebrews chapter 4, the head of the church, Ephesians 1, the great I am, John chapter 8. He's the Emmanuel. Isaiah 7, the judge in John 5, the King of Kings in Revelation 17, the line of the tribe of Judah, Revelation 5, he's the Lord of all in Philippians chapter 2, the way, the truth, and the life in John 14. He's the wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, and the Prince of Peace in Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. And there's so many more that we could walk through, so many more titles that are given to Jesus Christ the Savior. But there's an important title And ministry of Jesus that's often overlooked, and we need to make sure that we add this one to our description of Jesus Christ, and it's the title servant. Servant of God. Jesus Christ is the chosen and beloved servant of God. And we don't often think about Jesus Christ as the servant, but Those are the the the the that's the way that actually the scripture commands us to think about them. Actually, look at uh verse 18 again. Behold my servant That word behold it means to look at this, consider this, pay attention to this. Jesus Christ is the servant. This is something we're to ponder, we're to meditate on, we're to appreciate about the ministry of Jesus Christ. And we need to make sure that we grow in our familiarity and appreciation for this ministry of who Jesus Christ is. And if Jesus Christ, think about this, if Jesus Christ did not come as servant. . He would not be able to come as Savior. If Jesus Christ did not come as a servant, he wouldn't be a savior. In Mark chapter 10, verse 45, listen to what Jesus Himself says. He says, For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to do what? To give his life as a ransom for many. If he didn't come as a servant, he wouldn't have been our ransom. He wouldn't have been our savior We wouldn't have a ransom for sins. He came as a servant of all in order to bring salvation to all who would take part in his kingdom. And without his ministry of servant, we would only suffer his wrath and eternal condemnation. If Jesus came straight to the earth to rule over it, there wouldn't be anybody to rule over. If Jesus came straight to the earth to be the king and the judge and the victorious conqueror, the entire human race would have been wiped out. Because we would have all been consumed by his justice. If Jesus Christ only came as the judge, only came as the king, only came as the ruler, there wouldn't be anybody to rule over because we would all be consumed by his presence. In Luke chapter 9, you have this interesting story about a Samaritan village that denied Jesus a place to stay in their village. And the disciples looked at this village, and in chapter 9 and verse 54 of Luke, the disciples, James and John, they saw this. And they say, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them and said, You don't know what kind of spirit you're of. And basically, if if Jesus only came as judge with fire to wipe everybody out, the whole earth would have been consumed by fire, if that's what he came for, right? Actually, if if you think about it, both James and John would have been consumed by the fire. They're calling down the fire. They would have been consumed by the fire if Jesus just came as the judge to wipe people out. Calvin says this, now John Calvin says, were Christ to appear in his glory, what else could be expected but that it would altogether swallow us up? If that's the only way that Christ came just in glory and power and might as the king, as the ruler, everybody would be swallowed up by his presence. Everybody would be destroyed. Praise God that Jesus Christ came as the servant of God before he came as the king and the judge of men. And when the Pharisees rejected Jesus, Jesus could have fried them on the spot. You know, as soon as they walked out to concoct this plan about how they're going to get rid of them, Jesus could have immediately zapped them on the spot, immediately fried, toast, you know, Pharisee toast right there But that's not what Jesus came to accomplish in his earthly ministry, and that's what's described for us in verses 18 to 21. You'll find it in your Bibles probably in all caps or at least in quotes, because uh Matthew is referring us back to the Old Testament book of of Isaiah. This is a quotation, uh verses 18 to 21, uh from Isaiah 42. It's actually the longest quotation of the Old Testament in the in the New Testament. And it's and it's written here to show us what kind of ministry Messiah would have and what kind of ministry they should have been expecting to see. Written 700 years before Jesus Christ even shows up. Why don't you turn back to Isaiah 42 with me? Back in the book of Isaiah, we've been uh walking through this as a congregation. In uh Isaiah chapters uh 1 through 39, it talks about the judgment. uh that belong to the people that they rightly deserve. But in uh chapter 40 it starts to talk about the comfort that would also come. And then in uh chapter 42 it begins to talk about this one who's called the servant. And there's actually uh four different prophetic pictures of this servant uh who would come. They're called uh servant songs because they all talk about uh this idea of the servant of the Lord, the servant of Jehovah. And uh the first one is found in uh Isaiah chapter 42. You also have it in uh Isaiah 49, 1 through 9, uh chapter 50, verses 4 through 9, and then in uh The longest one in Isaiah 52, verse 13, all the way through uh uh chapter 53, verse 12, you have this picture of the servant who would come, the suffering servant in Isaiah 53. And there are these uh even in early Jewish commentary about these these different passages of scripture, they understood this early on, early Jewish commentators understood this as a reference to Messiah. They would look at these passages and say that this is a reference to the Messiah. It was more modern commentators who would switch it around and say, oh, that's not talking about the Messiah. It's talking about Israel. Because these so clearly describe Jesus Christ that they wanted to get away from this idea that it refers to the Messiah, and now they start saying, oh, it just refers to Israel. But that doesn't fit the picture of the servant that we find here. Look at Isaiah chapter. 42. Look at verse 1. Behold my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. So you have here this the servant described in these singular pronouns, my servant, my chosen one, he will bring forth justice. Verse 2, he will not cry out. Verse 3, he will not break justice uh or or extinguish the uh uh you he will not break the uh uh the bruise reed or extinguish the uh the burning wick. It has these personal pronouns, these personal singular pronouns that are used for the servant It gives us the idea that this is talking about more than just the nation. There's a specific individual that's referenced here. Flip over to Isaiah 49. Isaiah 49. I have another picture of this servant, Isaiah 49. Look at verse 5. And right here you have the servant of Israel distinguished from Israel itself. Look at verse 5. It says, and now says the Lord who formed me from the womb to be his servant. Listen to this, to bring Jacob back to him, so that Israel might be gathered to him, for I am honored in the sight of the Lord, and my God is my strength. If Israel is the servant, how is Israel bringing Israel back to itself? Or back to the Lord? How is Israel bringing Jacob back to him? How is Israel bringing Israel to be gathered to him? You're talking about somebody that's distinct from Israel. This servant of the Lord is distinct from Israel. Flip over to Isaiah 50. Isaiah chapter 50. Look at verses 6 and 7. And you have these details, these details that so specifically are fulfilled in the life of Jesus Christ. Look at Isaiah 56 to 7. It says, I gave my back to those who strike me, and my cheeks to those who pluck out my beard. I did not cover my face from humiliation and spitting. For the Lord God helps me, therefore I I am not disgraced, therefore I have set my face like flint, and I know that I will not be ashamed. Can you think about anybody in history who this has literally happened to? Had their their beard plucked out, their face spat upon, being disgraced and humiliated. This is the picture of Jesus Christ. This is the picture of the crucifixion, and this is the servant of God that's described here in the book of Isaiah, the detail so specifically fulfilled in the life of Christ. And then You have the nail on the coffin here in Isaiah chapter 53, right? Isaiah 53, the most detailed picture of Christ in Isaiah that we find And here we learn something else that's true about this servant. The servant would also die as a substitute for his people. Look at Isaiah 53, starting at verse 6. All of us like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way, but the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. He was oppressed in He was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shearers, so he did not open his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away, and as for his generation who considered that he was cut out of the land of the living. For the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due. And then it goes on to talk about how his grave was assigned with wicked men and other details that are fulfilled in the life of So if you run into anybody who's believed that, oh, it's just Israel. We're just talking about Israel as the servant of the Lord, one question you might want to ask them is, when did Israel die? And when did Israel die as a substitute for Israel? When did Israel die as a substitute for Israel? Because this one is the substitute This one is the one who was cut off out of the land of the living, and the one who died as a substitute to bear the iniquity of his people. This is somebody who's distinct from Israel. Yeah, Jesus being spoken of, Jesus is the servant of the Lord, and Jesus is the only one who was sinless, because this one uh is one who who who died in the place of others who didn't have his own transgressions to to to suffer for uh he's the one who uh had no no no violence and uh no vile word in his mouth jesus christ is the only one that could fit this description There's only one person of all of human history who could fit this description, and it's Jesus Christ. And Matthew uh rightly points us back to these pictures of the servant back in Isaiah. And uh if you flip back over to Matthew chapter twelve What we find here are are these seven powerful pictures of Jesus as the servant, the servant king. I'll go ahead and uh and list them for you. Jesus is the chosen servant. He's the beloved servant. He's the spirit-filled servant. He's the righteous servant. He's the humble servant. He's the compassionate servant. And he's the victorious Let's go through these one by one. First of all, Jesus Christ is the chosen servant. Verse 18. Behold my servant whom I have chosen. My servant whom I have chosen. Jesus Christ is the chosen servant. I recently uh read an article about a person who was considered one of the worst presidents in U. S. history. And uh we've had our share of uh bad presidents in our history, but uh this one was one who was considered one of the worst. Uh his administration was filled with uh scandals and incompetence and inefficiency. It was the president, it was the 29th president named Warren Harding, and one author described him bluntly as this. He says he's not particularly, not a particularly intelligent man. He liked to play poker and golf and a drink and most of all to chase women. He was vague and ambivalent on matters of policy. His speeches were once described as an army of pompous phrases moving over the landscape in search of an idea. Basically he didn't know what he was talking about. You know, so he's just using these words, floating around, you know, trying to get somebody to think that he knows what he's saying. And yet he was elected by an unprecedented popular landslide vote of 60% because he looked like he would be a powerful president. Just looked like it. One biographer actually describes it. He said he had uh black eyebrows that contrasted with his steel gray hair to give the effect of force. His massive shoulders and bronze complexion gave the effect of health. So he just looked apart. People just like the way he looked. He looks like he'll be a strong leader. He just looks the part. And throughout history, men have chosen their own leaders because they looked apart. These people look strong, they sound intelligent, maybe they're powerful, maybe they're attractive, but God says, I have chosen my servant. You know, men choose their leaders, men choose who they want to lead. God says, I've chosen my servant. He doesn't take it by a popular opinion. He doesn't ask for a poll. He says, I'm choosing my servant. And throughout history, uh we see that that men have chosen their own kings, but cr Jesus is the king that's chosen by God Himself. God chooses the kings. And yeah, actually find in uh ancient Israel uh the there are different uh scenarios where people chose their own leaders, but God says, no, this is the one that I've chosen for for for for for myself. Uh ancient Israel, they chose Aaron to to lead them. He was an eloquent speaker. He gave them what they wanted, gave them the golden calf. But God says, I've chosen Moses to be my man. Israel was happy with Saul as a leader. Remember that in 1 Samuel 9, verse 2 There was a a son whose name was Saul, a choice and handsome man. He was more handsome in person than any among the sons of Israel. His shoulders and up he was taller than all the people. He's head and shoulders above anybody else. You know, so he's tall, he's handsome, he looks like he'll be a strong leader. God says, I've chosen David. I've chosen David. He's my man. And the world chooses its kings and presidents and prime ministers. And God says in Psalm chapter 2, verse 6, but as for me, I have installed my king. My king upon my uh upon Zion my my holy mountain. And uh Revelation eleven verse fifteen speaks about the time to come in the future In Verse 11, 15, these familiar words, it says the seventh angel sounded, and there were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever. Jesus Christ is the chosen king. He's God's chosen. servants, selected even before the foundation of the world. In 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 20 it says, For he was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but has appeared in these last times for the sake of you. He was already chosen. He's already picked out. Even before the world was made, Jesus was already chosen to be the king. Before the world even came into existence, Jesus Christ was already designated as the King. Before God said, let there be, he already decided who would be, right? He already decided who would be the king. Before he said, let there be. And not only did God determine who would be the rightful king, He also predetermined that his kingdom would be filled with people from every tribe, every tongue, every nation. He chose us in him. Flip over to Ephesians chapter 1 real quick, just so you can see this. Ephesians chapter 1. Talks about what also occurred before the foundation of the world, which is just amazing to think about. Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 4. Actually, I'll start at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessings in the heavenly places in Christ, just as he chose us. In him, before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him in love. Jesus Christ. It's the chosen one, the chosen king, the chosen ruler, and all who are elected are chosen in him. Even before the foundation of the world, you were designated to belong to Jesus Christ and his. Kingdom. Matthew chapter 25, verse 34. It says, Then the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. From the time that God created the earth, he already designated that you would fill that kingdom and be a part of that and that you would inherit the kingdom prepared for you. Jesus Christ is the servant, and if you're connected to him , You're connected to uh that eternal kingdom. And if you're a Christian, you can have the confidence that the kingdom of this world will one day become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. You don't have to worry about all the changing of hands and everything that you see going on in the political spectrum. Jesus Christ is the true King, and Jesus Christ has already declared that you will inherit the earth. Those of you who trust in him, Matthew chapter 5, the gentle or the meek shall inherit the earth. This world belongs to him. That's why I love to say that there's not a square inch in this universe that doesn't belong to God. Every square inch of Baltimore belongs to God. We don't have to fret anything. Our rightful king will come and he will take back what belongs to him, right? Amen. We also have not only is Jesus Christ the chosen servant, he's also the beloved servant, the beloved servant. Look at Matthew chapter 12 again. It says Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased. Jesus Christ is the beloved servant of God. There's no greater love that exists in the universe than the love. Of God, and there is no greater love that God has than the love that He has for His Son. Right? In John chapter 3, verse 35, the Father, it says that the Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. This is what Jesus says. In Psalm 8, the Father speaks to the Son and says, Ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, and the very ends of the earth as your possession. In John chapter 5, verse 20, the It says, for the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself is doing. There's nothing of love that is withheld from the Son in this relationship. And there's nothing of obedience that's withheld from the Son towards The Father. You know, the Son always does what pleases the Father. In John chapter 8, verse 29, it says, He who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. In John 8. 42 it says, Jesus said to them, If God were your father, you would love me, for I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come of my own initiative, but he sent me. Even Jesus Christ's coming was in obedience to the Father's command. Even the cross of his crucifixion was obedience. Flip over to Philippians chapter 2. I don't know if you think about this often, but the cross of Christ was in obedience to the command of God. It's in obedience to his father that Jesus went to the cross. In the Philippians chapter 2, verse 8. It says being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient. Obedient to who? It's obedient to the Father. By becoming obedient to the point of death, even the death on the cross. Jesus Christ went to the cross in obedience To God the Father. In John chapter 8, verse 28, it says that Jesus says, When you lift up the Son of Man, when I when I when I hang on the cross, then you will know that I am He, and I do nothing on my own initiative. It was the Father that directed him to go. But I speak these things as the Father taught me. And you find Jesus in his prayer, you know, not as I will, but as what. As you will. It was the Father's will for the Son to go to the cross. And Jesus was in obedience, responded in obedience to the Father. And always did what the Father did. You have this love relationship between Father and Son. The son loves the father , the son loves the father, the father loves the son, the son is always obedient to the father, always did what the father Wanted him to do, never dishonored the Father, always did what was taught of him. And there's this love, eternal love and bond that exists between the Father and the Son. And if you don't have some understanding of the Trinity, that's that's you can't even start to make sense of all that. You know, the the the eternal love that exists between uh Jesus Christ and uh and and the Father. Um Biblical Christianity teaches that there's one God who exists eternally in three persons, and if you have questions on that, I'd love to talk to you later about that, but it's just what the Bible teaches. You know, not one uh it's one God, not three, and not one person but but uh uh not not uh one it's one God not three and it's not uh uh one person but three. You get that? So it's it's it's one God, not three gods, and there's three persons, not one person. You know, this is what the Bible Bible teaches. In uh 1 John chapter 4, uh verses 7 and 8, it says uh it talks about this love that exists between the persons of the the Trinity and uh it actually talks about God as God being love himself In first John chapter four, verse seven and eight it says, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and every one who loves is born of God and knows God. The one who does not love does not know God, for God is what? Love. Now here's the question Was there ever a time when God wasn't love? No. If you don't believe in a Trinity, you'd have to say yes. Because there would be a time when God existed alone, without any relationship, without anybody to relate to, without any love. God just existed alone and by himself for billions and billions of years. There's just God alone by himself with no relationship. So how can you say the God is love in a in a say in the context of Islam where you have a God who's just singular who's existed forever with nobody else That that's not a loving kind of of being. He he's a singular being. And he he doesn't have a have a a love that that he he has within himself. He is not love. You can't talk about Allah as God is love You can talk about Allah as God is ruler or something else, but you can't talk about Allah as God is love. And that idea, and I've uh uh even when we were out recently I I saw a a lady walking around with a shirt saying that that I love Allah or uh I love Islam And uh I just wanted uh to let her know that like like that doesn't make any sense within your worldview. Because you can't say that Allah is love, because Allah would have existed for billions of years without anybody to love. But you have the Christian God where you have Father, Son, Holy Spirit existing in all of eternity in this loving relationship with one another. And a God who is not triune cannot be a God of love. You have a God eternally existing and sharing that love between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In John chapter 17, Jesus says, You love me before the foundation of the world. And here's the chakra, all that are found in Jesus Christ are love with the same kind of love that they share with one another. That's just amazing to think about In John chapter 17, verse 23, it says this, that I and them, Jesus is talking about this, I and them, his disciples, you and me, that they may be perfected in unity, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them. even as you have loved me. If you're found in Jesus Christ, you now share the same love that the Father has. for the Son. That if you're in the Son and He's expressing his love towards the Son, that you're united to Him and now you experience that same love towards you as as well. We we are like wrapped up into the love of the Trinity itself because Jesus Christ is the beloved one. I hope you're beholden the sun this morning. Because if it wasn't for the sun, you'd be outside of that love. If it wasn't for the sun, you wouldn't be chosen. There'd be nobody to choose you in, to be connected to. Outside of Jesus Christ, you have none of these blessings. None of these blessings, but Jesus Christ is the anointed servant. He's the chosen servant. He's the beloved servant. And number three, he's the spirit anointed servant. And here we see that every member of the Trinity is involved in this ministry of the Son as servant. You have in verse 18 again, behold my servant whom I've chosen, my beloved, and whom my soul is well pleased. I'll put my spirit upon him and he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles. And here you have this idea of the servant being spirit-anointed, anointed by the Spirit of God, filled with the Spirit of God. And this is really kind of goes back to an idea that's found in the Old Testament, the idea that the Spirit of God would rest upon a person for a certain task and empower that person to accomplish his will. For example, the Spirit of the Lord came upon Samson. in uh Judges chapter 14 to give them the the strength that he had. Uh the spirit of the Lord came upon the elders of Israel to give them the ability to prophesy. The Spirit of the Lord came upon the the leaders of Israel to give them the supernatural ability to lead. For example the The Spirit of God rested on Moses and gave him the ability to lead the people of God. And that really explains what David was talking about in Psalm 51. And some of you guys might have read over that passage and like, huh, what is what is David talking about? When uh David says in Psalm 51, Do not cast me away from your presence, and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. Was David saying, you know, Lord, don't kick me out of heaven. Is that what he's saying? That's not that's not what he's talking about. He's saying that I know that as a king, that I have a special endowment from you to lead the people I've been empowered by the Spirit of God to do the job that I'm doing. I've received your anointing. And I saw it removed from Saul. And I'm saying, Lord, please don't remove it from me. I don't want to do this without you, Lord. I don't want to do this without your presence. I don't want to do this without your power. And here you have David in this confession before God, realizing that, God, you have every reason to take the Spirit from me. I've sinned, I've transgressed your law, I've committed adultery, I've murdered a man. Lord, you have every reason to remove the spirit from me. But God, I'm begging you, please don't do it. Please don't cast me away. Don't cast me away from your presence. Don't take your Holy Spirit from me. So he realized that his sins gave God every reason to remove the spirit. The difference between David and any other king and of Israel and Jesus is that Jesus never sinned. No, Jesus' anointing was a permanent anointing. You have Jesus being anointed in a similar way in Matthew chapter 3, verses 16 and 17 after being baptized, Jesus came immediately out of the water. Behold the heavens were open, the Spirit of God descending as a dove and lighting upon him, and behold a voice out of heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, and there was never a time when the Father was not able to say that about the Son Jesus Christ always pleased the Father. He never had a reason for the Spirit to be removed. He operated his entire ministry in the power of the Holy Spirit. He was anointed by the Spirit of God. That's the difference between Jesus and every other king. Jesus had a permanent anointing from the Spirit of God and never gave the Father a reason to remove the Spirit in one iota. So you have this anointed servant, and we can have confidence in the ministry of the Son of God because he is the anointed servant of God, the one who is endowed by the Spirit of God. Like I said, the whole Trinity is at work. in the ministry of the Son of God. Number four, Jesus is also the righteous servant. The righteous servant. Look at verse 18 again. He says in the end of the verse, he shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles. The word justice that's used here is a word that speaks of a decision or a judgment. It's a word that was used for the courtroom. Jesus used the same word in Matthew chapter 5 and verse 21 where he said, You've heard the ancients were told you shall not commit murder. And whoever commits murder shall be liable before the court. No, so it's a it's a it's a word of judgment, a word a courtroom, uh word that was used in a courtroom. It speaks about a decision that would be made by a judge. And uh if you're a person who's been wronged, you know, you've been taken advantage of, what you would hope for is that whoever's going to make a decision regarding your case is going to be a righteous person, right? That you hope he's going to say the say the right thing. He's not going to be a judge who's just bought off, you know, by your opposition. You have this idea that's also shown in the Old Testament. We actually read it earlier this morning. Why don't you put back to Isaiah chapter 59? Because the the world is a terrible place when people aren't afraid to do wrong, right? When people know that they can get away with murder, people can get away with whatever whatever they want to do. Remember I was uh it was a while ago I was talking to uh to an ex-gang member and uh he said that after he uh He became part of a part of his gang that he felt emboldened to do whatever he wanted to do. You know, like they they gave him a kiss on the cheek, they gave him a ring, and they gave him a gun. So and then he felt big and bold enough to do whatever I wanted to do. You know, nobody can stop me because now I have protection and I can get away with with murder. And you have the same kind of thing going on in uh Isaiah 59 where people are are getting away uh with uh with with injustice. People aren't afraid to do what's wrong. And when people are favored because of uh you know what kind of power they have or what kind of money they have or the color of their skin or their position in society, it's a it's a frustrating frustrating thing to live in. Look at Isaiah 59, starting at verse 14. It says, justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away, for truth has stumbled in the street and uprightness cannot enter. Yes, truth is lacking and he who turns aside from evil makes himself a prey. It's like if you want to distance yourself from doing what's evil, now you make yourself a target. Now the Lord saw, and it was displeasing in his sight that there was no justice, and he saw that there was no man, and was astonished that there was no one to intercede, then his own arm brought salvation to him. And his righteousness upheld him. And he put on righteousness like a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. And he put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself with zeal as a mantle According to their deeds, so he will repay wrath to his adversaries, recompense to his enemies, to the coastlands he will make recompense. And what this is talking about is the ministry of the Son of God. That as he looks on the earth, he's saying, There's no righteousness on the earth There's people that are getting away with injustice. And it's like sometimes I drive to the city of Baltimore and it's like, just Lord, how long? How long is this going to continue? How long are people going to get away with violence? How long is there going to be bloodshed? How long, oh Lord? And here you have Jesus Christ Himself, the Redeemer, who says, I've seen the same thing. Right? He sees the injustice. He doesn't turn his eyes away from it. He says, I will come. I will be the one who will bring justice to the earth. Isaiah 59 speaks about this reality. Jesus is the Redeemer and the one who has proclaimed justice is on the way. Righteousness is on the way. There's justice without discrimination, and it only comes uh from God. And uh he makes this point of saying that it will even be spread to the Gentiles. He shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles, that there's no discrimination, that Jesus Christ is the the the Lord of all, the judge of all, and he will bring righteousness. uh to this earth. All are invited to behold the Son and to become a part of this this righteous reign of God. And it's uh it's either one of two things. Either you submit to his reign Or or you will be crushed by his vengeance in the end. And Jesus Christ here is the one who will bring righteousness to the earth. He is the righteous servant. Number five, he's also the humble servant. Look at verse 19. He will not quarrel nor cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. And uh this right here says that lets us know that Jesus wasn't known for bickering and arguing. The word for quarrel means to strive, to wrangle, uh to cry out means to scream, to shout. Jesus didn't get into the shouting matches with his opponents. You didn't hear Jesus in the in the in the uh in the streets screaming out at the the Pharisees and uh calling down his uh his adversaries. Uh the word for uh for cry out actually was a word that was used for the barking of a of a dog. You know, just this loud noise that was made in the street or a boisterous noise of a loud uh you know uh uh a a large group of of people uh together. And Jesus says, that that wasn't me. You know, he didn't get into these shouting matches with people, he was a a humble servant He was uh one who uh who actually before his his adversaries would shut his mouth and uh allow the adversaries to say what they would say. And uh you know, people say that it takes a lot of humility to admit when you're wrong. I would say it takes more humility to keep your mouth shut when you're right. You know, when you know that you're right and you know that what they're saying is wrong, it takes like more humility to just say, you know what, I'm not even going to say anything. You know, and here you have Jesus, the one who uh who who is absolutely right 100% of the time, this is God in the flesh. And even against his adversaries, you know, those that uh that accused him, Jesus chose not to open his mouth. In uh Matthew chapter 27. Now, verses eleven to fourteen it says, Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor questioned him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, It is, as you say. And while he was being accused by the chief priests and the elders, he did not answer. Then Pilate said to him, Do you not hear how many things they testify against you? And he did not answer him with regard to even a single charge, so the governor was quite amazed. He said, I haven't seen this before. You know, if a man's life is on the line and you believe that you're innocent, you know, why wouldn't you defend yourself? And Jesus here says, I'm I'm not even going to open my mouth. Jesus wasn't known to get into shouting matches with his his opponents. He was self-controlled, even in the face of false accusation, and he becomes for us the perfect model of humility. Number six. Jesus is also the compassionate servant, the compassionate servant. Look at verse 20 in Matthew 12. It says, A battered reed he will not break off, and a smoldering wick he will not put out until he leads justice to victory. And honestly, we could have spent all of our time right here because this is really a tender and encouraging picture that we have with the ministry of Jesus Christ. And it really demonstrates his heart towards us as well. He uses uh two pictures that would have been familiar to his audience. The first is of a battered or bruised reed. A reed was nothing more than a common piece of uh tall grass that would grow in marshy, wet areas. It was stronger than regular grass and it would grow in the wetlands by the millions. You'd see millions of these like reeds that would grow up out of the out of the marshes, you know, the the bogs and everything. A reed was nothing more than just, like I said, a common piece of tall grass. And since they were hard on the outside, and hollow in the inside, they would actually use these things for uh they're they're useful for instruments. You know, sometimes they'd you know break off a reed and shape it and make it into a flute. You know, sometimes they'd uh take a reed and they'd fill it with ink and they'd use it as a as a pen. You know, sometimes if the reed was long enough, they'd they'd cut it off and use it as a measuring stick. You know, but you couldn't use it for much else. You couldn't use it as a staff to walk around on because it would break and poke you in the hand. Uh you couldn't use it to build anything with. So, you know, it was useful for, you know, maybe making a flute just to entertain yourself, you know, making a writing instrument, making a pen. Or uh you know, making some kind of a measuring stick. But uh you can't do much else with it. Uh actually it was too flimsy. You have Jesus uh talking about John the Baptist and he said, uh, you know, what did you go out to see a a weed uh uh uh a reed blown in the wind? You know, because because reeds weren't known for their strength. They just blow around in the wind and they were common. Like I said, by the millions you could find these things. Flimsy, weak, cheap, common, disposable. It would be more hassle to try to fix an old reed than just to go down to the marsh and pick up a new one. It would be more of a hassle to try to fix an old reed. Yeah, I have another picture. It's uh the the smoking flax or the the smoking wick. And uh you have this similar picture that's given here. uh a a wick or the the flax was the cloth-like material uh that you'd stick in a bowl of oil, you know, you light it on fire and it would be like a candle to provide light, you know, for your house. And if you had a bad piece of linen that maybe it was dirty or contaminated or, you know, maybe it burned down too low, you know, instead of providing a bright light for your house, it would start to to smoke. You know, and it actually, you know, produce a smell, a burnt smell throughout your house. And again it was more hassle to try to take this wick out and try to clean it off or try to cut off what was burnt and you know, put it back in and light it up again. It would be more hassle to do that Then to just pick up a new wick. Like I'll just get a new piece of cloth. You know, forget this sloth. It's already burnt up, right? Again, cheap, common, disposable. Millions of plants out there that you could pick up to use for another wick. But the picture of Christ is so compassionate because what he does is he doesn't toss us away when we're bruised and broken. Jesus could easily pick up a million other people to do the work that he's asking us to do, right? But instead he picks up bruised and tattered people and he says, no, I'm gonna, you still got some more life left in you. You know, that's why he's using us, right? Just I'm I'm willing to to to clean you off and and make you useful. You know like how many of us after a pen explodes and is broken would we say uh let me let me try to fix this pen and take the time to fill it apart? Like no, I'm not doing that I mean unless it's an expressive pen or something like that, but it's like cheap, common. Like, I'll just get a new big. You know, what's the big deal? Jesus says, no, I'm not going to get a new one. I'm going to I'm going to use you. I'm still going to use you. I'm going to put you back together and make you useful. So he takes his time with bruised reeds, pieces us together to make us make music again, to write a message for him, to fix a project for him. Instead of picking up a fresh wick that burns clean and bright on the first light, he takes a little time to dust us off and cut us back a little bit and make us useful again. This is the ministry of Jesus Christ. The Puritan Richard Sibbs says he's he spends an entire book just drilling down into this one thought. But listen to what he says. He reminds us of the example of Jesus Christ. He says, we see how our Savior Christ bore with Thomas and is doubting. With the two disciples that went to Emmaus, who wavered as to whether or not he came to redeem Israel or not. He quenched not that little light in Peter which was smothered. Peter denied him, but he did not deny Peter. If thou wilt, said one poor man in the gospel, if thou can do anything, said another, both were smoking flax, but neither of them was quenched by the Savior. And he continues on, he says, Are you bruised? Be of good comfort. Christ calls you Don't conceal your wounds. Open them all up before him. Go to Christ because there is more mercy in him than there is sin in you. You can come to Christ and find hope. Jesus has every reason to cast this aside and pick up a new group of people. He has every reason, just in this room, right, to cast this aside and pick up a new group. But what he does is he patiently suffers with us. You know, even though we're we're bruised, we're tattered, we're broken, he still picks us up and he uses us. This is the savior, the heart of the savior that we have. And uh just as a uh kind of a personal application of this. Richard Sibbs goes on to say this. He says, some think it's a great strength to endure nothing in those who are weaker. But the strongest are ready to bear the infirmities of the weak. You know, some people think that, you know, it's a show of strength to show that I don't put up with anything from anybody. You know, I'm going to make sure I correct every error. I'm going to correct every misstep, every wrong word. You know, I'm going to be the kind of police of everybody and show my strength by how strong I am. But we can't expect weaker and younger believers to dot every I and cross every T, right? And he Sibs goes on to say he says it's not improper to conceal their defects. To excuse some of their failings, to commend their performances, to encourage their progress, to remove all difficulties out of their way, to help them in every way to bear the yoke of religion with greater ease, to bring them to love God and his service, lest they acquire a distaste for it before they know it. And uh as as a as a as a church, we need to make sure that we're people who who help the week along, who help the young to grow, that we try to encourage them where we see progress. instead of looking for every opportunity to criticize and tear down those that the Lord has called to himself and those that the Lord says, I'm willing to bear with, right? Jesus Christ is willing to bear with you. You know, why wouldn't you bear with those that are weaker than you? And this is the last one. He's also the victorious servant. Look at verses uh 20 and 21, the end of verse 20. Until he leads justice to victory. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. Jesus Christ is the chosen, beloved, spirit-filled, righteous, humble, compassionate. and victorious servant. And here's the last description that we have of Christ. And it's a glorious picture, beautiful picture. It may seem like justice has been defeated. The righteousness won't have its day, but Christ says that all that is wrong will one day be set right, and that's our hope. Our hope is in Jesus Christ. Uh Pastor Matt and I were recently speaking with uh a young man and uh actually a a minister um uh this week and uh is talking about ministry in the inner city and uh when we talked to him he said you know what's what's one thing that that you believe the inner city really needs and he says hope It says what they what they really need is is hope. The world that we live in doesn't have much hope. We live in a in a city that's filled with angry people, you know, that have lost hope. I was talking with uh one young man during our our outreach uh a couple weeks ago and uh just expressing his his frustration over what he called the system and he says it's just not right. You know, trying to to to get ahead, trying to do the right thing, trying to find a job, trying all these different avenues. And he says, you know, and when I'm trying, he says, it's like people would just laugh at me. You know, like they don't take me serious, like I really want to do the do the right thing, but he says like every every place I turn it's like there's just no no opportunities And uh, you know, we were able to to sympathize with him a little bit, but we also reminded him that if he wanted justice he couldn't just apply that standard to everybody else. He also had to apply it to himself, right? And uh that even though the system is broken, so are you. And uh but the message that we have is one of hope because God is in the fixing broken people, right? God is the one who will pick us up even though we're broken, even though we live in a broken system. There's one who offers hope from outside of the system where nothing's broken. Jesus comes from the outside, and he brings justice to those who trust in his name. And that's what verse 21 says. In him, in his name, the Gentiles will hope. We find hope in Jesus Christ. And Matthew reminds us that this hope is not restricted to the Jews, but is also given to the Gentiles. All who call upon the name of the Lord in Acts chapter 2, all who call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Saved. We have hope in Jesus Christ. It's a universal hope that's given to mankind and that's only found in Jesus Christ. And if you haven't turned to Christ, my question is, what are you waiting for, right? Where else are you going to find this? Anywhere. Where are you going to find one who's chosen by God? Who's beloved by God? Who's filled with the Spirit, empowered by the Spirit? One who is righteous, completely righteous, one who is humble, compassionate, and the one who will bring victory to this earth. Where are you going to find that? And if you're a believer, my question for you is, are you fixing your hope completely on him? And that's what this verse talks about. It says that we're to behold him. Are you dwelling on him? Are you meditating on Jesus Christ? Do you ever think about these ministries that Christ offers? to those that trust in him. That is the command of this passage. Behold the sun. Look at the sun. Ponder the sun. Meditate on the sun. Embrace the sun. Jesus Christ is the one that we should be coming to. In 1 Peter 1, verse 13, it says, therefore prepare your minds for action. Keep sober in spirit. Fix your hope completely on the grace to be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the one that we trust in, the one that we hope in, and the one who will one day bring victory. Do you believe that? Jesus Christ is the victorious servant of God. I love this uh uh this picture that's given in um C. S. Lewis's book, The Line the Witch in a Wardrobe, which is a fictional story that uh you know really communicates some some deep truths about the substitution of Christ and other things, but uh it also paints this picture of the the hope that's that's to be expected. And uh in this one scene you have uh you know these beavers that can talk, you know, all the animals talking, are you most of them anyway. You have these beavers that can talk and they're talking to these children, you know, about the the land that they're living in. They said it's always winter, it's never Christmas. You know, that this land has been ruled by this white witch and uh just makes everything miserable. But then they say, but wrong will be right when Aslan comes in sight. At the sound of his roar, sorrows will be no more. When he bears his teeth, winter meets its death, and when he shakes his mane, we'll have spring again. And so there's this expectation of the one who is to come that's going to set everything right. And that's the same expectation that we have. We read Psalm 72. It talks about this glorious future that awaits us, and we're just waiting for the king to come and shake his mane and make everything right again, right? We're waiting for the one who's coming to set everything right. Jesus Christ is the one who sets all right. He is the servant of God, the one who was chosen by God. And if you're in him, you're also chosen and beloved by God. And you will experience that victory. That's to come. Amen. Let's uh bow our heads for a word of prayer and prepare ourselves to meditate more on the Sun and the Lord's Supper. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for this opportunity that we've had to look into your word. Father, I pray that you'd uh allow these things to To just soak in our minds, Lord, to saturate us. Father, that uh we wouldn't tire of thinking about the Son of God. Oh Father, that we wouldn't tire of beholding him, looking at him, considering him, pondering him. My Father, I pray that we would grow in our appreciation for Christ and His ministry to us, realizing that if He didn't come as a servant, that He couldn't be our Savior. That if he didn't come as a servant first, Lord, that that we wouldn't be under his reign as king, because we would have all been obliterated, totally wiped out, all we would have received is his just condemnation. But Jesus Christ came as the humble, compassionate servant. The one who will bring victory to those that trust in his name. And Father, I thank you for those who are here who've trusted in Jesus Christ. And I Father, that we would uh behold the wonder, the wondrous beauty of the Son of God. In Jesus' name you praise you and give you thank you. Thanks, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.