The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, there's a question that we're all forced to answer during the season, and it's who was the baby in the manger? One of the songs that we often sing during the season is, What child is this? Because that's the critical question. What child is this? Who is he? It's the same question that Jesus asked his disciples in Matthew chapter 16. He asked the question in a general way at first, you know, who do men say that I am? But then he asked it more personally, and he says, Well, who do you say that I am? And that's the question that you have to answer. Who do you say that Jesus is? That's the critical question that we're forced to answer during the season because As much as we might enjoy talking snowmen, flying reindeer, jolly men in red suits, we know that none of that is essential for our eternal well-being. The gifts under the tree this year that you couldn't live without will be in a garage sale next year or in the years ahead. But somewhere buried underneath all the flashing lights, the Christmas trees, the holiday wreaths, there are those silent, unimpressive, dimly lit. manger scenes that remind us that the one in the manger demands an answer. The manger demands an answer. Who is he? If Jesus was nothing more than a sage or a philosopher or even a religious figure, it might not matter what we think about him The world is filled with all kinds of leaders who want to offer their advice or give counsel or who want to tell us how we should live our lives. But if Jesus is really who the scriptures say that he is, we can't ignore him like we can the rest. Jesus didn't enter the world simply to offer advice. He claimed his words were the difference between eternal life and eternal damnation. He said things like this in Matthew chapter 7. Every one who hears these words of mine and does not act on them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its fall When Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority and not as their scribes. And Jesus didn't call people to follow a teaching. Jesus called people to follow himself. Follow me. Jesus said to his disciples, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Jesus was the dividing line. Jesus made himself the issue. It was all about believing in him. You couldn't take what he taught without taking him. You know, for a lot of people, you can take what they teach, but you don't really have to follow them. Jesus says, no, if you're going to follow what I say, you have to follow me, because I am the issue. And everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. I am the message. And just briefly, I want to look at the introduction to the Gospel of John. So if you can take your Bibles, open up to the Gospel of John, the first chapter of John. We're going to take a look at John's prologue. Which is just a technical term for the first words of John's gospel. Really all of chapter 1 from verse 1 down to 18. It's the prologue, but we'll we'll just take a look at verses 1 through 5. But the prologue helps to set the stage for the rest of what the Apostle John has to say. The Apostle John wants everything else to be read. In his gospel, in light of what he says in the first few verses. Everything else is shaped by these first few verses You know, it's like the the narrator in the movie or the play who kind of tells you, hey, this is where you are, this is what's happening, this is what you're seeing, and now you can follow the rest of it. The same thing that John is doing. He's saying, well, before I get into the rest of the gospel, let me set the stage for you so that you can understand what I'm about to tell you. And if you can understand what I'm saying here, then you can understand what I'm going to say, and the rest of the gospel will start to make sense to you. And John introduces Jesus to us in a way that's unique among the gospel writers. As important as the genealogies of Jesus were, he doesn't add that. He doesn't show us that Jesus was a son of David or a son of Abraham like Matthew does. As important as the virgin birth is, and as important as Mary is, Mary's never explicitly mentioned anywhere in the Gospel of John. She only shows up later as the mother of Jesus, but her name never appears in John's gospel. The beginning of John, there's no wise men, there's no angels, no shepherds in the fields. No mangers, no stars, no baby Jesus at all in the Gospel of John. But without all of that, John still has one of the most important contributions to make to the Christmas story. Because if we stop at the manger, we haven't gone back far enough. And if you go back to Mary, you haven't gone back far enough Even if you trace out all the genealogies of Jesus all the way back to the beginning, you haven't gone back far enough. In fact, in John, where John tries to take us. Like our our minds kind of fall off a cliff because it's like you can't follow him far enough. Like like he just goes so deep, it's like John, I can't follow you all the way there Like like at a certain point, like I I just I I can't comprehend all of that you're saying. It's beyond human comprehension But if you're going to have a true appreciation for the manger, you have to think before humanity, before creation, before time itself, when there was nothing and no one but God And that's where the Christmas story begins for John. It's the eternal stepping into time. It's the creator stepping into creation. It's the infinite stepping into space. And the first verses of John's Gospel have been considered a triumph of Christian theology, the most complete and most explicit study of Christ's pre-existence in the New Testament, and perhaps the most important words ever penned. And today we're just going to scratch the surface of it, but I pray that we'll have a better appreciation of the manger because we're going to go beyond the manger. So let's take a look at John chapter 1, starting at verse 1. It says in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God. And the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him, and apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, as we do every Lord today, asking that you would give us your help. That you would help us to understand the things that are written here. And Father, the words that we read here are deep. The words that we read here are profound And Father, I pray that even though we won't plumb the depths of all of what is said here today, Lord, that we would walk away with a greater appreciation for Jesus Christ. And Father, for those who are here who don't know Jesus Christ, Lord, that they would run to Jesus Christ, that they would run to a Savior like this And Father, we're grateful that we can approach your word as we do. And Father, we pray that you would use this time. And Father, that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. J. C. Rowell writes this about these words. He says, nowhere in the Bible shall we find such clear and distinct statements about our Lord Jesus. Nowhere shall we find so many expressions which for want of mental power no mortal man can fully grasp or explain it. In no portion of Scripture is it so deeply important to notice each word and even each tense employed in each sentence. In no portion of scripture do the perfect grammatical accuracy and verbal precision of an inspired composition shine out so brightly It is not perhaps too much to say that not a single word could be altered in the first five verses of St. John's Gospel without opening the door to some heresy. And these words are among the most precious possessions of Christ's Church, and there's so much that's here, so much more that than we'll be able to cover, but let me point out a few jewels in this text. Number one. Why does John want us to understand who Jesus is? And why does he take us beyond the manger? Why does he take us beyond the manger? Number one, John wants us to understand that Jesus. Is the eternal word. The eternal word. Take a look again at verse 1. In the beginning was the word. The first words of John's gospel would have been a clear reference to the first book of the Bible. The Hebrew title for the book of Genesis is uh Bereshith, which means in the beginning, taken from the book's first words, that would have been the title in Hebrew, you know, in the beginning. And the Greek translation of that first word, the first words of Genesis would have matched the first words of the Gospel of John in the beginning. The vocabulary, the syntax, it would have been a clear reference to the first book of the Bible. But instead of hearing in the beginning God, as you would have expected to hear, what you heard is in the beginning was the word. So from the very beginning of John's gospel, he's already making it clear what he wants you to think about Jesus. Instead of saying, in the beginning God, he says, In the beginning was the word. He's making a comparison between the Word and God. He's connecting the Jesus of the New Testament to the God of the Old Testament. And he introduces Jesus by a title that may be strange to us, but would have been understood by the original audience. The Word is a title for Jesus Christ. And a few verses down in chapter 1 and verse 14, it makes it explicit that the word became flesh and dwelt among us, so we know we're talking about Jesus Christ. But that word for the word had a special significance, both for Greek and Hebrew speakers, and it was a fitting title for Jesus for a number of reasons. First of all, for the Hebrew speakers, the word of God was often associated with creation. In the book of Genesis, God says, let there be light. And there's light. Then God said, Let there be an expanse, and there was an expanse. Then God said, Let the waters below the heavens be gathered into one place and let the dry land appear. Then God said, then God said, it's the word, the word, the word, and everything is being created. God's power at creation was associated with his word. Psalm 33 verse 6 says, By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, by the breath of his mouth, all their hosts. And so often in the prophetic literature, not only is the word what creates, but it's the word that directs. It's the word that has authority over God's people. So often we hear the the word of the Lord came to me, almost in the personification of the word itself, that the word of the Lord came to me and said, It's not just I heard the words of the Lord, it's the word of the Lord came to me and said this. Jeremiah 1 4. Now the word of the Lord came to me, saying this. Ezekiel 3 16. At the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me, saying Zechariah four verse eight. Also the word of the Lord came to me You know, it's like the word of the Lord is making a visit here. The word of God creates, the word of God goes and it speaks and it speaks with authority. But there was also a special significance of the word for Greek speakers as well. The Greek term for the word lagas was understood as the starting point of all things in Greek philosophy. Platonic and Stoic philosophers would often use the term Lagos or word for their understanding of the internal concepts and ideas that defined all of reality. That's what they would speak of it as. It's the word. The Lagos is the internal concepts that define all of what we see. All of reality is defined by the word. The Lagos. That's how they speak about it. It's even equated in some places in Greek philosophy with deity. But John uses this term Lagos, the word, simply as a container to speak about Jesus. And the rest of the gospel fills up that container so that we understand what he means by the word. He's not just saying, well, hey, whatever the Greek speakers meant by that, just borrow that and that's Jesus. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, I'm taking this as a container so that now I can fill it up with the content of who Jesus is so that you understand what I mean when I say the word. So this is what John does. He takes that word for word and he says, I want you to understand who this is that really makes all things. I want you to understand who's the creator. I want you to understand who is the one who should direct all of your life. Who is the authority? Who is the one that speaks everything into existence? It's the word of God who's been made flesh. And the first thing John wants us to know about this word is that this word is eternal. In the beginning was the word. John says, in the beginning was the word, just like Genesis says, in the beginning, God. And he's it's we have this understanding when we read, in the beginning, God created, that God existed before the beginning, right? Because he has to be there in order to start it. In the beginning, God said, and everything starts from God. In the same way, when John says in the beginning was the word, we're to understand that the word existed before the beginning. The word beginning, RK , refers to the origin, the beginning of history, the root of the universe, and at the root of the universe, the word already was. Which which pushes the existence of the word before time began. And how do you explain that? Again, like I said, it's like we're dropped off a cliff There's no bottom to this. Like I said, this is before any wise men, angels, shepherds, fields, mangers, stars. Before there was time itself, the word already was. There's nothing that's before God. And that's where John starts his Christmas story. And while we're here arguing over, you know, what day was Jesus born and are using the Jewish calendar, the Gregorian calendar. John says, forget about all that. Do you understand that spiritually the Son of God doesn't have a birthday? Like beyond all of that, there never was a time when the Son of God was not. He exists outside of time. He has no beginning. There is nothing before him. He is the eternal word. He is the eternal I am, eternal existence. And that's what's contained in the word was. The Greek word was points to his existence as he already continued in before time began. Continuous, timeless existence. And that's something that can only be said about God. Romans chapter 16 verse 26 calls God the eternal God. 1 Timothy 1. 17 refers to God as the King Eternal. Psalm 90 verse 2 says, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Eternity past, eternity future, God is still there. I mean, can you imagine that? I mean, just go back as many billions of years as you want to go, and God says, I'm still here. You keep going back another couple billion years, and God is still there. Nothing's changed about him. He's the same yesterday, today, forever. Always been. Like, how do you wrap your mind around something that has always been? That's what we're talking about when we talk about God. That's what we're talking about when we talk about Christ. And that's why Jesus Himself said in John 8:58, he used this language with the Jews, he says, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am. What are you talking about before Abraham? You're not even 50 years old and you're talking about you're here before Abraham Before Abraham was I am eternal existence. That's what the word I am is referring to, eternal existence. That's how Jesus refers to himself But not only is Jesus eternal, that's what John wants us to understand, he also wants us to understand that Jesus is personal. The word is personal. Look at verse 1 again. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God. That's personal. The word again is is is like this this container that he's filling up. And he's saying, don't think about the word as like impersonal force out there. No, the the word, when I speak about the word, I'm talking about a personal word, a personal relationship that he has with God even before the world was. So John understands that the word is more than a creative force, internal concept of reality. The word is a person. And this person was with God before the beginning. I told you we're stepping off the cliff, right? Interpersonal Trinitarian relationship is contained right here in six words. And the word was with God. What does that mean? It means that even though God alone, listen to this, even though God alone existed from all of eternity. He never existed alone. Even though God alone existed from all eternity, he never existed alone. Why? Because the word was always present with him It was always with personal. We're we're talking about the persons of the Trinity here in relationship with one another. And the the specific language that's used here, uh proston theon, you know, with God. uh the language that's used here speaks about personal communion and interaction. The the preposition press is actually a a word that's normally used for direction toward, movement toward. But in this context, it speaks about face-to-face interaction. That the Word and God are face-to-face in communication with one another. Speaks about their personal interaction. And we get hints of this personal communication between Father and Son throughout the Gospel of John. John chapter eleven, verse forty one. Jesus raised his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but because of the people standing around I said it, so that they may believe that you sent me. He says, Father, I know that you always listen to me. You always hear me. But I'm saying this out loud just so everybody else knows But but you're always listening to me. We're always in this communion with one another. Relationship, you always hear me John chapter 3, verse 35, it speaks about how the Father loves the Son. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. And then John 14 it turns it around the other way. John 14, 31 says, but so that the world may know that I love the Father. The Father loves the Son. The Son loves the Father. There's this relationship. John 10, 15. The Father knows me and I know the Father. John 17, 5. Jesus says, Now glorify me together with yourself, with the glory I had with you before the world was. We were in personal communication with one another, communion with one another, even before there was a world. I was with you. Before there was a manger, there was an eternal with God. Personal relationship And if you don't allow for the concept of plurality and the Godhead, you destroy the beauty of this relationship. The love, the knowledge, the communion, the communication with one another, father and son. There's so many things about God that we hold dear that just wouldn't be true if it was a solitary unitary being. You know, in John 4, verse 8, you know, we quote this all the time: the one who does not love does not know God for what? God is love. God is love. But if God is unitary and solitary for billions and billions of years just by himself, how can you say that God is love? Like what relationship does he have eternally to be defined as love? Did he create people because he just needed somebody to love? You know, I just need somebody to love. So I've got to create somebody so that I can love somebody. That's not what it is, of course not. God needed nothing outside of himself. He was content in the relationship between Father, Son, and Spirit for all of eternity. He needs nothing outside of him. There was a love between him, the Son, and the Spirit for all of eternity. The Spirit is also said to be the eternal Spirit. Hebrews 9:14. And how would we defend the self-sufficiency of God if God needed to create angels or humanity in order to have relationship? Is God creating because he's alone? That's not the language that we find in Genesis. God doesn't say, let me make man in my image. He says, let us make man in our image. It's plurality, even from the very beginning. And in the first few lines of John, we have this window that peers into the relationship between the Father and the Son Jesus is eternal. Jesus is personal. And number three, Jesus is equal. The word is equal. Take a look again at verse 1. It says in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And here we have one of the most succinct and powerful expressions of the deity of Christ. If you want to know what's buried beneath all of the flashing lights and Christmas trees and holiday wreaths, it's this right here, the reality that Jesus is God. Emmanuel, God with us. Who do you say that he is? He's God. That's who Jesus is. No wonder these first few verses have been called the triumph of Christian theology. Breathtaking to realize how much theology is packed right here into such a short space. And breathtaking to see how many heresies are refuted in such a short space. This verse refutes what's known as Arianism. Arianism was a belief that Jesus was less than fully God. There was an elder in Alexandria in the early 300s named Arius. Who taught that Jesus was a great creation of God, but that he was less than God, just like the Jehovah's Witnesses do today. And according to Arius, Jesus had a spiritual beginning in time. And he remained forever subordinate to the Father in his essence. And he also taught that salvation was by works, that we could imitate Jesus in order to gain our salvation. And he taught that if Jesus is really God, then how can we imitate him? Because how can we ever expect to be like God? So Jesus has to be less than God so that we can actually match him. So Jesus is less than God, and you can match him, and that's how you can get to heaven. False way of salvation, false understanding of Jesus Christ, and again, just similar to what the Jehovah's Witnesses do today, they have a works-based salvation and a different view of Jesus. But this false view of Jesus is refuted in one verse. The word was God. Jesus was eternally in the beginning with God. And don't get tripped up by the Jehovah's Witnesses mistranslation of the scripture. In their version in John 1. 1, it reads that the word was a God. And they say that there's no definite article, even though they don't understand the purpose of the definite article. They just say it's not there, so it's not the God, it's a God. But they only say that because again they don't understand the Greek language. The Greek article attaches to the subject of the verse, and the subject is the word. It's the word that was God. So the Greek article is attaching to the to the subject. And what this verse is powerfully communicating Is that all the qualities of deity belong to the Word? That's what the absence of the article is doing. It's saying that he possesses all the qualities of deity. The Word, that's the subject of the sentence, possesses all the qualities of deity. This verse also refutes what's known as modalism, or the idea that God only exists as one person, and that Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are just titles that are used of one solitary person. And that God just kind of comes in different modes and manifestations of that one person. This is a teaching that was developed in the second century by a theologian in Rome named Praxius. who taught that there was not three distinct persons in the Trinity. Also the same beliefs were picked up later by another man named Sibelius in Rome, who taught that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit were just titles or names of the one person. Many one is Pentecostals teach the same thing today. If you've ever heard the name Geno Jennings, he teaches that heresy today as well. And it's again refuted in one single verse. The word was with God. How do you have a relationship if you're just one person? You know, you're just out there talking to yourself, having a relationship with yourself, loving yourself, knowing yourself. No, no, there's relationship within the Trinity. And that's what the scripture clearly speaks about. There was the word who was with God from all of eternity. And if there was a definite article, again, you know, just to point out the Greek here, if there was a definite article before the Word and before God, it would say that all of the Word is all of God and leave no room for Father, Son, Holy Spirit in that at all. But just say that it's just all one. But that's not what it says. And again, what John does is so masterful here because he's trying to communicate to us who Jesus is. And still, this understanding of the Father and the relationship that he has with the Father. What he's saying here is that Jesus is equal to the Father and the Spirit, and they possess the attributes of deity equally. That's what he's saying. Colossians chapter 2, verse 9. It says, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Actually, flip over to the book of Hebrews real quick. Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews chapter 1. This is another passage that speaks about the equality of the Son with the Father. Take a look at verse 3, Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 3. It says, and he is, speaking about Christ, the radiance of his glory, of the Father's glory, and the exact representation of his nature. And upholds all things by the word of his power. That uh word translated exact representation It's the Greek word character where we get our English word character from, a word that means a mark, an imprint. The word character was used to describe a tool that did engraving. It was used for an exact reproduction, that it bore all the similar traits. And when Hebrews 1 3 says that Jesus Christ is the character of God, the character of God, as as we would say, but the character of God, it's saying that he bears all the marks of deity. There's nothing that distinguishes the Father as God that does not also distinguish the Son as God And because Jesus is God, he deserves all honor that belongs to God. He possesses all the attributes that belong to God. He has all the names or titles that are used of God. He performs all the deeds or the works of God. And he sits in the seat or the authority of God. You may not realize this, but it's a it's a handy acronym, okay? H, the honor of God, A. The attributes of God, N. The names of God, D. The deeds of God, and S, the seed of God that Jesus Christ holds all of those and demonstrates that he's God. So who is the child in the name in the manger? He's God. No second class status. He's God. And listen to this. All this is true about Jesus apart from and outside of us. We're not even in the picture yet. This is all before creation. Verses one and two speak about apart from creation. So back in in John chapter one, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, and he was in the beginning with God, all of that Pushes us beyond creation. This is before time was. And I'll work through the rest of this more quickly, but there's three connections that are made between us and this eternal word. First connection, back in John 1. Look at verse 2. It says he was in the beginning with God. In verse 3, all things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. What do we learn here? The word is creator. The word is creator. It says all things that have come into being came through him. And John is so specific in his language here. The word existed, the word was, but everything else came into being. Everything else had a starting point. He was, everything else came into being. Everything outside of God has a starting point. And John even uses a dek the different Greek word to make his point But again, before wise men, angels, shepherds, fields, the word was, and then everything else comes into being through him. So when we think about Jesus and even that the birth of Jesus is like, you know, he he's contained in the virgin's womb, but he made the virgin and the womb. The end doesn't have a place for him, but he made the end as well as the innkeeper. Like everything is made by him. If it had a beginning, Jesus is the one who started it. Colossians chapter 1, verse 16 says, For by him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. Do you know what the the Jehovah's Witnesses do with that verse? They say, For by him all other things were created. All other things have been created through him and for him, and what they try to do is to try to say that, well, Jesus was created and then he created everything else. But but that's not what the scriptures are teaching. Everything that had a beginning had a beginning through Christ Everything that has come into being came into being through him, which means that Jesus Himself could not also come into being. Anything that had a beginning had a beginning through Jesus. But Jesus does not himself have a beginning. One more passage. Flip over to Psalm 102. Psalm 102. This is a great passage that speaks about the creation, the creative works of God. Psalm 102. And if you're reading a legacy standard version that uses the name Yahweh for the covenant name of God, where you see the capital O, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. And uh some of the other Bibles, you know, the word for Lord, Yahweh, the Legacy Standard Version just uses the term Yahweh here. Or Jehovah's Witnesses would just say Jehovah. When in verse 1 it says, Hear my prayer, O Lord, O Yahweh, and let my cry come to you. Verse 12. It says, but you, O Lord, O Yahweh, abide forever and your name to all generations. Verse 15, so the nations will fear the name Of Yahweh, the name of the Lord, the name of Jehovah, all the kings of the earth, your glory. So here you have throughout Psalm 102, it's saying, Oh Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, you're the one that's done all these things, right? And then down in verse 25, it says, Of old you founded the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands, even they will perish, but you endure. And all of them will wear out like a garment, like clothing, you will change them, and they will be changed. But you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. Flip over to Hebrews chapter one. Hebrews chapter 1. I want you to see how the author of Hebrews uses the same passage that speaks about Yahweh creating, Jehovah creating. Jehovah, who's to be given praise for he's the one that's made all these things. What does Hebrews chapter 1 say? Hebrews chapter 1. Take a look at uh verse 6. It says, And when he again brings the firstborn into the world, he says, And let all the angels of God worship him. Speaking about the Son. Verse 8, it says, But of the Son, he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. Verse 10, and you, Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth. And the heavens are the works of your hands. They will perish, but you remain, and they all will become old like a garment And like a mantle you will roll them up, like a garment, they will also be changed. But you are the same, and your years will not come to an end. Who is it talking about? It's talking about Jesus Christ. Who is the Jehovah, the Yahweh of the Old Testament? It's Jesus Christ, the same Jesus Christ of the New Testament, and He's the one who has created all things. This is what the scriptures teach us. To every galaxy, every planet, every star, every law in the universe, every system which exists, the solar system down to your circulatory system. Every strand of DNA, every element of the earth, every angelic being, even the unseen world, all created by Christ. That Jesus is the creator of all things. It's all designed by Christ. He's the agent of creation. And yet people still refuse to glorify him. The one who gives you your breath, the one who created you, who sustains you. This is the one. Again, when you look in the manger, this is what you should think about That this one who came is the same one who gives me my breath. The manger that he he he's lying in is the manger that he created himself. This is the God that we worship, and he deserves glory. Not only is he the creator, he's also life itself. He's the possessor of life. Back in John chapter 1. And this is just incredible. John chapter 1. Take a look at verse 4. It says, In him was life. It's a simple statement, but it's so profound. What does that mean? That in him was life. It's important that we pay attention to what's being said here. It's not just that through him was life. As if he's just the channel that life came through. But in him was life. Life is found in him And that's such a significant statement. Jesus possesses life. Jesus embodies life. Jesus is characterized by life. Or John puts it this way in John 11, verse 25. Jesus is the life. He is life. Jesus said to her, I'm the resurrection and the life. John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. John 6. 35, I am the bread of life. I am life. Life is in me. And the same way that the way that John uses life predominantly throughout the Gospel of John is for eternal life. That eternal life is in him. Think about this In John 3. 16, we read it all the time. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. Why is that true? Then if you believe in Jesus that you have eternal life, it's because eternal life resides in him. It's in him. Eternal life is in him. John 5 24 Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death into life. Why is that true? It's because again, Jesus himself is the life. When we think about Jesus, we can rightly glorify him as the creator of all things. the author of all physical life, but there's something else that I believe is even more significant that John is pointing us to, because it's not just a physical life. It's not just the physical life that became the light of men. And look again, look at John. John 1:4. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. What was the life that became the light to everybody? Was it just because he had physical life? I mean, we're all alive in here, right? We all have physical life. Are we just automatically the light of the world because we have physical life? No , there was something significant about the life that Jesus had. And what men saw when they saw Jesus was something that's not of this world. There's something supernatural about this one. The life that he has became the light. John 5 26 says it this way. Even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. So it only makes sense that there's no life outside of Jesus. Outside of Jesus, you don't have eternal life. Why? Because you're not connected to the eternal life. Eternal life is in him, so it's only by connecting to him that you gain eternal life. So many people are trying to find life outside of Jesus, and it's a vain search. You will not find eternal life outside of Jesus because eternal life resides in Jesus. That's the only way that you can find it. The only way that you can connect to eternal life is by connecting to Jesus. That's why in John 5:39 it says, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me. And you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. He's talking to the Pharisees. He says, guys, you're looking through the Bible this way, that way, upside down, backwards, forwards, and you're looking for life. But all these were pointing to me. And if you're going to find life, you have to come to me. I am the center of life. Like you don't connect to me, you have no life. That's what Jesus is trying to say. He's the one who gives life. And unless you come to Christ, you have not life. You don't have life. You will not be connected to eternal life. You might be alive physically today, and yes, Jesus has created that life that you live today, but you will not be connected to eternal life unless you're connected to Jesus. That's why he says, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. You don't come to me, you don't have life, because life is in me. And lastly, he's the giver of life, of light, giver of light. In John 1 and 4 it says, In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it. What men saw in Jesus was not just a physical life. What they saw in Jesus was a spiritual, supernatural, otherworldly kind of life. Something was different about Jesus. It was heaven that came down and glory filled his soul, right? John 1 14, we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. There was something supernatural about Jesus that they just couldn't recognize. Like you're not like the rest of us. There's something supernatural about you like light has invaded our dark world. Let me just Also throw this in here. This is for free. And who is now the light of the world? We are We're the light of the world. When people see you, do they see something different, otherworldly, supernatural about you Because you've been given that same eternal life, the life that's in the Father, in the Son, has now been given to you. So now you're to be the witnesses. You're to be the lights, right? So here it's like these men they're seeing Jesus, and it's like something's different about him. He's not like everybody else. I've seen natural life all over the place, but this is supernatural. Something is different about Jesus and the darkness of this world was exposed by Jesus Christ as he entered into it Darkness is a word that's used in the scriptures and the Gospel of John particularly for the domain of sin, the domain of unbelief that opposes God, that opposes his kingdom. For example, we find in just flip over here to John chapter 3. John chapter 3, take a look at verse 19. The realm of sin, unbelief, this is where the unbeliever seeks to find refuge in the dark. This is where they hide. The kingdom of darkness. Look at chapter 3, verse 19. Jesus says, this is the judgment. That the light has come into the world. Here I am, supernatural, otherworldly light. I've come into the world. My life is different. And he comes into the world with this supernatural spiritual light. And he says, this is the judgment. The light's coming to the world. But what do men love instead? Men love the darkness rather than the light. Why? Because their deeds were evil. What does that mean? I can't practice my evil deeds in the light. And I love my deeds so much that I'd rather turn off the light. Put a shade on that light. Can we hide that light behind the closed door or something? That light is exposing me for who I am because I'm living a natural life in the presence of supernatural light. Like the supernatural light is exposing my darkness. This is something different. This is something heavenly, and I know that I'm not, and I'm not ready for it. So what do they do? They try to dim the light. Try to shade the light. They run from the light. Because their deeds are evil. For everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. They're fearful of the light. But he who practices truth comes to the light, so that his deeds may be manifested as having been wrought in God. Find the same kind of language over in chapter 8. Flip over to chapter 8. Look at verse 12. Jesus again spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in darkness. You don't have to stay in the dark. Not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. And then the same kind of language is used over in chapter 12 and verse 46, where he says, I've come as light into the world. So that everyone who believes in me will not remain in darkness. The realm of darkness is a spiritual realm which is characterized by sin, by unbelief, by rebellion, and by Satan himself. That's the dark. Satan is associated with the power in the kingdom of darkness. And what Jesus does is he invades that kingdom of darkness and shines the floodlights of heaven upon the men who dwell there. The life was the light of men. His life came in and it exposed the darkness, the floodlights of heaven. I love the language of Matthew 4. 16. It says, The people who were sitting in darkness saw a great light, and those who were sitting in the land of the shadow of death upon them a light dawned. The light of the world stepped down into darkness. But instead of the darkness embracing the light, the darkness resisted the light. And there's a question here in the translation back in John 1: Does it say that the darkness did not comprehend it? Or that the darkness resisted it by trying to overpower it? Is it that the darkness didn't understand it, didn't comprehend it, or that the darkness tried to overpower the light? And the answer is yes Because both are true. The word comprehend is uh and uh uh and and overpower both from the same Greek word, katalambano, and this can mean either. Both are true. Darkness does not comprehend or understand the light. It doesn't compute, doesn't make sense. It's out of this world. It's supernatural. Like this is not like us. John 12, 35 says, He walks in darkness and does not know where he goes. There's ignorance. 1 Corinthians 2. 8 says, For if they had understood it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. They didn't understand it. And it's a blindness, but it's a willful blindness, but they're blind to it. They shut their eyes closed to the light. Romans 3, verse 11. There is none who understands. They don't understand it because they don't want to understand it. They don't want it. But in addition to the blindness, there's also a hostility against the light. Darkness hates the light John 3 20, for everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. You know, just like the roaches when you turn on the lights and they scatter. One commentator stated it this way, people love either the light or the darkness. And this love controls their actions. Those who believe on Christ are the sons of light, and those who reject are in the darkness. They saw his works and they heard his words, they observed his perfect life. He gave them every opportunity to grasp the truth, to believe, to be saved, but the coming of the true light brought conflict as the powers of darkness opposed it. Jesus was the way, but they would not walk in him. Jesus was the truth, but they would not believe him. Jesus is the life, and yet they crucified him. They don't want the light. What were they saying when they said, crucify him, crucify him? Turn the light off. Like we're tired of the light. We're tired of him exposing us for who we are. Turn the light off. And that's why so many people that you don't want to come to a church that's going to open up the Bible. Why do that? That's the light. It's bright. It's shining in my eyes. You know, I'm squinting when I come in here. Turn the light off. I feel so much more comfortable with my friends in the world. That's where I'm comfortable. I'm comfortable when people don't point out my sin. I'm comfortable when people don't want to talk about righteousness. I'm comfortable when people don't want to talk about death. Don't let me know that there's an end coming. I'd rather pretend that it doesn't exist. Turn the lights off. Don't you know we're sleeping in here? But what does the scripture say? Arise, O sleeper, wake up from the dead. Turn the lights on. What are you supposed to do during the season? Turn the lights on. Shine the light of heaven. Speak scripture. Tell people the truth. Proclaim Christ. Because it's only through the light that people can be saved. You're not going to be saved sitting in the dark. And God, praise God, is still using his word. His spirit is still active, still using the testimony of Christ through his people to bring about salvation, isn't he? And praise God, there are still people who are walking as the children of the light. That's us. That's us. If the world is going to see the light, guess where they're going to see it? It's like us. We're, you know, you used to sing that song, This Little Light of Mine, I'm gonna let it right let it shine, let it shine, let it shine Turn the light off. No! I'm not gonna let Satan it out. I'm gonna let it shine, right? Allow the light to shine. That's the only way that people will be saved is through the light. By believing in the light. John 12, 36, while you have the light, believe in the light so that you may become sons of light. Jesus says, I've come as light into the world so that everyone who believes in me will not remain in darkness. If anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. That light that's shining has to now be in you. That eternal supernatural life of God has to be in you. And the only way that it comes into you is that you believe it. That I've received Jesus, that I'm not going to allow my deeds, my evil deeds to turn me away from the light. It's not worth it. What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and lose his soul? You know, play around out in the dark and then you die in the dark and never see the light of eternity. What a shame. When you see the manger this year, make sure you look beyond the manger. Look beyond the manger. Understand who's really there. The Word became flesh and dwelt among us. We saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. The word is eternal, the word is personal, the word is equal with the Father, the Word is creator, the Word is the possessor of life, and the Word is the giver of light That's the one that we worship. That's the one that we praise. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this time. that we've had together. Father, your word is powerful. Your word speaks truth. And Father, I pray that you would continue to shine the light. Oh Father, allow the light of Christ to shine upon us. Father, I pray that we who are the light of the world, Father, that we would allow our light to shine. Father, that we would not turn it off just because it's comfortable for people, but rather that we would be your witnesses, witnesses of Jesus Christ. Pointing the way to eternity, Lord, because it's only through trusting in Christ, turning from sins that people can be saved. So Father, I pray that you would help us to keep our lights bright. That we would not cover our lights, that we would not hide our lights in the darkness, but that we would allow our lights to shine, because this is what would bring you glory. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. And all God's people said, Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.