The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, we're uh grateful for uh Jesus and his sacrifice uh for us, and uh we should never get tired of saying thank you to Jesus, right? We're going to be praising him for the rest of eternity, and we're just grateful that we can uh look to the Lord. Well, this is uh this is your your warning uh before we get started. We are in Romans chapter 1. And uh we're committed to going through the entire book. So uh if you've read ahead in Romans chapter 1, you already know where we're going. We're going to be talking about sexual sin. So this is your opportunity. If you want to make use of the child care that we have, this is your last chance. Just wanted to let you know. So why don't you open up your Bibles and turn with me back to Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1 While campaigning for his first election back in 2008 , then Senator Barack Obama was interviewed and asked about his faith and some of the controversial moral issues of his day. And in his response at the time, he says, I will tell you that I don't believe in gay marriage. I don't think it should be called marriage. But at that time back in 2008, he did argue for civil unions that would allow for same-sex couples to be recognized by the state And then to defend his position on civil unions, he said this, if people find that controversial, then I would just refer them to the Sermon on the Mount. Which I think is, in my mind, for my faith, more central than an obscure passage in Romans. Obviously since then he's changed his position on gay marriage and shortly after his re-election in May of 2012, President Barack Obama became the first sitting president to endorse gay marriage. And on that day, in May of uh 2012, in his remarks to ABC News, the president cited his Christian faith as the basis for his decision. In particular, he cited Jesus' words and the golden rule as a key factor in his thinking. And then in June of 2015 , When the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage, the White House celebrated by lighting up the White House with rainbow colors, and some obscure passage in Romans wasn't going to be allowed to crash that party. And what obscure passage in Romans did he have in mind? It was Romans chapter 1, verses 26 and 27, the very passage that we'll be considering today. I remember when I first heard Barack Obama make that statement, and I thought to myself, you know, maybe he could get away with calling a passage in Leviticus obscure. But are we really going to call Romans chapter 1 obscure? It's not like this teaching is, you know, kind of tucked deep into the Levitical code. This is Paul's most important letter. You know, Paul's magnum opus in the very first chapter of the very first epistle of the New Testament And it's not particularly difficult to interpret. Every interpretation of this text prior to the middle of the 20th century landed in the same exact place It's only recently that this interpretation has been considered difficult or obscure, but the difficulty is not in the text. It's actually so abundantly clear that and straightforward that that in two of the most popular books on the market today that promote an LGBT affirming Christianity Both authors acknowledged that Romans 1 26-27 is the biggest obstacle to their position. One author writes this. He says, there's no question that Romans 1, 26-27 is the most significant biblical passage in this debate. And he adds this, for most Christians who oppose LGBT relationships, Paul's words in Romans 1 are the end of the debate. Another author writes this, Romans was the place where I spent the most time wondering, is there any other way through this? Are we ultimately left defeated at the doorstep of Rome? And that statement itself betrays a sinful approach to Scripture. We don't take the approach to Scripture with this kind of attitude. Is there any other way through this? Is there some way around this? Is there any way that we can get rid of this? I actually watched a uh a panel discussion with a a number of um uh lesbian and and gay uh pastors uh in the Baltimore area and uh they read scripture and then said What do we do to unclobber this? Because this is pretty harsh. Doesn't it sound pretty harsh? What are we going to do with this passage to make it affirming? That's the question that they're asking. How do we turn this scripture into what we desire it to be? We're not just going to take the scripture and read it for what it says and allow the word to inform us We want the word to affirm us. Don't inform me of anything. I already know what I believe. I'm coming to get you to affirm what I've already come to the conclusion of. I don't want to be left defeated at the words of Scripture. Let the Scriptures defeat you Let the scriptures defeat you. Romans chapter 3 verse 4 says, rather let God be found true, though every man be found a liar. Let the scripture shatter you. Jeremiah 23, 29, is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer that shatters a rock? Let the words judge you. Hebrews chapter four verse twelve For the word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And then after the word defeats you and shatters you and judges you, then let the word save you. John 6, 68, Simon Peter turned to the Lord and said, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And then let the word build you up. Acts 20, verse 32, Paul said, I now commend you to God and to the word of his grace. I love that. The word of his grace. Grace comes through this word. I commend you to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. We don't come to Scripture so that Scripture can affirm us. Rather, we come to the Scripture so that we can affirm the Scriptures Let me affirm what Jesus has to say. Let me affirm what God has to say. As Jesus said in John 17, 17, thy word is what? Truth. God's word is true. God's word is true. So we don't need a culture affirming Christianity. What the culture needs is a Bible affirming Christianity. And I trust that you're praying for me and praying for this message because what we're about to cover today has become the central issue in the battle for the truth. And the text that we're going to cover is the central text in the battle for the truth. And it was Martin Luther who was quoted as saying, if I profess with the loudest voice, In clearest exposition, every portion of the truth of God except that little point which the world and the devil are at that time attacking. I'm not confessing Christ. However boldly I may be professing Christ, where the battle rages, there the loyalty of the soldier is proved. And to be steady on all the battlefield besides is mere flight and disgrace if he flinches at that point. And it's clear that at this moment The battle is raging around Romans chapter 1, verses 26 and 27. Why don't you follow with me as I read? I'll start at verse 21. It says, For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their speculations and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and crawling creatures. Therefore, God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions. For their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, and in the same way also the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burdened in their desire toward one another Men with men committing indecent acts and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. Why don't you bow with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, I do pray that as we approach this topic, that we would approach it with boldness, because this is your word and it's not ours. I pray that we would approach this topic with humility, because again, this is your word, it's not ours. And I pray that we would approach this topic with compassion and sensitivity Because the people before me are yours and they're not mine. And I pray for those among us who are struggling with temptations. And we pray for those who are brokenhearted. Because of those who've given themselves over to temptations, and we pray that you would fill our hearts with hope because you are still doing a work through the power of your spirit. And through the truth of your word. And Father, in so many testimonies that we've heard, Lord, even right here from this pulpit, Lord, we've heard the testimony of how you've changed hearts, how you've transformed lives, how you've drawn people to yourself. And Father, you're still doing that work of grace even today. And I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The last time we were together in the book of Romans, we were reminded that the God who reveals his righteousness in the gospel is the same God who reveals his wrath from the heavens. against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And the specific expression of the wrath of God that's described in this passage is not the ultimate wrath, the final judgment that will come upon the unbelieving world at the end of the age. Rather, this is a wrath that's being expressed right now on the earth as we speak, and there are people who we know, who we love, who are experiencing this kind of judgment. And what is this wrath? It's the wrath of abandonment. And three times in the passage before us, we find this phrase that God gave them over. Verse 24, Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. Verse 26, for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions, for their woman exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. And verse 28, and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper. And when you see someone who's given themselves over to sexual sins, homosexual sins, depraved thinking, that is in itself the judgment of God. Again, they think it's freedom, but it's actually judgment. And when God gets out of the way to allow you to go your own way, that's not a blessing, that's a curse. Proverbs chapter 1. Now verses 24 to 31, if you want to flip back there really quick, we'll go ahead and read that passage again from Proverbs 1, verses 24 to 31. Listen to wisdom personified. Listen to wisdom speak. Listen to God through his word speak. Verse 24. He says, Because I called and you refused. I stretched out my hand and no one paid attention. You neglected all my counsel and did not want my reproof. I will also laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your dread comes. When your dread comes like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you, then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me, because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They will not accept my counsel. They spurned all my reproof. So they will eat of the fruit of their own way and be satiated with their own devices. One commentator writes, Of all the afflictions of divine wrath, none are more terrible than spiritual desertions. Spiritual judgments, judicial blindness. It's a horrible thing to be given up or given over by God. From his throne never proceeds a more dismal sentence than this. Let him alone. Let them alone. Hosea 4. 17, it says, Ephraim is joined to idols. Let him alone. Psalm 81, verse 12 says, So I gave them over to the stubbornness of their heart to walk in their own devices. Let him alone. And a particular evidence that God has pulled back and let you walk in your own devices is when he gives you over to sexual sins. Last week in verse 24 we considered the sins of sexuality in verse 24 back in Romans chapter 1 where it says, Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity. And this week we'll consider the sins of homosexuality, and the passage we're considering again is not obscure, it's not unclear, it's not vague, it's not mysterious, it's not hard to figure out. What does the scripture say about this sin? I'll give you three points. Number one, it's unnatural. It's unnatural. Verse 26, for their women exchange the natural function for that which is unnatural. Number two, it's disgraceful. Verse 27, it says, men with men committing indecent acts. And number three, it's harmful. It's harmful. The end of verse 27 says, and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. It's unnatural, it's disgraceful, and it's harmful. Which is why it's described as the judgment of God. on people and in this case even in our nation. It's a judgment of of God. And this is what the scripture says about wayward sexual sins, that it's a demonstration of the wrath of God. Number one, it's unnatural. Look at verse 26 again. It says, for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions, for their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. And Paul begins with the women, which in many ways is meant to be a shocking rhetorical device. There's an untranslated conjunction in the Greek that could actually be translated even. So it could say, even their women exchange the natural function for that which is unnatural. One commentator writes, the corruption went so far that it invaded all the privacies of life and debased the characters of the more delicate sex. Men could neither believe the innocence nor trust the purity of their own wives, daughters, sisters, or mothers. And Chrysostom, an early church father and preacher, said when God abandons a person to his own devices, Then everything is turned upside down. How disgraceful it is when even the women sought after these things when they ought to have a greater sense of shame. And the shock of this passage is that the women who would naturally have a more nurturing and motherly instinct and the desire to find rest in the house of a husband would abandon all of that for these sins. And that's not to say that if you have the gift of singleness, that it's wrong, but it's also rare. First Corinthians seven points that out And what's the more common and expected desire is that a woman would desire to nurture children, find rest in the home of a husband, and if you remember that's what Naomi expected of her daughters-in-law after her sons died. If you remember that, back in Ruth chapter 1, verses 8 and 9. She said to her daughters-in-law, May the Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with the dead and with me. May the Lord grant that you may find rest. each in the house of her husband. It was a natural and expected desire. And this desire is also connected to how women were designed. The word for woman in verse 26 is actually not the normal word for woman. The normal Greek word for woman or wife is the Greek word gunang. But Paul does not use the word, that word, the normal word for woman here. He uses another word that's the word for female. You don't have to ask the question here, you know, what is a woman? Because Paul gets very specific here. He doesn't just say women. He says female. The female, and he he uses a word that specifically talks about how women are designed differently than men. It's a specific word that focuses on the differences rather than the similarities between men and women. They are female. And I'm not trying to be too graphic here. But some of the major differences and even attractive differences between men and women are actually related to childbirth, the physical anatomy, where babies are nursed, where babies are born, and where babies are carried. If some archaeologist dug up your bones and your wife's bones a hundred years from now, all that is left of you is bones, they would still be able to tell who's male and who's female. In addition to the female bones being smaller and softer, there is one bone that distinguishes the female from the male. And it's the hip bone. Because it's designed to protect and carry a baby. There's a difference between men and women. In one of the uh articles I read from the Smithsonian Institute, it was subst it was subtitled The Pelvis Tells the Story. And it pointed out that distinct features for childbearing distinguish adult females from males Other bones in the skull have features that can indicate sex, though less reliably. And there's this cute little video that went viral where a four-year-old is examining a skeleton. And when the host pointed to the pelvic bone, she says, It's the pelvis, the only bone in the body that's gender specific. Which means it's different in boys and girls. The pelvis's job is to protect the organs used for digesting and reproduction. Out of the mouth of babes. Gender specific, she said. The single gender-specific bone is designed to carry and protect babies. You know, maybe they'll start doing hip surgery replacements Soon too, but Psalm 139, verse 14 says, I give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. By design. Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it very well. And the word natural that's used here is uh the Greek word uh phusikas, where we get our English word physical from The root word that's used for natural is the same word where we get our root for physical. It's according to design. It's what conforms to how we've been made. And the word for unnatural over in Romans chapter 1 was used in both Greek and Jewish literature for that which violated the created order. And the argument that Paul is making here is so basic. It's a basic argument. This is what nature teaches you, he's saying. But there's a difference. Male and female, he created them. And even if you never owned a Bible, you would still be accountable for that knowledge. That God has designed men and women different Romans chapter 1 lets us know that that which is known about God is evident within them. God made it evident to them, so you know that God exists even without a Bible. And you also don't need a Bible to know that male and female are meant to fit together. You and your spouse are like puzzle pieces that are meant to fit together and complement one another. And one puzzle piece goes with the other puzzle piece And the phrase natural function was a euphemism that was used to refer to the physical act of intimacy. And it's clearly seen, being understood, through what has been made. God has communicated through what has been made. And what Paul is saying here is that there's enough in creation and conscience to hold men accountable to this truth. It's what's natural. It's not complicated. It doesn't take a degree in gender studies. And Paul places this discussion under a section that speaks about what the Gentiles know apart from Scripture. It's unnatural, he says. It's unnatural. And God gave them over in these lust of their hearts to what was unnatural, over to degrading passions, and the women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. Number two. Number two. It's also disgraceful. It's disgraceful. Now before I move on to verse 27. There's a word that I want to pick up from the beginning of verse 26. At the beginning of verse 26, he says, for this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions. That word degrading is a word that could be translated as dishonorable, disgraceful, or shameful. And it refers to the desires themselves being dishonorable because they're misdirected. And the argument that is made for those who want to affirm some kind of Christian LGBT position is that Paul is only condemning a lustful desire. You know, what about the desires of those who just desire intimacy and companionship and long-term commitment? What about those that desire a monogamous relationship? That's characterized by love and fidelity. What about those people who desire that kind of relationship? Well, here's the problem. There's only one relationship that's designed to fulfill that kind of desire. And what is it? It's marriage. There's only one design for that kind of intimacy, and it's in marriage. And there is nowhere, anywhere in Scripture, that you're going to find a loving, monogamous marriage between a man and a man or a woman and a woman. It doesn't exist. We don't even find that kind of relationship in ancient secular history, much less biblical history. You don't find it. It doesn't exist. Josephus, the ancient Jewish historian, declares that marriage is between a man and a woman, and it's according to nature, and he criticized homosexual relations as against nature. Philo, another ancient Jewish philosopher and historian, criticized homosexual relations as against nature. And even in the the Roman world and Greek world, they they uh really didn't normalize it in the same way that it's being done today. What we're trying to normalize just hasn't been done. It hasn't been done. And even the authors that I read this week who tried to make their best argument to affirm same-sex marriage, they admitted that it's not in the scriptures. You have to admit it. It's not in the scriptures. They said this. There was no box for the category of a loving, committed, mutually respecting, and non-exploitive same-sex relationship. It doesn't exist in scripture God blessed only one kind of union. Male and female, he created them. So what's the point? There's no such thing, no such thing as homosexual passion that is not also degrading passions. The passion itself is degrading because it's unnatural. And that's how this particular passion is characterized. Look at verse 27. It says in the same way also, the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another. Abandoning the natural function of the woman. Where it would have been right. They abandoned what was right and they burn in their desire toward one another. And what is condemned here is not just the practice, but the desire itself is condemned. And maybe this is a good place to address the question, is it proper for Christians to describe themselves by a particular orientation or attraction or leaning, and my answer is absolutely not. We we don't do that with any other sinful desire. Nobody shows up here and says, you know, I'm a Christian liar. That's what I am. I'm a Christian liar. Now I don't act on all the lies that I'm thinking in my head. I don't act on them, but that's my orientation. I'm a Christian liar. You don't come in here and label yourself as a Christian thief. Now I haven't been acting on it, you know, believe me, but when that offering plate goes around I think about it. I'm leaning towards it, but I'm not acting on it. But I'm a Christian thief. I just want to let you know. I'm a Christian thief. You don't use any other sin to label yourself by. But then we have this term gay Christian. What is that? You don't label yourself by any other sinful desire. We're not meant to peacefully cohabitate with our sinful desires. We're meant to put them to death. We put our sinful desires to death. Real quick, flip over to Colossians chapter 3. Colossians chapter 3 Let's take a look at uh at verse 5, Colossians chapter 3. I'll start at verse 5. Says, therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead, to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. For it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience. According to this verse, you and I have the responsibility before God to kill sinful feelings and passions. You put them to death. Anything that's not appropriately directed towards your spouse, you kill it. And you can't offer the excuse, well, I just can't help myself. That's my leaning. That's my orientation. We can and we must fight against these sins. We fight against them. But how do you get some person or image off of your mind that's not appropriate to have there. The only way that I know how to do that is to put the appropriate desires in its place. You put off and you put on Let the consolation of Christ, the love of God, the fellowship of the Spirit be your consuming desire. Fill your heart with Scripture, as Psalm 119 says, so that I might not sin against God. Plead with God that He would anchor your affections in Himself and learn that God is enough. God is sufficient. God is the one who can help me. I can come before the Lord and He's enough. He's enough to help me to battle my sins. And then also in this same text, it says immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed. Which amounts to idolatry. And you may wonder, how did greed get on a list like this? Isn't that out of place? Well, if you're thinking money, then it is, but I don't think that that's what we're talking about here The surrounding context helps us conclude that Paul is not referring to material possessions. He's speaking of insatiable sexual appetites. That more is never what? It's never enough. More is never enough. It's greedy for sexual sins. And the idea here is that sexual lust is like a beast that grows every time you feed it And the more you feed it, the more that it wants. The more you feed it, the more it wants more. It's not satisfied. It's never enough. And the term for greed here is actually used outside of Scripture for sexual sins. And you know what? If you're not satisfied in God, nothing is ever going to be enough. You're not satisfied with God, nothing is going to be enough. Because at the root of a greedy heart we're really saying who isn't enough? We're saying God isn't enough. God's not good enough He's not trustworthy enough. He's not satisfying enough. And if I'm going to get any true fulfillment in this life, I'll have to look for it outside of God's provisions. That's why I tell people if you're not self-controlled now, don't think that marriage is going to fix it. Sometimes when I do counseling with uh with people, somebody heard me. But sometimes when I do counseling with people, I tell them, if you're not satisfied with the Lord, you're not going to be satisfied with your spouse. And if you enter into marriage believing that somehow my wife is going to fulfill every fantasy that I have in my mind, you're setting your wife up for failure and yourself up for frustration. Because it's never going to be what you think it's going to be. If you're not satisfied with God, your marriage will not fix you. You need to be satisfied in Him. And anything else, Scripture says amounts to idolatry. I'm trying to find another God to put in God's place because I'm not satisfied with him. So I'm finding some experience, some person. You know, something out there is going to fill that place that only God can satisfy. It's idolatry. You're looking for a substitute for God. And that's what so many people who have given themselves over to sexual sins have actually done. They have created an idol out of what God has granted to be freely enjoyed with thanksgiving In the proper context, they've made an idol out of it. And now they search for it in every high place in every hill and valley and everywhere else. They search for the sin to satisfy their souls when it's not designed to do that. We're designed to be satisfied with God and with God alone. It's a disgraceful passion when we look to substitute God with anything else. Back in Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1. It says in the same way also the men, and here it uses the word not for man, but for Male, so again, talking about the distinctions. In the same way, also the men abandon the natural function of the women and burn in their desire toward one another. Men with men committing indecent acts. Not only is the desire corrupt, but so are the acts. The acts are corrupt. And again, Paul doesn't use the normal word for man You know, the normal word for man is uh anthropath, where we get our uh anthropology, the term anthropology from. This is a uh a different word, our saying, which is used for male or masculine. Again, it points to the differences between male and female. So men were designed to protect, to provide, to procreate. But again, he's abandoning that role. The natural function of the woman for what is unnatural and the act itself is degrading In the Greek and Roman culture, this was expressed in some vile and heinous ways that I'm not even able to read. But it became socially acceptable for adult males to take younger males in their teens as their partners. For example, the Roman historian Setonius records how the Roman Emperor Nero had a young boy castrated. And then went through a wedding ceremony with them and performed all kinds of lewd and shameful acts that are not proper to mention. Ephesians 5. 3 says, But immorality Or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. And the ancient records are filled with this kind of abuse and perversion. And for the record, Rome fell. Wasn't able to sustain this kind of perversion. And this is where we're headed, like it or not, this is where we're headed. When the floodgate is lifted up for sexual desire, more is never going to be enough. Nothing is ever going to satisfy And you think they just want, you know, we just want to be recognized as uh you know just the same as everybody else, but that's not where it stops. It keeps going and going and going. The floodgates have been lifted up. That word that she's for burning desire. They burn in their desire toward one another. It's a word that's used for strong, uncontrollable passions. A person who gives himself over to it is taken over by it. You give yourself up to these passions and it takes you over and you become enslaved to the lust. It's like the drug addict who knows that what he's doing is killing him, but he can't stop himself. Can't break free from the chains. And this is why for the believer the battle has to be won on the inside. We stop it at the thought level. Once you get to the actions, it's too late. You know, all of a sudden I'm trying to make a plan like you know later on after I'm already alone and you know I've you know ran over every you know uh roadblock in the way and now like oh help me now no it's too late You start with the thoughts. You start with the desires. That's where you know, okay, I gotta put the brakes on this thing, because the next step is to take the action. You don't try to come up with the plan in the backseat of a car somewhere. You don't try to come up with the plan then. Bible says, James 1, 14 to 16, each one is tempted when he's carried away, enticed by his own lust. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Don't think that you can get on this train and just jump off at any point. It doesn't work that way. You jump on this train and one leads to the next leads to the next. You gotta realize where you are Sin will take you farther than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you more than you want to pay. And finally, sin is harmful. The sin is harmful. It's unnatural, it's disgraceful, and it's harmful. Look again at verse 27. Men with men committing indecent acts, receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. They receive a penalty for this. It's harmful to them. And what does that mean? First of all, it's a reference to the sin itself. Degrading your body and the unnatural functions are a penalty in themselves. And we've talked about this before when God pulls up the gate. to allow you to give yourself over to your desires. That in itself is the judgment of God. Hearts are impure, bodies are dishonored, passions are degraded. Exchange the natural function for what's unnatural, committing indecent acts, they do those things which are not proper. That in itself is a judgment. The judgment of God in itself, the sin in itself, that I would be given over to this, that I would degrade myself like this, that I would dishonor my body like this. That's a sin. That's the judgment. Second, there's the violation of the conscience that's involved. Like we already mentioned, this is a sin against nature. The conscience still registers somewhere deep inside that you know what I'm doing is not right. It's like you're internally conflicted. And the conscience doesn't fully die. God made man a rational, moral, and religious creature, and he'll always be that. You can't run away from it That there's something inside that still says I something's just not right. In myself there's this penalty God is evident in creation. The law of God is written on the conscience. Eternity is written on the heart. You know that one day I'm going to have to stand before God, but you keep trying to push it off and kick the can down the road Instead of dealing with it, Lord, I know I'm going to have to face you for these things. But he don't want to think about that. Don't want to think about that. One of the most heartbreaking and disturbing and dangerous sections of one of the books that I read this week. was when the author tried to address questions that he had from his readers. The author wrote this. He says, I'd like to take a moment to address one of the most frequent questions. Think about this. The most frequent questions I've been asked. I want to take some time to address that question. And it goes something like this. I want to believe what you're saying, that the Bible doesn't actually condemn me. But I still feel icky when I hold my partner's hand. I still feel guilty when I think about marrying them someday. What if that's the Holy Spirit convicting me? I've been surprised at how often this comes up, is what he says. I've been surprised at how often this comes up. So let me offer a brief response here for future readers. First, you're totally normal and this makes so much sense. You've spent years, maybe even decades, living out one particular narrative. Homosexuality is a sin. And you cannot be both gay and Christian. Life is rarely simple And there isn't a switch you can flip to wake up one day with all new ideas and their accompanying feelings. My point is this next time you're tempted to think that maybe the feeling of discomfort in your belly is the Holy Spirit convicting you of sin And so maybe you should try harder to be straight just one more time. May you instead honor that this is your brain doing the hard work of unlearning. And of course it will take some time for your body to adjust and settle into these new data points now setting up shop in your things that are true, brain bucket. You know, this this is the time that you want to pick up the book and just throw it, you know, against the wall, right? What if this might be the Holy Spirit convicting me? Oh, don't worry about that. Let's push that aside. That's just your brain trying to unlearn what you've learned. Don't let any conviction prevent you from continuing your pursuit. Just dismiss any conviction the brain trying to set up shop. How dare you try to take the place that God has given to the conscience? How dare you Staying in the way of what God, by his spirit, may be doing to call somebody back to himself. How dare you! John 16, verse 8 says, And he, when he comes, referring to the Spirit, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. If you're convicted about committing sin, convicted about failing to practice righteousness, convicted about a judgment to come, maybe it's because you should be convicted about those things. And third, there are even physical penalties associated with the sin. Proverbs 13, verse 15 says, Good understanding produces favor, but the way of the treacherous is hard. Galatians 6, 7 and 8, do not be deceived, God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. Verse 27 says that they receive in their own persons the due penalty of their error. And that could be a reference to the physical body. There was a report that was published by the Center for Disease Control that only confirms what we already know. Says anyone who has sex can get a sexually transmitted infection. However, sexually active, gay, bisexual, and other men are at greater risk. I mean, we already know that. And it's believed that if you know you could only remove the harmful consequences, you know, that there would finally be freedom If we could only remove the shameful stigma associated with homosexual sins and activity, if we could only restrain the conscience and not feel the sting of Pain because of homosexuality. If only we could find the cures for all the diseases that are associated with homosexuality, then then I would have freedom and happiness and peace if we could just get rid of all these Consequences. Then I'd have freedom. But you can't have freedom without Christ. You can't have freedom without Christ. John 8:36 says, if the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. You don't understand that you're fighting against God and you'll never be able to win that fight. And then when the world We hear in the world, we hear that to be compassionate is to feed into the lie and refuse to tell them that there's a way out. That's the compassionate approach, according to the world's thinking. But who's who's more compassionate? The the person who says you can't change? That 's just the way things are? Or the person who says, you know what, there's a way out and you don't have to stay here. Who's compassionate? We often hear the objections that, you know, my behavior isn't harming anybody, but that's just not true. It's not true. It's never true. You're harming yourself. You harm yourself when you give yourself over to these sins. You harm those who love you. You harm the society around you. And it's also an attack against the God who made you. Do you remember how verse 26 began? Put back to Romans 1 again, if you're not there. But verse 26, look at how it began. For this reason God gave them over. For this reason. What's what's the reason? What's the reason behind these sexual sins? Verse 25. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And worship and serve the creature rather than the creator. That's where it comes from. And there's this connection between exchanging the truth And sexual perversion. It's all connected. Look at these connections. Look at verse 25. Verse 25. It says that they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, right? And then look at verse 26. For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions for their women, exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural. Uses the same word. They exchange the truth for a lie, and then they exchange the natural for the unnatural. There's an exchange that happens. The one happened before the other. Look back at verse 21 For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. So they don't want to give God honor. Look at verse 24. Therefore, God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. You don't want to honor God? Now your bodies are dishonored among you. Look up at verse 19 Because that which is known about God is evident within them, for God made it evident to them. God has given them knowledge. Drop down to verse 28. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind. There's a connection here. When God is not acknowledged, the mind becomes depraved and deprived of knowledge. When God is not honored, then your bodies are dishonored among you. When the truth of God is exchanged for the lie, then you'll exchange the natural for the unnatural behavior. It's all connected. That's why I said last week that at the root of the problem of immorality, it's a theological problem. It's a theological problem. Morality is just the fruit. The immorality is just the fruit. Man's main problem is not the it's not that he treats his fellow man poorly. It 's not individual acts of disobedience or debauchery. The heart of his problem is his heart of idolatry, as Tom Leak says. It's because people don't want to acknowledge God any longer. They exchanged the truth of God for a lie. They worship the creature instead of the creator that we get ourselves here. That's how we got here. So again, if you're trying to convince a child to save themselves until marriage, it's a theology issue. Trying to convince a family member to be faithful to their marriage, it's a theology issue. Trying to turn somebody from a homosexual lifestyle, it's a theology issue. What you do with your body is a matter of worship. This is where the real battle is. Restraining your desires is a matter of worship. It's a question about whether you'll serve the creator or the creature Will you exchange the truth of God for a lie? And it's no surprise that the same people who years ago were saying that I'm not sure if the Bible is really clear, I'm not sure if we can really understand the scriptures. that they're the same ones who endorse the books that I just read this week, promoting LGBTQ, affirming relationships. The same guys. Years ago, people were ringing the alarm bell. You know, watch out for the emerging church. Names like Rob Bell. Rob Bell was the leader of the emergent church movement. And then he writes this endorsement to the book. Inclusion is the only path forward, and this author shows you what the Bible actually says. Brian McLaren, another one of the leaders of the Emergent Church movement, he wrote this as an endorsement. This book offers a different way of aligning head and heart through a fresh look at Scripture. This book is the resource thousands have been waiting for. All this from guys who were saying years ago you can't be sure about the scriptures. But now all of a sudden they say, well, hey, you know, this is what the Bible actually says. How would you know? Years ago you were saying nobody really knows what the Bible says, but we know it can't mean that. We know it can't condemn that as sin, so I mean this is what the Bible actually means. Now all of a sudden they're they're so confident, there's certainty now Where years ago they were saying you can't be certain. Now it's like, well, we've got to figure a way out of this, so how can we affirm our desires and those around us and still say that we uphold the Bible? What can we do to bend this to our will? The Bible's not unclear. And Romans is not obscure. And that's why so many people are trying to attack it. It was Mark Twain who was quoted as saying, it's not the parts of the Bible that I can't understand that bother me. It's the parts of the Bible that I do understand that bother me. God has made himself clear. And we'll come back next week and continue in Romans and maybe answer some objections to this, but let me close with this illustration. Bodie Bacum tells the story about doing some ministry on the San Jose University campus. And while he was preaching and passing out tracts, there was a young lady and her friend who presented themselves as other than they were. And she got right up into his face as he's out there preaching, sharing the gospel, got right up into his face and went off on Bodhi Baccom. Now Bodie Bacom's a pretty intimidating guy. I've met him before, you know. But she got right into his face and started going off on Bodhi Baccom. And Bodhi said that by the grace of God he stayed composed. He didn't give her the fight that she wanted. He was able to put a big smile on his face and hand her a track anyway. Half an hour later, the same young lady returned to him with the track opened in her hand. And she started asking questions. She opened up the track and she said, What does that mean? And then Vodhi explained it to her. She said, well, how about that? What does that mean? And then Vodhi explained it to her. And she just sat there and listened to the gospel being explained. And after she heard the gospel, she looked at him and she says, Do you mean to tell me that the Jesus that you preach would save me too? And Bodhi said, yes. And she just stood there. So Bodhi said, can I pray for you? And with tears coming down her face, she looked at him and said, Would you really do that? Would you really pray for me? He says, I'd be honored to. Put his hand on her shoulder and he began to pray for her. And she just leaned forward and rested her head on his shoulder and began to sob. And the last thing that we need to do for people who are stuck in their sins is just to buy into the lie of the culture around us that says, you know. This that's the way that you've been made. There's nothing that you can do. You can't change. That's your orientation. That's the last thing that you want to tell somebody who's stuck in this kind of sin. And also the last thing that we need to buy into is that these kinds of sins are somehow beyond the grace of God. Because they're not. Romans 1. 16 says, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of God, for it is the power of God unto salvation. For everyone who believes. And the same gospel that saved you is powerful enough to save anybody Praise God for the power of the gospel, amen. Praise God to the utmost Jesus saves. To the utmost, Jesus saves. He can pick you up and turn you around. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Jesus saves. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for your truth. Father, we thank you for your word. And Father, we do pray that your word would do its work in our lives. And Father, I pray that the Word would defeat whatever arguments we bring to it. That the word would shatter our hearts, just like the hammer that shatters a rock. Father, that your word would judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. That it would provide clarity for us. And Father, we pray that your word would save us. Now, Lord, it's your words that bring eternal life. I pray that your word would be the word that builds us up, the word of your grace, the word that saves, the word that sanctifies. The word that holds us, Lord. The word that teaches us to say no to ungodliness and temptations. Father, we thank you for your word. Your word is truth. And Father, I pray that we would hold on to your truth. And Father, that we would reject all the lies. That we would reject all the confusion. Lord, your word is so clear. So Father, we thank you for clarifying these things for us today. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files