The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, we uh open our Bibles to the book of Matthew, the book of Matthew, chapter 5. We'll continue our study of the Sermon on the Mount and the Beatitudes. Matthew is a book that presents Jesus to us as the promised king, and his kingship is proclaimed. to us, it's defended to us, and it's uh also demonstrated uh for us as the the king speaks. And uh as we said before, Jesus accommodates the the crowds, but His primary concern is with his own disciples, uh those that came to him that he he taught in in verse two. And uh what really strikes me about the the opening of uh opening words of uh the Sermon on the Mount and the Beatitudes is is how much can be said in in so few words. There's so much that can be said in so few words. And uh we can read through the Beatitudes in under a minute. But the truth that we've been discovering will take a lifetime to explore. Jesus doesn't waste any any words. Jesus has no uh wasted words in this sermon. The sentences that he uses are short. But the truth is is deep, and it's no wonder that the crowds were struck out of their senses by the time Jesus was uh done uh with these words. Let's look at uh Matthew chapter five and we'll start at verse one. It says, When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Now let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God, and uh once again uh we come before you needy, uh knowing that uh these words are are too high and too lofty for us to to scale the the heights of them, but uh Father, in our feeble attempts we try uh to try to understand uh what you've uh written and uh uh declared. Uh Father, we uh I pray that you would uh give us a a clear uh understanding of of what you've what you mean by these words. Oh Father, we uh thank you for the uh the the words that come directly from the lips of our Lord Jesus Christ. And Father, we pray that there would be great benefit to us, to our church, as a result of going through these beatitudes in this sermon. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, we're only at uh verse six in the the Sermon on the Mount. We're only at uh at verse six. Uh blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be Satisfied. And even though we're only at verse 6, I feel blown away already by everything that we've already covered so far. There's really no shallow end to this pool. There's no kind of side of the pool that to hold on to, to grip on to. Jesus starts us out on the deep end and it's without floats. You know, he just kind of pushes us off the deep end. But if you have ears to hear the master, there's no place that you'd rather be, right? There's no place that you'd rather be, but listening uh to what Christ says and the the water that we've been swimming in and the Sermon on the Mount, it's been uh refreshing. It's satisfying, it's the most satisfying plunge that we could ever taken. We've just been engulfed by the words of our Lord and we long to hear more from him. And right here in uh in verse six, like I said, with with an economy of words, with just a few short words. Jesus communicates such deep meaning. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Jesus is a master communicator. Master communicator. And one of the aspects of his teaching that makes this sermon so powerful is his use of images. With just a few simple words, Jesus could communicate a library of of meaning. And there's no better example than what we read right here in in verse six. And there's uh three aspects that I'd like to take a look at. Uh first of all, Jesus takes an ordinary experience Number two, Jesus paints an extraordinary picture. And number three, Jesus promises an extraordinary future. Let's look at the first one. Jesus picks an ordinary experience. Hunger and thirst is really a a common experience to humanity. And I I think that the brilliance of this Beatitude is demonstrated in the universal experience that Jesus chooses for his metaphor, hunger and thirst. Uh there 's a word in the Bible that that's used for extreme hunger, uh being famished, being starved to death. It's the word uh limos, and it often appears in the word famine in the Bible. That's the word limos in the New Testament. Uh famine in uh Matthew chapter 24. Verse 7 it says, For nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes. That word famine is the word limos in the Greek. Uh the word for famines is uh uh used in the New Testament uh eight times translated as as famine and out of uh out of ten times in the New Testament. Uh but this word is also used to describe the impact that famines have on individuals. Those that experience famines were those that were famished. Okay? Those that experienced famines were those that were famished. It's reserved for that that point of of starvation, you know, being hungry to the point of starvation. When Jesus gave the illustration about the prodigal son, if you remember that in Luke chapter uh 15, it says in uh verse 14 that now when he had spent everything A severe famine occurred in that country, and he began to be impoverished. So it talks, it uses that word famine, Limas And then in verse seventeen, it says, But when he came to his senses, he said, How many of my father's hired men have more than enough bread? But I am dying here with hunger. Uses the same word, lemas. I'm dying here with hunger. I'm famished. I'm experiencing the results of a famine. It's the same kind of situation that's described in Acts chapter 7 verse 11. Uh uses that same word limbos being without food. In Acts 7, 11 it says, now a famine came over all Egypt and Canaan. It's a word that Paul uses to describe his own condition in 2 Corinthians 1127. He says, I have been in labor and hardship through many sleepless nights and hunger and thirst, often without food and cold and exposure This was the kind of hunger that was associated with famine, the kind of condition that's described by this word uh limbos here. where one person has uh where a person has no food, he's starved, he's emaciated, he's near death. And uh the Greeks use this word to express fatal deprivation of food. But that's not the word that Jesus uses in Matthew 5. 6. And I find that interesting. It's not the same word. He uses a more general term. for hunger. This is a a word that was used for for both extreme hunger, like when Jesus was fasting for forty days A little bit earlier in Matthew chapter 4, 40 days, 40 nights, Jesus went without food. And it says, after he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he then became hungry. It's also a word that was used for normal hunger, like when the disciples walked across the field and became hungry in Matthew 12, verse 1. It says at that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath, and his disciples became hungry and began to pick the heads of grain and to eat. So this is a word that covers the entire spectrum. You know, from being hungry, from forty days of fasting, to walking through a field and feeling the pangs of of hunger, uh cheese for for both kinds of uh hunger and everything kind of in in between. And it's clear from the context of Matthew chapter 5 that the hunger here is closer to the extreme end of things because it's placed alongside of being destitute in spirit, being poor in spirit. in verse three. But I think it's important to point out that the word Jesus uses is the common word for hunger. It's not the specific word for being famished and in near starvation. And I think that's significant because there are very few of us who really know what it means to be hungry. Very few of us who you know what it means to to be famished. And honestly, there aren't even many homeless people in our nation who really know what it means to be starved. Very few. In uh 2006, the USDA introduced new language to describe the ranges of what they they labeled food insecurity. Food insecurity. I don't know if you knew that that was a label, but there's such a thing as food insecurity. It's known as low food security. They describe it in a couple different terms. Low food security. which describes a reduced quality, variety, or desirability of diet, with little or no indication of reduced food intake So uh if you're you know you don't have the variety that you want, uh you don't really desire the food that you have before you, you could be considered uh to have low food security if you just don't like what's in your fridge, okay? And then there's what's known as very low food security, which describes multiple indications of disrupted eating patterns and reduced food intake. And uh according to 2011 report from the USDA said 85. 1% of Americans are food secure. Which means no reported problems or limitations of food access and little or no indication of changes in diet or food intake. So, you know, you basically it's everybody else can have what they want when they want it. But even out of the group that was considered to have even a very low food security, only a small fraction of even those people went without food for a day. Even out of the people that were on the low end, you know, very few went without food for a day, and even less than that experienced uh an absence of a meal more than three times, you know, three days in a in a month. And uh my whole point in in bringing that up is that there's there's very little, if anything, that we know about starvation. Very little that we know about being famished and uh one author states this, it says few modern Americans have ever experienced true hunger or thirst Few first century Jews had not. They were familiar with the powerful and even painful craving of the body for food and drink. They had suffered the horrible deprivation because of poverty, famine, and siege. The ancients knew of hunger so intense that one would do or give anything to satisfy it. There's an interesting story in 2 Kings 6 and verse 28. where um the the city was was under siege and got so bad that a a a mother uh actually uh sh it's two mothers uh that made a deal that you know we'll we'll eat my child today and we'll eat your child tomorrow. I mean it just got so bad uh that this is the the point that they were uh driven to. So uh hunger and thirst were uh powerful metaphors of intense craving. And uh while that's true Uh we don't experience that kind of of hunger and uh but everybody knows something about being hungry, right? Everybody knows something about it. Uh from birth we experienced the pains of of hunger. We're born with this kind of sucking reflex, right? Even as a as a child, you're born into the world with that, the reflex to find, grab, suck. You know, you're looking for food, and when we can't find it fast enough, we cry because we want it, right? If we don't have the ability to get to it. And nothing else will substitute for it. Nothing else substitutes for food. When the pain hits the stomach, playing won't help. Being rocked won't help. Daddy doesn't have what you need, right? When a baby is hungry, there's only one thing that brings satisfaction, that's food. It's food. And the question for us is this, does that describe you as it relates to righteousness? Does that describe you as it relates to righteousness? Do you hunger and thirst for righteousness? Do you experience a longing which can't be satisfied by any other means? You experience a longing that you know can't be alleviated by anything else. Does an absence of righteousness cause you pain? That's the question. And these are the ones that Jesus considers blessed in this beatitude. Those that hunger and thirst for righteousness. These are the ones that are happy. These are the ones that are fortunate. These are the ones that are well off. And uh Jesus is not describing a physical condition. There's a parallel account in Luke, in Luke chapter uh six Verse 21, it says, Blessed are you who hunger now, for ye shall be satisfied. But Jesus wasn't speaking about physical hunger. If Jesus was speaking only about physical hunger, there would be no exceptions because everybody experiences hunger to some degree at some point. in their life, right? There would be no need to identify a specific group. But not everybody experiences a hunger for righteousness And this is what Jesus was referring to by hunger. And what Jesus does is he picks an ordinary experience and he paints an extraordinary picture with it. He paints an extraordinary picture. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. And it's important that we understand what Jesus meant by hungering for righteousness. He's not talking about hungering for political justice. Political righteousness, there's uh some commentators who believe that Jesus was referring to the Jews' desire for social justice One commentator actually describes the beatitudes in this in this way. He says the poor in spirit mourn the social system that runs against God's will They are meek because they have none to rely on but God. They hunger and thirst for righteousness because their daily life is full of injustice. It is to these marginalized people that Jesus proclaims that God's kingdom belongs and in this kingdom their lowly status will be reversed. And uh what this commentator has done is he's basically pushed every one of these Beatitudes External. It's all about what's going on on the outside. If we could just fix what's going on the outside, I'd be filled. That's the basic way that he understands this. The problems are to be understood. Out there in society, somebody out there needs to change. But the problem with that view is that that was not the focus of Jesus' ministry It wasn't the focus of Jesus' ministry. It's true that we should have a concern for what's wrong in the world. I'm not saying that. We should have a concern for what's wrong in the world. We should be engaged where we can. The Bible says that the Lord loves justice. In Psalm 33, verse 5, it says, He loves righteousness and justice. Psalm 37, 28, for the Lord loves justice and does not forsake his godly ones. Amos 5. 15, hate evil, love good, establish justice in the gates. Amos 5. 24 says, let justice roll down like waters. And righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. So God's concerned about justice. We're not saying that. We are to have a concern for justice in the world. Luther said this, he says, uh the command to you is not to crawl into a corner or into the desert, but to run out if that's where you've been, and offer your hands, your feet, your whole body to wager everything on what you can do. And uh some would say like this is just about primarily social social justice. Uh but Jesus was not about overturning government. He was about turning over your heart, right? Turning over your your heart. And this is the message of repentance that he preached, right? In uh Matthew chapter 4 and verse 17. It wasn't directed to the oppressive government, as oppressive and sinful as they were. He directed the call to repentance to his own people. Repent He wasn't worried about what's going on out there somewhere. He was worried about his own people repenting. And the primary problem that Jesus addressed uh wasn't the corruption that existed externally in the government, uh but the corruption that existed in the hearts of individuals. That's where the the problem lies. And uh the beatitudes are our personal recognition of poverty of spirit Mourning over sin, an expression of meekness. It's not primarily about what's going on on the outside. And then there's those who correctly understand that the righteousness that's desired here is an individual righteousness. Uh but they understand this to be a positional righteousness. Uh they they say that it's talking about the righteousness of justification. Uh that we we're just supposed to desire to be right with uh with God, that God declares us as right. Uh one uh commentator uh Lensky uh talked about this term righteousness as is always forensic, meaning that it's always a judicial term, uh which means that this uh term is is used uh about a declaration of of righteousness on an individual. And he has this great statement on justification at this point. He says, Men justify and declare themselves righteous, but this amounts to no more than the criminal's denial of his crime. To declare yourself right is basically to say that as a criminal, I've done no crime. I'm okay. And never stands before the court which has the full evidence of his guilt. But what is beyond all human ability is brought about by Christ, who by his holy life and sacrificial death met the demands of God's norm of right. The normal for right is Jesus Christ. And God met his demand for what's normal for right, met them in our own in our stead, and now transfers his perfect righteousness to us through faith and thus wins our pardon and acquittal before the divine judgment bar. Great statement on justification. Fantastic. It's just in the wrong place. Because this isn't talking about the righteousness of justification. That we're just declared right in God's sight. I agree wholeheartedly that that we need to be justified and uh declared righteous in the sight of God, but that's not what this beatitude refers to. It's not just about being declared right. Uh first of all, why we know that is because that's not the way that Jesus uses righteousness in this context Just a few verses later, Jesus will say in Matthew 5. 10, it says, look down there with me, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Is he saying, Blessed are those who are persecuted because they've been justified? People can't see our justification. They can't see that. But they can see the works that we do and persecute us for that. Again, in Matthew chapter 6, verse 1, it says, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them. Otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. So the consistent use of righteousness in this sermon and throughout the book of Matthew, it really talks about a practical righteousness. A practice of righteousness. Another way that we know Jesus is not referring to righteousness of justification is because these believers, the people that he's talking to, the disciples, already possess justification. Why would you hunger and thirst after something that you already have? For us, justification, it's a done deal. We've already been declared right in the sight of God. We don't have to hunger and thirst for that. That's something that's already been declared to us. Matthew, actually, in Romans chapter 3, verse 28. It says for we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. Justified, past tense. It's already happened Romans 5 1. Therefore, having been justified, it uses the perfect tense there. It's already happened, and the effects continue on to the present. That's what the perfect tense means. Therefore, having been justified, by faith we have peace With God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And then in Romans 5. 9 it says, Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. So uh this justification, uh the righteousness of justification, it's something that's already in the past. We don't have to hunger and thirst for what we already possess. And in John chapter 6 and 35, where Jesus talks about those that come to him, they'll never have to hunger, they'll never have to thirst. That's what he's talking about, those that possess eternal life. But there's there's nothing else that you need as far as that's concerned. Eternal life is already done. You've already been justified. You're already declared right in the sight of God. That's where we are as believers. So if believers already possess the righteousness of Christ in that sense, why would they said to be hungering and thirsting after it? If you're a believer, you don't have to hunger and thirst after justification And like I said, Jesus is speaking to his disciples who possessed this. So those that Jesus calls blessed here are not the ones that are hungering after a political righteousness. They're not hungering after a positional righteousness, justification. They're hungering after personal and practical righteousness. A righteousness of practice. And the question is, what kind of spiritual appetite do you have? What kind of appetite do you have? Because if you don't have a persistent and a consuming passion for righteousness in your life, you're not the one that Jesus calls blessed. I mean that that's that's just plain and simple. That's what it says. Martin Lloyd uh Jones, he said this, he says, I do not know of a better test that anyone can apply to himself or herself in this whole matter of the Christian profession than a verse like this If this verse is to you one of the most blessed statements of the whole scripture, you can be quite sure that you're a Christian. If not, then you had better examine the foundation again. What the Bible teaches us here is that something is fundamentally different about the Christian. Something different about the Christian. Prior to your conversion, you might have been convicted about sin. You might have been convicted about the standard of righteousness. You might have even desired to do the right thing. But you can do that without desiring to be righteous. You can do that without really desiring righteousness. It's only after conversion that we're given the persistent desire to be righteous. That's what we're given. This hunger is a base desire. I mean in the hierarchy of needs, I mean the most basic level for the Christian is righteousness. Just like food, food and water. I mean that's that's pretty pretty basic, right? That's basic to existence. For the Christian, righteousness is your bread and water. I mean that is basic. It's what you desire We're not talking about advanced Christianity here. This isn't like you know the deluxe model of Christianity that you get to upgrade for. You know. I want that the the the the supreme version of Christianity. I want a hunger and thirst after some righteousness. Can you add that on? No, it's just the basic level. Basic Christianity. And hunger and thirst were mentioned together to represent just the necessities of life. This is what the Christian needs to live. Desire for righteousness. This is not the the mark of mature Christianity. It's not what you develop after a you know a couple years in Christ that you know I finally desire Righteousness. I finally, you know, worked it worked my way up to desire some righteousness in my life. Even a newborn baby knows how to cry for milk. I mean you're brand new, you have that reflex. It's like where where's the food, right? That is the Christian. Basic to life. And also, this hunger is not something that can be satisfied with anything else. The believer won't be satisfied with anything less than righteousness. Uh there are so many counterfeits out there in Christianity, aren't there? I mean there there's uh people who go to church for all sorts of reasons Uh people go to church for the affirmation. You know, they want want to feel good about themselves. You know, I I come so you can tell me how great I am. You know, it's not about how you know telling God how great thou art. It's like, you know, tell you know share some of that with me. Tell me how great I am. How great I am, right? People go to church for the the affirmation. And they have these prophets, these uh ministers that get up in the pulpit and preach, peace, peace, everything's okay, you're okay, I'm okay, we're all okay When there is no peace. You can't get up and just make people feel good about themselves. That's not why you go to church. And people can go to church to be uh built up with knowledge, right? Sometimes our uh churches are known for teaching, but if the the end goal for teaching is just the knowledge, it's just to puff yourself up with what you know and be able to share that with everybody else. You're coming for the wrong reason. That's not hungering and thirsting after righteousness. And then there's uh people who go to church for the emotional experience. They want to get jacked up by the by the music and the drama and the performance on stage. I remember I was uh talking to one guy, he says, I just love my church. I was like, tell me why. He's like, Well when my pastor preaches it's the the veins in his neck pop out and he starts to sweat. It's like, oh, that's what I'm competing with, right? You know? I gotta gotta run around a little bit, loosen up the tie, and you know, get the veins popping. People people go to the church for an emotional experience. You know, I felt good. Got to run around the church a couple times. They played my jam. That's my song. Sang, sang, right? People go to church for for for the emotional experience. I remember I was a a part of a church like that for a long time And uh I mean I mean services were just, you know, everybody's rocking, rolling, you know, running. That's just, you know, everything's all out. And I remember coming home after like one of these kind of high services and just saying, there's got to be more than this. I mean is this it? Is is this all Christianity is about? You know, you go, you get the experience, and then nothing changes for the rest of the week? And a lot of the people that ran the hardest sin the hardest during the rest of the week. I'm like, something is wrong here. Something's gotta be wrong with this. I was looking for my life to change and the lives of those that were around me to change. But righteousness was nowhere to be found. It wasn't the pursuit of righteousness. There wasn't a hunger and thirst after righteousness. This hunger is constant. It's constant hunger. The person who hungers and thirsts for righteousness realizes that he's never full in this life. We're able to nibble on kind of bits and pieces of practical righteousness right now, but the Christian stays hungry. Christian stays hungry. John Strauss says this. He says, beware of those who claim to have attained and who look past experience rather to look past the experience rather than to future development. They look to the past and say, well, hey, I did this and did that before, so I'm okay now, instead of a present hunger and thirst. It's a constant kind of hunger and thirst that the Christian has. I'm always wanting to be more righteous. I'm always trying to attain. That is the desire of the Christian. So it's like all qualities included in the Beatitudes, hunger and thirst are perpetual. characteristics of the disciples of Jesus, as perpetual as poverty of spirit, meekness, and mourning. You never sin and just say, oh well, you know, I just sinned. That's not the experience of the Christian. And it's not the experience of the Christian to say, ah, I'm not righteous. No big deal. That's not the Christian. This hunger is also a consuming desire. One who's truly hungry is consumed with it. It's powerful, it's intense, it's a craving, and becomes the Christian's ambition. This is what we we long for. 2 Corinthians 5. 9 says, Therefore we also have as our ambition, whether at home or absent, to be pleasing to him. That is our aim. That's our ambition. That's what we want to do. We're not content to, like I said, just to nibble on bits and pieces of righteousness. We want it all. We want it all. And Jesus Christ is the grand display, isn't he? The grand display of righteousness. Jesus Christ is called our righteousness. Jesus Christ is called the righteous one. And Jesus Christ is the goal of Christianity. If you didn't know that, you know, heads up, write it down somewhere. Your goal as a Christian is to look like Jesus Christ. That's your goal. That is God's goal in your life. That should be your goal in your life, right? In Romans chapter 8, verse 29, it says, For those whom he foreknew, it's talking about Christians, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his Son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. What is your goal as a Christian? To be conformed into the image of Christ. The goal of your Christianity is to look like Jesus Christ. And none of you are there yet. Alright? I'm not there yet. So what does that say? We're all continually hungering, right? We're all thirsting because we want to look like Jesus. That is the goal. He is what's normal. He is what's considered righteous. There's nothing wrong with the standard. It's like our our our our mouths are too small, right? It's like there's nothing wrong with it's not like the plate is, you know, that's not the right plate. You know, I got the wrong plate, right? No, it's not that. Righteousness is there. It's just like mum mm mm I I can't I can't get it in My mouth is too small to get it in, right? But I'm hungering and I'm thirsting. I want more. But I just don't have the capacity to take it in yet. And we spend the rest of our lives trying to attain this. 1 John 2. 29 says, If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone also who practices righteousness is born of him. From the time you're born as a believer until the time you die, you're continually practicing. It's like I want to be like Christ. I'm attaining to the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's the aim. And our stomachs groan because we experience so little of that right now, don't we? We we really do. Experience so little of that. This is a a hunger that's recognizable. Flip over to Romans chapter seven. You probably knew I was going to come here sooner or later. Romans chapter 7. Like I said, this is this is a hunger that's recognizable. It's not the kind of hunger when a person says, I didn't really realize I was hungry, you know. You sit down at a table, I didn't know how hungry I was. That's not the kind of hunger you have here. This is the person that recognizes his hunger. You don't mourn over sin and say, I didn't know I had any sin to mourn over. You're not impoverished in spirit and say, hey, I didn't really know I didn't have anything. Same way when you're hungering and thirsting after righteousness, you know that you need it. You know that you need righteousness. It's deeply felt, it's an experienced hunger. And this is the same kind of experience that the Apostle Paul had. And it makes sense out of this, doesn't it? When you think about it in these terms. Look at uh chapter 7, start at verse 18. Listen what he says here. For I know that nothing good dwells in me. It kind of sounds like being poor in spirit, doesn't it? I don't have anything. I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh, for the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want. But if I'm doing the very thing I do not want, I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me. I find then the principle that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man, but I see a different law in the members of my body waging war against the law of my mind and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. O wretched man that I am, who will set me free from the body of this death? That is the groan of the Christian It's like my my life is just inconsistent because I'm forever hungering and thirsting after righteousness and I keep finding myself falling in these ruts all the time. What is wrong with me? Why do I keep sinning? I have a hunger and thirst for God. I hunger and thirst for righteousness. Why do I keep sinning? And this is the struggle that the Apostle Paul finds himself in. He says, I know I have the willing to do good. I desire righteousness. I want to do what's right. It's always there with me. And I keep falling into sin. And he talks about this unredeemed flesh that he has, this principle that he's found, that evil is present in me, the one who wants to do good. I have this hunger and thirst for the righteousness. But I can't seem to do it all the time. What is wrong with me? Who's going to deliver me from this? And that's the condition that we find ourselves in as Christians. That we hunger and thirst for righteousness. We want to look like Jesus Christ. And the groaning of creation that wants to be changed is the same groaning that the Christian has. I want to be changed. Can't stand this heart of mine. Psalm 119, verse 20 says, My soul is crushed with longing after your ordinances at all times. Perpetual, right? At all times I'm longing after your ordinances. Not only the knowledge of it, but the obedience to it. And that's the extraordinary picture that Jesus paints with this metaphor. Hungering and thirsting after righteousness. But he doesn't stop there. He also moves on to the extraordinary promise. He uh picks an ordinary experience. Paints an extraordinary picture and then he uh promises an extraordinary future in uh Matthew 5 again blessed are Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. This is what's so amazing about this. I just love this. The amazing feature of those that hunger for righteousness is that they will one day be filled with it. It's fantastic. The hymn writer says to be saved, to sin no more. The word for uh fill, that they shall be filled Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied, or Phil, that's the Greek word kortazo. Might not mean a lot to you It is about to. Alright. Cortazo. One lexicon says this, that it's a very strong and graphic word that was originally applied to the feeding and fattening of animals in the stall. It's like when you kind of fatten up an animal for the slaughter. It's like you want to just eat as much as you can, right? I want to get you as big as you can be. That's the kind of word that you use. Cortazo. Fill it up. Fatten it up It's a word used for the multitudes who were fed the loaves in Matthew chapter 14 when he fed the 5,000. They were stuffed. After Jesus, you know, you know, these little five loaves, a couple fish. Stuffed them. Couldn't eat anymore. They had leftovers. It's also used for the filling up of the birds with the flesh of God's enemies in Revelation 19, 21. Have as much as you want. And it's an appropriate term to use here to express the complete satisfaction of spiritual hunger and thirst for those that are now fulfilled. They're filled. And the kind of righteousness that we'll be filled with is the righteousness of Jesus Christ, his character. This is what uh theologians refer to as glorification, when our our present Confirmation to the image of Christ will one day be complete. Right now we're being conformed, right? We're constantly being changed. And at glorification, it's done. The process is over with. And that's the time when we're like a mirror reflecting the glory of Christ, that his righteousness is now reflected in us. That we stand before him, not just positionally righteous, but practically righteous. That we can reflect that character of Jesus Christ. That is what we're headed for. That is what the Christian's destiny is. Like I said, this is the righteousness of Jesus Christ, that we've been predestined to be conformed to his image, and one day by his grace we will be. In Matthew 5. 48, when it says be perfect, as the Father in heaven is perfect, that kind of perfect righteousness he's telling us to be perfect, one day we will be. One day we will be absolutely righteous. And what makes this uh promise so amazing is that God is the one who guarantees it. Uh He makes use of the passive verb in this uh context here, uh, for they shall be filled. They shall be satisfied. By who? It's by God. It's considered a divine passive because the one who is assumed to do the action is God Himself. They shall be filled by God. And the question is, do you have the appetite for that? Is that what you're hungry for? That I want to look like Christ? I want to look like him? Is that the consuming desire of your life? Because if if God wasn't the one who filled you, if God wasn't the one who made you righteous, we'd be in the same position as Paul in Romans 7, right? It's like I have the desire, but I mean how can I do this? God has to be the one who says, you know, I'm not going to just tell you, you know, here's the table, go fill yourself. I'm going to fill you. I'm going to do the filling. We're incapable of attaining this kind of righteousness on our own, and from beginning to end we see that God is involved in every aspect of our salvation. Every aspect, from beginning to end. From the justification to the sanctification as we're striving till the final glorification when he says it's done, it's complete. Like he talks about in uh Philippians chapter 1, right, for I'm confident of this very thing. That he who began a good work in you will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. God's the one who justifies God is the one who's active in our sanctification, and God is also the one who brings that sanctification to completion. This is this is the the goal. It's not like uh God waits until we're we're kind of up at an acceptable level to receive into heaven, right? Says, you know, hey, you've got some sins to burn off and send you to p purgatory for a while. You know, he didn't tell the thief on the cross, you know, today you'll be with me in purgatory. No, it's like today you'll be with me in paradise. Why? Because your sins are taken care of. It's done. And immediately upon death, instant glorification, right? He's there. He's with Christ Every believer is headed for the same destination. Over in Philippians. Flip over to Philippians chapter 3. Because you have uh Paul here, he kind of puts puts all those different aspects of our salvation together in Philippians chapter three. Look at uh starting at verse seven. It says, But whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as lost for the sake of Christ. More than that I count all things to be lost in view of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ. Verse nine, and may be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law But that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. What is he talking about? This is the righteousness of justification. That through faith, the righteousness comes to me. Through faith, righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. I'm justified. I've received the righteousness of Christ. This is my position. Verse 10, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death. What is he talking about here? This is our daily struggle. Right? To be sanctified. I'm I'm being conformed to his death. And then verse 11, in order that I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. What's that talking about? This is glorification. It's from beginning to end. Justification, sanctification, glorification. And then he goes on to kind of talk about this process that we're in between now, you know, sanctification and glorification. Look what he says in verse 12. Not that I have already obtained it, I'm not perfect yet. Right? Or I've already become perfect, but I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Brethren, I do not regard myself as having laid hold of it yet. We're not there yet. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. What is he talking about? He's saying, I'm pressing towards the goal until I finally reach it. I'm pressing towards Christ's likeness until he finally catches me up and I'm there. That's what he's talking about. One day I will be like Christ. Is this what your mouth waters for? This is what you should long for. There's coming a day when we don't have to look at the menu anymore. We'll be there at the banquet table, right? Being filled with the righteousness of Jesus Christ. 1 John chapter 3 verse 2. Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet appeared what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him, because we will see him just as he is. It's fantastic. And this is the kind of righteousness that characterizes the kingdom of God. This this whole discussion through the the book of Matthew talking about the kingdom of God, this is the kind of righteousness that would be found in the kingdom. In uh Isaiah 61. 10 through 11. It says, I will rejoice greatly in the Lord. My soul will exult in my God. For he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has wrapped me with the robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself with the garland, and as a bride adorns herself with jewels, for as the earth brings forth its frouts, and as a garden causes the things sown in it to spring up So the Lord will cause righteousness and praise to spring up before all the nations. One day it's going to characterize the entire earth. Everybody's going to be filled with the righteousness of Jesus Christ. But this kind of kingdom doesn't belong to those that aren't seeking for it. In uh Matthew uh uh chapter six, what does it say there? Seek first The kingdom of God in what? His righteousness. And all these things will be added unto you. If you're not seeking the kingdom now, if you're not seeking righteousness now, this is not the kingdom that Christ offers. It's gotta be now. Seeking first his kingdom now. Seeking first his righteousness now. And if you're not hungering for righteousness now, you can't expect to be filled with it later. It's only the hungry that he fills with with good things. Listen to this by uh Thomas Watson. These are sober in words, okay? Sobering words. He says this. He says, unless we hunger after righteousness, we cannot obtain it. If we do not thirst here, we shall thirst when it is too late. When men shall burn in hell and be scorched with the flames of God's wrath. This heat will increase their thirst for mercy, but there will be nothing to allay their thirst Oh, is it not better to thirst for righteousness while it is to be had than to thirst for mercy when there is none to be had? Sinners, the time is shortly coming when the drawbridge of mercy will be quite pulled up. Sad, it's sobering. It's thirst for righteousness while it's still to be found, right? Instead of searching for mercy and thirsting for mercy when there's none to be found. This is this is a warning. It's a call to examine ourselves. So I ask you again, what's your appetite like? What's your appetite like? Do you feel the appetite for righteousness? Is it recognizable? Is it constant? Is it consuming? Because if you're honest with yourself and you don't have This kind of appetite for righteousness, it means that you're not one that the Lord calls blessed. You need to have this thirst and hunger for righteousness. But for those that hunger and thirst, just as uh the men sang a little bit early, Jesus stands ready to save you, right? Come, ye sinners, poor and needy. Come. The offer is there for anyone who would come to Jesus Christ. And if that's something that that you're interested in. We'd love to talk to you if that's something a decision that you've made in your own heart before the Lord, if the Lord is convicting you, giving you ears to hear, we'd love to talk to you about what that means to follow after Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is our righteousness. He's the one who lived a perfect life in our place. He died a substitutionary death in our place. Everything that we have is filthy rags, right? He's the one that we uh hunger and thirst for. But I've got a another word for for those of us who who realize that our appetite's kind of weak. Our appetite's not as strong as it should be for Righteousness, it's got a got a couple words for you. First of all, you need to stop spoiling your appetite on your own righteousness Stop spoiling your appetite on your own righteousness. In uh Romans 10 it talks about uh those that uh uh go about trying to seek and establish a righteousness. of their own instead of the the righteousness of of Christ. The righteousness that we need to be looking to is the righteousness of of Christ. Not not anything that we can can drum up. The righteousness that we have now, even as believers, isn't satisfactory before God. We need to be hungering and thirsting for more. I think it was Jeremiah Burroughs who says he was puffed up with pride, thinks he has grace enough already, and will not hunger for more. These windy vapors spoil the stomach. When you think you're you're filled up on your own. I'm pretty good. You get kind of, you know, start coasting in your Christianity. You know, the Christian should never be at a place where he's just coasting. I'm satisfied with where I am. We're always looking for more. Stop spoiling your appetite on your own righteousness. Another one, stop spoiling your appetite on unrighteousness. Stop spoiling your appetite on unrighteousness. Even as uh believers, we fall into sin, and uh Paul talked about that struggle and uh Romans chapter seven, uh even as a believer, uh still not understanding the things that he he did. In uh Romans uh uh Psalms chapter uh one nineteen. Psalm one nineteen It says this at the beginning of the psalm. How blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the way of the Lord. How blessed are those Who observe his testimonies, who seek him with all their heart. They also do know in righteousness they walk in his ways. We need to stop spoiling our appetite on unrighteousness and follow after the Lord. It talks about seeking him with all of your heart. Seeking. That's that hunger and thirst, right? That longing for. We need to be seeking after the commands of God. Stop spoiling your appetite on unrighteousness. And then finally, stop spoiling your appetite on license. That's that's your freedom. Things that aren't necessarily wrong to do, but they distract you from the most important thing, right? Instead of seeking first after the kingdom and his righteousness, sometimes we put other things, you know. above in the in that place. We need to be seeking after the kingdom first. In First Corinthians 6 12, it says, All things are lawful for me, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. And then again in chapter 10, verse 23, he says, All things are lawful, but not all things are profitable. All things are lawful, but all things Do not edify. There's some things that we can be engaged in. It's like, this is not necessarily wrong, but is this really gonna help me? Is this gonna be a distraction for me? Will will this possibly mash for me? Did I become addicted to it? You know, some things are perfectly fine to do. But you get addicted to them, it's wrong. You start putting them in a place where they they don't belong. We need to have a hunger and thirst for the righteousness of Christ. And uh one of the ways that we do that is by Spending time with him and beholding him in his word. I love what uh David said in Psalm 63. Says, O God, you are my God, I shall seek you earnestly. My soul thirsts for you, my flesh yearns for you, in a dry and weary land where there is no water. Thus I have seen you in the sanctuary to see your power and your glory, because your loving kindness is better than life. My lips will praise you. So I will bless you as long as I live. I will lift up my hands. In your name. Yearning and longing for the water and a dry and thirsty land, right? And the only place that we can find that is in Him. It's in Christ. Where's your appetite? Where's your appetite? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you guys so much for uh the opportunity that we've had to spend some time in your word. And uh Father, uh there's so much more here than than even I could communicate. Uh Father, I pray that you'd apply it uh into each individual's life as uh as your Holy Spirit would Father, I pray that uh these are the things that we uh turn back to often uh to examine ourselves, Lord, to push ourselves further. Father, I pray that we're not satisfied with junk food. There's so much of it around. Father, I pray that we would long for the the nourishment, the water and the bread that comes from a relationship with Jesus Christ, that we would long after him until that day when we're finally filled. When we're finally glorified, when we finally reflect the glory of Christ. Father, we look forward to that day, and I pray that you keep us faithful until that time. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.