The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 5? Matthew chapter 5. We're going to continue to look at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, and I want to remind you again that this sermon is addressed to kingdom citizens. Kingdom citizens. Uh Jesus is the King. The book of Matthew highlights that, that Jesus is the King. And uh the sermon that he uh uh uh has here addresses those that are are part of the the kingdom. He's uh allows the crowds to kind of uh Listen in on what he has to say, but it's primarily addressed to those that are his own. He addresses this to his disciples, and it uh says so in uh in verse one it talks about his disciples coming to him and then he opened his mouth and began to teach them. So this is for disciples. And uh if you're a disciple here today, if you've trusted in uh Jesus Christ, if you turned from your sin, bowed the knee to Christ as your king, uh trusted in him for salvation, this sermon is for you. This is addressed to you as a kingdom citizen, and all the privileges and blessings that belong to those that belong to Christ belong to you as well. And even though we might not experience these things, all of these things now in our lifetime as uh necessary uh blessings and even though people might not look at us and say automatically, hey that's a blessed person over there, uh what the king declares about us is the truth. And uh just wanted to remind you about that. Uh the word blessed means to be well off, uh to be fortunate, to be happy. And like I said, you might not Recognize that about yourself. Other people might not recognize that about you, but it's what the king has declared is true of the people that are characterized by the things on this list. Let's start at verse 1. So when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he had sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and Falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you once again as we approach uh your word. My Father, this is uh the word that your Holy Spirit has authored Uh Father has come through the instrument of uh human hands, Lord, but it came from uh your mind, your heart, your direction And Father, we uh I pray that as we uh read these words, uh the recorded words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that uh we would Pay attention to what he has to say to us, that we would continue to examine our hearts and measure our hearts against what he has to say. Father, I pray that we would be those that are truly humbled. And humble ourselves underneath the words of our Lord. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Well, uh Psalm 139, you have David making this cry before the Lord in verse 23. He says, Search me, O God. And know my heart. Search me, O God, and know my my heart. And that the Lord has been faithful to do that in each one of these Beatitudes Each of these statements is pierced me. I know that to the core, and uh from the discussions I've had with uh many of you, these things have uh pierced you as as well. It's been true for you Uh Martin Lloyd Jones in his commentary asks this question. He says, how are we reacting to the searchings and probings? How are we reacting to the searchings and probings? He says, if I dislike this kind of thing, if I am impatient with it, if I want instead to be talking about politics, if I dislike this personal analysis and probing and testing, it simply means that my position is entirely contrary to that of the New Testament man A man who is truly Christian, as we have already seen, never objects to being humbled. Never objects to being humbled. And uh this is no less true of uh The fifth beatitude that we run across here, blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the merciful. Look at verse 7 again. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. And in uh verse seven we arrive at sort of a transition point in the Beatitudes. There's a a shift in emphasis, and that's even reflected in uh the way that it's structured here. The first four beatitudes and you won't see this in English, but in Greek they're all alliterated, meaning that they all start with the same letter in Greek. They start with the letter P in in Greek. And uh all of them seem to focus on the attitudes that are internal and personal. Attitudes that are internal and personal. Poverty of spirit. Mourning over sin, meekness of spirit, hungering and thirsting after righteousness. Uh these are attitudes that are primarily experienced personally and internally. But when it comes to being merciful, pure, a peacemaker, persecuted Primarily it has to do with the experience that we have interpersonally with other people and externally. And all of the beatitudes they they address the inward life, but the first half seems to do uh more so than the the second. And it's also been observed that there seems to be a relationship uh between the first four and the the latter four. Uh MacArthur points this out. He says, the poverty of spirit will lead you to being merciful with others. Mourning over your sin will lead you to be pure in heart. Meekness of spirit will lead you to be a peacemaker. And if you hunger and thirst for righteousness, you won't mind being persecuted for righteousness' sake. There's a relationship between these beatitudes and they all fit together. And as we've been saying, it's uh assumed that all of the beatitudes are true for all believers. The Lord doesn't talk about These are things that you know believers should be or might be. He says these are things that are true. These are things that are true of my disciples. It's assumed that if you're a disciple These things are going to be true of you as well, and uh those that are destined for mercy are themselves merciful, as we find out in verse seven And uh there's three questions that'll kind of help us frame our our study of this uh beatitude. The first one is, do we look with eyes of mercy on others? Are we known as merciful? Christ says, blessed are the merciful. Are we known as merciful? Second question is, do we appreciate the eyes of mercy that looked on us? Do you recognize your own need for mercy? At the end of the verse he says, they shall receive mercy. There's a recognition that You need to be merciful because you need mercy. Do you recognize that there's eyes of mercy that even looked on you? And our third question is, do we rejoice in the eternal mercy that will be granted to us? Do you have any idea what kind of promise is really being offered to you here when he says, you shall receive mercy, and he calls you blessed. If you receive mercy, you are blessed. And I'll confess to you up front that we're only going to be scratching the surface when we talk about uh mercy. It's such a broad uh topic, uh, but we're going to uh uh dive in anyway. First of all, do we look with eyes of mercy towards others? Blessed are the merciful. And as in possible as this might be for us to imagine, there was a time when there was no need for mercy. There was a time when there was no need for mercy, because there was a time when sin did not exist. In eternity past, there was nothing but pure joy, bliss, glory. The triune God existed in uh perfect harmony and love over in uh John 17. If you want to just flip over there. Real quick. Jesus in his high priestly prayer gives us just a little bit of a glimpse into what he enjoyed in his eternal relationship with the Father in John 17 and verse 5. He says, Now Father, glorify me together with yourself with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Before there was a world, there was glory. Uh and that glory existed among the members of the Trinity. There was no need to veil that glory as God had to do with uh Moses. Uh this was just full blazing glory, full strength and and brilliance of the the Trinity. We can't even begin to imagine what Christ was reminiscing on. You know, give me the glory that I had with you before the world was. And not only was there glory, there's all also this pure and satisfying love. that existed uh among the members of the Trinity as well. Uh further on in John 17 and verse 24, it says, Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, so that they may see my glory which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. There was this love that existed. prior to the creation of the the world as well. And I've I've heard people say things like, uh uh God created man in order that he'd have somebody to love. It's like, are you kidding me? You know, the the the Trinity dwelt in love before the foundations of the earth. For all of eternity there was this love that was unmatched by anything we could offer, okay? So there was already a love, a deep and eternal bond that existed in the Trinity There was also this relationship that they enjoyed, you know, this relationship of love in 1 Peter 1. 20. It says, For he was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but has appeared in these last times for your sakes. You know, he already had this relationship. That word foreknown means to uh to uh uh to have a relationship. It's a relational type of word. This was a relationship that God enjoyed without us. God is self-existent, right? God doesn't need us. Theologians use the word asaidi, a-s-e-i-t-y, to talk about God, that God is the uncaused being that there's uh no cause for his existence. He doesn't depend on anything outside of himself. He's the only one that could be called truly self-sufficient. God doesn't need anything. In John 5 26, Jesus says, For just as the Father has life in himself, even so he is given to the Son also to have life in himself, God needs nothing. In Acts chapter 17, 24 to 25, it says, Then the Lord who made the world and all things in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything Since he himself gives to all people life and breath and all things. God is completely satisfied within himself. He has no needs. And when God created man He created man to be in connection with the one who was his resource for everything. There was nothing that Adam would have lacked that went unmet by God. There's nothing that Adam needed that went unmet by God. He needed protection. God placed him in a perfect environment. I mean, this environment was so fine-tuned that he didn't even need to wear clothes. He needed provision, and God gave him every tree of the garden save one to eat. Eat freely. He can have everything. He needed purpose. God gave Adam a relationship with himself and dominion over all of creation. He needed a partner. And God gave him Eve before Adam even asked for her. Right? It was God who saw that this isn't good. He needs a partner, right? It was God's idea to give him a partner And together they were to produce a generation of children born in connection with the self-sufficient God who would meet every need. There was no need that went unmet for Adam and Eve. There was nothing to feel sorry for. There was no need to feel pity for anybody. No need for mercy, sympathy. But as soon as sin was introduced into the world, there was just a flood of sorrow that came in behind it. A flood of reasons to feel sorry for man. Actually got so bad that God even said, I'm sorry that I made man, right? Within the first few chapters of Genesis, there's separation and conflict and sickness and pain and death and toil and rape and war and famine. And while this was all what God ordained and planned to be, it was not the way that things were meant to be. It's not the things were meant to be. So here's the questions that the fifth beatitude forces us to wrestle with. How do we respond when we see fellow image bearers, you know, those that have been created in the image of God? How do we respond when we see those fellow image bearers being crushed under the weight of the consequences of sin? How do we respond to that? Whether it's the consequences of just living in a sin-cursed world or the consequences of sins being committed against that person? Or even the consequences of the sins that that person commits. How does the kingdom citizen respond to all that? Do you look with eyes of mercy, or do you look with eyes of indifference That's the question. If you're a true citizen of the kingdom, Jesus doesn't say you should be merciful. He doesn't say that you might be merciful. He says you will be. Those that are kingdom citizens are merciful. Those that are kingdom citizens are merciful. These are the ones that he considers blessed. And it's important that we understand what this means. Adjective uh merciful, uh menon, it's uh from a verb elle which means to to have mercy or pity, to help one who's afflicted or seeking aid, to bring help to the wretched, or to experience Mercy. And there's a mercy and grace are often related to one another, often found in the same verses with uh with each other. Uh but there's a distinction between uh mercy and grace in the in the Bible, and it's helpful to kind of note the distinctions. Grace gives what we don't deserve. Mercy withholds what we do deserve, right? It doesn't give us what we deserve. And I found this explanation helpful from Martin Lloyd Jones. He says, grace is especially associated with men and their sins. Mercy is especially associated with men in their misery. In other words, while grace looks down upon sin as a whole, mercy looks upon the miserable consequences of sin The miserable consequences of sin. MacArthur adds this. Grace deals with the cause. Mercy deals with the symptoms. Grace offers pardon for the crime. Mercy offers relief from the punishment. Grace cures the disease. Mercy eliminates the pain. Grace says I pardon you, mercy says I pity you. Grace says heaven, whereas mercy says no hell. No hell. To put it simply, it's a feeling of pity which leads to acts of pity. A feeling of pity which leads to acts of pity. It's compassion and action. for people in need. And uh to be merciful is more than just feeling sorrow. Feeling sorry, that's it's it's more than that. Just having sorrowful feelings is not enough. In James chapter two, fifteen and sixteen it says if a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to him, Go in peace, be warmed, be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body. What use is that? That's not mercy. It's not true pity. In the parable of the Good Samaritan, the priest and the Levi might have felt bad for the guy that was laying over half dead. But only one was said to have mercy. The one who went down to help, right? That's what mercy is. It sees a need and it goes to help. To be merciful is to reach out and to help. Uh but on the other hand, uh to be merciful does include the feelings. Does include the feelings, feelings of of sorrow to offer assistance without any feeling of sorrow, uh tenderness or compassion is not what the Bible means by being merciful. To be merciful means it's something that affects you. Something that affects your soul. The Greek Stoic uh philosophers actually uh try to make a distinction between mercy and pity. They called uh pity the illness of the soul. That if you feel sorry for people, that's an illness of the soul. One famous uh Roman philosopher who lived during the time of Christ, uh Lucius Aeneas Seneca. He had this to say in an essay on mercy. Listen to what he says. He says, Many commend pity as a virtue and call a pitiful man good. But this too is a mental defect. It is the failing of a weak nature that succumbs to the sight of others' ills, and so it is often seen in the poorest types of persons There are old women and wretched females who are moved by the tears of the worst criminals, who, if they could, would break open their prison. Pity regards the plight, not the cause of it. Pity is the sorrow of the mind brought about by the sight of the distress of others or sadness caused by the ill of others. No sorrow befalls the wise man. His mind is serene, and nothing can happen to befloud it. The mind cannot at the same time be superior and sad Sorrow blunts its powers, dissipates, and hampers them. This will not happen to a wise man, even in the case of personal calamity. And then he says this the wise man will bring relief to another's tears, but will not add his own to it Meaning that I you know, I'm not gonna cry for you. Yeah, I might help you out, but I'm not I don't feel anything for you. And and that was the the the view of the the Roman uh Stoics, the Roman philosophers, they believe that a person should avoid any highs or lows of emotion. You shouldn't be too happy. You shouldn't be too sad. We just kind of like a flat line in the middle. You know, you see somebody in in distress is just like, well, you know, I'll I'll try to help you out. But I mean there's nothing that that moves you. That's the way that the Romans used to think about it, but that's not what true mercy is. And to defend that, you'd have to look no further than Jesus Christ himself, right? Jesus Christ himself. And uh Matthew chapter 9, verse 36, you can jot these down. Seeing the people, he felt compassion for them Because they were distressed and dispirited like sheep without a shepherd. When he saw the hungry in Matthew 15, 32, Jesus called his disciples and said, I feel compassion for the people. Because they have remained with me now three days and have nothing to eat, I do not want to send them away hungry, for they might faint on the way. For the blind in Matthew 20, 30 Two blind men sitting by the road, hearing that Jesus was passing by, cried out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David! And Jesus in verse 34 moved with compassion. Jesus touched their eyes and immediately they regained their sight and followed. The leper, in Mark chapter 1, verse 40, the leper came to Jesus, beseeching him, falling on his knees before him, saying, If you are willing, you can make me clean. Verse 41, Jesus moved with compassion, stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, I am willing. Be cleansed. Those that mourned. Sorrow for the death of a loved one in uh Luke chapter 7 verse 12. It says, Now as he approached the gate of the city, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother. She was a widow and a sizable crowd from the city was with her. When the Lord saw her, he felt compassion for her and said to her, Do not weep. And then we find Jesus actually adding his tears to the people's tears in John 11, 35 and just two words, right? Jesus wept. Jesus felt compassion for people. It was it was action, but it was also with the feeling. Jesus had deep feelings for those that he extended mercy to. And that word uh compassion, it's often uh associated with with mercy. That uh that word compassion, it's it's a word that's that refers to the bowels or the guts, the intestines, because uh the the Jewish people understood the the gut to be the seat of emotion. It's like you know when you feel fear or anxiety or sympathy, it's like you can just feel it like in your gut. And and Jesus' stomach literally turned for people. He had this turning of the of the bowels when he saw people in distress. He wanted to meet their needs, and he added his own tears to theirs. One writer said that uh it's a kind of cruelty to feed one in want and not want to sympathize with them. And in Jesus, we don't come before a Savior who can't sympathize. with us. And those that are citizens of of Christ's kingdom reflect the same character of the king. We can't pray for his kingdom to come. We can't pray for his will to be done without an ache in our soul because of the pain and misery that we see. Right? We're praying for it for your kingdom to come, but we don't see it. And it pains us for what we see around us, right? The consequences of of sin that are All around. Kingdom citizens feel the pain and misery and they want to add their own tears to the tears of what they see around them. On the other hand, you had uh Pharisees who totally lacked compassion. And uh Matthew chapter 23, you can flip there real quick. Matthew chapter uh 23, Jesus, I mean, he lambasted the Pharisees In uh Matthew chapter twenty-three, look at uh verse twenty-three. It says, What are you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites? You tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. In all of their meticulous attention to detail, they neglected the weightier matters of the law, neglected mercy. No, we'll we'll pay attention to how many spices we, you know, kind of share out. Make sure we get a tenth of the dill and the cumin. But mercy is just out the windows, like not even on the radar. In verse 4 of Matthew chapter 23, look what it says here. It says, They tie up heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves are unwilling to move them with so much as a finger. We're going to heap on our rules on you, heap up our legalism, tell you all the things that you need to do, but what I mean to help, I mean, I I can't bother with that Can't bother with helping people. People didn't matter. Their rules mattered. That's how they they thought. If somebody was hungry on the Sabbath, well you just let them go hungry. Matthew chapter 12, verse 1, it says, At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples became hungry, began to pick the heads of grain and eat to eat. But when the Pharisees saw this, they said, Look, your disciples do it's not lawful to do on the Sabbath. If they're hungry, just let them be hungry. Don't break the laws. And Jesus says, if he had known what this means, I desire compassion and not sacrifice, you would have not condemned the innocent. There's nothing wrong with what they're doing. It didn't matter if people were physically deformed, disabled, debilitated. If it's a violation of their Sabbath rules, let them stay deformed and disabled and debilitated. Over in Luke chapter 13, flip over there real quick. Luke chapter 13. We have a an instance of of this where Jesus heals on the on the Sabbath day, Luke chapter 13. Look at verse 11. It says, and there was a woman who for 18 years had a sickness caused by a spirit, and she was bent double, and could not straighten up at all. When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, Woman, you are freed from this sickness. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made erect again and began glorifying God. But the synagogue officials, indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, began saying to the crowd in response, There are six days in which to work. Which work should be done, so come during them and get healed, not on the Sabbath day. But the Lord answered him and said, You hypocrites, does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox and his donkey from the stall and lead them away to water them? And this woman, a daughter of Abraham as she is, whom Satan has bound for 18 long years, should she not have been released from this bond on the Sabbath day? It's like you guys would water your ox and your donkey, but you you'd you'd rather have this woman walk around doubled over for another day. But you wouldn't let your ox or donkey go for a day without water. Verse 17 says, as he said, this whole opponents were being humiliated. You bet they were. I mean the covers are ripped off of them. You guys care more about donkeys and action than you do about people. It didn't matter that they were physically deformed. They had more compassion for their animals. And it's repeated over and over again. There's a man with a withered hand in Matthew chapter twelve. A man suffering from dropsy in Luke chapter 14, a man who's lame in John chapter 5. It's like, well, don't stay sick. It's the Sabbath day. The Romans weren't any better. It's Father's Day, so let's let's flip back to Psalm 103. Let me give it a verse for you fathers, okay? Psalm 103, look at verse 13. It says, just as a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. You might want to put like an asterisk next to that, because not all fathers had compassion. There was a a rule known as uh patria potestes, uh, the power of the father. That the Romans had that they'd pick up their child after the child was born, and if they wanted the child to live, it was thumbs up. If they wanted the child to die , thumbs down. Compassion of the Father, huh? Mercy fills the pain of misery and works to alleviate suffering. And as I mentioned already, there are all kinds of situations that call for mercy All kinds of situations that call for mercy. Many of the situations that people find themselves in are just the consequences of living in a sin-cursed earth, right? Just the consequences of the the fall. There's no need to try and find a sin under every you know disease and sickness. You know, like people try to do. It's like, you know, come and get the the demon of nasal drip cast out. You know, it's like a demon behind everything, right? There's there's no need to try to find a a demon or a sin because of of sickness. There's uh sickness that just exists because we're part of a fallen world, right? In John chapter 9, uh Jesus' disciples came across a man who was blind from birth. And what are they thinking? John chapter 9 says Verse 1 it says, as he passed by, he saw a man born blind from birth, and his disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents that he would be born blind? I mean somebody did something right. I mean, did he do something in the in the stomach that was that bad? You know, kicking his mom? I mean, what did he do? I mean, he's born blind. Was it him or his parents? Jesus said it was neither that this man sinned nor his parents, but it was so that the works of God might be displayed in him. We must work the works of God who sent me as long as it is day. What's those works? This said, I mean, show mercy, right? That's what he's talking about. Night is coming when no one can work. There was a Jewish belief that sickness was the result of personal sin. One rabbi of the third century is quoted as saying this: there is no suffering without Iniquity. If you suffer, it's because you sinned. A section of the Jewish Talmud lists special sins that would result in specific diseases. And Job's friends had that same kind of mentality. If if Job's suffering, it's because there's something in his life. I mean, just confess it, Job, right? But Jesus doesn't entertain any of that here. While there's a Instances of suffering that's a direct result of sin. You find an example of that in John 5. There really doesn't have to be any more explanation than the fact that we just live in a fallen world. We live in a fallen world, and sickness is an opportunity for God to show himself strong. And that's what Jesus talks about. He says, this is for the glory of God. This is an opportunity for God to display himself. And there are so many instances in scripture where sickness is seen as a reason for mercy. And we've already seen a number of those already with uh with in the life of Christ. And then there's uh not only the consequences of living in a sin-cursed earth, there's also uh situations that are the result of the sins of others. Other people commit sin and we're the victims of it. In the parable of the Good Samaritan, Jesus told a story about a man who was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, fell among robbers, they stripped him, beat them, went away, leaving them half dead. What did this guy ask for, right? He's just walking at the wrong place at the wrong time, right? And here we see suffering as the result of the sins of others. This guy wasn't looking for any trouble. Trouble found him. And that's sometimes how it is. Because of the sins of others, we're the victims of it. People are the victims of it. And it was the Samaritan who was pointed out as having mercy and compassion on him because of the sins of others. And then there's those situations where the suffering is That it's endured is just the result of your own personal sin. Your own personal sin. And this is the probably the hardest category of all to deal with for most of us, because these are the self-inflicted wounds of the sinner. Self-inflicted wounds. This is the misery that sinners create themselves and they're reaping the consequences. They reap what they sowed. Proverbs 13, 15 says, Good understanding produces favor, but the way of the treacherous is hard. The way of the wicked is hard. You make life hard for yourself. And we're tempted to say that if that's the bed you made, you you just lie in it, right? It's hard because that's the way you made it. You need to lie in it. If it's hard, it's good for you. Might learn a lesson. For those who are suffering the consequences of their own sins are the very people that Christ sought after. The very people Christ sought after. Look at Matthew chapter 9. Matthew 9, look at verse 10. It says, Then it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and sinners? But when Jesus heard this, he said, It is not those who are healthy who need a physician, but those who are sick. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners. Jesus' heart ached Not only for those that were sick physically, but for those that were sick spiritually. He says, I have compassion for these people. There's mercy for these people. I 'm here because they're sick. They need help. He had compassion for them, was merciful towards them. And the the question that the Beatitudes challenge us with is that what characterizes you? Does your heart ache for those that pay the consequences of even their own sins? Is there something that turns in your stomach to say, no, no, no? Why? Why? Why continue to be hurt? Why continue to hurt yourself? You're doing it to yourself. There should be something that moves and stirs our hearts. Is it your heart to say, I don't want you to suffer like this? Is that your heart? If that's the kind of mercy that's not evident in your life, if you don't find that in your life, you need to ask yourself the second question. Do you appreciate the eyes of mercy that looked on you? If you don't have a heart of compassion for others, what I mean, do you recognize that there were eyes of compassion that looked on you when you were in your sins? When Jesus says, blessed are the merciful because they shall receive mercy, he's acknowledging that you need mercy yourself. You need mercy. How dare we refuse to others what we so desperately need ourselves? We desperately need it. If you're a kingdom citizen, that is what you've already received in part. You've already received mercy, right? If you belong to the king, you've already received mercy in part. We belong to God because Of what? Nothing in us, right? What what attracted God to you? Anyone got any ideas? What attracted God to you? It was because of pity that we don't receive what we deserve. It's because of pity. Titus chapter 3, verse 5, it says, He saved us not on the basis of deeds which we have done. He couldn't find anything in us. Nothing righteous in us, but according to his mercy, by the washing of regeneration and the renewing by the Holy Spirit, there was nothing that attracted God to us when he found us. I'd have you flip to Ezekiel, but it might take you too long, all right? Ezekiel chapter 16. I'll just read it for you. God describes in vivid detail the unattractive state of Jerusalem when he called her Write this one down and look it up when you have some time. Ezekiel chapter 16. Listen to this. It says, Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, Son of man Make known to Jerusalem her abominations. Okay? So what you're about to hear is a picture of abominations, sins. This is how sins are graphically pictured. And say, thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem, your origin and your birth are from the land of the Canaanite, your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite. As for your birth, on the day you were born, your navel cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water for cleansing. You were not rubbed with salt or even wrapped in cloth. No I looked with pity on you to do any of these things for you, to have compassion on you. Rather, you were thrown out into the open field, for you were abhorred on the day you were born. When I passed by you and saw you squirming in your blood, I said to you, while you were in your blood, live. Yes, I said to you, while you were in your blood, live. It's like just this squirming mass of blood and just dirt and abhorrence, and it's like, I have compassion on you. That's what God says. I have compassion on you. Not because of anything that was attractive about you. I just I pity you I have mercy for you. And that's the picture of us in our sins. Everything about us was repulsive to God. Everything about us. But God breathed into us his life. He came to us and said, live! Live! Ephesians 2:4. But God being rich rich in mercy because of his great love, which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. What did he say to you? He said, live. We have received the greatness of his mercy. While we are dead. 1 Peter 1 3. Blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Caused us to be born again. What did he say? He said, live. Live. There's nothing attractive about you on your own. And the question is, have you forgotten who you were when you received mercy? Have you forgotten that? Have you forgotten who you still are? That you still are in need of mercy? There's nothing about you to commend you to God. How could we dare allow the sins of others to close our bowels of compassion towards them? But we we we want the compassion of the Lord to be w w wide open to us, right? Right? This is what Peter had to wrestle with over in Matthew 18, remember that? Flip over Matthew 18. Matthew eighteen verse twenty-one. So then Peter came and said to him, Lord How often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him up to seven times? Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. But since he did not have the means for repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be made. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion. There was nothing attractive about this guy. Nothing attractive. Nothing to commend him. The Lord just said, I just I I feel sorry for you I pity you. And but because of his pity, he released him and forgave him all the debt. Verse 28. But that slave, what slave? That same slave Went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denarii, a couple months' wages. Seized him, began to choke him, saying, Pay back what you owe. Actually that word for choke means to draw blood. Pay back what you owe So his fellow slaves fell to the ground and began to plead with him, saying, have patience with me and I will repay you. That should have sounded really familiar. But he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved and came and reported to their Lord all that had happened. Then summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave. I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me? Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave in the same way that I had mercy on you? Should ye not have also had mercy? What we find here is that the mercy that the king gave to the servant was voluntary. The mercy that this servant owed to his other servants was mandatory. Because of my mercy that I've shown to you, now it is mandatory for you to show mercy to others. It's not voluntary for you. You don't decide whether or not you're going to show mercy. All he had to do was remember the mercy that's been showed to him. That would have been enough to let him know he has no excuse for lack of mercy with with others. No excuse. Don't forget that the one who shows mercy is also still in need of it. And we need to remember that what Peter says in 1 Peter 2. 10, he says, for you were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. There was a time when you didn't have mercy. And God came and pitied you and met your need. You need to remember that. And the last question is this, do we rejoice in the eternal mercy that will be granted to us? Do we rejoice in the eternal mercy that will be granted to us? Back in Matthew 5. 7. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. The word uh mercy, as we've already observed, is a it's a broad word. It can include any alleviation of pain or suffering. There's not a day that goes by that we don't experience the mercy of God. Not a day that goes by Jeremiah reminds us of of that in the Book of Lamentations, chapter three, twenty-one and twenty-three. He says, This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope. The Lord's loving kindnesses plural the Lord's loving kindnesses indeed never cease. For his compassions, again, plural, never fail. You get multiple mercies every day. They are new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. You continue to shower upon me mercies, compassions. The psalmist says in Psalm 33, verse 5, He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving-kindness of the Lord. It's the Old Testament word for mercy. Later on, David says in Psalm 145, verse 9, The Lord is good to all and his mercies are over all his works. Mercy showered out. Multiple mercies. So the question is this: what's different about the kind of mercy that's promised in this Beatitude? That they shall receive mercy. We're already receiving mercy, right? Every day we're receiving fresh mercy. All of God's works experience some aspect of his mercy in general. All of his creation receives mercy. In a sense. Even even the the demons who possessed the man in Matthew 8 were allowed to enter the herd of swine because they begged Jesus to go into the herd of swine. You ever think about that? It's pretty pretty I mean it's fascinating to me. Demons begging Jesus, hey Jesus can you can you let us go in the just go ahead just go ahead get out of here All of God's works experience mercy. And as believers, we experience God's mercies new every morning. That's a present experience. Watson says this: every time we draw a breath, we suck in mercy. Every time we draw a breath, you suck in mercy. So what's promised here? What's the promised mercy that we look forward to? And I really think that the best way to answer that question is to compare it with the blessings of the other Beatitudes. In verse 3. It says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. When will we inherit the kingdom of heaven? Verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. When will we be comforted and no longer mourn over sin? Verse 5. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. When's that going to happen? Verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. When are you going to be satisfied with personal righteousness? It's not gonna be now. Right? When will we receive this mercy? Verse 7 This is the kingdom mercy that he's talking about, okay? This is kingdom mercy. It's true that we receive general mercy, but but all of God's creation receives general mercy. Jesus said, Blessed are those that are merciful, and uh even in that he makes a distinction between the mercy that you're going to receive versus the mercy that everybody else receives. Right? There's a difference in the mercy It's not salvation mercy because those that are his disciples would have already received that. They would have already had salvation mercy. Specific kind of mercy that Jesus is referring to here is kingdom mercy. This is the mercy that we receive in the kingdom. And that time will be merciful for those that were merciful. And in Matthew 25, it refers to the entrance into that kingdom. Flip over to Matthew chapter 25. Look at verse 31. Help us, Lord, right? Matthew 25, look at verse 31. But when the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. This is known as the sheep and goats judgment here. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them from one another as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed of my Father. Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Same kind of thing that he was talking about in Matthew 5, right? The kingdom. Inherit the kingdom. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger, you invited me in. Naked and you clothed me, I was sick, you visited me, I was in prison, you came to me Then the righteous will answer him and said, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you or thirsty and give you something to drink? And when did we see you, stranger, invite you in, or naked and clothe you? When do we see you sick or in prison and come to you, the king will answer and say to them, Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of the least One of these brothers of mine, even the least of them, you did it to me. I believe that's the day that uh uh Paul also refers to in 2 Timothy chapter 1, verses 16 to 18. Talks about a guy named Anisaphorus in uh 2 Timothy 1-16-18. He says, The Lord grant mercy to the house of Anisaphorus For he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. But when he was in Rome, eagerly, he eagerly searched for me and found me. The Lord grant to him to find mercy from the Lord on that day. What day is he talking about? This day when the Lord separates the sheep from the goats. And he's able to say to Anisaphorus, You visited me when I was in prison. You came to me. You ministered to my knee and he's slowly said, when did I do that? When you did it to Paul? You did it to me. When you did it to the least of these, you did it to me For those that have shown mercy in this day, the judgment will be merciful in that day. And that's the blessing, and uh there's no place that will be more desperate for mercy than when we're standing before the king. There's not going to be a time you'll be more desperate for his mercy. But everybody doesn't receive that kind of mercy. And that's clear even from the text in Matthew 5, right? It says, Blessed are the merciful for they Talking to a specific group. These ones are going to be those that receive mercy. Everyone's not going to receive the kind of mercy that this text talks about And the most frightening verses in all of the scripture have to do with those that receive no mercy. Frightening. James chapter 2, verse 13, it says, For judgment will be merciless to one who has shown no mercy. Merciless judgment. You don't even want to imagine merciless judgment. There's no mercy offered in hell. All requests for mercy are denied. Luke chapter 16 gives us a picture. Well, just go ahead and turn to it. Luke chapter 16. This is sobering. Look at verse 19. It says, now there was a rich man, and he habitually dressed in purple and fine linen. Joyously living in splendor every day, and a poor man named Lazarus, who was laid at his gate covered with sores, and longing to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the rich man's table, besides, even the dogs were coming in licking his sores. The dogs had more compassion on this guy than the rich man did. Now the poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom, and the rich man also died and was buried. And Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far away and Lazarus in his bosom, and he cried out and said, Father Abraham, have mercy Mercy! What is he crying out for? Mercy on me. Send Lazarus so that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool off my tongue for I'm in agony in this flame. Just a just dip his finger in water and just dip it on my tongue. I mean just a drop will satisfy me. Just a drop Mercy, just a little bit of mercy. Just can I get a water drop of mercy? For I'm agon - I'm in agony in this flame. But Abraham said, child , You remember that during your life you received your good things, and likewise Lazarus bad things, but now he is being comforted here and you are in agony. And besides all this, between us and you there is a great chasm fixed, so that those who wish to come over from here to you will not be able, and none may cross over from there to us. At this point there's no desire for mercy to reach out to this person who's in the flames. Even if there was a desire, there's no means to reach them because the gulf is fixed. It's settled. Judgment is now merciless. Merciless. Do you know how thankful you should be for Kingdom Mercy? Oh my goodness. Do you know how thankful you should be for Kingdom Mercy? That when you enter into the kingdom, it's it's mercy upon mercies upon mercies. I mean, God just continues to say no hell, no hell, no hell We could spend an entire message just on uh some of the practical implications of this and the the wisdom that should govern the practice of mercy. But let me let me just mention a few of them, okay? Just a few. We'll uh return to some of these later on as we uh continue to study through Matthew. Uh but let me just give you a few things to think about. First of all, uh we're not going to eliminate the consequences of living in a sin-cursed world, right? There's no way that we can eliminate the consequences for that. There will be no kingdom without the king. The king has to come before all the benefits of the kingdom are going to be seen. So that's not the primary mission of the church. God 's not going to hold us accountable to feed every hungry, thirsty, lonely, naked soul in the world. Okay? So I don't want you to put any unnecessary burden on yourself, but there are two places that you will be held accountable for. Your family and your church. Your family and your church. Those are the two places where God does hold you accountable for. As you have opportunity, you know, as as as much as lies within you to live at peace with all men and you know uh to to do good to all men, especially to the household of faith. So there's there's good that we're supposed to do to all men. But when it comes to your family and the church, God requires it of you. God requires it of you. And if you don't believe in a local church, you're obligated to everybody worldwide. Right? There's a local expression that God says, I'm holding you accountable for this. And you're to show mercy here, primarily. I mean, look at uh Matthew 25 and uh he says, you know, to the to the to the least of these, right? You know, as he showed mercy to these, he showed mercy to me. It's it's those that were in fellowship, you know, together that enjoyed that benefit. That's who God holds us accountable for. Second thing, we won't be able to stop sins from being perpetrated on others, right? No way we're going to be able to stop all that from happening. But we can minister mercy to those that the Lord lays across our path. Right? The the good Samaritan in Luke 10, he wasn't out looking for people half dead. You know, he's just laying across the street. You know, he's on his way and he's just laying there. That's the person that God called him to, right? So we we can't go out and find everybody that's half dead, but those that the Lord lays across our paths, that's your neighbor. That's where you're supposed to invest. Our neighbors are those that God gives us opportunity to serve. Opportunities to love. Those that he lays across our path, that's your opportunity for mercy. That's where mercy is to be shown. And the third thing I'll mention is that we won't stop sins from being committed against us, right? Wish we could. We can't stop sins from being committed against us, but we can be quick to forgive. We can be quick to remember that, you know what, I am in desperate need of mercy myself. I don't need to be holding one smidgen of mercy back from somebody else. Because I don't want the Lord to hold any back from me, right? Lord, I want to be a merciful person. Quick to forgive. You need mercy, I want to give it to you. And those that don't know the Lord, we need to be ministers of mercy to snatch them from the fire. To preach the truth to people. How are they people going to receive mercy of the Lord that are in sin? It's by coming into contact with the Lord. Right? By the gospel being preached to those people. In uh Jude chapter uh in Jude verse 23 it talks about snatching them from the fire You know, I I know you're in your sin. I see you suffering the consequences of your sin. I want to rescue you from this condition. I want to snatch you out of this fire that you're in. I don't want to see you suffer the consequences of your own sins. We want to reach out to mercy even in even towards those that are inflicting their own wounds upon themselves. We still want to have mercy towards those people. Amen? And those are the people, like I said, that the Lord reached out to. We need to be people of mercy. And those that are kingdom citizens are people of mercy We need to make it sure it's more evident in our lives. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, uh God again for uh this Passage and uh Lord, I I knew I was only going to be able to scratch the surface on this. There's so much more that we need to learn and understand about mercy, about the mercy that you've given us. About the mercy that we should extend to others. Father, I pray that we would be known as a church of mercy. Father, that we would be known as a church of forgiveness. Uh Father, that we would be known as a church that that meets needs that we find within the the body. Father, I pray that that would be true of us That as we have opportunities within the the city of Baltimore as we uh prepare for Evangelism Week and and other things that we do in the in the city Whether that's in a in a nursing home or a or uh some kind of uh a rescue mission or in a jail, Father, I pray that you would have people here that are ready, that are eager To find those situations where they can extend mercy, the mercy that you've given them to pass it along to others. Father, I pray that we would be known as a church like that Father, I pray that um uh that you would help us to live in such a way that um that it's just evident that we're recipients of your mercy, that we're looking forward uh to your mercy. And that we are quick to give that same mercy to others. Father, may that be true. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on Duplicat and all digital files