The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Amen. Why don't we uh open our Bibles to the book of Matthew? Uh the book of Matthew will continue our study of the Beatitudes, and it's uh important as we turn to Matthew just to remind ourselves about the context again for this sermon. Uh Matthew is a uh book that presents Jesus uh to us as the promised king. His kingship is proclaimed. It's defended and in this chapter in Matthew chapter 5 it's demonstrated. This takes place sometime during Jesus's early uh ministry to uh Galilee. Uh by this time in the narrative of uh Matthew, uh Jesus has already been recognized at his baptism by the Father. He's been tested in the wilderness by Satan, and uh he's begun a ministry of preaching the gospel, performing miracles, and also preparing his disciples for service. The primary audience for this sermon, the Sermon on the Mount, which is uh starts with the Beatitudes, the primary audience for this sermon is the disciples. And uh that's important to note here. Because Jesus is not here trying to evangelize his own disciples. He's telling his disciples that if you want to enter, he's not telling his disciples that if you want to enter my kingdom, you know, you better start being pure. If you want to enter my kingdom, you better start being merciful. If you want to enter my kingdom, you better start hungering. You better start thirsting for righteousness. What Jesus is saying is that if you are one who is inheriting the kingdom, that means that you are pure. That you are merciful, that you do hunger and thirst for righteousness. These are the qualifications, these are the the tests that you can uh test yourself to see, you know, am I really part of of this kingdom. And we don't doubt that there's a application for evangelism here. And uh I've used this for evangelism myself. I do believe that it's uh proper to use this text for evangelism. But the primary purpose of this passage again was to instruct the disciples and to talk about the characteristics of those that are uh entering uh the kingdom of of heaven. S. Lewis Johnson, uh who's uh a stalwart professor uh was anyway, uh he passed passed on of Reformed theology and a professor, uh he said this about the Sermon on the Mount. Uh he says, I must say again and again that these great beatitudes are grounded in the grace of God. They are given to men who have responded to the good news of John the Baptist and of the Lord Jesus, and they are therefore addressed to men who have given themselves to a commitment to Jesus Christ. So they are not intended in any way to suggest a plan of salvation. As a matter of fact, these beatitudes give us a description of those who have believed in the Lord Jesus, and true believers who have already come to the knowledge of the Lord Jesus should look at their own spiritual eyes in the light of the Beatitudes. And ask themselves, does righteousness characterize my life? Does mercy characterize my life? Does purity in heart characterize my life? Am I an individual who mourns over sin? Am I truly poor in spirit? Have I entered the meekness into the meekness that is described here in one of these beatitudes? For these are the descriptions of the characteristics of the believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. The beatitudes form the birthmarks of the Christian. These are the birthmarks of the Christian. And let's go ahead and read Matthew chapter 5. We'll start at verse 1 and read down to verse 12. When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's bow our heads together in prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you again for this your word. My Father, we pray that you would speak to us. My Father, that you would open our minds to what we read, and that you, Father, would be glorified and honored. uh as we lift up the words of Christ, our Savior. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Again, uh just want to quote Martin uh Lloyd Jones uh because he just has such a great word about this these Beatitudes. He says there is nothing in the whole range of scripture Which so tests and examines and humbles us as these beatitudes. And then he says, there's nothing more fatal than for the natural man to think that he can take the beatitudes and try to put them into practice. Only a new man can live this kind of life. Only a new man can live this kind of life. And we have witnessed that in every verse, that there is absolutely no possible way that we could have done this. or tried to live this out in our own flesh. To say that this is like, hey, I've got to do this in order that I can gain some kind of righteous standing before God. There's absolutely no way that we can do this and be unredeemed. Absolutely no way. And if it was our task to come up with a list of characteristics that defined the citizens of the kingdom, we wouldn't have come up with this kind of list. This is the kind of list that only Christ comes up with. If we came up with the list, I'm not sure how many of us would have placed on this list, you know, blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers. You know, maybe uh blessed are the Avengers. You know, it might make a good movie, right? But nobody says, you know, hey, blessed are the peacemakers. This is this is something that comes from the mind of our Lord, and it's like I said, it's not necessarily the first thing that comes to our mind when we think what would characterize those that are citizens of the the kingdom of of heaven. We would more likely say that the kingdom of Heaven, you know, the citizens of this kingdom are you know the trustworthy or the faithful or the loyal or even the warriors. You know, these are the kinds of people that inherit a kingdom. The warriors, the defenders. If the kingdom is going to stand any chance of survival, wouldn't it make more sense to fill it with the warriors instead of the peacemakers? But out of all the characteristics that could have defined the citizens of this kingdom. This characteristic, blessed are the peacemakers, shows up on this list. Blessed are the peacemakers. And that highlights the priority of it. Uh for the for the Romans, the priority would have been their warriors. We hear a lot about that through history. For the Jews, they would have also held warriors in high esteem. They enjoyed a few short years of freedom as a result of the Maccabean Revolt and they were looking for political and uh military uh leadership to free them from the bondage of of Rome. They're looking for this military power And even for the Christians, as uh you start to follow the the life of Christ and some of his disciples, some of them might have started to assume that, you know, hey, this this is, you know, we've got to take up the sword and we actually got to fight for this kingdom. This is kind of what they started to take on. But Jesus doesn't say that warriors are necessary for his kind of campaign. He doesn't need the warriors. And there are several times in the Gospels where uh Jesus has to correct his disciples for falling prey to the natural way of thinking and the belief that they were going to usher in a kingdom by some sort of holy war. Uh if you flip over to Luke chapter 9 You find Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem, and some of his disciples attempted to make some arrangements for him in a village of the Samaritans, but uh this village refused to receive him back in uh Luke chapter 9. Look at verse 51. It says, When the days were approaching for his ascension, he was determined to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers on ahead of him, and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make arrangements for him. But they did not receive him because he was traveling toward Jerusalem. When his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them. And then later manuscripts add this and said, You do not know what kind of spirit you're of. For the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went on to another village. You know, apparently the disciples thought Jesus would have approved of them, applauded them, said, hey, fantastic guys. You know, this is exactly what I'm talking about. Anybody that rejects you, ye let the fire come down. That might have been what they would have expected, that the Lord would approve of this kind of action. But this suggestion was not in line with the Spirit of Christ. This is not the time to put up a fight. And uh then we all remember Peter, who on the night when our Lord was betrayed, he made this feeble attempt to protect and defend his Lord in Matthew chapter 26 Uh Judas had uh accompanied was accompanied by a large crowd of people with uh swords and clubs who came from the chief priests and the elders of the people. And uh after Judas betrayed Jesus with uh with a kiss, Which is just heinous. Betrayed him with the kiss. They laid hands on him. Matthew chapter uh twenty-six. Look at verse 51. Matthew chapter 26. It says, and behold, one of those who were with Jesus reached and drew out his sword and struck the slave of the high priest and cut off his ear. Then Jesus said to him, Put your sword back into its place. For all those who take up the sword shall perish by the sword. Or do you think that I cannot appeal to my father, and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? And how then will the scriptures be fulfilled which say that it must happen this way? Like I said again, maybe Peter, who is the disciple here, might have thought that, hey, this is fantastic, right? I'm gonna show my my valiance for Christ. I'm gonna strike off the ear and I'm sure that the Lord's just gonna back me up with this. What does the Lord say? Put your sword back down. Put it back up. I don't need that. I don't need that kind of kind of help. And as Jesus defines what it means to be a kingdom citizen, he says, my kingdom is not made up of the warriors. My kingdom is made up of the peacemakers. That's what my kingdom is made up of. These are these are the ones who are going to be called sons of of God, not the ones that are looking to strike back when they're struck. Not the ones that are looking to retaliate when they're offended, but rather those who are seeking peace and pursuing it. Seeking peace and pursuing it. These are the ones who are called blessed And uh we'll examine this uh Beatitude in in three parts this afternoon. The priority that is placed on peacemakers, uh the pursuit that is expected of peacemakers, and then the privilege that is given to peacemakers. Look at let's look at the uh the priority that's placed on peacemakers. Back in Matthew chapter 5, verse 9, it says, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. Peacemaking is a high priority for Christ, a high priority of the kingdom because it's the high priority of the king of the kingdom. God is frequently known as the God of peace in the scriptures. Romans 16. 20 says the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. 2 Corinthians 13. 11, finally, brethren, rejoice. Be made complete, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace, and the God of love and peace will be with you. God is a God of peace. First Thessalonians 5 23, now may the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely. God is considered a God of peace. And his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. is a prince of peace, right? It's the prince of peace. And uh he's the only means of of peace with with God. In uh Romans chapter 5 Verse one it says, Therefore having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And outside of Jesus Christ, um as was even said earlier today, outside of Jesus Christ, you're an enemy of God. Outside of Jesus Christ, you have no peace with God. You have no peace. And that's a hard pill for a lot of people to swallow because we don't like to think of ourselves as enemies of God. That's not how we like to think of ourselves. You know, we we think that, you know, hey, if there's a God, I'm okay with him. If there is one, right? You know, I haven't really done anything to necessarily offend him directly. And after all, I'm a pretty good person. You know, I don't really bother anybody. I take care of my neighbors, you know, I take care of my family. You know, why would God have a problem with me? Why would I be considered an enemy of God? One of the hardest things that I often have to do in evangelism is try to convince people that you're not friends with God. You're not friends with God. The truth is that man has declared war on God. There's no peaceful coexistence, but this rebellious struggle to grab authority that doesn't belong to him. Authority does not belong to man, but man takes that authority on himself and says, I'll recognize God when I want to recognize him. You know what that is? That's a declaration of war. That's a declaration of war. I'll serve God when I feel like serving God. That's a declaration of war. I'll obey God when I feel like obeying God. That is a declaration of war And it's the same kind of cry that was going on in Luke chapter 19, verse 14, when they said, We will not have this man to reign over us. The period in Jeremiah Burroughs said this. He says, Oh, I would not for ten thousand worlds be one hour in that condition that I once was in, for fear I should die in it, and so be eternally an enemy of God. If you could get 10,000 worlds to be one hour in that condition, it's not worth it And this is the reality prior to our conversion, like I said, we were the sworn enemies of the throne. In Romans chapter 5, verse 10, it says this. It says that while we were enemies. We were reconciled to God through the death of his sons, of his son. Not while we were friendly towards God, not while we were neutral towards God. It's while we were enemies. And uh to think about this, to think about making a stranger a friend is like you know marvelous enough, right? For God to make a stranger a friend. But God says, I make an enemy my friend I make an enemy, my friend. The term reconciled, which is uh used in uh Romans chapter 5, it's uh it's a word which means to bring back to a former state of harmony. Or to change from hostility to friendship, to make peace. God is a peacemaker. And he makes peace through Jesus Christ. And that reconciliation, it's a full and complete reconciliation. And that's actually the kind of term that's used here. It's this thorough reconciliation. There's nothing left out. When God reconciles us to himself, there's nothing left out of this reconciliation. We're completely in harmony with Him We get the total package. Nothing nothing left out. And the the tense that's used as well it shows this completed action, a decision that's been made. And you don't have to worry about God holding back on your past salvation and uh if you ever wanted to To doubt that, all you have to do is consider consider this. Look at the end of Matthew chapter 5, verse 9. It says, Blessed are the peak peacemakers, for they shall be called what? Sons of God. Sons of God. If you ever doubted that your reconciliation is complete, consider that we're called sons. Sons. What he gives to his son is what he gives to us. The kind of acceptance that he has for his son is the kind of acceptance that he has for us. Those that are citizens of the kingdom are not just called subjects or friends, but we're even called sons, sons of God. The enemies of the king are not only accepted, they're adopted. Can you imagine that? Adopted. Ephesians 1 verse 5 says, he predestined us to the adoption of sons through Jesus Christ to himself according to the kind intention Romans 8 15, for ye were have not received the spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, Ah, but Father. There's nothing left out of this reconciliation we can call him daddy. We're that close, that accepted. Toza remarked, he said, uh the captured rebel does not enter willingly the presence of the king. He has so long fought unsuccessfully to overthrow But we, after we're adopted as sons, we we can enter boldly the throne of grace, right? And call call out to him as our father. You're a father now. Those who have been justified by faith have peace with God through the death of his son and were adopted into his family. And uh this is high priority on peacemaking because it reflects the nature of God Himself. God says, I'm a peacemaker. I've made peace with you through through my son, and now he expects us to do the same. He reconciles men to himself through the prince of peace, Jesus Christ. And now he expects us to go out and be peacemakers ourselves. Jesus is the peacemaker. In uh Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6, it lets us know that one day he'll bring peace to this entire globe. Isaiah 9. 6 says, For a child will be born to us, the son will be given to us, the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, eternal father, Prince of Peace. The government will rest on his shoulders. He's going to bring peace to this entire globe. And in Luke 19, he wept over Jerusalem because they didn't realize the one who was bringing peace right in their midst. Luke chapter 19, 42 says, If you had known this day, even you, the things which make for your peace, but now they have been hidden from your eyes. Here I am, the Prince of Peace, right in your midst, and you don't recognize me. There I am to bring peace, and you don't want it. Still in hostility, still in rebellion. Wept over Jerusalem. And now those who are part of his kingdom. They're now considered peacemakers as well as Jesus came to bring peace. Now we're considered peacemakers. So that's the priority of being a peacemaker. We're called blessed. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are the peacemakers. This is a high priority on the list of Christ. Second thing, the pursuit that's expected of peacemakers. What does it mean to be a peacemaker? This is actually the only time this specific Greek word is used in the New Testament, but it's a combination of two very uh common words that are used, uh the word for peace, AirNay, uh which is used uh uh more than uh just just uh it's more than just the absence of of war. It's actually uh the presence of of harmony, uh positive desires for a person's health and welfare. That's what what this word for peace is. It's used hundreds of times in the in the in the scriptures. And uh there's uh another word which uh means uh uh to do or to make And uh they're combined together in this one instance in the New Testament uh in it's called peacemakers. Those that are peacemakers combined together The citizens of uh the kingdom are are makers of peace. They're doers of peace. They actively seek and pursue harmony, welfare for others. It's an adjective that's used to describe who these citizens are. If you're a peacemaker, it means that you're not a troublemaker, right? Not a troublemaker. And it's uh interesting uh to note how many different words for strife and conflict uh show up on uh the list the list that describe the works of the flesh. Let's listen to this in Galatians chapter 5, 19 to 21. It says, now the deeds of the flesh are evident. Actually, why don't you just turn there? Galatians chapter 5. Let's look at verse 19 to 21 together. Listen what he says. It says, Now the works now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions. Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these, of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. The people that are characterized by the things on this list, he says, don't inherit the kingdom of God. And like I said, it's it's it's fascinating to see how many terms are used here for conflict. Enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envyings. Please say eight different words for conflict between people. And then the clear warning at the end that people who are characterized by this list don't inherit the kingdom. They're not kingdom people. People who are controlled by their enmity and strife and jealousy. They're disturbing the peace, right? They're not peacemakers. They disturb the peace. They're troublemakers. And uh the Proverbs just has a list and list of uh those that are that cause strife. Uh you can jot these down, Proverbs 13, 10, those that uh our troublemakers are proud. It says through insolence or pro pride comes nothing but strife, but wisdom is with those who received counsel. They devise evil, Proverbs 6. 14, who with perversity in their heart continually devises evil who spread strife. They slander others, Proverbs 16:28, a perverse man spread strife, and a slanderer separates Intimate friends talking behind people's backs. They're liars. Proverbs 6. 19, a false witness who utters lies and one who spreads strife among brothers. They're quick to get angry. Proverbs 29-22 An angry man stirs up strife and a hot-tempered man abounds in transgression. Or you have a hot temper, transgression isn't far behind, right? Their words are foolish. Proverbs 18, 6. A fool's lips bring strife, and his mouth calls for blows. They lack love. Proverbs 10, 12, hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all transgressions. And anytime we fall into these sins, we're acting in a way that's contrary to our nature. Contrary to the to the new nature that the Lord's given us. Anytime we fall into these things. In 1 Corinthians 3. 3 it says, For you are still fleshly. For since there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not fleshly and walking like mere men? You're acting like you haven't been redeemed if you walk like this. You're acting like you don't know the Lord if you walk like this. So the peacemaker is not a not a troublemaker. The peacemaker is also not an appeaser, someone who merely looks over sin and ignores it, pretends like sin doesn't exist. There's no blessing in being at peace with sin. It's no blessing in being like that. That's not the kind of peace that God's interested in. There were those in Jeremiah's day who proclaimed peace when there was no peace. Jeremiah predicted the destruction of Jerusalem, and false prophets came to give their contradiction. In Jeremiah 6. 14, it says that they have healed the brokenness of my people superficially, saying, peace, peace. Everything's fine. When there is no peace, there was a need for repentance. There was no peace in that. Came saying, Oh peace, peace. Everything's fine. Jeremiah saying destruction's coming. They say, oh no, everything's going to be okay. Don't don't really worry about your sins. It's okay. That's not the kind of peace that God's interested in either. We should not be in the business of trying to appease wickedness for the sake of avoiding conflict Uh we can't compromise the truth and the the hope of promoting the truth at the same time. That's not not what we can do. I like what uh MacArthur said on this point. He said only righteousness can produce the relationship that brings two parties together. Men can stop fighting without righteousness. But they cannot live peaceably without righteousness. Righteousness not only puts an end to harm, but it administers the healing of love. God's peace not only stops wars, but replaces it with righteousness and brings harmony and true well-being. There's people that can say, hey, I'm I'm not really you know fighting against you, but it's because they're they're just not taking sin seriously anymore. So so peacemakers aren't just uh appeasers. Uh the scripture declares in Isaiah 48, 22 that there is no peace For the wicked, says the Lord. And to ignore sin for the appearance of unity is like putting a band-aid over a bullet wound, right? Doesn't do any any good. No help. Might put it out of sight, but it's it's it's still still there. Haven't addressed the real problem. Also, uh a peacemaker is not just a peace lover. Peacemaker is not just a peace lover. There are people who love the concept and the idea of peace, but they're not committed to being the cause of it. They they like talking about peace. You know, they they like you know symbols of peace. They like putting you know peace and coexistence on their bumper stickers. They like that. Let's all just be be peaceful. Let's all you know just get along The disciples who uh Jesus spoke to, and it's helpful to think about this, um, that the people that that Christ spoke these beatitudes to had absolutely no say in what the government did, right? There's people that just they just want to talk about peace as like it's it's like out there somewhere, society, you get it together. You know, nation, you get it together. World, peace, you get it together. They they kind of want to push the these beatitudes outside, talk about making peace, but it's it's everybody else's problem. It's just for us to kind of promote peace, but you know We're not actually involved in it. And it's like I said, it's just kind of helpful to to remind ourselves that the disciples who Jesus spoke to had absolutely no say And what the Roman Roman government did. No say at all. And I don't say that to say that we shouldn't be involved in government where we can. I just mention it to remind you of this that uh That if Jesus was talking about like national peace or world peace, these disciples would have had no way to affect that. You understand me? Absolutely no way to affect that. That was not the focus of this beatitude because they couldn't have applied it It's not just about world peace, international peace, national peace, society's peace. There's going to come a day when the Prince of Peace will return and he'll bring peace, right? He'll bring world peace with him. But there are people who love to apply the Beatitudes to everybody out there, and they see this as a call to the government to change things. You know, on the outside. But what Jesus always does is he pushes it back to us. Pushes his back inside to us. Again, uh Jeremiah Burroughs, he wrote this in the seventeenth century, listen to this. He said, If all the people of England were together, and you should go from one to another and ask, What are you, any of the causes of the divisions that are in England? He would profess against it. Ask every man, and he would disavow it. God forbid that I should have any hand in the breaches and divisions, all cry for peace, and many times even those that cry much for it are the greatest hindrances of it So uh if you want to know what the problem is with uh the world and with the nation, you're looking at it. It's us, right? It's it's not everybody out there. They're the cause for the division and the strife and all the problems in the world. You don't have to look any further than the person in the mirror. What's the problem with America? I am. Right? What's the problem with America? You are. It's individual sin. It comes back down to the individual, and this is really where Christ is trying to drive this. It's about the individual response to God. What does James say in James chapter 4? Oh, listen to this. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Where are you going to point the finger when you really want to know where all these fights and quarrels come from? Is it not the source of your pleasures that wage war in your members? Who's the problem? You are You are. You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You are envious and you cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask And you ask and you do not receive because you ask with wrong motive, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. Who is the problem? It's you. It's you. You always bring it back to yourself. Number four, uh a peacekeepekeeper , peacemaker is also distinct from a peacekeeper. A peacemaker is also distinct from a peacekeeper. This is just trying to help you define what a what a peacemaker is. A peacemaker is also distinct from a peacekeeper. This beatitude would be so much less challenging and so far less convict convicting if it said, blessed are the peacekeepers. Plus that are the peacekeepers, because if I'm keeping peace, I'm just responsible for maintaining something that's already in existence, right? If I'm just trying to keep peace. It talks about that in Ephesians 4. 1. It says, Therefore I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called, and with all humility and gentleness, with patience. showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of keep of peace. There is one body, one spirit just as you were called and one hope of your calling. There's this peace that's been created, and you're called to preserve it, to maintain it, right? In Ephesians chapter 2, it lets us know that Christ is the one who established this peace. In verse 14, it says, For he himself is our peace, who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall by abolishing in his flesh the enmity which is the law of commandments. contained in ordinances so that in himself he might make the two into one new man, thus establishing peace. The peace that belongs in the church between Jews and Gentiles, Christ says, I've established that. I broke down the wall, I've established it. What's your job to do? Maintain it. Maintain it. Preserve it. In this case, the the unity between Jew and Gentile is something that Christ establishes and he urges the church to be diligent to maintain it. And the the Lord Does not expect that from us in this Beatitude though. That's not what this Beatitude is about. It's not about peacekeeping. Trying to maintain something that's that's already in existence. We're here to uh not keep the peace, but to to make peace. To make peace. We're to be peacemakers, which assumes that there are people that we're trying to make peace with that are not already at peace with us. There's people that we're trying to make peace with that are not at peace with us. This is kind of similar to what we find in Matthew chapter 5. And if you want to look over there in verses 46 and 47. Matthew chapter 5. It says, for if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you read only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? In other words, what what reward do you expect if you're just trying to make peace with people that are making peace with you? Do you really think that's something special? Do you think that that like identifies you as a kingdom citizen? That hey, I'm at peace with people that are at peace with me. You know, whoop-de-doo, right? It's like that that's that's nothing spectacular. You don't need the grace of God to be at peace with people that are at peace with you. That doesn't demonstrate the power of Christ in your life The challenge here is that this beatitude assumes some measure of hostility and alienation that kingdom citizens are given the unique ability to overcome. But you're you're you're to go towards people that are hostile towards you. And this is the distinguishing mark of the believer to seek the presence of harmony and have a positive desire for a person's health and welfare when we are the ones who've been wronged. When we're the ones who've been wronged. And of course this has application for for your family, for your friends, that you should be making peace if you know there's any kind of uh hostility, but in but in some ways that's almost expected That you should be trying to, you know, be at peace with those that are in your your family. It's almost expected that you know that's something that that that should be happening. This this really has uh application more for those people that you know are hostile towards you. And and for some of you that that is in your family, right? For some of you that is in your family. But uh like I said, this is this is really having uh application for those that that are considered enemies that we're trying to establish peace with those that are enemies of us. In Romans chapter twelve, um you can flip over there, Romans chapter twelve It goes on to describe this attitude that we should have. Starting at verse 17. Listen to this. It says, never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him If he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in so doing he will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. What's the context here? We're talking about people who are enemies. We're not to seek revenge. What does Christ God say? He says, Vengeance is mine. Don't worry about trying to avenge yourself. Vengeance belongs to me. Your enemy is hungry? Reach out to him. Feed him. He's thirsty? Give him a drink. That's what Christ asks us to do. And like I said, the context is with people who are not at peace with us And we're given the encouragement in Proverbs 16. 7 that when a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with them, right? The priority that's placed on this for peacemakers, it's singled out, they're singled out as being blessed. There's a pursuit that's expected of peacemakers. They're expected to pursue peace with all men. In Hebrews twelve, fourteen it says, Perceive peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. Again he makes it a gospel issue. And then the final finally the the privilege that's given to peacemakers. Look at let's look at the privilege. Privilege that we have. Blessed are the peacemakers. Why? For they shall be called sons of God. This is beautiful. This is absolutely beautiful. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Now listen to this. Those that have eternal life are already considered sons of God, right? We're already considered sons of God. We're known by many titles throughout the Bible, but But one of the most uh kind of endearing terms for uh for a believer is that we're children of God. We're we're sons of of God. Jesus on on several occasions he even called his disciples little children. You know, my my children. Not not any older than thirty-three, right? But he's calling his disciples my my children. You know, because of this relationship that he had with him as God in in the human flesh. But we after we've been born again and adopted into a spiritual family at that moment We received this adoption as sons and we're considered uh his children. If you flip over to 1 John chapter 3. It just seems to be one title that sticks out to the Apostle John. This is a text we looked at earlier before, but um we'll look at it one more time. Uh 1 John chapter 3, look at verse 1. It says, see how great a love the Father has bestowed on us that we would be called children of God? And such we are, for this reason the world does not know us because it did not know him. And uh above all the other titles that are given to uh to believers, it seems like this one stops the Apostle John in his tracks. It's the only title that he that he introduces by the word see or behold. Like look at this. Can you imagine this? Behold, how great a love the Father has bestowed upon us. Talks about this great love. How great. It's the word uh uh pata pain, uh which which meant originally of what country. It's as if the father's love is so unearthly, so foreign. It's like where did where does this kind of stuff come from? Of what country does this kind of love come from? This is like otherworldly kind of love. See how great A love the Father has bestowed upon us. What kind of love? That we would be called children of God? And it's like he's just like in shock That I would be called a child of God. He was called a child of God by Christ when he was on the earth, but he's still, I can't get over it. I can't get over this fact that I'm related to God. And he repeats himself. You know, in some versions it doesn't show up, but he repeats himself and he says, and such we are. We're children of God, and we are. I mean, it's like I can't believe it. And throughout the scriptures we're said to be children of God. In John 1. 12 it says, But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become children of God, even to those who believe on his name. Romans 8. 16, the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. Galatians 3. 26, for you are all sons of God through faith in Christ So we're already sons of God, okay? Already sons of God if we trust in Jesus Christ. We're children of God. Like I said, the disciples were already considered sons of the kingdom, sons of God. So in what sense then is this also a future reality? He says, you shall be called sons of God. He says, I mean, we're already considered sons of God by by faith, by trusting in Christ He says, but you shall be called sons of God, talking about a future reality. What is this connection between being called sons of God in the future and what he mentions here about being peacemakers? Now listen to this, and this is what I find so encouraging. There's a sense in which we're called sons of God because of our relation to the Father. We're his children through faith, but there's also another sense in which we're called sons of God because of our resemblance to the Father. Because of our resemblance to the Father. In Ephesians 5. 1, listen to this. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. What is what is he saying? Act like your father. Act like your father. Paul's saying as children we need to imitate our father, and there are some times in scripture where we're specifically called children of the Father because of our imitation of him. Listen to this in Philippians chapter 2, verses 14 and 15. Paul says, Do all things without grumbling or disputing, so that you will prove yourselves to be blameless and innocent children of God. Above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. That word for prove yourselves to be children of God, it's the Greek word genomai. It actually means to become Do this so that you might become children of God. That's what he says. Luke chapter 6, verse 35. But love your enemies, do good, and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be. Sons of the Most High. For he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. What is he saying? Act like your father. Rely your father. Matthew 5, 40 44 to 48. We uh read it a little earlier, but uh just let's just read the full context here, starting at verse 44. But I say to you, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. Why? So that you may be sons of your Father, who's in heaven. For he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good. He sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. For if you love those who love you What reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than the others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Therefore you are to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. What's the context again? Your father treats people well who don't treat him well. He gives to people that don't give to him. He reaches out to extend peace to those that aren't extending peace back to him. What are you supposed to do? Act like your father. You need to resemble your father. Basically that's what God is saying. Be like your father. Rely your father. And when you're a peacemaker and you seek to make peace with those who are considered your enemies, guess what you're doing? You're imitating dad. You're imitating your Father. You're doing what your Father is doing. And what glorifies God is to see his character reflected in your life. And uh on the day you're received into his kingdom, he will be able to say, in the future, that's that's my boy. That's that's my girl. Those are those are my children. Those are the ones that imitate me. Those are the ones that resemble me. And your commendation will come from God And on that day we'll be revealed as the sons of God. In Romans chapter 8, 19, for the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God. There's going to come a time when we're revealed as the sons of God. That's a future time. Being a peacemaker is one who responds with this attitude of grace towards people that aren't responding in grace towards you. And this is what God calls us to do. That's not the inclination of a natural man. You can't do that on your own strength. But it's by God's power that He's made us peacemakers. Made us peacemakers. And and basically like like I said, he's shown us the way already. He sent Christ to us when we were what? Enemies. Enemies. We were enemies. Reconciled while we were enemies. He says, I'm not only just going to get you to neutral. I'm not even just going to make you a friend, as fantastic as that is. I'm going to adopt you. And you're going to be part of my family. You're going to sit at my table. And this is the same kind of uh peace that we're supposed to try to extend to those that are hostile towards us. And part of that means that we're we're uh preaching the gospel of peace. In some cases where people are unsaved, they don't know Christ at all. We're extending the gospel of peace to people like that, having our feet shot with the preparation of the gospel of peace it talks about in Ephesians 6. We're praying for people. Praying that that they would know the Lord, as it talks about in uh 1 Timothy 2, 2. I mean uh 1 Timothy 2 it talks about you know that God desires all men to be saved, and we pray that uh that we would uh uh that people would would be saved so we pray for for people uh that they would uh come to know uh the Savior. And of course God draws those who who he elects, but we're praying that the God would would draw people to himself, open up their eyes That they would know the same peace that we enjoy, Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh uh we do thank you for uh this text again, and uh there is so much more that It could have been said, but Father, we pray that you'd apply what was said to our lives. Father, we know that there's times when when we don't desire to make peace with those that are hostile towards us. Uh but it's because of uh your son and because of the love that you've uh shown towards us in Christ uh that we can be peacemakers. Uh Father, that um we can extend uh to those that uh that don't uh uh Don't uh uh act towards peace uh with us, Lord, that they're hostile against us, Lord, that we can still extend uh a gracious hand towards them because we've already been shown by our Father how to do that. And that one day by your grace we'll be able to stand before you and uh you'll be able to commend us as your children that we belong to you because not only are we related to you by faith, But we also resemble you in our actions. Father, we pray that that would be true of every person here. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.