The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you take your Bibles with me and turn with me back to the book of Romans? We're in Romans chapter five today as we uh continue to work our way through a section of scripture where Paul has been reminding us of the great blessings that we have in our justification, which is so central and foundational to our salvation. Justification is the biblical teaching that sinners receive the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. In chapters one through three, uh the great dilemma of justification was described, and what's that great dilemma? Uh the great dilemma is that both Jew and Gentile are guilty before a righteous God, so that the whole world is accountable to God, that every mouth is shut before the throne of his righteousness. We all deserve death. That's the great dilemma. Romans chapter 3 and verse 10 says that it is written, There is none righteous, not even one. Romans 3 and verse 19 says, So that every mouth may be closed, and all the world may become accountable to God. But towards the end of chapter 3, starting in verse 21, the solution is provided. The solution is defined and justification is defined. And what is that? What's justification? Romans chapter three, verse twenty-two. It is the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. That is a simple definition of justification. The righteousness of God Through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe. The righteousness of God comes to us through Jesus Christ. And it's through faith in Him and through faith alone in Him And then in the following chapter, in chapter 4, Paul defended this teaching of justification. Once we have it, we need to guard it. And how did he do that? How did he defend this teaching of justification? He took us all the way back to Abraham, the father of the Jewish nation. And he asked the question, Well, how did it happen for him? How was Abraham How is Abraham received by God as righteous? Was Abraham considered righteous before God because of his works? Verse 2 says, not before God he wasn't. He was not considered righteous before God because of the law. The law of Moses didn't even exist. He was not considered righteous before God based on any kind of ceremony. He was declared righteous without circumcision He was not considered righteous before God because of his lineage. Abraham was an idol-worshiping pagan before he was called by God. He was a Gentile, called out of the Gentile nations Before he became one of God's chosen ones. So it's not because of his lineage, and it's also not because of any contribution that he could make. He had to be fully assured that God had promised, that what God had promised, that he was also able to perform, because he knew that in himself he couldn't accomplish it. His body was as good as dead when it came to fulfilling God's promise to him. So Abraham had to rely fully on God, and that's the same thing that we have to do today. So Abraham is proof that salvation and every other promise connected to salvation is of the Lord. Psalm 3 and verse 8 says, salvation belongs to the Lord. Salvation is of the Lord. And having described this great dilemma of justification and defining justification and defending justification, chapter 5 turns the corner and says, now we need to delight in it. We need to delight in it. Chapter 5 opens up with the word therefore, therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. Therefore, based on all that's come before, since the great dilemma has been answered, our justification has been defined, our justification has been defended, now we need to delight in the glories of our great salvation. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. We have peace. That's something that we need to glorify the Lord for. We need to delight in this. Verse 2, it says, Through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. We have grace. We have peace. We have grace. And then at the end of verse two it says, we exalt in the hope of the glory of God. We have hope. And in verse three, it says, not only this. but we also exult in our tribulations. And I'll just summarize this by saying we have joy even in the midst of tribulations. The word exult could be translated as boast, to glory, to rejoice, used three times in this section in verse 2. We exalt in the hope of the glory of God. Verse 3, we exult in our tribulations. Verse 11, it says, and not only this, but we also exalt in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. It's like for Paul, there's just this explosive joy over the benefits of salvation in Jesus Christ. And some of you remember when you first came to Christ. When you first had that blessed assurance that Jesus was yours and you were his. I remember for me it was like the lights finally turned on Like the Bible went from black and white to color, and it was just like this joy that flooded my heart that I'm I'm actually going to heaven. Like I know it. I know Jesus Christ. It's not just, you know, I hope so. People would ask me, you know, do you know if you're going to heaven if you were to die today or tomorrow? I'd always say, well, I hope so. I I I I trust so. But but when that it was I know so it was like something like just came alive. It was this blessed assurance that I had. It was joy and happiness. There's this one song that says, someday I'll go to where Jesus is. I'll be caught up to meet him, caught up to meet him, where joy and happiness and peace is mine. One day in glory I'll tell the story. I'll be caught up to meet him in the air. And to know that one day I'm going to be with him. It's not just words on a page. I will actually be in the presence of Christ. That is a reality that we look forward to. We have this hope. And all of this is a result of our justification by faith. that the peace that we have, the grace that belongs to us, this future hope of glory, the joy even through tribulations. So the love of God, the gift of the Spirit, all of this belongs to the believer because we're justified by faith And today, we're just going to introduce you to these blessings of our great salvation. This is an introduction to the blessings of our great salvation. I call this blessed assurance. You can call it the uh the benefit package of justification, okay? Romans chapter 5, starting at verse 1. Why don't you follow with me as I read? Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we exalt in hope of the glory of God, and not only this, but we also exult in our tribulations. Knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance, and perseverance proven character, and proven character hope, and hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, and Father, we are so grateful for this great salvation that we have. Father, we thank you for this word that's been given to us to encourage us to think about the glories of our salvation, the wonders that now belong to us, because We've been justified by faith, that we've been declared innocent in the sight of a holy God. So Father, I pray that today as we we explore these riches, these vast riches of our salvation, Lord, that you would fill our hearts with joy. Fill our hearts with this assurance, this blessed assurance that belongs to us. And Father, I pray that we would be a congregation that is known by our joy and our salvation. That it's good news that we share with the world, that they can too be invited to have this blessed assurance with us. So Father, I pray that we would hold on to these truths, that we would not let them go. That we would defend these truths, Lord, because there's no other way. Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. The word therefore that chapter 5 opens up with is what's known as an inferential conjunction. In other words, because of all that been said is true, let me now tell you what else is true. That's what an inferential conjunction does. Based on what we've already covered, let me now tell you what's also true. You know, it's like the TV ads that say, you know, hold on, wait, there's more. There's more. So now having this justification, let me tell you what else belongs to you. And in this present context, what Paul was saying is because justification by faith is true. Because we've been justified by faith. Let me tell you what comes along with that. And here Paul is addressing believers. In the previous section, Paul was addressing those who denied the faith. who rejected the faith, those who had objections to his teachings. But now Paul is addressing believers. And here we have this the shift in focus in many interpreters Uh believe that chapter five has more in common with chapters six to eight than it does with chapters one through four And uh and because of this shift in focus that now we go from defending and arguing for the faith to now saying, now believers, let's talk about what we have in Christ. So there's this kind of switch. But there's also these kind of bookends between chapter 5 and chapter 8. So if you want to, or if you can, because if you're looking at a digital Bible, you can't do this, you can put your finger in chapter 5 and turn over to chapter 8. It's hard to do that on a screen, but anyway. If you keep your finger in chapter 5 and turn to chapter 8, you'll see there's a number of themes that are repeated in chapter 5 and chapter 8. In chapter 5 and verse 2, for example, we find that we exult in hope in the glory of God. At the end of the verse, we exult in the hope of the glory of God. And then when you turn to chapter eight and verse twenty-five, it says, But if we hope for what we do not see with perseverance, we wait eagerly for it. So chapter eight is talking again about this This hope that we have, that we're persevering, that we're waiting eagerly for this hope. And it's the same thing that chapter 5 talks about. Chapter 5 and verse 3. It speaks about how we exalt, but not only this, but we also exalt in our tribulations. So it speaks about this the tribulations that we endure as believers, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. And then when you flip over to chapter eight and verse thirty-five, it says, Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Well tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? So again it brings up this idea of tribulation in chapter eight, and then in chapter five and verse five, it speaks about this love that we have from God. Hope does not disappoint, because the the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit who was given to us. And then in chapter 8 and verse 35, it says, Who will separate us from the love of Christ? And the argument in chapter 8 and verse 9 is that Anyone who has the Spirit of Christ belongs to them. If you don't have the Spirit of Christ, you don't belong to Christ. So the idea of the Holy Spirit being within our hearts given to us and this love that we have from God shows up in both chapter 5. in chapter 8. So for for those reasons, interpreters see chapters 5 through chapter 8 as one section. So just to let you know, we're entering into new territory here in the book of Romans. All that's based off of where we've been and where we're heading. So we're in this new section where Paul turns the corner to focus in on the believer. Paul's speaking to believers, to those who've been justified, to those who have the righteousness of God, who have that right standing before God, not based on what we've done, but based on what He has done. And again, in chapter 5, it says, Therefore, having been justified, this is something that happened to you. We have been justified. It's not that we're justifying ourselves. We're not presenting ourselves before God as righteous. We have been justified. It's a declaration. God is the one who declares you as justified. So it comes from heaven down, not from earth up. And now having that righteousness that belongs to you. We start to unwrap the benefit package of justification. We start to unwrap what we have. What do we have? Verse one, we have peace with God. We have peace with God, which implies that you did not always have peace with God, right? The majority of people who acknowledge that there is a God, acknowledge that God exists, they don't imagine that they're in conflict with this God. They act like, you know, God is like the neighbor that they've never officially met. You know, he stays on his side of the street. I stay on my side of the street. You know, we really don't have much interaction, but you know, like if I do meet them one day, you know, I'll I'll introduce myself and and I'm sure we'll be friends. That's how people think about God. You know, and every once in a while, like around Christmas and Easter, I kind of give them the nod, you know, I see you over there But there's no real interaction. We live our separate lives, but we're not at odds with one another. We're not in conflict with one another. God is not like the neighbor that you haven't met. God is more like the owner of the house that you're squatting in. And you're trying to ignore, desperately trying to ignore. You eat his food, you use his utilities, you pile up your trash, and then every once in a while he gets in your way and you're wondering, you know, what's his problem? We're the splatters of the universe. We're not friendly toward God. We're hostile toward God. We're in conflict with Him. Bible actually lets us know that we're at war with God. And it's been this way from the very beginning. Think about this with me, okay The Bible lets us know that the Lord is the eternal King. God is the King of the universe, right? He's the one who owns everything. Psalm 93, verse 1 says, the Lord reigns. He's clothed with majesty. The Lord has clothed and girded himself with strength. Indeed, the world is firmly established. It will not be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. God is the King of the universe. He reigns eternally. Mankind was created to rule underneath God. He was made to rule in subjection to God. In Genesis chapter one and verse twenty-six, it says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule So they're to rule underneath God, but they're not to be a rule to themselves, but not to be their own governors. They were created to rule, but they were created with rules. Genesis chapter 2 and verse 16. It says the Lord God commanded the man, so he's under subjection. God commanded the man. The one who's set to rule, God is commanding him. Saying, from any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, from the day that you eat from it you will surely die But rather than mankind being willing to be ruled by God, mankind chose freedom from that rule. I don't want this one to rule over me. But he doesn't rule himself. Mankind does not rule himself. They think they rule themselves. That's how people people want to present themselves like, you know, hey, I make my own decisions, I'm the captain of my own ship. You know, I rule myself, I govern myself. That's not what the Bible says The Bible says that when we rejected God's rule over us, we subjected ourselves to Satan's rule over us. That's what happened In Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, God speaks to Satan, who was the serpent of old, according to Revelation 12. And in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, God says, I will put enmity, so there's hostility here. Between you, being Satan and the woman, and between your seed, the seed of Satan, and her seed. So there's going to be this split, this division. And Satan is actually the one who has dominion over the seed. This the seed of Satan, between your seed, those who follow after you, belong to you. That's why Jesus can say that you are of your father the devil. You're of your father the devil, because if you join in his rebellion, you're one of his seed. You're one of his children. That's why John the Baptist can call the Pharisees a brood of vipers, you snake children You chosen a snakes. That's who you are. You're in rebellion against God. So you belong to that side. You're under a different domain. The battle is with Satan, but Satan has seed, and all those who have joined him in his rebellion are underneath him as the ruler. And from that moment on, there have been two kingdoms, and those two kingdoms are at war with one another. Satan has a kingdom, and unless you are converted and have trusted in Jesus Christ, you are part of that kingdom. You are part of that kingdom of rebellion. And Satan is called the small g God of this world, 2 Corinthians 4. 4. And we need to be rescued from his domain. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 13 says, For he, speaking about Christ, or God, rescued us from the domain of darkness And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. We need to be rescued from one domain in order to belong to another. Acts chapter 26, verse 18. Paul was sent to the Gentiles. Why? To open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to the light, from the domain of Satan. to God that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who have been sanctified by faith in me. So Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 8 says you were formerly darkness. 2 Timothy 2. 26 says, You were held captive by him to do his will. You were part of his kingdom, and his kingdom is hostile to the kingdom of God, and we were born in hostility against God. That's how we were born. Matthew, uh uh in Psalm 51 and verse 5, it says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. And in Psalm 58 and verse 3, it says, The wicked are estranged from the womb. Doesn't take long, right? Those who speak lies go astray from birth. Listen to this. They have venom like the venom of a serpent. Sounds like snake babies to me, right? Yeah, venom like the venom of a serpent, like a deaf cobra that stops his ears. What does that mean? Verse 5 says, so that it does not hear the voice of its charmers. Like man can't be tamed by anything on the outside. You know, you try to charm them and like keep them keep them calm, keep them still. It's like they're born ready to strike. You can't stop the sin from sinning. You can't stop the sinner from sinning. He he's not going to be stopped. He's born with this nature And so that he doesn't listen to charmers. He's going to sin, and we're born enemies of God. But we're not just born enemies of God, we're also sworn enemies of God. Colossians chapter 1 and verse 21 says, you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. It's not just like, hey, I was just kind of born this way. No, you actually engage in it. You willfully engage in the rebellion against God. You are hostile against God. You're a willing participant in the uprising, and since birth we have rejected his role. We've willingly chose Team Satan. We've willingly done that. And you and God are not cordial neighbors, you're enemies. And unless peace is made, you will suffer his wrath for all of eternity for your sins. That's what Romans 1 to 3 Told us about, right? That the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. They don't want the truth. They don't want to follow God They they don't want them. Even though it's been clearly understood through what has been made that there's a God that you should be giving glory to. No excuse for your rebellion. And when you stand before God, you won't be doing any explaining. You know, there won't be any, you know, you see what had happened was when you stand before God. When you stand before God, there's no excuse. You rebelled against me, you actively chose rebellion against me. And because of that, you deserve the wrath of God. And God is justified in his wrath against our sin and against our idolatry. God, even when he speaks to Israel in the book of Deuteronomy, in chapter 32, he warns them about turning from him Deuteronomy 32 and verse 21, it says, They have made me jealous with what is not God. They have provoked me to anger with their idols. So I will make them jealous with those who are not a people. I will provoke them to anger with the foolish nation. For a fire is kindled in my anger and burns to the lowest part of Sheol and consumes the earth with its yield and sets a fire, sets on fire the foundations of the mountains. God says, I burn in my anger against those who set up idols against me. I burn in my anger against those who make me jealous with what is not God. So the Bible says that God is angry with the wicked every day. In Psalm 7, verse 11, it says, God is a righteous God, and a God who has indignation every day. And if man, if a man does not repent, he will sharpen his sword. This is scripture. He will sharpen his sword. He has bent his bow and made it ready. But being justified by faith, instead of being pierced by the arrows of God. We have peace like a river in our soul. It's amazing to think about. Do you understand how glorious this is That the God who sharpened his sword against the sinner, who pulled back his bow against the sinner, is now willing to sit at the same table with the sinner? And say that now we're at peace, you have peace with me. That's a peace that comes from the top down because there's nothing that we could do to establish that peace with God Psalm 51, 16, it says, For you do not delight in sacrifice, otherwise I would give it. You were not pleased with burnt offering. And any sacrifice we could give to God would actually just be something that He already owned anyway, right? You know, what what do you think your sacrifices are gonna gonna do to appease God? God owns everything. I remember when I was uh when I was young, I used to find you know pennies Around the house and sometimes in my dad's drawer and when I'd collect the hundred pennies, I'd give it to him and say, hey dad, can you give me a dollar for these hundred pennies? And he turned around to me and says, Well, you know these are mine anyway, right? It's like anything that we give to God, it already belonged to him. What are you going to give to God that's somehow going to satisfy him for your sins? Everything belongs to me anyway. You know you're gonna give me cattle, I own the cattle on thousand hills. Like what what are you gonna give to me that I don't already own? I own everything We don't offer God anything that doesn't already belong to Him. How is a sacrifice or a burnt offering supposed to pay off God? If peace is going to be made for us, it has to come from the top down. And that's what happened. Jesus came from the top down. He came to become the sacrifice himself. There's nothing that you can offer to me that would be worthy of me, so I will come and offer myself. This is what Jesus does. He comes to be the sacrifice for sins, the sacrifice that we could not offer to God. He came down and he became the sacrifice himself. The body that you've prepared for me, sacrifices and offerings, you didn't desire, but a body you have prepared for me, the scripture says Ephesians 2:13 says, But now in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near. How? By the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace. He becomes our peace. Colossians 1 8 19 says, For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to dwell in him, and through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace through the blood of his cross. That was the only way that peace could be made. It was through the blood of his cross. First Timothy two five says, For there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all. How is peace made? It's through the ransom of Jesus Christ. His blood made peace. God demanded a payment for sin, and Jesus offers up the payment that was required, and through his blood peace is made. And that peace is an objective fact. We have peace. That's what the text says. Verse 1. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace. It's in the present tense. Because justification has happened. Now the reality of your peace is present. I have it. It's not imagined. It's real. It's objective. Romans 8. 1 it says, therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's a real peace, it's an objective peace. And it's only because there is a real peace between us and God that we can experience subjectively peace. Between us and God. In other words, the fact comes first, and then the feelings follow. Because we have peace with God, now we can experience that peace in relationship with God. But there are some people who feel peace when they have no reason to feel peace at all. For the believer, it's an objective fact. We have peace with God. But then there's others who feel at peace when they have no peace with God. They should should understand that they're in grave danger, but but they don't feel that. So they don't think that that's true. I feel like I'm fine with God I don't feel like I'm at war with God, but you are. Well, I don't feel that way. Facts don't care about your feelings, right? I don't feel like I'm at odds with God, but you are. Isaiah 48, verse 22. This is the verse for the unbeliever. There is no peace for the wicked, says the Lord. What does that mean? It's an objective fact. There is no peace. You may feel like you're at peace, but what does the Bible say? There is no peace. We have no peace between us. That doesn't mean that they never seem to be at peace. The unbeliever can seem to be at peace when he has no peace. Psalm 73, verse 12 says, Behold, these are the wicked and always at ease. The wicked can seem like they're at ease. They can appear peaceful. And they have plenty of false prophets and psychologists around them to bring them superficial feelings of peace. We just want to make you feel better. That's what the world does. They just want to make you feel like you're at ease. Make you feel like you're at peace, even though no peace really exists. The book of Jeremiah speaks about the nation of Judah before their destruction. You can flip back to it if you want. Jeremiah chapter 6. Speaks about the peace of the nation of Judah, but it was a false peace. Look at Jeremiah 6 at verse 14. says they have healed the brokenness of my people superficially, saying, peace, peace, but there is no peace. Were they ashamed because of the abomination they have done? And here he's speaking of these false prophets. They were not even ashamed at all. They did not even know how to blush. Therefore, they shall fall among those who fall. At the time that I punish them, they shall be cast down, says the Lord. What was the word of Jeremiah? Judah's entering into a time of destruction. The Babylonians are coming. This place isn't going to last. So Jeremiah is prophesying destruction, damnation. There's judgment coming. And what are the false prophets doing? Oh, peace, peace. Everything's okay. I want you to feel good. Don't listen to that Prophet Jeremiah. He doesn't make you feel good. We want you to feel feel good. We don't want a word of judgment. You know, make make make us feel peaceful. Just this week I was reading Exodus chapter 7 and was reminded about how the magicians use their secret arts to pacify Pharaoh. Don't worry about the word of Moses. You know, we can we can make this water turn into blood too. Exodus 7, verse 22 says, But the magicians of Egypt did the same with their secret arts. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not listen to them as the Lord had said. Then Pharaoh turned and went into his house with no concern. Went back to his house with no concern. The false prophets are here giving me peace. I can go back home with no concern. He went away as if there was nothing to be concerned about when that was actually the most dangerous place for him. It's dangerous to feel no concern when there's a reason for concern. It's dangerous. So people they quickly just want to make people feel better when there's actually a reason to be alarmed. Do you feel guilty because you actually are guilty? Are you fearful because there's actually something to be fearful about? Is there a reason that you're depressed? Is it because you don't have the hope of eternal life? Is there a reason for the feeling? I mean don't don't just try to hurry up and you know address the feeling without also addressing what's the core issue here What's what's beneath this? You don't just silence the alarm if there's a fire in the house. That does you no good To turn off the smoke alarm. You know, let's let's let's break the alarm. Let's take out the batteries. We don't want to hear that alarm anymore. Well, is there a fire? You know, maybe those feelings are telling you that there's something else that's going on. But people are so busy trying to silence the alarm. They don't want the guilt, they don't want the fear, they don't want the depression, but could it be pointing to a greater issue that needs to be addressed? But on the other side, there can be Christians who actually have the reality of peace. What do I mean by that? They're justified. Like I said, it's a reality. It's not based on your feelings. It's a reality. You are justified if you have faith in Jesus Christ. You trusted in Him alone by faith. You've turned from your sins, trusted in Christ. What is the reality? You have peace with God. But sometimes we can have peace with God, but we don't feel like we do. We don't feel like we do. The book of 1 John was actually written to people like that who didn't feel like they did. They have peace with God, but they didn't feel like it. 1 John 5. 13 says, These things I've written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. So you're you're a believer, you believe in the name of the Son of God. But I've written these things so that you may know that you have eternal life. So there can be people who have eternal life, but they don't know. They're not assured of it. Why would somebody not be assured? Why would a person not not feel like they're at peace with God? Maybe you're reminded about the life that you used to live. And you're just so ashamed of your past, and somebody reminds you of it, and now you just feel dirty all over again? Maybe you're reminded about the sins you've already confessed and repented of. If you've confessed and repented of your sins, they're they're done, right? There's no reason to carry the the sins that you've committed against the Lord. You've confessed those sins, you can and you've forsaken them. There's no re need to hold on to those things. But sometimes You can be reminded about the sins that you've even committed as a believer. Even though I've confessed those sins, I've repented of those sins, like something reminded me about those sins again, and now I feel like I'm not really at peace with God. You could be tempted to not have peace with God because you're still tempted to sin. Anybody ever felt like that? Why is it that the temptation is even a struggle for me? I shouldn't even be tempted by this. But here I am, I'm tempted again. I didn't give in to the temptation, but I I I I desired it. It still was appealing to me. And somehow that can make you feel like, well, maybe I'm not saved because I was tempted to sin. But as we continue to work through this passage, we'll give you some more artillery to help you answer and win the battle against doubt. But what Paul reminds us of here is that your peace with God is not dependent on your feelings. That's not where you go to get your assurance. How do I feel? That's not where you go for assurance. You go to what does the word say? You go to the truth. You don't go to your feelings because your feelings can change. Art is deceitful, right? It's like like there's there's so many times you can lie to yourself, but it's the word of God that tells us what the truth is. So what the word of God God reminds us of here is that the peace that we have, it's an objective reality based on our justification, based on our faith in Christ and in Christ alone. Martin Lloyd Jones, he reminds us of the author of the hymn Amazing Grace, Pastor John Newton, and he writes this about John Newton. He says, before his conversion, John Newton had been engaged in the slave trade. John Newton was engaged in human trafficking. That's what he was engaged in. He had been a vile and a foul sinner. There was scarcely a sin that he had not committed. Actually w one of the things in in the history of John Newton is, you know, he was uh he had a a a you know a heritage that was, you know, godly and they they were actually trying to trying to help him by getting him involved. In the in in you know being in involved in the uh the the the navy. But instead of getting better, he just got worse. When he says this, he says, Ye can well understand, therefore, how the devil would rake up his past and hurl it at him. The devil would resurrect it all and cause it to pass as a horrible panorama before his eyes, and then challenge him. Do you still claim to be a Christian? Forgiven and at peace with God? He's reminding him of his past. Think about what you did. You were involved in the slave trade, human trafficking. Think about all that you did. Think about all those sins that you've committed. Do you still claim to be a Christian, forgiven, and at peace with God? But John Newton had his answer An answer that can silence the devil. He says in effect, what can I tell him? I cannot tell him that I'm a good man. I cannot tell him about my past or even my present. There's only one way of silencing the devil, and he wrote these words in another hymn Be thou my shield and hiding place, speaking about God, that sheltered near by my side, I may my fierce accuser face and tell him that thou hast died. What's his assurance when he's being afflicted and tormented by his ass? Lord, you've died for me. That's his assurance. Christ, my sins were nailed on the cross with you. You've died for me. I don't have to drag those sins back off the cross and start weeping over them again. No, those sins have already been taken care of on the cross And on the cross she said, it is what? It's finished. I don't have to continue to pay for those sins because Christ has already died for those sins. So Newton's answer to the devil, his fierce accuser, was that Jesus has died. That's an objective fact. I can look back to the cross. Christ died for sinners. Am I a sinner? Yes, so I qualify. He died for me And we have a real peace that does not depend on us, but it depends on Jesus Christ. And now there's no wrath that's left for us. We'll get to it later, but in Romans 5 and verse 8, if you want to flip down there and take a look at it in verse 8, it says, But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were yet what? Sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God. What does that mean? There's no more anger left for us We're saved from his wrath through him. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, how much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life? No more wrath left for the believer. You know, a judge can grant you pardon and still hold a grudge against you, right? But this judge has no anger left. There's no anger left for us. And that word with, and it says that uh we have peace with God, it's the Greek preposition pras and expresses direction. It says that we're now on the same side and facing one another. We're not across the battlefield anymore. Now we're on the same side and we're we're face to face across the table. That's the picture of reconciliation. We sing it in the song God and Man at Table Are Sat Down. Beggars, lame, and harlots also here. Repentant publicans are drawing near. Wayward sons come home without a fear. God and man at table are sat down. Worship in the presence of the Lord with joyful songs and hearts in one accord. Let our host at table be adored. God and man at table are sat down We have peace with God. And it's all because of what He's done through His Son, because His Son paid the price for us. But not only do we have peace with God, we also have grace with God. Look at verse 2. It says, through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand. We've obtained this. Our introduction or our access is another way you could say it. By faith into this grace. We stand in grace Because of our faith in Jesus. We have access to grace because of Jesus. And just like Jesus is our peace, Jesus is also our grace. Without Jesus, we don't have access to this divine grace. Without Jesus, it's access denied. Access denied You know, some of you work in those uh you know secure government buildings where unless you show the proper ID, access is denied. You can't enter into certain spaces without the proper ID, the proper credentials And in the same way, Jesus is our identification that grants us access into the grace of God. No ID, no access. And that's the idea behind this word here that we've been introduced into this grace. Like now we have the proper credentials. We now have the ID that we need in order to get in. And through whom we've obtained this introduction, this word uh introduction. It's actually the Greek word uh prasogoge, and it's a word that was used for Admission into the presence of a person of high position. That's what it was used for. It was the word that was used for a solemn approach, especially when coming into the presence of the king. One commentator writes this the idea is that that of introduction into the presence of the chamber of a monarch. And he argues that that access, this commentator argues that access, the word access is inadequate Because it leaves out of sight the fact that we do not come in our own strength, but we need somebody who is the introducer, who's bringing us into the presence of the King. It's not like you just open the door and say, hey, you know, go and go and see him for yourself. No, like we need somebody that will bring us to the king. Who is the one who brings us to the king, brings us before the king? It's Jesus Christ. We don't just need access, we need an escort. We need somebody who's going to bring us to the skiing. I I remember when I was doing air conditioning, I worked in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. And uh I didn't just need an access, I needed an escort. It's like the stuff that we have in here is too valuable for us to just let you run around by yourself. I mean Stacks of money like that tall on a pallet, uncut, hundred dollar bills, just laying around. Like, no, we're not just letting you roam around here by yourself. You know, you're you're gonna have an escort, somebody that's gonna be watching you every step you turn, you know, everywhere your eye looks, it's like we we see you, right? You you don't just need access, you need an escort. And when we come before God, we don't just need access. We need somebody who's going to introduce us, who is going to bring us before this God. We need the escort, and the escort is Jesus Christ. That's the way that the word was used. It's found two other times in the New Testament, Ephesians 2. 18. For through him, referring to Jesus We both have our access in one spirit to the Father. He's the one who brings us to the Father. Ephesians 3. 12. In whom we have boldness and confident access through faith in him. Again, he's the one who has to be with us. We don't have access without Jesus making the introduction. You may remember in the book of Esther when the queen desired to speak with the king without permission. She's taking her life into her own hands. Esther chapter 4 and verse 16, she replies to Mordecai, who's encouraging her to go before the king. You know, you don't know if for such a time as this, but you're you're right in that spot so that she can speak to the king on our behalf. So what does she say? Go assemble all the Jews who are found in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days or night or day. I and my maidens also will fast in the same way, and thus I will go into the king which is not according to the law. And if I perish, I perish. I could I could die to go before the king. That's what it was to appear before an earthly monarch. That was somebody she was even married to. How would you approach the heavenly monarch without any fear? 2 Samuel chapter 6, we read of Uzzah. He reached out and touched the Ark of the Covenant, and he was struck for getting too close. We read about those in the Uh Uzziah, king over Judah, came into the place where only the priests were allowed. And the priest says, Get out of the sanctuary, you've been unfaithful. You don't belong here. And he was struck with leprosy because he got too close. Children of Israel, Mount Sinai, they're warned not to approach the mountain. Don't get too close, lest you die. Don't get too close to the Lord. Even Moses, as much of a saint and faithful believer as he was, not even he could see God and live. You can't get this close, Moses. The presence of God was dangerous and even deadly. And you know what? The Lord doesn't change. He's the same way today. It's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. God is not to be played with, treated lightly. We still need an introduction to God. But the New Testament believer is said to have confidence to enter the holy place. But how? How can we confidently enter the holy place? It's because we have the escort, it's because we have Jesus Therefore, brethren, Hebrews chapter 10, verse 19, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, By a new and a living way which he inaugurated for us through the veil that is his flesh. And since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near. You have a priest, you're okay. Let us draw near with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. If you remember the holy place was separated by the Holy of Holies with a very thick and heavy curtain when the uh the the temple was was built, the the new temple in Jerusalem. Uh the tabernacle was replaced by a large Jewish temple and they they made sure to hang the curtain again. And during the time of Christ Christ, the the veil of the temple was a massive curtain some sixty feet high, thirty feet wide, and according to one Jewish record, the veil and the temple took three hundred priests to move it. Three hundred priests to move it. But as Jesus gave up the final cry The massive curtain was torn right down the middle from top to bottom, indicating that now you have access. Which is a clear sign God has given us access. But how is that way granted? Because of the way. Because of Jesus Christ. It's because Jesus is the door And we don't enter the presence of God through a curtain anymore. We enter into the presence of God through the veil of Jesus ' flesh, the one who is offered up for us. That's how we come to God, and it's by grace alone. But here's the last question for today. If we enter into this relationship with God by grace, through faith, and because of Christ, how do we stay there? How do we stay there? We enter in because of faith, we enter in because of grace. But how do we stay there? I remember this was something I wrestled with pretty early on in my Christian experience. I went to a church that taught that you could lose your salvation. They taught that we didn't have any surety about our eternal life. The church also taught that you could only be sure that you were saved if you spoke in tongues. I'll leave that for another time. Church also taught that you could actually reach a state of perfection in this life. I remember talking to one of the leaders, and I said, Well, you know, I've never met a perfect Christian. He says, Well, you're talking to one right now. And believe me, I knew him, and he was not. Just all kinds of layers of false teaching, you know, in this church. But if I'm if I enter by grace and by faith, how do I stay there? What does the text say here? Verse 2 Through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace, in which we stand. I enter by faith into this grace, and I stand by grace. There's nothing else that's necessary. The way that I enter in is the way that I stand. I enter through faith into this grace, and it's by grace that I stand. The verb for saying here is it's in what's called the perfect tense, which speaks of an ongoing result of a past action. You've entered in and you stay in. You've entered in by grace and you stay by grace. It's actually called an intensive perfect, which which lays emphasis on the present state of the believer, that you're still standing by that same grace. Meaning that this is a grace we've been introduced to and we're previous and we're continuously standing in it. We're standing in this grace. And brothers and sisters, this is a benefit that's again tied to our justification. Flip over to Galatians chapter 3. We'll close with this. Galatians chapter 3. Paul had to deal with the Galatian church who tried to mix faith and works. And he says, he says, this is foolish. Like what are you thinking? Look in verse 1. Galatians chapter 3, verse 1. He says, You foolish Galatians? Who has bewitched you before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified? I mean, did you forget that Jesus died for your sins? Verse 2, this is the only thing I want to find out from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? Did you forget how you came to faith in Jesus Christ? Verse 3, are you so foolish having begun by the Spirit? Are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you forget that you were sealed by the Holy Spirit? Verse four, did ye suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain? I mean, did ye forget the gospel that you suffered for And then verse 5. So then, does he who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you do it by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? Did you forget that you never had to work to receive the Spirit Did you forget that you never had to work for a miracle? That you received it by faith? So Paul reminds these Galatian Christians that their salvation was by faith, not by works. It's not by works. So if you didn't get in by your works, you're not staying by your works. And then he says this: where does he go to back up his claim? Galatians chapter 3, verse 6. Even so Abraham. Sound familiar? Even so Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. He's going back to justification by faith. If you were justified by faith, then you're continuing to stand by your faith. You're in this grace. You've been now brought into the realm of grace. Therefore, be sure that it is those who are of the faith Who are sons of Abraham, the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, All the nations will be blessed in you. So then those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham the believer. Do you know what Paul is saying? He's saying, do you know how salvation works? Do you know how it works? Because if you really understand justification, you shouldn't have any problem with your security as a believer. If you really understand justification. Because the great dilemma is that there's none righteous, no, not one. The definition of justification is that it's the righteousness of God and not yours. And then we defended justification by saying it's not because of law, ceremony, lineage, contribution. It's not because of what you do. So if you understand salvation how you came in, why are you having a problem understanding how you stay in? If you really understand justification. So that's why he goes back to Abraham and says, let's go back to the beginning again. Like somehow you must have forgotten this. Are you so foolish, Galatians? Let's go back to the beginning. Do you understand how you came to faith in the first place? Don't allow anybody to trip you up about this. Don't allow anybody to steal your security as a believer. You don't enter salvation by grace and then maintain it by your works. You don't receive salvation as a gift and then keep it because you earned it. You don't you don't become spiritually found and then become spiritually lost. You don't enter into spiritual life and then turn around and enter into spiritual death. You're not a child of God today and then become a child of the devil tomorrow. And if your sin wasn't enough to keep you out, why would your sin be enough to kick you out? And if you've been transferred into the kingdom of God's Son, you can't now be deported back into the domain of darkness. You belong to Christ. You belong to Him. So there is no condemnation, again, for those who are now in Christ Jesus Romans chapter 3, I know I only told uh chapter 8. I know I only told you one more, but this is the last one. Last one. Romans chapter 8 Look at verse 35. And we'll get to this eventually. But who will separate us from the love of Christ? Well, tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Just as it is written, For your sake we are being put to death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, and that's including yourself. will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And now we have a reason to rejoice, don't we? Blessed assurance, right? Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. Heir of salvation. Purchase of God. Born of his spirit and washed in his blood. This is my story. This is my song. What? Praising my Savior all the day long. We need to be rejoicing in this great salvation. That belongs to us as those who have trusted in Jesus Christ by faith. Amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you God so much for this opportunity, Lord, just to review. these things to review these truths. Lord, there's uh just so many more, uh so many uh benefits, uh Lord, that we'll continue to uh examine, Lord, explore together, rejoice in together. Uh Father, I pray that you'd give us a uh just uh uh an an an exaltation, uh a great joy, an overflowing joy because of what belongs to us now that we're found in Christ. Father, we thank you that because of our justification that all these things All these things are now ours, but these belong to us. But these are the benefits, Lord, that we can rejoice in with those who are of like-minded faith, those who are of like faith. Sir Father, I pray that you Lord would be glorified and honored. Lord, as we continue to explore this great salvation of ours. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church to hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.