The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew? Matthew chapter 5. Again this afternoon we're turning back to the Beatitudes, and this is going to finish our time in the Beatitudes. Uh but it's my prayer that the Beatitudes haven't finished their time with us. Uh the truth that we've learned in these twelve opening verses of the Sermon on the Mount is uh truth that we'll turn back to often. And uh even after I Got finished with uh uh studying for uh uh for this Sunday. Uh there's still more that we could have come back to uh to explore, but uh but we're gonna move on. Uh the Beatitudes are the foundation for the rest of the sermon. on the Mount. Uh the rest of the Sermon on the Mount is dolphin the Beatitudes, and as uh Martin Lloyd Jones stated, unless we're perfectly clear about them, we have no right to go further. And uh we're introduced here to the Kingdom citizens. Uh we're Who are only uh uh the only ones who can really live out the principles that he talks about uh further throughout the the Sermon on the Mount that's going to be discussed. And uh from the beginning of the Beatitudes straight through the end, it's clear that Jesus is addressing his followers. Jesus is addressing his followers. In uh chapter 5, verse 2, it says that he taught them, uh referring to the disciples. Then again in uh verse 11 He says, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you. So he gives them this personal and direct address that couldn't have been given to the unbelieving crowd. He wouldn't have been able to say that just to to you know the person who's just kind of sitting listening in uh to what he has to to say. This is specifically uh for the disciples. So While there's great application here for evangelism, and this could be considered one of the greatest evangelistic sermons that's ever been preached, its primary purpose isn't evangelism. Um it's a sermon of self-examination because it forces us to ask the question, Am I really a follower of Jesus Christ? It uh forces us to ask that question, am I a kingdom citizen? And it's also a sermon of great encouragement and comfort. Because it lets us know that if these qualities are ours, if they're part of our life, then the blessings are also part of our life as well. That the destination is also true of us as well. So let's look again at Matthew chapter 5, starting at verse 1. Matthew chapter 5. It says, When Jesus saw the crowds He went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you once again Father, we thank you so much for what we've already learned. Father, we praise you for what we're going to learn. And Father, I pray that you'd open up our minds and hearts to what you have to say to us. Ah Father, we pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers as well. Uh not be those that deceive themselves And I walk away unchanged. Father, I pray that every time we approach your word that we would leave transformed. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. This is a passage about blessing. It's a passage about blessing. Repeated nine times in verses 3 through 12 is the Greek word, makarios. That's where we uh uh get the the word beatitude from. The the Latin beatuse means a blessing, and uh we have that word beatitude that comes uh as a derivative of the Latin word. uh for for blessing. It's a word that can be translated as blessed, fortunate, worthy of praise, commendation, even happy. But who else begins their description of a blessed man with poor and ends their description of the blessed man with persecuted. Who else does that besides the the Lord? The the world would assume that those who are on the path of blessing are the rich, the well fed, those who are laughing, those who are popular. But that's the very list of people who Christ pronounces a curse on in Luke chapter 6, the parallel passage to Matthew 5. In Luke 6, 24 to 26, he says, But woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. Woe to you who are well fed now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for their fathers used to treat the false prophets in the same way. Uh the the path to to blessing that the world assumes for itself is the the path towards woe and cursing uh that the Lord pronounces. And uh even within the church there are people who are desperately trying to reroute the path to blessing. Desperately trying to find some other way. The popular preaching on blessing says that we've been empowered to prosper. Says that blessing is an empowerment to produce peace in every area of our lives. And the only thing that's stopping you from receiving more blessing is a limited mindset. And that you need to release the blessing through the power of your spoken word. That's the popular word on blessing. And where is that found? Anywhere in the Beatitudes. I mean you can't find that. Persecution in the early church robbed the disciples of peace, of safety, possessions, positions, freedoms. It would have been a shock to the disciples to hear that all they had to do was just name it and claim it, right? And nowhere is the prosperity gospel shattered to pieces more than in this Final Beatitude, Matthew 5, verse 10. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. There is no cross, or there is no crown without the cross. There is no kingdom without tribulation and persecution. As the Puritan Thomas Watson said, Christ died to take away the curse from us, yet not to take away the cross from us. In Acts 14, verse 22, Paul strengthened and encouraged the disciples with these words, Through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. Must, not we might, we must enter the kingdom of God through tribulation. It's necessary. The Greek word day is used there. It's necessary. Second Timothy 3. 12 adds this that indeed all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And those that bear the characteristics of the kingdom are not to expect praise for their righteousness, but persecution for it. And as I mentioned last week, we we desperately need our Lord's perspective. on this. And there's a couple reasons why this is especially important for us to address for the second time in a row, the second week in a row. Uh one reason is that there's brothers and sisters who are right now experiencing extreme forms of persecution for the sake of righteousness. There's there's brothers and sisters out there that are that are doing that in in other nations. Just this week uh my friend Jesse Johnson posted this on on his blog. He says for weeks the functional government in central Iraq had told Christians that they had to make one of four choices by this past Saturday, forfeit their property as a Christian tax, convert to Islam, leave or die. But a week ago, ISIS , this government in Iraq, revised their list and said that paying taxes was no longer an option. The remaining choices were convert, leave, or die. Those are the only choices they gave them. When uh Friday came around, uh residents awoke to an A Arabic N, spray painted on their houses, property, farms of all suspected Christians. The government had come during the night to demonstrate that they knew who the Christians were and the spray painted ends were not a s a not so subtle reminder that the deadline to convert, flee, or die was only twenty-four hours away He goes on to say why the N, you know, the Arabic N. Because in Arabic, Christians are often simply called Nazarenes. All Christians were forced out of Central Iraq, including Mosul, an historic city with several churches 1700 years old. One church there had practiced communion every Lord's Day for 1600 years until last Sunday. As Christians left, uh Mao Sul Isis set up checkpoints outside the city, robbing the fleeing masses, the form of Sharia law, uh the form of Islam that's gripped uh Iraq is uh violent and has as its goal the complete obliteration of Christians That's happening. We're not talking about ancient history. We don't have to go to Fox 's Book of Martyrs for that one. That's what's going on today. And that's only one story of many that we could cite. But in addition to what's going on in other nations, that the handwriting is on the wall in many ways, even in our own nation. In uh 2012, just just let me give you a couple examples. 2012 Uh Jack Phillips, a Denver baker, was sued by a gay couple after he refused to make a cake to celebrate their marriage in 2012. The owner explained to the couple that he could make them other baked items, but because of his Christian beliefs, he would Not make them a cake for their reception and an administrative law judge rule that his refusal violated the state's public accommodation law. Just this year in March of 2014, Brian Knight, the co-founder and CEO of Mozilla , software community producer of Firefax. Stepped down as CEO left the company following protest over a support of a ban on gay marriage in California. George, uh Robert P. George, a Princeton University professor said, now that they have Ike's head as a trophy on their wall, they will put The heat to every other corporation and major employer. And uh then just this week in sports news, I mean it's just going everywhere, right Tony Tony Dungey, the former head uh coach of Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Indianapolis Colts, was asked if he would have drafted Michael Samms, the first openly gay NFL player. After it was reported that he would not, he has been criticized as the worst person in sports. Just for giving his opinion, right? And I'm not saying that all these people necessarily suffered for the the sake of of righteousness. That's not what I'm trying to say. Uh but what I am saying is that you don't have to be a prophet or the son of a prophet. To know that the culture is changing at a warp speed. R. Albert Muller writes this Western society is currently experiencing what can only be described as a moral revolution. Our society's moral code and collective ethical evaluation on a particular issue has undergone not only small adjustments, but a complete reversal. That which was once condemned is now celebrated, and the refusal to celebrate is now condemned. John MacArthur adds this one. He says, there's a flow that you can see happening. First, you abandon the Bible. Then you create a new morality, which is an immorality, then you demand tolerance, and for those that don't give you tolerance, you are intolerant, and that leads to persecution. And he says this, that we're somewhere between intolerance and persecution. That's where we are. And I'm wondering who's going to be left. Who's going to be left? When there is a a heavier price to pay for biblical truth, who is going to be left standing? It's been said that if I profess with the loudest voice and clearest exposition every portion of the truth of God except precisely that little point which the world and the devil are at that moment attacking, I am not confessing Christ. However boldly I may be professing Christ? Where the battle rages, there the loyalty of the soldier is proved, and to be steady on all the battle front besides is mere flight and disgrace if he flinches at that point. And the battle is raging, and this passage in Matthew chapter 5 provides us with the necessary antidote to flight or disgrace. And uh I pray that that we would uh uh get our Lord's perspective on uh persecution. Um and that the point that this text drives us to is that you can change your attitude. about persecution if you change your perspective on it. Let's take a look again at Matthew chapter 5, verses 10 down to 12. It says, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets. who were before you. And uh last week I mentioned that we could divide this passage into three sections, uh reevaluate the persecution of the past, uh reevaluate the persecution of the future, and reevaluate your response to persecution in the present. I'm not gonna Change my points, but I do want to make some additional observations and uh then draw out some implications from this. Uh first of all, reevaluate the persecution of the past and In verse 10. You're able to change your attitude about persecution if you reevaluate the persecution in the past. Look at verse 10 again. Blessed are those who have been. Persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. That word for persecute again is uh diyoko, which means to put to flight, to pursue. You could translate it as to come after. And these are the people that the world comes after, whether to drive them out or to uh take them out, and it's uh been found here in the perfect tense. which indicates that this is a reference to a past event of some kind that has a continuing effect. So here's the disciples And as they thought about either their own persecution or the persecution of those that might have come before them, Christ wanted their perspective to be dramatically altered. He wants them to change their perspective on persecution. He didn't want them to think about those that have been persecuted as these, you know, poor, unfortunate, disadvantaged souls. Oh oh so so poor that they've been uh persecuted. Christ wanted their perspective to be dramatically altered. He didn't want them to think about you know these people as disadvantaged. He wanted him to think about wanted them to think about these people as blessed. They're not disadvantaged, they're blessed. Because the temptation for us is to think that the more fortunate person is the one who is able to escape the persecution, right? That's what we're tempted to think. Like if uh somebody on your job was being ridiculed for being a Christian, it's like you you consider yourself, you know, grateful that they they didn't pick on me today. You know, somebody else is gonna get it When the truth is, is that the blessing would have been to be counted for Christ that day, right? That is the blessing, to be counted for Christ And the same is is true for those that are mentioned here, but the question is, what what 's included in this righteousness? When we say, you know, those that are persecuted for the sake of What kind of righteousness are we are we talking about? And this is where it's helpful to compare uh scripture with scripture. Just a few verses later, uh Jesus refers to a group of people that were considered righteous. But who did not receive this kind of blessing. Okay? Now look at chapter 5, verse 20. He says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. What Jesus admits in verse 20 is that there was a certain kind of righteousness that the Pharisees had. They had a kind of righteousness, but their righteousness was no indication that they were headed for heaven. They had a had a different kind of righteousness. Similarly in Philippians chapter 3, Paul talked about having a certain kind of righteousness that amounted to no more than refuse. In Philippians chapter 3, verses 6 to 7, he says, As to the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless. But whatever things were gained to me, those things I have counted as laws for the sake of Christ. And and all that's to say is that it's possible for somebody to practice right actions, right actions, and still maybe even be attacked for it But that does not of itself fulfill the requirements that are found in this Beatitude. Okay? That's not what we're talking about. It's important to keep in mind that uh the Beatitudes are a collective whole. Uh those who are persecuted for righteousness are the same ones who are poor in spirit, mourn over their sin, they're gentle, they hunger and thirst for righteousness. You also need to keep in mind the immediate context of those who are persecuted for righteousness. And the very next verse are said to be the same ones who are persecuted for the sake of Christ, for the name of Christ. And the righteousness that we have here is really a righteousness toward God and for the sake of Jesus. A righteousness toward God and for the sake of Jesus Christ. A righteousness is more than just principled living in a strong moral character. Because the Bible lets us know that without faith it's what? It's impossible to please God. Your righteousness doesn't please God without faith in him, right? It's not like God's up here, you know, being impressed by righteousness that's apart from him, apart from a relationship with him. Bible lets us know that all of our righteousness is like what? Filthy rags. Filthy rags. The Bible actually goes further and says that you can give your body to be burned, and it still profits you nothing, right? 1 Corinthians chapter 13. So a righteousness that does not seek to glorify God or honor Christ is not proof that you're headed for heaven. Being persecuted for your own righteousness. Instead of a righteousness toward God and for the sake of Jesus Christ is not what Jesus considers blessed. The first seven beatitudes have to be true of you if you're going to claim the eighth. Right? First seven have to be true if you have to are going to claim the claim claim the eighth. But if it's true of you that you've suffered for his glory and for the honor of Christ, your suffering is actually proof Of saving faith. Which the Bible says is more valuable than any treasure that the world could offer. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 1 real quick. This is just a fantastic verse here. 1 Peter chapter 1. It talks about those believers who are protected by the power of God in verse 5 through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Goes on to say that in this And this is the salvation, right? And this ye greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while it's necessary, you've been distressed by various trials, so that the proof of your faith being more precious than gold which is perishable, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. What what he says is that if if you've been put through the fire, through a trial, and your faith is still intact, what is that proof of? It's proof of your eternal destination. So he says if if you're going through a trial and you still maintain Righteousness towards God and honor towards Jesus Christ, your faith is still intact at the end of that trial, that that becomes for you a confirmation of my final destination. It's proof that I'm headed for for heaven. And that's how God wants us to view suffering in the past as a confirmation of our future destination. You can change your attitude about persecution if you think about it like that. But this is this is proof of of that final destiny. Second thing, reevaluate persecution in the future. Back to Matthew chapter five. Look at verse eleven. It says, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. We can also change our attitude. About persecution in the future, what will come in the future if we change our perspective? Again, uh Jesus was not only giving his disciples a uh perspective on the uh the past, but also preparing them for what would come in the in the future. And it's not like, like I said before, like there was really any uncertainty about whether or not persecution would come. It's just when, what kind, and how often. But an observation I want to make here is that even though these believers were to expect persecution It was not to be their constant expectation. It says, you know, when? Meaning that it's it's going to come and go. Right? It's not just like something that's constant all the time. There's times when a righteous life will turn people towards the Father. Just a few verses later, Jesus says this in verse 16. It says, Let your light shine before men in such a way that they may see your good works and Glorify your Father who is in heaven. There's times when your righteous life will actually lead people to glorify God. It doesn't always result in persecution. So you shouldn't expect every encounter with an unbeliever to end in, you know, I'm going to be persecuted for my faith every time. There's times when your good works, when your righteous deeds will actually draw people to the Savior. In Acts chapter 17, we find that there were three different responses to Paul's ministry. Acts seventeen, thirty-two to thirty four, it says now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some began to sneer, but others said, We'll hear you again concerning this. So Paul went out of their mets, but but some joined and believed. You had some that says, well, I'll listen to you again. And then you had some that actually believed. There's three different responses. Same message, same life. Three different responses. We don't know how the Lord is going to choose to uh have that response be towards us. So uh we should expect, along with the persecution, that God is going to use our righteousness and our stand for the truth to actually draw some people to faith. And isn't that a wonderful uh blessing to look forward to? And we pray as we go uh uh get ready for Evangelism Week that the God is going to allow that latter category to be true of us, even if he allows the first category to be true of us. There might be some that mock and snare, but we're praying that there's some that the Lord is drawing to himself that will actually believe and trust in Jesus Christ. And you can consider yourself blessed if you are mocked for the faith. Again, in 1 Peter 4, verse 12 to 14 it says, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you. Which comes upon you for your testing as though some strange thing were happening to you. But to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. It's important to note as well that uh the forms of persecution and suffering vary within the the Beatitudes here. There are some who've uh shed their blood in uh righteousness, you know, in in resisting sin. Uh Hebrews chapter twelve lets us know that, verses three to four. It says, For consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. You have not resisted to the point of shedding blood and you're striving against sin, and uh we're not necessarily to the point where we're we're shedding our blood in in this country for uh standing up for righteousness. Um But there's also within the Matthew chapter 5 and the Beatitudes, he also mentions that there's other ways that we can be persecuted. There's other ways to suffer. Uh everybody kind of grew up with that, you know, little nursery rhyme, sticks and don't sticks and stones can may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. Whoever told that to you, lied, okay? Uh words do hurt. Words do hurt. Uh it's amazing to consider all that the Bible says about the tongue. And uh the tongue is compared to venom. Psalm 140 verse 3, they sharpen their tongues as a serpent. Poison of the viper is under their lips. The tongue is compared to an arrow. Jeremiah 9, verse 8. Their tongue is a deadly arrow. It speaks deceit. With his mouth one speaks peace to his neighbor, but inwardly he sets an ambush for him. The tongue is compared to a crushing weight. Proverbs 15, 4, a soothing tongue is a tree of life with perversion in it, crushes the spirit. The tongue is compared to a shattering blow. Psalm 42, verse 10, it says, as a shattering of my bones, my adversaries revile me. Tongue is compared to a cutting sword. Proverbs 12, verse 18, there is one who speaks rashly like the thrust of a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. Tongue is compared to an untamed beast. James 3, verse 8, but no one can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil and full of deadly poison. Tongue is compared to a fire from hell. James 3. 6, and the tongue is a fire, the very world of iniquity, the tongue is set among our members, is that which defiles the entire body and sets on fire the course of our life and is set on fire by hell. And it's no wonder that the Simon said in uh one uh Psalm 120, verse 2, Deliver my soul, O Lord, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue. Deliver me from people's words. And in some ways it's it's almost easier to protect yourself from a physical blow than a verbal blow, right? Because at least you can stop somebody from hitting you, right? How are you going to stop what people say about you? There's no way to stop that. You know , Psalm 12, verse 4 says, uh talks about these arrogant people who have said, With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? I'm gonna say what I want to say. And in many c cases people do, right? Say whatever they want to say And the Lord recognizes that uh that abuse uh comes from people's words and that the scriptures take the time to mention verbal suffering and even the suffering that the Lord endured even on the cross. In 1 Peter 2, verse 23, it says, And while being reviled, he did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. Part of the abuse that the Lord suffered on the cross was what people said about him. The people who mocked them. When we endure suffering like this for the sake of Christ, we should consider ourselves blessed because it is a God-ordained sign of our future reward. In uh Luke chapter 6 verse 22 it says, Blessed are you when men hate you, ostracize you, insult you, scorn your name as evil. For the sake of the Son of Man. So if you're going to change your attitude about persecution, you need to reevaluate what's going to happen in the future. You know, when people talk about you, you need to prepare yourself for that. How do I respond to that? I can see this as a as a badge of honor that God is actually stamping my ticket to heaven with persecution. Again, the third point is in verse 12. Rejoice and be glad. For your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. We need to re-evaluate our response to persecution in the in the present. It talks about this present tense, you know, rejoicing and being glad. When we're being persecuted in the midst of persecution, and uh mentioned last week that Jesus uses two words for our response, the word uh joy, which is often used for that kind of internal inconsistent joy that Christians should have And then he uses the word that's translated be glad that refers to this kind of external bubbling over kind of explosion of joy, something that shows up on the outside. And uh what is it that drives our internal joy outward? What is it that pushes that internal joy outward? Uh first of all, the great reward that belongs to us. The great reward that belongs to us. The Bible speaks frequently of uh believers receiving rewards for service that's done in the name of the Lord. Uh, over in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 3, if you want to flip over there, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. It speaks of the differences of reward based on a person's faithfulness to use the proper materials, the proper method, and the proper foundation. 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Look at verse 9. It says, For for we are God's fellow workers. You are God's field, God's building. According to the grace of God which was given to me like a wise master builder I laid a foundation and another is building on it, but each man must be careful how he builds on it, for no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ Now if the man builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident for the day will show it, because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work And uh we're not given a lot of detail exactly uh about what this looks like, but some of us, you know, according to this uh chapter, will be given a greater capacity to glorify God in the future based upon our faithfulness to serve Him now. You know, there's going to be a difference of of rewards and even glory in heaven. And uh this is the time that uh everything that's hidden is brought to light. In uh 1 Corinthians 4 verse 5 it says, Uh therefore do not go on passing judgment before the time, but wait until the Lord comes who will both bring to light the things hidden in the darkness, and disclose the motives of men's hearts, and then each man's praise will come to him from God. But not only do we receive rewards for service, we also receive rewards for suffering. We receive rewards for suffering. In 2 Corinthians in chapter 4, verse 17. It says for momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. That the affliction that we go through now is producing for us an eternal weight of glory. There's some kind of connection between what you suffer today and what it produces for you in the in the future. There's some role that our present suffering for Christ has in the glory that we'll share in the future. And that's why 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 13, says that to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ Keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. Whatever degree ye suffer is to the same degree that you can rejoice. Because They're connected. Your suffering now and your glory in the in the future are connected. And uh the glory that will be revealed in that day is not even worthy to be compared with the the suffering that we in endure today in Romans 8. Verse 18 it says, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. And just like some of us have been given a greater capacity for We you know learn about the parable of the talents that different people are given you know different gifts. Uh God also gives us an ability and a capacity to suffer for them. And each person's capacity to suffer is uh is different, and the Lord measures all that out. And uh if we've been chosen uh to suffer for the sake of Christ, We can rejoice because the reward is also going to be just as great. One writer says this, that every stone thrown at Stephen made him shine brighter in the kingdom of heaven. And uh uh Thomas Watson adds this, that every injury toward us shall serve to make our crown heavier. Uh but not only is the reward great that belongs to us, We can also rejoice because the uh the company that we belong to is is great. In uh verse 12 again in uh Matthew chapter 5 it says, uh, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who are before you. And and this really could be a study all by itself, and it probably should be. One one day we'll we'll get here. Just to kind of do a study of of uh church uh history. It was said that uh uh In the 1500s that a house wasn't considered Christian unless it had a Bible, John Bunyan's Tolkien 's Progress, and Fox 's Book of Martyrs. You know, this is just kind of like the staple of of Christianity. Uh but this could literally, like I said, it be a study all by itself and probably should be in the scriptures There was really no greater role to fulfill than that of the prophet. Like I said, Jesus acknowledged that there was a special reward for prophets in Matthew chapter 10, verse 41. But when we suffer for the sake of righteousness, we place ourselves in the lineup. Place ourselves in the lineup of the prophets. And uh just to be mentioned in the same breath as the prophets is an honor But but our point of connection with them is through our suffering with them. Just as they suffered, we suffer. Before Stephen was martyred martyred Uh he documented for the uh for those religious leaders that were were present there uh just the uh a history of of Israel History of Israel. And at his conclusion, he said this in Acts chapter 7, verse 52. He says, Which of the fathers or the prophets did your fathers not persecute? They killed those who had previously announced the coming of the righteous one whose betrayers and murderers you have now become. And they they might have assumed that Jesus being rejected, crucified, was evidence that he was not the Messiah. But what Stephen argues is that his rejection by the Jewish fathers is actually one of the greatest evidences that he was the Messiah. You know, the persecution just falls in line with what's happened before. Why would you think that he's not the Messiah? You persecuted all the prophets that came before him. Why wouldn't you persecute the Messiah as well? It's one of the greatest evidence that he is the Messiah. Because which one of the prophets from God wasn't treated like this In Matthew chapter uh 23, if you want to flip over there, Matthew 23, look at verses uh 34 and 35 Look what Christ says here. It says, Therefore, behold, I am sending you prophets and wise men and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city, so that upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood Shed on earth from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. That's an amazing statement to think about. That every prophet that came before me and every prophet that will come after me, you're going to be responsible. You know, the rejection of Jesus Christ for that generation that rejected Jesus Christ, it's like the the cumulative the cumulative weight of all the prophets before and after fell upon that generation. That's what he says. You're responsible. I'm gonna hold that to your account. And let me just give you a sample of what this history looks like. Abel Genesis chapter 4, murdered for righteousness' sake. And for what reason? Because uh his deeds were righteous and his brothers were were evil, right? Cain slayed Abel, because his sacrifice was received. Joseph, Genesis chapter 37, thrown into a pit, sold into slavery. Why? Because his brothers couldn't stomach the idea of Joseph ruling over them. Moses, Exodus 2, rejected by his own kinsmen, because who made you a prince or a judge over us? You know, God did, right? And he led a rebellious and a grumbling nation for the rest of his ministry. David, 1 Samuel, persecuted by Saul, a man that he looked to as a father figure. Called him father. Why? Why was he persecuted? Because the promise of God was on David's life and not his. Persecuted Micaiah, one of my favorite prophets in 2 Chronicles chapter 18, refused to compromise even under the tremendous pressure of 400 lying prophets and a jail sentence hanging over his head. Refuse to compromise. Second Chronicles 18, verse 7. It says, The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him. For he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil. He is Micaiah. Elijah, perceived by Ahab and Jezebel after the false prophets of Baal were put to death, 1 Kings 19, verse 2. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So may the gods do to me, and even more if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by to morrow, about this time. Jeremiah, CHAPTER thirty eight. Literally cast into the mud of an empty cistern, because he spoke the word of the Lord. Isaiah, according to tradition, was put to death by being sawn in two. And uh this is what many believe Hebrews 11. 37 refers to when it says uh they were stoned, they were sawn in two. Hebrews 11. 37 uh 7 referring back to uh to isaiah Zechariah in 2 Chronicles 24 20 to 21 says then the Spirit of God came on Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, and he stood above the people and said to them, Thus God hath said, Why do you transgress the commandments of the Lord and do not prosper? Because you have forsaken the Lord, he has also forsaken you So they conspired against him at the command of the king, and they stoned him to death in the court of the house of the Lord. Don't don't tell me what God has to say. God's forsaken me. This is what we have for you. John the Baptist, Matthew 14, in prison, beheaded for confronting sin with the truth. Stephen, stoned for his witness to the truth. And then every apostle of Christ besides John faced a violent death. Flip over to John chapter 21 real quick. John chapter 21. Look at verses uh 18 to 19 here. This is Christ speaking to Peter He says, Truly, truly I say to you, verse 18, when you were younger, you used to gird yourself and walk wherever you wished. But when you grow old, you will stretch out your hands, and someone else will gird you, and bring you where you do not wish to go. Now this he said, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said to him, Follow me Follow me. According to the early writers, Peter died during Nero's persecution of the Christians, and all agree that he was crucified. And Origen says that Peter felt himself to be unworthy to be put to death in the same manner as his master, and was therefore at his own request crucified with his head downward. According to one source, James was slain by the sword, John was banished, Philip was crucified, Bartholomew was beat down with planks. Thomas was slain by a dart, Matthew by a spear, Thaddeus was slain, Paul beheaded, Simon and Jude slain by a mob, and Matthias was stoned to death. The world was unworthy of these men. Unworthy. And uh when we are willing to suffer for the sake of righteousness, we stand in line with them. Stand in line with them. And one of these days we'll take a trek through through church history, but the lineage is truly humbling to think about. Tertullian, the second century church father, said, The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. The church grows out of persecution. This is where the church grows. And not only does God know uh about the persecution, he knows where he needs more seed, right? You know, if if the the the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church, he knows where he needs some more seed at And uh the Lord is the one who determines that. But while we might not be martyred, there's nobody that leaves unscathed. Everybody, if you call yourself a Christian, you will suffer and have suffered some form of persecution. Some form of persecution. There was a poem that I heard a year some years ago that still speaks to me. It's called No Scar by Amy Carmichael. It says, Hast thou no scar? No hidden scar on foot or side or hand. I hear thee sung as mighty in the land. I hear them hail, thy bright ascendant star. Hast thou no scar? Hast thou no wound? Yet I was wounded by the archers fent, leaned me against the tree to die and rent. By ravening beasts they compass me I swooned. Hast thou no wound? No wound? No scar Yet as the master shall the servant be, and pierced are the feet that follow me, but thine are whole. Can he have followed far who has no wound and no scar? And there's so much to say beyond that, right? But uh let me just give you a couple principles that uh that might be helpful for you. First of all, let me just wrap up with a couple points of application. We shouldn't seek persecution, okay? You shouldn't seek persecution. 1 Timothy 2 verse 1 said First of all, then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions, thanksgiving be made on behalf of all men, for kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. We're not out here praying, hey, just bring it on. Come on, come on, let's let's get it on. That's not what the Christian is doing. The beatitude before this was that we are peacemakers. We're seeking peace with all men. We're not picking a fight with people. Okay? So we're not to seek persecution. Even Jesus instructed his disciples that if persecution came for them, that they should flee. He gave them permission to run. Get out of there. They don't want to hear the message. They start to persecute you. Get out. Don't cast your pearls before swine. Once they turn and wrench you to pieces, right? So we're not out here picking a fight. Somebody doesn't want to listen to the message. You don't just keep trying to ram it down their throat, right? So we're not out here seeking persecution. Number two, we shouldn't compromise to avoid persecution. So even though we don't seek it, we're not going to compromise to avoid it. Daniel in Daniel chapter 6, he wasn't seeking persecution from the magistrates when he prayed. He was just doing what he always did. He's not saying, oh, you want to make a law now? Well, how about this? Let me throw my windows open. Hey guys, get a load of this. Right? That's not what he was doing. He's like, I'm just gonna do what I always do. I always pray, I always open my windows, I'm gonna keep on doing it. But he wasn't picking a fight. He's not going to compromise to avoid the persecution either. He's not going to alter his practice in order to avoid the threat. Number three, we need to make sure that it's for Christ that we're being persecuted. Make sure that it's for Christ that you're being persecuted. The cross is offensive, okay? You're not going to remove the offense of the cross. And we don't tone down the offense of the cross for anybody. Okay? The cross is the cross is the cross. Okay? The cross is offensive to people, but we want to make sure that we're not the ones that are being offensive. You know, because of our speech or actions, you know, and calling people idiots and things like that, and expect them to listen to us, you know, after after we're done. Uh 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 3, it says, giving no cause for offense in anything So that the ministry will not be discredited. The question is, is your persecution for love of Christ? Is it for him? Watson again says this that the m martyrs first burn in their love, and then they burn in the fire It was for Christ that they they suffered, not because of their own foolishness. Number four, love and pray for those who persecute you Love and pray for those who persecute you. Matthew chapter 5, verse 44. But I say to you, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you Even though our persecutors may be enemies of us, we're not enemies of them. We're to love them, pray for them, do good for them, those that come after us. Romans 12 verse 14 says, Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Seek for ways to be blessings to those that might even come after you to persecution. Number five, realize that persecution is not the displeasure of God. When you are being persecuted, don't think that this is, you know, somehow God thinks that I didn't do what I was supposed to do. We're prone to do that. Romans 8. 35 says, Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Well tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword. The Bible says that we're we're not forsaken. We're not forsaken uh in persecution. And in fact, what Peter says is that when we are persecuted When we're reviled for the name of Christ, 1 Peter 4, verse 14, this is a wonderful verse. If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. You're no more closer to God than when you're being persecuted for him. This is when the spirit and the glory of God rest on you. Number six Receive persecution as a gift from God. Understand that it's a gift. Philippians 1 29, this is for for to you it has been granted for Christ's sake, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. You need to receive it as a as a gift Uh beliefs in uh Mark, I think it's around verse uh chapter eleven or ten, or where it says that uh that we receive um Not only family and houses and lands and all that, and persecutions. You know, he adds that that we also receive the persecutions. This is also a gift. Number seven, rely on the strength of God during persecution. Rely on the strength of God. 2 Corinthians 12, verses 9 and 10 says this, and it says And he hath said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly therefore I will rather boast about my weakness so that the power of Christ may dwell in me Therefore I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties, for Christ's sake, for when I am weak. Then I'm strong. When I'm weak, then he's strong, right? Because he's perfecting his power through me. Number eight, remember Christ during your persecution. This is the last one. Remember your Christ during your persecution Hebrews chapter twelve, verse three verse three says this says, For consider him who has endured such hostility by sinners against himself, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. When you're going through a time of persecution, what the scriptures command us to do is to think about Christ. Consider Christ. Consider the one who went before you. It was reported that before the Apostle Peter was crucified, like it mentioned upside down, that he was forced to watch his wife being crucified. And that while she was being crucified, he comforted his wife with these words, remember the Lord. Remember the Lord. What is he telling her to do? Consider Christ. Consider Christ. The words that uh Peter spoke, he actually put into practice. And the question is, is are you a kingdom citizen? Are you a kingdom citizen? These beatitudes are called a self-examination because it forces us to ask the question, am I really a follower of Christ? Do I suffer persecution for the sake of righteousness? Am I really willing to stand up for the truth regardless of what comes to me? That's who the follower of Christ is, one who denies himself, picks up his cross, follows after him. Remember that And the parable of the sower will end here. Turn over to Matthew chapter 13. Parable of the sower here, Matthew 13, Jesus talks about Some of those who give the appearance of being kingdom citizens. And it's kind of like the tares that are sown among the wheat. Because these people actually rejoice at the hearing of the Word of God. Isn't that fantastic? Isn't it great? People rejoice at the hearing of the Word of God. Isn't that what we're looking for? But that's not enough. It's not enough. Look at Matthew 13, verse 20. It says, the one on whom seed was sown on the rocky places, this is the man who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Rejoice! Yet he has no firm root in himself, but is only temporary. And when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately he falls away. The proof of your faith in the Word of God is not your willingness to receive it. It's not your willingness to receive it with joy. It's your willingness to suffer for it. That's the proof of faith right here. The proof of faith. How do we know which seed was the real the true thing, right? Well the seed was the true thing. How do we know which plant was, right? It's the one that endured, the one that actually bore fruit. The proof of your faith in the Word of God is your willingness to suffer for it. Like I said, this sermon is an examination. And it's also an encouragement to those of us who have suffered for the sake of righteousness because then the blessings are ours as as well. And we have that proof of our faith being much more precious than gold. Which is perishable, even though tested by fire may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, again, for uh this opportunity to to meditate, to think about uh persecution. And um Father, it's uh not something that's easy to talk about. It's not something that's easy to endure, but Father, I pray that uh you'd help us to uh uh to bear it in the way that you've instructed us to, in the way that Christ uh uh told his disciples to, to rejoice, to be glad in it. Uh Father, uh I I'm not sure what kind of persecution you've prepared uh for for us. Uh Father, we're we're not in charge of that. Uh Father, I pray that we would be people of of peace, that we would pray for peace, uh, that we would pray that we'd be able to lead quiet and tranquil lives. But Father, that when you bring persecution our way, that we win it budge, that we wouldn't compromise, that we stand firm for the truth, because we we trust in you. And because we know where our eternal home is, our our world is not this home. Our home is not this world. This is not our final place. Our home is the uh the eternal home that we look forward to. Which is made by a better uh builder, a better home that's that's constructed. Uh Father, we thank you uh so much for uh for that eternal uh home that you're preparing for us. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online . . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.