The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the Scriptures and let them speak. Well, as we uh read here, just in uh chapter four, leading up to chapter five, we understand that Jesus had an extensive ministry in Galilee. He proclaimed the gospel of the kingdom, he prepared his disciples. for service he performed these unprecedented miracles that identified him as the Messiah, as miracles pointed to his identity because nobody else could do the kinds of miracles that he did. And uh this is just a a little bit of review just to kind of get our minds back into the the flow of this text. In uh John 731 it lets us know that There was never a man who did what Jesus could do. Never a man who could do what he could do. The crowds believed in him and they were saying, when the Christ comes, He will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? Nobody else can do what Jesus can do. The crowds knew that nobody compared to Christ in his works And uh Matthew chapter nine, verse thirty-three, there was a demon that was cast out, and the mute man spoke, and the crowds were amazed at this healing. You know, this this uh demoniac Mute man that actually started to speak, and after the casting out of this demon, they say, Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel. This is unprecedented. We don't have anything to compare this to The sky's off the charts. And by the time Jesus finishes with this sermon, there's the same kind of reaction to his words, not only to his works, that there's never a man who could do anything like this, there was also never a man who could speak like this. Matthew chapter seven verse twenty-eight it says when Jesus had finished these words the crowds were amazed at his teaching. In John chapter 7, there were some officers of the temple. There's a temple kind of police, temple guard. Uh that went to uh go and actually arrest Jesus. They were sent by the the Pharisees, the scribes, chief priests Went out to go and arrest Jesus, and they came back empty-handed. In John chapter 7, verse 45, the officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to him, Why did you not bring him? You know, so here you have these chief priests and Pharisees saying, what 's going on? I sent you with the task. Why didn't you bring Jesus back The officers answered, Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. The Pharisees then answered them, You have not also been led astray, have you? It's like, are you deceived by this guy too? Just blown away by his words? They couldn't help it. They couldn't help it. When they heard Jesus speak, they said, nobody's ever spoken like this before. When Jesus spoke, he spoke with the authority of God Himself. This was unprecedented. It was so captivating, so powerful, so authoritative that when these officers Came to arrest him, they were stopped dead in their tracks. It's like, you know, I'm not touching him. How about you? Right? I mean nobody nobody can talk like this. I mean he sounds like he knows what he's talking about. He sounds like he's actually got some authority to back up what he's talking about. I'm not touching him. They didn't want to touch him. Jesus spoke with the authority of God Himself. We reminded ourselves last time we were here that over and over again in the Sermon on the Mount, he kept saying I say unto you. I say unto you. I know you've heard this, but I say. And he spoke with authority. An old testament reference to the Messiah's ministry, Deuteronomy eighteen, eighteen and nineteen, it says, I will raise up a prophet from among their countrymen like you. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. It shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words, which he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. To to ignore what Jesus had to say, you were asking for it. You're asking for it. I myself will require it of him. Jesus spoke with the authority of God. And when he spoke in such a unique way, That nobody could compare him to anybody else. I mean, Jesus just spoke these unique sayings. Actually, uh Alfred Ederschheim, who was a leading authority on Jewish practices, said this: the rabbinic parallels are said to be in general only superficially similar and often opposite in spirit. You couldn't think about what Jesus said and he says, yeah, he sounds just like I mean there's nobody to compare him to. He doesn't sound like anybody. Beyond comparison, unmatched, unrivaled, unsurpassed. There's no group of words that are more unique than this introduction to the Sermon on the Mount known as the Beatitudes. I mean, who else speaks in categories like these? Everything seems like it's on its head. It's backwards. It's reversed. You know, I know there's familiar words to us now. You know, blessed are the poor, blessed are those who mourn, blessed are the gentle. I mean, they're familiar to us now because we we've heard them before. But if you stop and think about it, if this was your first time hearing Jesus speak, this is your first time hearing like and deliver this kind of message, none of us would have come up with the kind of words that Jesus chose. Nobody. We just kind of learn how how far off we can still be from the mind and purpose of God when we try to think of, yeah, how would I have finished that sentence? Blessed are the What would I put in there? We would never come up with what Jesus came up with. We would never come up with this list. What would your blessings look like? Blessed are the rich, because they can have their heart's desire. Blessed are those who laugh because they have no troubles. Blessed are the strong because they are never taken advantage of. Blessed are those who are filled because they are satisfied. Blessed are those who can look out for themselves because they shall be taken care of. Blessed are the mischievous in heart because they know how to have a good time. Blessed are those that don't get too involved because they stay out of trouble. Blessed are those that are on top because they never have to worry about being persecuted. That's the kind of list that I probably would have come up with, right? That's the kind of list you probably would have come up with. I mean, blessed are the poor, blessed are those that mourn, blessed are those that are persecuted. You would never think of that. That's not how we think. Nobody prior to Jesus Christ would have put a list like that together. Anything close to the Beatitudes. Nobody thought of it. So when Christ opened his mouth with this kind of list , Listen to it again. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the gentle. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are those who have been persecuted. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad. This is so counterintuitive. It's just like incredible. This just goes against everything that we we know. And this would have struck the crowd out of their senses. It's like they they downloaded a program that their computers couldn't run when they heard this message from from Jesus Christ. I mean they're looking to update their system, right? Because it's like at this point I have nothing to handle this. I have no category to put this in. Never has a man spoken the way that this man speaks. And today we're only going to get to the first statement in verse 3. But I think you'll agree with me that this is going to be enough. This is like quite enough for today, okay? Verse uh verse three. Uh I spoke with uh several pastors and everybody who's taught through uh Matthew chapter five before me. They that that actually try to cover more than one beatitude at at one time. They said, you know, if if I had to do it over again, I'd just do one at a time. You know, I want to try to try to rush through this at all because there's just so much here. So we're going to take our our time with it. Um so like I said I kind of joked a little earlier. We might be singing that song for for eight weeks. I'm not joking, Miles. I'm not joking, alright? The the Puritan uh Jeremiah Burroughs, he actually spent forty-one messages on the Beatitudes alone. So uh if we if we do eight, we're we're we're in good shape, right? We're in good shape. We won't go that slow, but we'll uh we'll be bringing it down a couple gears just so we can spend our time in and what our Lord says here. But think about this. The Beatitudes are the opening words of the Sermon on the Mount. Opening, opening words. Of the greatest sermon ever preached. What Jesus said here was to prepare them for everything else that they were about to hear. The beatitudes are on the front end, to prepare them for what they're about to hear in the rest of the sermon. And the rest of the sermon will make no sense unless you get the beatitudes right. You don't get the Beatitudes right, the rest of the sermon doesn't, you know. How how do you put it together? You have to get the Beatitudes right or nothing else makes sense. D. Martin Lloyd Jones said this The order in which the statements come in the sermon is really of supreme importance. The Beatitudes do not come at the end, they come at the beginning. And I do not hesitate to say that unless we are perfectly clear about them, we should go no further We have no right to go further unless we understand what the beatitudes are about. And then he goes on to say that many people want to jump to the particulars, like uh, what does it mean to turn the other cheek? You know, they want to get to that. What what does it mean not to resist an evil person? What does it mean to give to him who asked? What does it mean not to take an oath? You know, they want to get to those particulars But he says he he refuses to discuss any of that with the person unless he makes sure they understand the beatitudes first. I want to make sure that you're a Christian, and I want to make sure that you understand the priority. He says I never discuss any particular with anybody. I'm perfectly happy to discuss it once I know that they're a Christian and that they understand the beatitudes. Because you can't understand anything else until you understand this. You get this, and then you can make sense of the rest. So uh the placement of the Beatitudes in the sermon at the front end is important. Also, the placement of the Beatitudes with each other is important. The context that the Beatitudes are found in is also important. If you study the scriptures in context, there's so many questions that are answered for you, right? Comparing scripture with with scripture. The Beatitudes are placed together for a reason. They weren't meant to be broken up, studied in isolation from each other. We'll take them one at a time, but it's important to note. that they're all given at the same time, addressed to the same group of people, so we're gonna compare them to one another. It's not like, hey, this is, you know, just totally distinct and separate from what follows, right? Everything is gonna tie in uh together. As I mentioned uh the last time the the primary group that he addressed uh this sermon to were the disciples. It says that the disciples came to him in verse 1 and he opened his mouth and began to teach them. Talking about the disciples, this is all the message that he gave to the disciples. All the beatitudes were intended for the disciples. He never intended them to be poor in spirit, but not hunger and thirst for righteousness. He never intended for them to be gentle but not be peacemakers. Or he never intended for them to be prepared to be persecuted but not be pure in heart. You know, it all fits together. Every beatitude is for every Disciple and the blessings are true across the board is as well for every disciple. And also the order of the Beatitudes is significant The order of the beatitudes is significant. It's been noted that there seems to be a progression in each of the beatitudes listed here. And until a person sees himself as poor in spirit. Until a person sees himself as poor in spirit, uh the rest of this just doesn't make sense. So so even the the placement of the Beatitudes And the order that they're found uh is important as as well. In Luke chapter 6, when the Beatitudes are also mentioned there, poor in spirit shows up first, meaning destitute, heads the list, and there's significance to that, and it's my prayer that uh we would see the significance of uh those words. this morning. And we'll examine the Beatitudes in three parts, at least this Beatitude in three parts. Jesus declared a specific blessing to a specific group of people for a specific reason. You have the Lord's declaration for the beggars, the Lord's definition of the beggars, and the Lord's destination for the beggars. So let's start with the first one. The Lord's declaration. To the beggars. Look at verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit. And what's really significant about this is that uh it's not Jesus issuing a command. He's not saying, you know, be poor in spirit. He's just making a declaration about those that are poor in spirit. He says, blessed are the poor in spirit. It's implied that they need to be beggars that you know those that are not poor in spirit need to be poor in spirit. It's also important to note that he's not saying this is how you feel, that you feel blessed. When you're poor in spirit. It's not talking about your your feelings. Although we need to reckon and appropriate and apply what he says to our lives, and I think it it will give us a better outlook on life when we understand this. He's not saying that that you're you you're you're happy in spirit. You know blessed you know, blessed uh are you and and you're feeling blessed He's not saying that either. What Jesus is doing here is he's just stating a fact. The poor in spirit are blessed. And the the Greek word here is a makarias, and uh Latin it's uh beatus where we get our Word Beatitudes from. It's a word that can be translated as blessed, fortunate, worthy of praise or commendation, or even happy. And some modern translations will translate that with the word happy, but it's best to stick with the word blessed for a couple of reasons. First, we're uh we're not talking about a subjective emotional state. Okay? So when even if you you read that word happy, you're not to think about, oh, this person is just kind of bubbly and excited. It's just saying that that this person is is a blessed person. He's a fortunate person. Uh he he's he's a prosperous person. I mean you should actually envy a person like this. He's well off. That's what it means when it says blessed are the poor in in spirit. Uh there's actually a uh a psychologist who authored a book a number of years ago. Who uh try to say that Jesus was actually giving his theory of happiness and that if a man reacts to his environment in the spirit of the Beatitudes, he will have discovered the basic formula for mental health. That's that's not Jesus' purpose here. It's not what Jesus was doing. He's I and I don't doubt that the Sermon on the Mount will make you happier, you know, if you really understand it. Uh but that's not the point that Jesus is making. He's just saying that the person who is poor in spirit And going down the list, that this is just the declaration about who they are. They're just blessed. They're fortunate. The word uh makarias refers to the person who is doing well. Prospering, and it's also used to describe God Himself. Used to describe God Himself. 1 Timothy 1. 11 says God is described as the blessed God. Makarias uses that same word, entrusted Paul with the glorious gospel. The Blessed God did this. 1 Timothy 6. 15, it talks about Christ. Uh it says in uh and he will bring about at the proper time, he who is the blessed and only sovereign, the king of kings and the lord of lords. Again, it's not a statement about how God feels. It's a statement about who he is. This is just who he is. He's the he's the blessed one. There's uh no more being with no this that's better off than than God, right? And uh those who are connected to him are well off because they're connected to the the Blessed One. So I just want to say all that to say you may not feel blessed as a believer. But what Christ says about you is that you are blessed. Regardless of how you feel. It doesn't matter if you're you're popping up and down, you know, and singing the song happy, right? It doesn't matter. It's just who you are. You are blessed. That's what you're to reckon yourself as. I'm a blessed person. I'm a person that's prospering. And this is similar to what Jesus' half-brother said in James chapter one. If you uh flip over there real quick, it's uh uh something that we're all most of us are familiar with in uh in James chapter one. You have Jesus' half-brother saying the same thing in uh verse two. He says, consider it all joy, my brethren. Consider it all joy. He's not saying that you are joyful and bouncing up and down. He's just saying You know, whatever you're going through, just consider it as joy, like you know, put it in that column, put it in that category. You know, this belongs in the joy category, even if I don't feel like that at this time. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials. Knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance and let endurance have its perfect work results so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. So he's not necessarily talking about how you feel. He's just saying this is how you can should consider it. You should consider yourself fortunate if you're going through trials because it's working something good in your life. Same kind of thing that uh that uh Jesus is talking about back in Matthew. He's not talking about how you feel, he's just talking about who you are. You can place your difficulties in the joy column because of what your Lord is doing. And this is a present condition. This is not saying that you will someday be blessed. Like in a future kingdom, he's saying that you are blessed right now. If you fit into the category of being poor in spirit, you fit into the category of being blessed. It's the description of who you are. And blessedness is uh also from the context it's clear that it's not earned. Blessedness is not earned. Uh he's referring to those who are poor in spirit, those who haven't merited anything, those who haven't earned anything, those that don't deserve anything. And it's been also observed that this very first Beatitude defends the doctrine of justification by faith alone Why? Because they had nothing to offer. There's nothing that they could bring. First Beatitude says that those who inherit the kingdom are those who have nothing to offer the kingdom. They're spiritual beggars with no merit of their own. They can't pay their way in, no matter how small the price. They came in as beggars and they remain as beggars. That's who we are. And what God declares about these beggars who are circling around him, these disciples that are circling around him now, circling around the living bread, the beggars that are coming around the living bread, he's saying that you guys are blessed. You're blessed. What 's his description? Let's look at uh the second point. Not the Lord's description of beggars. Blessed are the poor in spirit And the Lord was specific in the word that he used to describe those that are spiritual beggars. There's two different words for poor in Greek. There's the word penas, which refers to a person who has nothing but the bare necessities. You know, I'm just kinda eking out a living, getting by, check to check, paycheck to paycheck. I'm I'm making it. You know, I have something to eat, I have some clothes to put on my back, but you know, it's it's tough, I don't have any extra. That's the person who is penace If you could uh work, you are considered penis. You're poor, but you have something to maintain you. He's able to make it It's nothing extra, but he's able to make it. Uh uses that word in 2 Corinthians 9, verse 9. It says, uh he scattered abroad, he gave to the poor, his righteousness endures forever. I'm talking about the people that could kind of make it from check to check. But there's another word For poor. It's the word potokas. This is poor beyond poor. Poor beyond poor. This is the person who is utterly destitute. He doesn't even have what he needs to survive. Doesn't have what he needs to survive. He has no living between paycheck paycheck to paycheck because he doesn't have one. This is this kind of person. Living on the mercy and charities of others. This is the person that he's describing here. And listen to this, the poor in Scripture We're not the poor that could help themselves. Okay? When it uses this word potokas, it doesn't talk about poor people that could help themselves. If you could work and you didn't work, there was another word for you. It was lazy. If you could work and you didn't work. 2 Thessalonians calls those who were not willing to work undisciplined, busybodies. 2 Thessalonians 3 verse 11. That's not the kind of word that's used for the poor that we're talking about in Matthew chapter 5. The word that it's using here is those that not that they're able, but they're not willing. We're talking about those that have no ability whatsoever to change their condition. There's nothing they can do. They can't do anything. Those were the beggars that were also often crippled, blind, or diseased. Physically incapacitated, unable to do anything for themselves. That's what you find begging in Scripture. Those are the people you find begging in Scripture Those that were blind. Luke 18, verse 35, it says, as Jesus was approaching Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the road begging. In John chapter 9, the man who was born blind, he was healed. John chapter 9, verse 8, it says, Therefore the neighbors and those who previously saw him as a beggar were saying, Is not this the one who used to sit and beg? You know, it says that uh they they previously saw him as a beggar. He's not considered a beggar anymore because now he can see. Now he can actually do something to help himself. Okay? So he's not considered the beggar anymore. He says, isn't this the one that used to sit and beg? Previously they saw him as a beggar. Those that were crippled were beggars. Acts chapter 3, verse 2, it says a man who had been lame from his mother's womb was being carried along. whom they used to set down every day at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, in order to beg alms of those who were entering the temple. Those that were diseased were beggars. Luke chapter sixteen tells the story about the poor man named Lazarus. Luke chapter sixteen, you remember that? A poor man named Lazarus was laid at his gate, covered with sores, longing to be fed with the crumbs which were falling from the rich man's table. Nothing he could do. Nothing he could do. Besides even the dogs were coming in licking his sores. When you think about porn spirit, that's the kind of picture you should have. There's absolutely nothing I can do. There's nothing I can do to change my condition. Poor in spirit, destitute in spirit, beggarly in spirit It's the kind of picture that Jesus gives of the poor in spirit. They can't work, utterly unable to make a living. They can't borrow because they would have no means to pay it back. They can't appeal to their past achievements. Because there's nothing that they've done in the past to receive any benefit from? They can't appeal to the future like something's going to change, because there's no hope that their condition will ever get any better. They can't appeal to their present. Listen to this. Even after they receive alms, they still need them. That's the kind of beggar. It's like, you know, I have my hand out, and even after I've received something, I still have my handout. Because there's nothing else I can do. This is the spiritual beggar Jesus is talking about. Even after they receive, they still need more. That's significant. They must continually live on alms, continually live on charity, continually live on grace. Jeremiah Burroughs said this, so a soul that is spiritually poor, it seems it must live in a continual dependence on God. If anything be given me, I must have new supplies for using it and for continuing it. Oh, what a poor creature am I! Now it's hard for a man to live upon alms for a little time, to be a beggar for a short time. But to live upon alms all the days of one's life, that's harder. But to live upon alms for all of eternity, and yet this is poor of spirit. This is what it means to be poor of spirit. That I am dependent not only now, not only for the rest of my life, but for all of eternity. It's like I'm just dependent on God. If he lets me go for a second, I am done. I am done. I was listening to this uh message by uh John Gerson. He gave gave this uh uh uh talk on uh uh the difference between Peter and and Judas. And he asked this this question. He says uh He says, when you're in heaven in a perfect state, free from sin, you're glorified in a glorified body. He asks this question. He says, will you still need God's grace to sustain you then? You're in heaven. You're perfect. You're glorified. Will you still need God's grace to sustain you even then? The question is the answer is yes, right? He argued that the only difference between Peter and Judas is that Jesus prayed for Peter. It was his grace that sustained Peter. Only difference. Both of them denied the Lord. Both of them fell into sin. Both of them betrayed him. What's the difference between a Peter and a Judas? It's the grace of God. The grace of God. You need to hear this. You never graduate from being a beggar. You never graduate. You enter the kingdom as a beggar and you remain a beggar. We're like the children of Israel who had to come daily for food, right? Daily for grace, because yesterday's food stinks by now. You have to come every day. Every day we need fresh grace daily. We can't stockpile it. And I think that's why some ministers fall away. They begin to depend on yesterday's grace for today. We're never sufficient in ourselves. We're always needy because we have no resources. We're always needy because we deserve no credit. Even after we've done all that we were supposed to do. We still deserve no credit. Luke chapter 17, verse 10, it says, So you too, when you do all the things which you are commanded, you say, We are unworthy slaves, we have only done that which we ought to have done. There's no credit that goes to you for doing what you're supposed to do. You think you deserve anything because you did what you're supposed to do? A pat on the back? Congratulations? Give him a trophy. He was obedient. No! If you lived your life perfectly, the only thing that you could say is, hey, I just did what I was supposed to. Perfect! You don't get any extra merits. No storehouse and treasury of merits to withdraw from. If you lived a perfect life, you would have only done the basics. We're always in need of grace. Always in need. Because everything that we have is a gift. Everything that you own is a gift. 1 Corinthians 4:7. For who regard you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? If you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? You are a beggar. Everything that comes to you is a gift. You didn't earn it, you didn't deserve it. It was given to you graciously by Sovereign Father You don't you don't deserve anything. And that's that's who we are. We're beggars. Crouch down, coats over our face, cups up in the air. That's what we are. The word for uh for por, potokas, it's an adjective that comes from a verb which means to cower, to to bow down timidly. One commentator described the the pasture of a beggar as he held out his his cup and pled for coins from the passerby. That's the word for for for begging. It's like I'm I'm I'm in a corner, I'm I'm almost ashamed of just you know just holding my hands up. That's the kind of word that she used for the the poor in spirit. There's this sense of shame that was associated with being a beggar because they had a keen awareness of their position. They knew who they were. They knew they didn't have anything to offer. Luke 16 tells us that the parable of the man who lost his management. Luke 16, listen to this. In Luke 16, verse 3, it says, The manager said to himself, What shall I do? He's losing his job. He says, what shall I do since my master has taken the management away from me? I'm not strong enough to dig. I can't go out and get a job. But it's a normal labor job. I can't do it. I'm not strong enough to dig, and I'm ashamed to beg. It was shameful to sit on a corner and have your cup up in the air. It 's shameful. Begging carried with it a sense of shame, and the beggar crouched with his head down and his cup up. He was conscious of his poverty. And the question is: are you conscious of your poverty? Are you conscious of your poverty? Turn over to Revelation chapter 3. Revelation chapter 3, last book in the Bible. I hope you you understand your your poverty, that you're conscious of your poverty. Revelation chapter 3, it talks about a church that was rejected. A lukewarm church. Church of Laodicea. Listen to Revelation chapter 3 and what our Lord says about this church. Look at verse 15. He says, I know your deeds, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish that you were cold or hot. So because you are lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, I will spit you out of my mouth Because you say, I am rich, and I have become wealthy, and have need of nothing, and you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may become rich in white garments, so that you may clothe yourself, and that the shame of your nakedness will not be revealed. And I shave to anoint your eyes so that you may see. What was their problem? They didn't think they were poor They thought we have it together. We're rich. You're miserable, poor, blind, naked. You need somebody to clothe you up. You don't have anything. And he says, because you don't know that you're poor, I'm going to spit you out of my mouth. If you've never realized your poverty, there is no better day to begin than today. We're all impoverished, okay? We're all impoverished. It's not that some people are poor and other people are really the rich. It's just some people realize they're poor and other people don't. Okay? Christians are the people that know they're poor, that know they're in need. That's the only difference. We know that we're in need The idea is that some are poor and they're just oblivious to it. Another passage I want you to turn to, and I think this makes the point. Luke chapter 18. Look at Luke chapter 18. Jesus spoke a parable to about people who trusted in themselves, thought that they were righteous, people who thought that they were rich. They added together. Luke chapter 18. Look at verse 9. I'll start at verse 9. It says, and he also told this parable to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself: God, I thank you that I am not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I pay tithes of all that I get But the tax collector standing some distance away, listen to this, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven. What does that sound like? Sounds like he's crouching. Sounds like he's got his head down. Sounds like he knows he's not even worthy to pick his face up. Doesn't even want to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast saying, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. Who are the people that are really justified? Who are the people that have salvation? Who are the people that are declared righteous in the sight of God? Who are the people that inherit eternal life? Who are those people? It's the people who beat their breasts and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I don't deserve to be here, God. I don't deserve this. I don't deserve the least blessing from you. Those are the people that are justified. That's the position of a beggar. And even after he receives from God's hand. His eyes never get too high, right? Even after he receives, he's got his head down, hands up. Even after he receives, he never lifts his eyes too high, because he knows that he's still in need. That's the position we should be in. God, I'm ever in need of you. I never get to a place where I feel sufficient. That is the Christian. That is the Christian. That's the definition of a Christian. Being poor in spirit doesn't mean being sinful in spirit. That's not what's being communicated here. He says be poor in spirit. You know, those that are poor in spirit are blessed. He's not saying that the person who's uh who's uh who's sinful in spirit you know are blessed. That's not what it's talking about. Uh because the person who's poor in spirit is also described in verse eight of chapter five as being pure in heart. Remember all these beatitudes are connected. It's not talking about uh you know somebody who's who's just sinful, sinning willingly. That's not the poor in spirit. Doesn't mean uh that this is just a certain personality trait that you have. You know, hey, I'm just kind of like a humble meat guy and you know don't want people to see me too much. I'm poor in spirit, right? That's not what it's talking about. It's not what it's talking about. It's not there's certain people that can talk a great game, right? Certain people talk a great game, yeah, I'm humble, I'm gentle. Jeremiah Burroughs said this. He says, God knows their hearts are haughty enough and proud enough that if other men should but think of them and say the same of them as they speak about themselves, they could not bear it. You know, so people say, oh yeah, I'm just the worst, but if somebody says, yeah, you're the worst, it's like, hold on. You know, I didn't mean that, you know, literally. You know, hold on now, all right? It's not people that just talk a good game. It's not talking about people that are willing to make a vow of poverty, as uh some Roman Catholic churches would teach. You know, if you if you just you know commit yourself to a life of poverty, then you're you're poor in spirit. Paul knew how to be abased and how to abound, right? Philippians 4 verse 12, without being puffed up in spirit. To be poor in spirit is to know that you are unworthy. I 'm unworthy. I'm unworthy of the least crumb that falls from God's table, the master's table. It's to know that you're empty. You have no spiritual resources on your own It's to fall on the sheer mercy and grace of God alone. In the words of the hymn writer, nothing in my hand I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless! Helpless Helpless, right? Look to thee for grace. Fowl I to the fountain fly, wash me, Savior, or I die. There is nothing I can do. God, if you don't do it, I it's just not going to be done. I'm helpless. I don't have any resources on my own That's why Jesus said the tax collectors and prostitutes were closer to the kingdom of heaven than the Pharisees. Why? Because at least they knew that they had a need. The Pharisees thought they had it together. They thought they were rich. They had something to offer God. The prostitutes and tax collectors, they just came with their faces covered, hands up. Lord, I just I just need something, anything, please. That's how we're to be. We're bankrupt. Described as poor. That's how Jesus describes them. Poor in spirit. They're declared to be blessed. They're described as poor in spirit, and their destination, listen to this, is the kingdom. That's beautiful, isn't it? Look at verse 3 again in Matthew chapter 5. It says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This is who the kingdom belongs to. It's important that we understand what the Lord is not saying here. He's not saying that you beg in order to get to heaven. He's not saying that any more than he's saying you're you're persecuted in order to get to heaven. You know, if you read the uh Beatitudes and context. The first beatitude and the last beatitude are kind of like bookends. We can talk about that later. But all that that to say is that Jesus is not telling us Like this, this is these these things, if you can kind of do these things, this is how you'll you'll get eternal life. Okay, that's not what he's saying. He's saying that if you are saved, these things will be characteristic of your life. This is what's going to characterize your life. That's what he's what he's uh trying to say here. Uh Luther Luther actually uh understood that. Uh last time I was here I mentioned that uh there's a popular uh Lutheran view that said the Sermon on the Mount was like the law to chase people to Christ But I discovered that Luther actually understood the purpose of the sermon for believers. He said this Christ is saying nothing in the sermon about how we become Christians, but only about the works and fruit that no one can do unless he already is a Christian in a state of grace. This is something that God has to work in your life, right? Not something I can just do and kind of drum up. This is something that God has to work in your life. However, this is a call for people to examine themselves and ask themselves, what category do I fall in? Do I really think about myself as porn spirit? Do I really think about myself as having no resources at all? Nothing to offer God? Do I really think about myself as that? Like I said, those that are Christians, that's what we admit, right? That's what we admit to come to the cross. I have nothing. I have nothing but to come to you. That's what you admit first before you become a Christian. We'll continue to find what the kingdom is over the course of this study, but um but listen to this. Those that That are poor in spirit, those that recognize their poverty in spirit. It says that that these people with their you know heads down, hands over their face, hands up, that when they open their hands, what the what they actually receive is the kingdom. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine anything that's just like further apart? You know, I'm just looking for anything, and you get the kingdom in your hands? That's what it's talking about here. We've talked about the uh kingdom uh before, but um I think this will just help us to broaden our understanding of what the kingdom is a little bit. I want to talk about this for a minute. The kingdom was the same kingdom that was promise in the Old Testament scriptures. Okay? It's important to observe that the idea of the kingdom that Jesus is talking about, he's not trying to substitute their ideas of what the kingdom was in the Old Testament. He's not superseding their ideas of what the kingdom was described of in the Old Testament, even after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ Uh he spent forty days teaching his disciples about the kingdom. And the the burning question in the disciples' mind in Acts chapter 1 verse 6 was, Lord, is it at this time you're going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Is this the time that you're going to restore the kingdom of Israel? And uh Jesus didn't say, you blockheads, what are you thinking? There's not going to be a kingdom for Israel. There's not going to be a kingdom. What are you worried about that for? I've been 40 days and you still didn't get that That's not what Jesus said. What did Jesus say? He said, It is not for you to know the times or epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority. Is there going to be a kingdom for Israel? The answer is yes. Is Jesus throwing out the Old Testament scriptures? The answer is no. It's all that the Scripture prophesied about the kingdom. We've discussed this before. All that the the kingdom uh uh all that the scriptures prophesied about the kingdom, that it would be characterized by redeemed people, that the the kingdom of God will be characterized by righteous standards, uh put an end to warfare, establish peace. That it would be characterized by social justice among every race and class of people, that even the land itself would be changed and become fruitful, climate will be changed, the animal kingdom will be changed, and then to physical deformities, disease, sickness. All that's true. All that's coming. But if all that's going to be happening on earth, let's just talk about the kingdom of heaven Right? That's some of the questions that the people ask. And they say, well, you know, here's Jesus talking about something different here. Jesus speaks about the kingdom of heaven in verse 3. It also speaks about our reward. If you look at verse 12, it says, Rejoice and be glad for your reward in heaven is great. So what's what's the deal here? Here's the question. Will the kingdom be in heaven or will the kingdom be on earth? You know what the answer to that is? Yes. Yes. Yes. When we speak about the kingdom, we're talking about the rule and reign of God God rules in the heavens above and on the earth below, right? Psalm 93 verses 1 and 2. It says, the Lord reigns. He's clothed with majesty. The Lord is clothed and girded himself with strength. Indeed, the world is firmly established. It will not be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. To everlasting, right? God rules. God reigns. Jesus was given all authority. Not only in heaven, but on earth, right? Jesus given all authority in heaven and earth. Matthew chapter 28, 18. Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. When Jesus was born, he was born as a king. Matthew chapter 2, verse 2. Where is he who has been born? King of the Jews. He was born a king, right? And Jesus is a king who rules in the heart of every believer. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. It says, For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. We, after we've been saved, we've been picked up and transferred. A transfer has been made. We're now in the kingdom of his beloved Son. We are in the kingdom, okay? We're in Christ's kingdom. And right now Jesus does reign, but what's clear and visible in heaven is not yet clear and visible on earth. That's the only difference. What's clear and visible in heaven is not yet clear and visible on earth. And that's why we pray in Matthew chapter 6, your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. What's going on in heaven, Lord? Can you bring it down? That's what we're praying when we say, Your kingdom come. God, bring that heavenly kingdom down. We're praying the kingdom down. What's true in heaven, let it be true on earth. That's why Jesus said uh in John 18, verse 36, uh Jesus was Uh answering uh I believe it was Pilate at the time, he says, uh, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting so that I would not be handed over to the Jews, but as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Now, did he mean by that that his kingdom would never be established on earth? The answer is no. He's just saying, as it is now, I mean, right now, my kingdom's not in this place. It's not of this realm. He says, if my kingdom were of this realm, my my servants would be fighting for it. Guess what? There is coming a day when his servants will fight for it. Psalm two verse nine, you shall break them with the rod of iron, you shall shatter them like earth and ware. This is talking about Christ. Establishing his kingdom. There will be a day, like I said, when the servants will fight for it. 2 Thessalonians 1, uh verses uh 6 to uh 10. You can uh flip over there real quick Here we uh learn that God will repay those who have afflicted the church Nobody gets away. Alright? Nobody gets away. 2 Thessalonians 1. It says, For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. And to give relief to you who are afflicted into us as well when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Listen to this. When he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day. And to be marveled at among all who have believed, for our testimony to you was believed. When Christ comes back to take over the world, guess who's going to be with them? The saints are going to be with them. Saints are going to be with them. Revelation 17 verse 14 says this. These will wage war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them. because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those who are with him are the called and chosen and faithful. There's one day when Christ comes back to take over the world, the saints will show up, and the saints will fight for the kingdom. The kingdom of heaven will be brought down, coming down to earth. There's going to be a fight for this earth, and one day the invisible heavenly kingdom will merge with the visible earthly kingdom. Glorious. Think about that. Believers are already said to be citizens of heaven. Philippians chapter 3, verse 20, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which also we eagerly wait for saved is the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he comes, he'll bring the kingdom down with him. Our citizenship will be good here too. You don't have to, you know, update your card or anything. Citizenship in heaven is good for here. When he brings the kingdom down, it's all going to be rolled into one. That's the eternal kingdom that it talks about in Daniel 4, verse 44. It says, In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom which will never be destroyed. And that kingdom will not be left for another people. It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms, but it will itself endure forever. But there's uh news that just blows me away in this that the only ones that inherit the kingdom, the only ones that inherit a kingdom like this are those that realize they don't deserve it. Those are the only people that are found here. The called, the chosen, the faithful are the ones who, head down, hands up, Lord, I know I don't deserve anything. And they're the ones that get the kingdom. Those are the ones. The people that beat their breasts saying, Lord, be merciful to me, the sinner. Like I said, you can't imagine a more disproportionate picture than that. A beggar receiving everything. Receiving everything. A beggar who knows he doesn't deserve anything. He reaches out his hand and he gets everything. Those who know that they deserve nothing inherit everything. And what Christ is saying and declaring to these believers is that even though you can't see it now, Even though you may not feel like it now, let me tell you something that's true about you. You're blessed. You're blessed. You're fortunate. You're prosperous. I mean, if people really knew what you had, they would be envying you right now You have a reason for happiness. Those that were declared to be blessed, those that were described as beggars, are those whose destination is the kingdom of heaven. The poor get heaven. The poor in spirit get heaven. The mourners are comforted. The gentle inherit the earth. The hungry are satisfied. The merciful receive mercy. The pure see God. The peacemakers are God's children, and the persecuted inherit the kingdom of heaven. You need to examine yourself, ask yourself, where do I fit? What category do I belong in? Do I really see myself as totally empty? Totally bankrupt? Nothing to offer God? Is that how I see myself? If you don't see yourself like that, you need to make the first step towards salvation. You need to make the first step towards salvation and repent. You need to repent. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, uh, so much for this text. Father, I pray that you would Help us to see ourselves as uh those that are poor in spirit that we would recognize that. Father, I pray that if there's any here today that don't yet recognize themselves like that, uh that today would be the day. That they would realize that there's nothing in their hands that they bring, that they can only cling to your cross, that they come before you naked, helpless, foul That they need your help. So Father, I pray that you would help us to be that kind of kingdom people, that it would be evident that we're these kind of people Father, I pray that you would continue to teach us as we go through the Sermon on the Mount for your glory and honor. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.