The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. All right. Open up your Bibles to the uh book of Matthew. The book of Matthew. Uh Matthew is a A book that presents Jesus to us as the promised king is kingship, is uh proclaimed, it's defended And in this chapter, it's uh demonstrated as the uh the king speaks uh to us. We hear words directly from our king in Matthew uh chapter five. Jesus accommodates the crowds of us as I said before, but he's primarily concerned with his own disciples. It's his disciples who came to him, and when he taught, he taught them. Uh starting at verse one of Matthew chapter five It says, When Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Heavenly Father, we thank you again for the opportunity and the great privilege that it is to come before your word. Father, I pray that you would open our ears, that you would open our hearts. Father, that we would submit to you as we listen to you. And Father, that you would use me as a weak instrument in your hands to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Martin Lloyd Jones says this in his classic commentary on the Sermon on the Mount. He says, anyone who realizes even something of the meaning of the words, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, can approach them only with a sense of awe and complete inadequacy. The vision of God has always been regarded by God's people as the sumum bonum, or the highest good, or the greatest gift. It is the ultimate goal of every endeavor to see God and the whole purpose of all religion. And then he goes on to say this Our terms are so inadequate, and our minds are so small and finite that there is danger in any attempt at a description of God and his glory. Surely the moment we grasp this Everything pales in into insignificance. Everything else pales into insignificance. There's enough that's packed. In this one single verse, verse eight, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, to get lost for an eternity And uh one day we will be lost in the wonder and joy of this reality for all of eternity. Uh but I totally agree with Lloyd Jones that if we can begin to grasp this beatitude Even some small portion of what's being communicated here, everything else will fade into insignificance. Because the kind of vision that Jesus describes here should really be the ultimate goal of our lives. The ultimate goal is to to see God. And in a sense, the promise of this Beatitude is what really ties everything else in the uh the Beatitudes together. Uh so far the other Beatitudes have promised. of the kingdom of heaven in verse 3, being comforted in verse 4, inheriting the earth in verse 5, being satisfied, verse 6, receiving mercy in verse 7. But what kind of kingdom would it be? And what kind of comfort could be offered? And what use would it be to inherit the earth? And what kind of satisfaction could be provided, and what kind of mercy would be received if God was not also present there? What is heaven without God, right? What is heaven without the presence of God? The true joy of the kingdom of heaven is the presence of God in it. That's the true joy of the kingdom of heaven. He is the one who ties all these blessings together. The joy of being a kingdom citizen is that we get God. And our reward in the future is that we get more of God. That's that's the point. And that's exactly what ASAP reminds us back in um uh Psalm verse uh chapter uh seventy-three, if you remember the context, uh back in uh Psalm seventy-three You have uh Asaph, he's looking at the prosperity of the wicked, and in his heart he's starting to to slip because it seems as if they're better off than he is, but uh then he remembers what the wicked don't have. Uh look at verse uh twenty-eight. Uh Psalm seventy three verse twenty-eight. He says, But as for me the nearness of God is my good. I have made the Lord God my refuge that I may tell of all your works. He remembers what the wicked don't have. The wicked don't have God They may have prosperity, they may have this life of ease, but the wicked don't have God. And then when he talks about his future condition, listen to what he says in Psalm 73, verses 25 to 26. Look what he says here Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. So when he looks to heaven, he says What is there to anticipate in heaven besides you? He says, Whom have I in heaven but you? And besides you I desire nothing on earth. And the the good news now is that we have God, and the good news in the future is that we get more of God. We get more of God. And uh that's why uh John Piper writes the book, God is the Gospel. God is the gospel. He's the good news of heaven, and not one gospel blessing will be enjoyed by anyone for whom the gospel's greatest gift is not the Lord Himself. That's the greatest blessing of the gospel to the Lord Himself. There's no greater gift that God could give you besides Himself That's the greatest gift that the God could give you, and that's one of the reasons it's such a dangerous thing to make a man-centered gospel appeal. You know, to make it all about uh you know more success for you and more health for you and more wealth for you. That's not the gospel. It's not the gospel. The gospel is is is about giving you more of God. Not giving you more of the things that you already desire as a sinner. It's giving you more of God. That's what the promise of this beatitude brings to us. Blessed are the pure in heart, why? For they shall see God. God is the promise of this beatitude, and every other gospel blessing is connected to this ultimate vision. When Jesus considers uh those who see God to be blessed, It's assumed that uh this is something that should be sought after. We should seek after this blessing, this ultimate uh blessing of of seeing God There's a condition for the ultimate vision. The condition for seeing God is the purity of heart. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. There's a description of the ultimate vision. The ultimate vision is uh seeing God, and we'll take a look at what that means to see God. Uh there's an implication of this ultimate vision. The context of the scriptures implies that Um that uh being uh able to to have a view of God also implies other things that are also true about you. Uh we'll look at that as well. And then uh finally we'll look at some of the application of this uh ultimate vision and what it means for us today. So uh First of all, let's just take a look at the ambition for the ultimate vision. When Jesus uses the word blessed, he assumes that what is being offered is a desirable thing, right? He assumes that this is something that should be sought after. Those who see God are the blessed ones. And again, that word blessed is a word that means to be fortunate. to be well off, uh worthy of praise, commendation. Uh it's even translated as as happy. Uh but like I mentioned it's it's not speaking about the subjective emotional state of a person. It's not talking about how you feel. It's talking about something that's declared to be true about you, whether you feel like it or not. The Bible says that those that are pure in heart are blessed. And uh those who are considered pure in heart are blessed because They'll be the recipients of this greatest possible gift, which uh was also the greatest loss to mankind, if you think about the garden, right? Greatest loss to mankind. Why don't you turn back to Genesis 3 real quick? Genesis 3. There's something that was lost in the garden that was far beyond the land that freely gave of its produce. Uh the ability to bear children without pain as great as that would be for a lot of you women, right? Uh the healthy relationships between man and wife, as desirable as those things are. Mankind lost Something that was even far greater. Look at uh chapter 3, uh verse 8. What's what it says? It says, They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. This is, for me, this is like one of the saddest verses in the Bible. One of the saddest verses in the Bible, because what mankind lost was direct access to the presence of God. Direct access to the presence of God. I mean, what is up with this, right? Up until this point, there's no record of any distance placed between God and His creation. No record of any distance. There's only this unbroken, unhindered fellowship between God and mankind. And the implication here is that God's presence in the garden was a frequent occurrence. You know, they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the cool of the day. It's like this is a frequent thing that happened. The guy would come down and fellowship with man. But for the first time, instead of the sound of God moving through the garden being a welcoming invitation to come and spend time with the Creator, this became a cause of dread and terror. And man hides himself from God. I mean, how how sad is that? That mankind would hide himself from God. The sight of God is a terrifying thing. Not only does mankind hide himself from God, now God has to veil himself from man, right? God veils himself from man. Not only does man hide himself from God because of the sight of God being a terrifying thing. Now God also has to veil himself for man because the sight of God is a deadly thing. When God prepared to descend on Mount Sinai, the Lord spoke to Moses in Exodus chapter 19 , verse 21 It says, and then the Lord spoke to Moses, Go down, warn the people so that they do not break through to the Lord to gaze, and many of them perish. What is he saying? Don't let anybody come and approach the mountain while my glory is descending upon it, because they'll die Exodus chapter 32, flip over to Exodus 32. Yeah, the the children of Israel at the bottom of Mount Sinai. They're waiting for Moses to return. At this point it's been about forty days since Moses went up on the top of the mountain. Uh talks about that in Exodus 24 and 4 uh 18. And at this point they just assume that that Moses isn't coming back. The guy's been gone for forty days already. You know what's what's happened to him up on that mountain? I'm not going up there to try to find him. What's going on? Maybe he's been overtaken in the mountain by some kind of wild beast or something. Maybe he starved. Maybe fell in some crack in the mountain somewhere. We we don't know what's happened to him But they have this idea that they come up with. You know, let's forget about Moses, but we have another idea about what we want to do. Look at Exodus 32, verse 1. Since now when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people assembled about Aaron and said to him, Come, make us a God. Who will go before us? As for this Moses, the man who brought us up from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. They actually are saying, you know what, we're kind of tired of not seeing God. Having this invisible guy that we're following around? We we'd actually like a guy that we can see. Can you make us a guy that we can actually look at That's what we want. And then in Exodus 33, God says to Moses. Breaks the the the Ten Commandments in in half there because of his uh frustration and anger with the people. In Exodus uh 33, God says, you know what, you can you can go to the land that I promise you, but but I'm not coming with you. And Moses intercedes for the people to. And what I found out interesting is that in verse uh 11, it talks about God speaking to Moses face to face. But not even Moses at this point was allowed to see the the glory of the the Lord. He served a God that was completely invisible to him. And then what Moses does uh during this time is is he asks he he dares to ask God for the ultimate vision. He dares to ask God for it. It's kind of interesting because if you compare it with Exodus chapter 3 and verse 6, God appeared in a in a burning bush, and uh it says that Moses hid his face because he was afraid to look at God. He knew that this was God showing up that was uh giving him this this vision in the bush. He was afraid to look at God at that point. But but now he he he dares to ask the question again. It's like, you know, I I know I was afraid before, but but can can I just see your glory again? Can you just show it to me? Look at verse 18 in uh chapter 33. It says then Moses said, I pray you, show me your glory. And he said, I will make myself, I myself will make all my goodness pass before you, and will proclaim the name of the Lord before you, and I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. And will show compassion on whom I will show compassion, but he said, Ye cannot see my face, for no man can see me and live Then the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand there in the rock, and it will come about while my glory is passing by, that I will put you in the cleft of the rock and cover you with my hand until I have passed by Then I will take my hand away and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. So here you have Moses daring to ask the unthinkable, right? You know, God can I can I see your your glory? And whatever was seen of God's glory was this this veiled and and and sh and shielded. It was veiled and shielded from from Moses' sight. As godly as Moses was, God says, You can speak to me face to face. Um but you can't see me face to face, right? We we can we can talk face to face, but you're you're not gonna be able to see me face to face. And really when you think about it, the cry of the godly throughout the centuries has really been this the same kind of cry, hasn't it? You know, Lord, can you show me your glory? God, we want to see you. Moses asks for it, right? In uh Job, Job uh 19, Job anticipates it. He says, even after my skin is destroyed, yet from my flesh I shall what? I shall see God. Yet from my flesh I shall see God. He had this longing to see God. David desires it. In Psalm 27, verse 4, he says, One thing I have asked from the Lord, and that I shall seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple. What he desired above all things is I just want to I just want to see the beauty of God. I just want to bask in the glory of who God is. Philip requested the same thing. John chapter 14, verse 8, Philip said to him, Lord, show us the Father, and it will be enough for us, right? It's been burned into the hearts of the godly to seek the face of of God, but it's always denied. Always denied. You can't see me. John chapter 1, verse 18, no one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him John 6. 46, not that anyone has seen the Father except the one who is from God, he has seen the Father. And I love what uh R. C. Sprohl says about this. This is this is fantastic. Listen to this. He says, Why is it that we cannot see God's being? Some would say that this is basically an ontological problem. That is, that God is spirit. He has no mass, no form to behold, and we as creatures do not have the strength of vision to see the invisible being of God. However, the reason provided for us in Scripture is not a problem with our optic nerves. Our inability to see God is not a deficiency in our eyes, but a deficiency in our hearts. A deficiency in our hearts. God will not allow himself to be seen by those who are impure. And that's where we find ourselves, right? Impure. There's this ambition for this ultimate vision that's assumed in the word blessed. It's considered this blessed thing to see God. But there's also a condition to be met. And as RC Sprohl pointed out, God will not allow himself to be seen by those that are impure. Again, what uh the the Beatitude said is blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. There's a condition, the pure in heart. You have to be pure in heart. What does it mean to be be pure? That word pure used back in Matthew chapter 5, it's the word uh katharash. It uh means to be clean. It's uh used throughout scripture for physical cleanliness, ceremonial cleanliness, moral cleanliness. Uh Jesus used it of uh a physical uh cleansing as a metaphor in John chapter 13 and verse 10 Where uh Jesus said to him, He who has bathes needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean, and you are clean, but not all of you. You know, so we kinda use this uh metaphor, uh using a bath, you know, bathing and getting physically clean. as a as a metaphor for uh for this kind of you know moral uh uh purity. It's also a word that was uh related to ceremonial uh cleanliness in uh Romans chapter 14 verse 20 Where 's talking about the uh the dietary laws? Uh Paul says this in Romans uh 14, verse 20. He says, Do not tear down the work of God for the sake of food. All things indeed are clean, but they are evil for the man who eats and gives offense So he says all foods are clean ceremonially, right? And then it was used also for moral purity in 2 Timothy Where Paul says this in chapter 2 and verse 22, he says, Now flee from youthful lust and pursue righteousness, faith, and love with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart. From pure heart. And uh that's how Jesus uses it in in Matthew chapter five. It's talking about this moral purity. Uh some comet commentators they uh also point out that to be pure in Psalm 73 which Jesus might be alluding to here. It's the psalm that we read just a little bit earlier, as well as in James 4. It speaks about a purity as being this unmixed devotion to God. Uh in the same way that a a metal was uh uh unmixed, uh when a when a metal was unmixed it was said to be pure, uh that it's it's it's totally one thing, uh can refer to a person who's not uh double-minded, but as uh D. A. Carson points out The dichotomy between these two options is a false one. It's impossible to have one without without the other. The one who is single-minded in commitment to the kingdom and its righteousness will also be inwardly pure. Inward deceit and moral filth cannot coexist. With sincere devotion to Christ. That's what it means to be pure. We're talking about a devotion to Christ and a moral purity. And uh this purity is said to be in the heart. Purity in the in the heart. And uh often when we think about the heart we think about the emotions. You know, that's the the first thing that that comes to our to our minds when we think about the heart. We talk about, you know, our heart's sad or our heart's happy or you know, I love you with all my heart. And then we draw these funny shapes that look nothing like the human heart, you know, I heart you. Um but when the the the biblical writers talked about the heart, they meant more than that. They weren't just talking about the uh the emotions. Uh the heart was considered, as one lexicon put it, the center of and source of the whole inner life. The whole inner life is described by that term heart with its thinking, feeling, and volition. The core of a person, that place from which we feel, think, and determine our actions is considered the heart. in scripture. So in the Bible, when we uh in Matthew chapter 9 it says that Jesus knowing their thoughts said, Why are you thinking evil in your hearts? He's saying you think with your hearts. It also talks about making decisions from the heart. In Matthew 15, verse 19, he says, For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, slander. You know, this this this desire is is it comes out of the heart. This is where the these desires, these evil desires come from. Also, uh, we experience emotion in our hearts. In Matthew 6, 21, he says, For where your treasure is There will your heart be also. Right? So this is like this attachment, this affection. And then here he's talking about affection for treasure. So the heart is considered to be the seat of your collective energy, your personal life. This is the real you, the inner you And what Christ is saying here is that kingdom citizens, those who belong to me, are pure on the inside. They're pure on the inside, where they think their thoughts, where they make their decisions, where they feel their emotions. The righteousness of the kingdom surpasses the righteousness of the Pharisees. In Matthew chapter 5 and verse 20 says, For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. When we think about the uh the Pharisees' righteousness, it was uh it was a hypocritical righteousness, right? It wasn't sincere, it was hypocritical. Uh for those that are pure in heart, they don't perform righteousness to be seen by men. In Matthew 6, verse 1, it says, Beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them. Otherwise you have no reward with your Father who is in heaven. We can practice our righteousness just for people to see on the outside. What are people going to think about me? You know, I'll do such and such because people will think well about me if I do these things. That's a hypocritical type of righteousness. There's also the the Pharisees were known for external rather than internal purity. In uh Matthew chapter 23 and verse 27. Jesus says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. He says you show up well on the outside. External righteousness, you're great. But on the inside, where it matters, he says it's just not there. You're full of dead men's bones on the inside. And also the the kind of purity that Christ is asking for here is uh a moral purity, not a ceremonial purity. Moral purity, not a ceremonial purity. Uh Matthew uh twenty-three, twenty three again. He says, What are you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites? For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others And then in verse 25, what are you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of robbery and self-indulgence. Christ is talking about a purity that goes below the surface. It's not some kind of thin veneer that uh rubs off when you you know brush up against it. You know, it's not like some kind of thin top coat of paint. You know, that if you if you bang against it, it's gonna you know wipe off. He's talking about this pu true and and deep kind of of purity in the the inner heart. That's what he's referring to. And the the question is, is is does that describe describe you? Does that describe you? Is your your purity sincere? Is it directed toward the glory of God? Or uh do you do what you do to be be noticed by people? Is uh your purity uh external or or internal? Are you are you guarding your your heart, taking the battle on the inside, or are you are you only concerned about what shows up on the outside? You know what people can see Is your purity focused on your moral life? Or is it about just kind of like the outward ceremony? You know, being religious. You know, I carry my Bible, I go to church. I kind of do the Christian stuff. I wear a cross. Put the Bible on my dashboard in my car. Right? Ceremonial kind of kind of purity. J. C. Rowell says that He means those who do not aim merely at outward correctness but at inner holiness. They are not satisfied with the mere external show of religion. They strive to have a conscience Always without offense, and they seek to serve God with the Spirit and the inner being. If your purity is merely hypocritical, external, and ceremonial, you can be sure that you're not going to see God. And that's just what the Beatitude says. It's the pure in heart that see God. Hebrews 12, verse 14 says, Pursue peace with all men and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. It says, pursue holiness, holiness without which no one will see the Lord. And that's a reference to the practical and the moral purity. practical and moral purity. It's not the same thing as imputed purity. The Bible lets us know that the moment we believe our hearts are made pure, right? The moment you believe, we we sang about that that earlier, that we're reconciled to God, right? That we've been declared righteous in his sight. Because of faith. The Bible lets us know that the moment we believe our hearts are made pure, declared pure. In Acts chapter 15, you might want to flip over there. Acts chapter 15. You have uh Peter uh who's uh just had this wonderful experience uh with the with the Gentile. If you remember the the vision he had the the vision about this sheet coming down with all kinds of unclean ceremonially unclean animals that came down and uh the Lord says, you know, rise, kill, eat. And he's like, Lord, what are you talking about? I've I've never eaten any of this stuff before, right? I haven't eaten anything that's unclean. And uh what did God say? What I've called clean, don't you call unclean? And uh Peter understood that this vision was actually a reference to the to the Gentiles. Look at Acts uh chapter 15 Verse nine. Look what he says. He says, and he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith It's the same word for purity. He's purified their hearts by faith. We are made pure by faith. Amen? But that's not what we're we're talking about in this beatitude. It's also not the same thing as perfected purity. There's a kind of purity that that only happens when we enter the kingdom of heaven, right? We talked about that earlier in the Beatitudes, that we hunger and thirst for righteousness. And those that hunger and thirst for righteousness will be satisfied. What are you going to be satisfied with? Righteousness. If you're hungering and thirsting for righteousness, what you get satisfied is righteousness. You get satisfied with righteousness. One day we will be made perfectly pure. All the things that we're desiring now, all the things that we long for, the the the mistakes that we keep tripping up in, the sins that easily beset us. There's going to be one day when that's not going to be a problem, right? One day when we're going to be made absolutely pure in the sight of God. That's going to happen. And uh Jesus Christ is the one who is uh considered the perfectly pure one, and he gives that righteousness to those that believe and trust in him. But somewhere between perfected purity and imputed purity, there's this sanctification process, right? There's there's there's this growth in in Christ where we practice and grow to be what we are in our position. And this is what Jesus is is is talking about here, that those that are are pure in in heart, those that are actively sanctifying themselves, being sanctified, are the ones that are considered pure in in heart. They're not the hypocritical, it's not hypocritical purity, it's not external purity, it's not ceremonial purity. It's a true moral purity. Like I said before, that that we're saved by faith alone, but not a faith that is alone. Those that God saves He also transforms. And what about this description of this ultimate vision? Again, what Jesus says is that those who are are pure in heart See God. They see God. When when when do we see God? When when when will we see God? It's a promised future reality, and just like all the other Beatitudes uh our future. Uh this one is future as well. We inherit the kingdom in the future. We no longer mourn over sin in the future. We inherit the earth in the future. We're satisfied with personal righteousness in the future. We receive mercy in the future. And uh also when it comes to this seeing of God, he's talking about a future event. What does it mean to see God? The scripture talks about many of the veiled ways that we see God. Uh all men see God in his creation. In Romans chapter 1, verse 20, important verse for you to keep in mind as you talk to unbelievers. Sometimes unbelievers try to act as if they uh they have no clue what you're talking about. But it's not true, and uh the Bible says it. And just just as an aside, when you talk to an unbeliever and he says, Um, I'm not a sinner, do you believe him? Do you believe them? No. Why? Because the Bible says that we're all sinners, right? All sin and falls short of the glory of God. You talk to an unbeliever, he says, I'm not a sinner, you say you're a liar. Right? I know you're a sinner. You know, don't try to pass that by me. But then when an unbeliever says, well, I I'm an atheist. I don't really believe in a God. What do we do? We believe him. But what does the Bible say? Look at Romans chapter 1, verse 20. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen. Being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their speculations and their fuel foolish hearts were darkened. What does the Bible say? You talk to an unbeliever who says, I don't believe in God. I don't believe anything about that guy. According to the scriptures, you do The Bible says that he's made it clear and that you're without excuse. You're not going to stand before God on judgment day and saying, hey, who are you? I have no idea. The Bible says you know who he is. The Bible says, you know that there's a God, you also know that you've you've sinned against him. Two things, you're talking to an unbeliever, you've already got in your your favor, right? But uh right here it lets us know that all men see God in this creation. So it's clearly seen. I've made my attributes clearly seen. So in a general way, all people see God in a sense, right? We're also, uh, when we're regenerated, we see God in salvation in 2 Corinthians 3. Verse 16 it says, but whenever a person turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away, and we behold the glory of the Lord. All right? So when when you come to Christ, you know, you already see him just generally in in creation. You see God. When you become a believer, when you when you trust in the Lord, when regeneration takes place, it says the veil is dropped. That there's this greater vision of God that you get as a believer. We see and behold the glory of the Lord. And that's what we find in Scripture. We also see God in our meditations. As we meditate on the Lord. In Psalm 27, verse 4, and this is really what I believe David was getting at, when he says, one thing have I asked from the Lord? That I shall seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to meditate In his temple. Where is he talking about seeing the glory of God? It's like in my meditations. As I meditate on the character and the attributes of God, I'm seeing God, right? That's what he's talking about, this kind of meditation on the attributes of God. In times past there was a God was seen in visions in uh Isaiah chapter 6, verse 1, it says in the year King Zeh I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, lofty and exalted, with the train of his robe filling the temple. There's this vision that God gave Isaiah of himself. He he he saw God in this vision. And uh also uh God allowed himself to be seen in in a in a mediated way, in mediation. Uh in the burning bush in Exodus 3. Uh the Shekinah cloud that kind of fell on the temple that also uh led the the children of Israel around. This was like the the glory of God that was seen Also Old Testament Theophanies. There's uh uh different portions of scripture that talk about God being seen. Uh the angel of the Lord was an Old Testament description of uh of God showing up uh in a in a preincarnate way. Uh and God was also seen in the the incarnation, right? And uh John chapter 14, verse 9, says Jesus said to him, uh talking to Philip here, Have I been so long with you, and yet you have not come to know me, Philip? This is right after he says, you know, Philip says, Show me the Father and all that 'll be enough for me. And then Jesus says, have I been with you so long, Philip, and you don't know me yet? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say shows the Father? That the you know no man has seen God in any any time, but the the son has done what? Declare him, explain to him. It's uh the where we get our word exegete from. You know, he's exegeted him. The sons explained them. But even in these uh appearances, God was not seen as he really is, right? Not seen as he really is. Even the transfiguration was uh a veiled way in some extent because his disciples were not yet equipped with the capacity to behold what they were seeing, right? Even though Jesus was right there being transfigured before them. What's promised here in this beatitude is something that's beyond any of these. It's what what theologians call the beatific vision The beatific vision, which has been defined as the site that more than any other site will flood the human soul with utter blessedness. Utter blessedness. It does not mean that the God will no longer be invisible. That's not what it's talking about. It's not meaning that uh his omnipresence will somehow be you know comprehendable at some point. What it does point to is this display of the glory of God that is utterly beyond description. Utterly beyond description. We'll see him As he is. In 1 John chapter 3, verse 2, says, Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not yet appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears, we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. There's coming a time in the future where it's going to be unveiled glory, and we're going to be able to behold the unveiled glory of God. And that's going to be in the person of Jesus Christ. And I I just as I was thinking about this, it's it's just the question, is this something that you guys long for? Do you long to see God? I mean, there is nothing greater than this vision. There is nothing greater than saying, I am going to behold God. I'm going to behold the glory of God. It's promised to those that are pure in heart. And the implication here is this. There's the implication of the ultimate vision. There's something that's preventing you from beholding the glory of God right now, right? What when when he promises that one day that you'll behold this glory of God, that you will see God. What's implied here is that what prevents you now from seeing God will no longer be a hindrance for you. Okay? What prevents you from seeing God today will no longer be a hindrance for you in the futures. uh in the future. Our our bodies will be perfectly glorified. Uh there were uh uh people in Corinth that uh doubted the resurrection because they they couldn't comprehend how our our bodies could be fit for eternity. Uh if you flip over to first Corinthians uh chapter fifteen Paul talks about , kind of answers these people that have have this question about, you know, what kind of kind of body are we going to be in? You know, you think this uh this is gonna be uh uh we're we're gonna be resurrected? I mean what what kind of body are we gonna come back in? You know, kind of come back like zombies and the flesh falling off the bone? I mean, what's gonna happen, right? Verse 35. But someone will say, How are the dead raised? And with what kind of body do they come? Paul's pretty direct here, you fool. That which you sow does not come to life unless it dies, and that which you sowed uh which you do not sow, the the body which is to be, but a bare grain, perhaps, of wheat or of something else But God gives it a body, just as He has wished, and to each of the seeds a body of its own. All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, and another flesh of birds, and another of fish. There are also heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is one and the glory of the earthly is another. Star differs from star in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead. It is shown a perishable b uh perishable body. It is raised in an imperishable bi uh imperishable body It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. So also it is written, the first man Adam became a living soul, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, then the spiritual. The first man is from the earth earthy, the second man is from heaven. As is the earthy, so also are those who are earthy, and as is the heavenly, so also are those who are heavenly. Just as we have borne the image of the earthy, we will also bear the image of the heavenly. What is he talking about? Just as we bore the image of the first Adam, we're going to bear the image of the second Adam. Our bodies are going to be changed and we're going to be fit for heaven. We're going to be outfitted for heaven and ready to behold the glory of God. Given bodies that are fit And then secondly, our our souls will be perfectly sanctified. Not only will our bodies be perfectly glorified, our souls will be perfectly sanctified. As I pointed out earlier, after the the fall of man Man hid himself from God, right? And God veiled himself from man. And man hid himself from God because the sight of God was this terrifying thing. It's terrifying. And it's kind of fascinating to go through scripture and document the reaction of people in the presence of God, as people stand in the presence of God. It was all often perceived as a curse rather than a blessing to see God. In Isaiah, when Isaiah sees the Lord in Isaiah chapter 6, he calls down curses on himself. He doesn't say, oh, blessed is me. Look, I'm I'm so blessed. I'm seeing God here. Look at this. This is fantastic. You know, kind of like these uh uh you know uh name it and claim it, you know, uh faith teachers will will talk about. You know, they see God and it's like, oh, this is just fantastic He shows up in my bathroom while I'm shaving and you know we have this great conversation. Isaiah says, I I I saw God and I'm calling down curses on myself. Woe is me, for I am ruined, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips. For my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. I am done. I am finished. I've seen God. Judges chapter 13, Manoah , this is the father of Samson and his wife. They stood before the angel of the Lord. Like I said, the angel of the Lord was an Old Testament designation for the appearance of the Lord. In Judges 13, verses 20 to 22, it says, For it came about when the flame went up from the altar toward heaven, that the angel of the Lord ascended in the flame of the altar. When Manoah and his wife saw it saw this, they fell on their faces to the ground. Now the angel of the Lord did not appear to Manoah or his wife again. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of the Lord. So Manoah said to his wife, We will surely die We will surely die, for we have seen God. We're dead. When Peter recognized the power of Christ and and he discovers that the one who told him to to cast in his nets was actually the the the Lord of glory. What does he say? Oh Lord, let's just stay and hang out here. This is great. He says, Lord, depart from me. Depart from me, because I'm a sinful man. When John saw the vision of the resurrected, glorified Christ in Revelation, Revelation 1. 17, when he saw him, says that he fell at his feet like a dead man. It's like this it's it's over. Sees God and he's just like I'm I'm I'm done. This is it, I'm I'm a dead man. Presence of of God wasn't necessarily seen as a blessing because of the the sinfulness of the soul. Because of the sinfulness of the soul. When our sin is removed, we'll no longer have to say, depart from me, Lord, because I'm a sinful man We'll delight in the Lord. Isn't that fantastic? One day we won't have to wish for his departure. We'll just want more of him. Just want more of more of God. There's no need to hide. There's no need for him to veil himself from us. We'll be able to behold the glory of the Lord because our transformation will one day be complete. John Stott says this, only the utterly pure can bear the dazzling vision, in whose light the darkness of deceit must vanish, and by whose fire all shams are burned up. And when we appear before him, all impurities will be purged. In Second Corinthians 3. 18 it says, But we all with unveiled face, beholding as in a mirror, the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory. And the the glory that's uh that's being described here is the the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity. And uh and really as you you kind of go throughout scripture, that the the That this dazzling glory that we'll one day see is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, Jesus Christ That's who we're seeing. That's the glory that's going to be be shown to us, the glory of the second person of the Trinity. And like I said, it's not going to be veiled. There's no hiding away from it. It's just you're just going to want more and more and more. You think about the angels in uh in Isaiah chapter 6, right? Cease not day and night just to say what? You know, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. You think they ever get tired of it? Why? Because they're just, I mean, just constantly being blown away by being in the presence of God. That's going to be our destiny. It's just to be totally blown away by being in the presence of God. And whatever gap between your progressive sanctification and that perfected sanctification, When he shows up, it's closed. There's no more gap in between where I want to be and where where where I am. It's going to be the same. Where I want to be is where I am. Totally pure, totally perfect and uh uh perfect in our in our purity. And uh just real quick the the applications that we should take away from this uh this vision of of God, knowing that this is our our destination to to see God for for those that are pure in heart. We need to continue to work on our purity, continue to purify ourselves. If uh perfected purity is the destination we're headed for, we need to be traveling down that road even now. In 1 John chapter 3, verses 2 to 3 it says, Beloved, now we are children of God, and it has not appeared as yet what we will be. We know that when he appears we will be like him because we will see him just as he is. And everyone who has this hope fixed on him purifies himself just as he is pure. If your goal, destination is to see the Lord, What what should you be doing now? Everybody who has this hope to see the Lord does what? Purifies himself, just as he is pure. Psalm twenty-four, verses three to four says, Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord? Who may stand in this holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul to falsehood, and who has not sworn deceitfully As uh David looked forward to this uh this sight of God ascending to the hill of the Lord, he says, who are gonna be the people that'll stand there? It's those with the the pure hearts, those with clean hands. Second thing, if uh if you know that this is your your destination, you need to set your affections on Christ now, right? Set your affections on on Christ now. In uh 1 Peter 1 8 and 9 it says, And though you have not seen him, we're we're we're we're we're we're we we don't have this vision of Christ now, right? He says, You haven't seen him, but you love him And though you do not see him now, but believe in him, you greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory, obtaining as the outcome of your faith the salvation of your souls As we anticipate this sight of our Savior, Jesus Christ, it should fill our hearts with this inexpressible joy and glory. We should rejoice in this one day that we'll be able to actually be with him and we'll see him just as he is. And then the the the last thing that we need to to do as we prepare ourselves for this ultimate vision of God is to to recognize the goodness of God that we already have right now, to recognize the the visions of God that God gives us even now. That God gives us uh uh an understanding of his goodness, of his faithfulness, of his love. And uh and this is uh really where uh Asaph was in Psalm seventy three verse one where it's like he he he hadn't seen the the end of his salvation, right? He's still kind of walking along. He's in that progress of sanctification, and he's getting distracted because he's looking at what other people are having. You know, look at what everybody else has. But then uh Psalm 73 it says this it says surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me my feet came close to stumbling, my steps had almost slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant as I saw the prosperity of the wicked. And then later on, as I read to you before, he says, the nearness of God is my good. The nearness of God is my good. I need to be satisfied with where I am now. Even though I'm not at that final destination yet, I need to be satisfied with the goodness and the grace that God shows me even at this moment. So even though we don't have that final vision yet, we need to be satisfied with what the Lord uh shows us us now, be content with that, as we anticipate and long for uh that vision of of God in the future. Uh and again, uh we're we're we're those that are blessed. Because we are those that are pure in heart. And like I said, that's not talking about absolute uh uh perfection in our purity. It's talking about those that aren't hypocritical. It's not a hypocritical purity. Those that uh that aren't just uh uh living an external kind of purity that they're actually looking to purify themselves on the inside, and it's not just ceremony. And uh it's one of the fears that uh that I have as a as a church that sometimes we can just get into uh just kind of the Christian routine, right? It's like we we hey we show up, we've got our Bibles, we pray, we kinda do the the Christian thing, but but where is that devotion and piety to Christ during the rest of the week? Uh just just uh uh uh earlier uh this week I was talking with a guy and he says um One of one of the things that that that I I don't see a lot in uh Christianity today is is it's like where's the piety? It's like most of the people that that I know that are Christians and you know and Unfortunately he's he's getting his idea of Christianity from TBN. Uh so he says, you know, all that I see is people that are just trying to, you know, get as much as they can now. Trying to trying to build up their their kingdom now. He says, Where's where's the piety? Where's where's people that just want to be devoted and want to live holy lives? And he says, I, you know, I'm sorry, I just I I'm just not seeing it. And uh uh it's my prayer that that that that wouldn't be true of us. That uh people would be able to look at Baltimore Bible Church and say, hey, these are pre people that that are concerned about purity of heart. That they're concerned about truly serving and honoring God. That it goes deeper than just the the skin level. You know, it's it's more than skin deep, you know, the kind of purity that we're called to have. It's supposed to be a deep and abiding uh kind of purity. And that should be true of all of us. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh uh come before you. And uh Father, even as we uh talk about these these words, talk about uh purity of of heart, uh Father, uh I know that that my conscience is stinged by it. Because I know that in so many ways that I'm I'm not pure, that in in many ways I know that I fail. Father, I thank you for the purity of your Son Jesus Christ. And that what we stand in is purity, that positionally we have been declared to be pure, that those that have trusted in Christ, that our hearts have been cleansed by faith. So that inside we we are pure. But Father, we also recognize that all those that you cleanse on the inside, those that you've created a clean heart in , Uh Father, that they also uh live out that same purity in their their lives as well. Uh Father, you don't leave us unchanged. Uh faith is uh uh something that we we're saved by, we're saved by faith alone, but it's not a faith that that is alone. Father, those that are that have been made pure in heart are also those that live out that kind of purity in their lives as well, and those that purify themselves just as he is pure. So Father, I pray that this would just be the direction of our lives. Father, that if it's uh if it hasn't been on the surface of our minds, on our attention, Lord, that it would be. Father, that we be concerned about the kind of uh purity and righteousness that exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees. Father, I pray that uh we would have that true righteousness, a true purity of heart. And uh one that will eventually uh be made completely pure and perfected uh because of the righteousness of your son. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.