The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter 5 with me. As you're turning there, just to remind you, Matthew is a book that presents Jesus to us as the promised king. His kingship is uh proclaimed, it's defended, and in Matthew chapter five, it's actually demonstrated as the king speaks to us. Uh Jesus accommodates the crowds for this address, but He's primarily concerned with his own. He's speaking to his disciples. And uh his disciples uh came to him as you look at uh verse one, it talks about his disciples uh coming to him and uh those are the ones that he taught it talks about that in verse two he opened his mouth and began to teach them uh the them as the disciples So you have the crowds, they're uh looking in from the outside. Uh they could see all the action through the window, uh, they could hear everything that was being said through the door. Uh but this sermon for the most part was not for them. It was not for the crowds, it was for uh the disciples specifically. There's an invitation that's given to the to the crowd later on for those uh that are outside to enter in. Uh but Jesus makes it clear in uh Matthew chapter seven uh verse fourteen it says the gate is small and the way is narrow that leads to life and there are few who find it And the Beatitudes in Matthew 5, 1 through 12 provide us with a description of the travelers that are along that narrow path. The travelers that are along the way, these are the kingdom people that are described in Matthew chapter 5, 1 through 12. These are the ones that Jesus considers blessed, and these are the ones who are on their way to eternal life. Let's uh read together uh Matthew chapter five. Uh you can just follow along with me as I read Matthew five, starting at verse one. It says, when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he had sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's bow our heads for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you for your word. Uh we thank you for your revealed truth. Father, we pray that uh you would apply it to our hearts in the way that only your Holy Spirit can. Uh Father, that you would uh make it clear and uh that you'd use me to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. As you talk about the way, this path that these travelers that are headed to the kingdom of God are walking along, this is not the kind of path that the world is looking for. It's not the kind of path that the world is looking for. I mean, what's attractive about a road like this? The entrance to the road is small to begin with. The path is narrow, and according to these beatitudes, everybody that's on that path is poor and mourning and meek and hungry and thirsty and even persecuted This doesn't look like the blessed road. This looks like the cursed road, right? What's what's blessed about about this? But Jesus calls those that are on this path blessed. These are the the ones who are headed for the kingdom of heaven. These are the ones that are headed for comfort, that are promised the earth as their inheritance. And what strikes me about uh these beatitudes is that the blessing is promised, the blessing that's promised is believed to be in the totally opposite direction. This doesn't seem like to be the path to the to the blessing that that Christ is talking about. The religious leaders uh didn't believe that the kingdom of heaven was to be given to spiritual beggars. They they didn't believe in that. These these these things, uh those that were were beggars, had nothing to offer. Uh Uh if you flip back to uh uh chapter three and uh in uh in Matthew when it talks about uh John the Baptist, uh he's uh crying out in the in the wilderness. And there's those Pharisees that uh that approach and uh and come to him uh while he's out there crying in the in the wilderness there. And in verse seven it says, But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming for baptism, He said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Therefore bear fruit in keeping with repentance, and do not suppose that you can say to yourselves, We have Abraham for our father For I say to you that from these stones God is able to raise up children to Abraham. The Pharisees didn't believe in people who were who were beggars. They believed in people who gained the kingdom by right. You know, we have a right to be here. We're not those that are that are beggars. We have a right to be here. We actually believe that we're righteous. In Luke chapter 18, you have Jesus telling the parable. about the Pharisee in Luke chapter 18 verse 11 where he says, God, I thank thee that I'm not like other people. Swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax gatherer. I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. They believed that those that inherited the kingdom of God had some kind of merit in their spiritual bank account. They have something that they could draw from. The way to comfort would not be through mourning over sin, but by stockpiling your righteousness. Right? According to one re Rabbinica writing it says, I give alms in order that my sons may live and that I might merit the world to come You know, I give money in order to merit the world to come. And the idea of uh the meek possessing the earth would have seemed outrageous. I mean, who gets anything for being gentle? You you don't you don't achieve anything by being gentle. The Jews believed that they would inherit the earth because it was a a right by their lineage, like I talked about uh back in uh Matthew chapter three. Uh they didn't believe that repentance was necessary. It's like it's it's ours by right, we've been born. You know, as inheritors of the kingdom, we we own uh we uh we deserve it by right. Uh the attitude of the Gentiles was that uh the earth belonged to whoever had the power to fight for it. Whoever had the the most might, the history of the world proved that the the strongest uh military nation controlled the world. Uh Palestine went from being under the control of Babylon in 605 BC with Nebuchadnezzar, uh to being under the control of Persia in 539 with Cyrus, to being under the control of Greece in 331 with Alexander the Great. to being under the control of Rome in 63 B. C. with Julius Caesar, and not one of these leaders gained the right of the world because they were gentle. They then it then again that gained the world because they were meek, and even the short period of uh time that that Israel was able to uh govern themselves From 167 to 63 B. C. it was because a priest named uh Matthias had five sons and he led a Jewish revolt. actually used guerrilla warfare tactics to to uh kill people and take them out of the way so that the the Jewish people could uh kind of take control of their own land. Uh it was called the Maccabean period because one of his sons was named uh uh Judas was nicknamed uh Maccabees, which means the hammer Sounds really meek, right? The hammer. It was the guy that's taking people out. You know, that's how the kingdom was was gained. The meek are not known for possessing the earth. The Jews believe it was inherited through the right Gentiles believed you possessed it through might, and nobody believed that you got it because you were meek. Nobody believed that. That's just not the way that we think about possessing the earth, right? That's not the way that we think about possessing anything. I remember a while back I saw an advertisement it was a billboard ad for a Nissan Maxima and uh on the right hand side was a picture of the car and on the left hand side it says uh the meek inherit the passenger seat It's like you can't even get behind the steering wheel if you're meek, right? It's like get out the way and let somebody who can take charge, who's assertive, aggressive, let me take the wheel. The meek inherit the passenger seat And what Jesus says here would have been totally foreign language to them. What does gentleness get anybody? What Jesus says here would have been totally foreign. But what we learn in this beatitude is that gentleness means more than you might think. Gentleness is more valuable than you might think, and gentleness says more about you than you might think. Okay? Gentleness means more than you think. Look at uh chapter 5 again, verse 5. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. What does it mean to be meek or or gentle? What does that mean? The word gentle can easily be misunderstood in our common language to mean soft, light. Sensitive. One definition that Webster gave for Meek was easily imposed on, spineless and spiritless. It's like mercy, please. If that were the case, this beatitude would be in contradiction to scriptures like 1 Corinthians 16, verse 13, where we're commanded to be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, and act like men be strong. And uh nowhere in the Bible are we commanded to be weak. And just as a side note, if you come up with an interpretation of Scripture that contradicts another passage of Scripture, um. Either you're wrong on one or you're wrong on both, right? Because the scripture's not contradicting itself. The scriptures are in complete and total agreement with itself. The reformers call that the principle of of uh sola uh scriptura or an analog uh analogy of of uh of the scriptures, analogy of the scriptures We come up with that principle that scriptures interpret the scriptures. So you can't have scriptures contradicting the scriptures. So even though the Bible is written over a period of fifteen hundred years with uh forty different authors, it came from the singular mind of God Himself. And God is not contradicting himself. So meekness is not weakness, because that would contradict what the Bible says elsewhere. Also, meekness is not opposed to righteous zeal. To righteous zeal, even anger against sin. In Psalm 69, verse 9, it says, For zeal, for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. There are times when it would be sinful not to be angry. Sinful not to be angry. When we see sin, when we see atrocity, when we see injustice, it should stir something up in your heart. When you see God's name being dishonored, it should stir something up in your heart. To not be angry at sin would be wrong. Because it's not godly. God is angry at sin, right? How can you say you're going to be like God and you're not angry at what is wrong, but the defiles his name, right? John chapter 2, you have the perfect example in Jesus Christ himself. When he approached the temple, this is the place that was supposed to be a house of prayer, place where people meant to went to meet with the Lord, to offer sacrifices to him, and he found the people in the temple selling oxen, sheep, doves, and money changers seated at their tables. And he makes a scourge of cords and drove them all out of the temple with the sheep, the oxen. He poured out the coins of the money changers overturned their tables. And to those who were selling the doves, he said, Take these things away. Stop making my father's house a place of business. And his disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. He was on fire. Turning over tables, whipping people with the cords. Because he says, This is my father's house. What are you doing in my father's house making it into place of business? This is a place for his honor, not for your profit. So meekness is not opposed to righteous zeal because Christ could also say of himself, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and humble in heart Gentle and humble in heart, but he's flipping over tables and whipping people with with cords. I mean it's like how do you put those two together? It works. One doesn't contradict the other. You can be gentle and humble of heart and still whip somebody. Still overturn the table. Also, meekness is not a natural disposition. The context points to something that can only be said of disciples. These are spiritual qualities. People who are spiritually transformed. It's not a natural bend. I'm just like I'm just kind of like a meek person. You know, I just kind of have a gentle, soft voice and mannerisms about me. That's not what he's talking about. This is not people who are just naturally meek. Those that are meek in this context are the same ones who are poor in spirit and mourn over their sins. Poor in spirit and mourn over their sins. The word for gentle. This is where we kind of get into the definition here. The Greek word for gentle is praus , praus, P-R-A-U-S, if you wanted a transliteration. It was a word that was used for things that were mild, like certain medicines were described as mild or gentle. It was also used of things like a gentle breeze, a gentle sound, a gentle light uh gentle sickness if a if a sickness didn't take you down is like a gentle sickness. It was a a word that was used for animals that were tamed, like when a horse was broken and brought under the control of its master. He was considered gentle, meek It was a word that was used for people who were kind and pleasant to be around. It was often used in contrast to being rough or harsh, hard. And the idea that's consistent in all these uses is the idea that something which could have been expected to be bitter, violent, harsh, hard is made mild or tame or gentle. But this means more than you might think it means. Because uh we might think that this just means that we're to be friendly towards people. You know, just just be friendly, be kind, courteous towards people, and and you kind of fulfill this beatitude. You're meek, you're gentle, you're humble in in heart. And we say, yeah, let's just move on to the next one, right? I'm I'm pretty meek. I'm gentle with with people, but that alone doesn't fulfill the spiritual quality of what we we read here. Because there are a whole lot of people that are gentle and kind and courteous and even loving And they don't meet these spiritual qualifications. Just a little later on in the same sermon, Jesus is going to speak about a whole group of people who love each other. Who are kind to one another, and they don't fulfill this beatitude, and they receive no reward for it. Look further down into Matthew chapter five. Look at uh verse forty-six and forty-seven. Listen what he says. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Tax collectors, Gentiles, publicans, it says in the King James, were terms that Jesus used for the unbeliever. Unbeliever. In verse 45, he points it out that these people are evil and unrighteous. Evil and unrighteous people can be kind and courteous and loving. To people who are kind and courteous and loving towards them. That's not really a big problem. You don't need like some special kind of grace to do that. Somebody's courteous towards you to be courteous back. You don't need a special grace to do that It's also not being gentle towards people who are being harsh towards you when you deserve it. It's not being gentle towards people who are being harsh towards you when you deserve it In 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 20, it says, For what credit is there if when you sin and are harshly treated, you endure it with patience? But if when you do what is right and suffer for it, you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God. This quality of being a meek Takes on that that character. It's not considered gentleness just if because somebody's kind to you. It's not considered gentleness because you you bear up under something when you deserve to be treated harshly. You just kind of bear up with whatever the punishment is It's also not considered gentleness if uh you wanted to respond in a harsh way, uh, but you just didn't have the power or ability or uh opportunity to do it. You know, it's like I wanted to get back, but it's like the opportunity slipped That's not being gentle either. So in one sense, it could be considered a power that's under control, or if you don't like that definition, it's a passion that's under control. It's when you have the opportunity to react in a rough, in a harsh, a hard manner, but instead you choose to bear under that Graciously. That's that's what we're talking about here. That's the kind of meekness that Christ is commending here. It's a gentleness of heart And there's so much more to this uh idea of meekness than we might assume. Marvin uh Vincent, in his uh word studies, he said this, the pre-Christian meanings express outward conduct merely. They contemplate relations to men only. The Christian word, on the contrary, describes an inward quality that is related primarily toward God. In the classical definition, it's founded on self-control or natural disposition. Christian meekness is based on humility, which is not a natural quality, but an outgrowth of a renewed nature. Something that comes from saved people. To the pagan world, the word the word implied condescension. You know, you're being humbled, put under somebody. To the Christian, it implies submission. While the pagan quality is scented by self-assertion, the Christian quality carries this flavor of self-abasement. Toward God, therefore, Christian meekness accepts his dealings without murmur. Resistance is absolutely good and wise. As toward men, it accepts opposition, insult, provocation as God's permitted ministers. The meek bears patiently the contradiction of sinners against himself, forgiving and restoring those that err in a spirit of meekness. Blessed be the mild. That's what it means to be meek. It's when you could have prescribed the bitter medicine, but you chose to make it mild instead It's when the horse could have thrown off the rider and trampled over him, but he allows himself to be brought under the control of the master and yields to him instead. It's when you suffer an injury and insults You're harshly treated, and you don't deserve it. And you don't deserve it, and you bear up under that patiently. That's that's what it means to be meek. Meekness means more than what you might think it does. And meekness is also more valuable than you might think it is. It's more valuable than you might think it is. What uh Jesus calls meek here, uh calls blessed here are those that are that are meek. The meek are the the blessed ones. And again that that word uh blessed is uh the word makarios in Greek, uh beatus in Latin where we get our word beatitude from. It's a word that can be translated as blessed, fortunate, worthy of praise, worthy of commendation. It's a word that's used to describe God Himself. In 1 Timothy 1. 11, it describes God as the blessed God. 1 Timothy 6. 15, it says, he will bring about at the proper time, who is the blessed and only sovereign, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, he's the blessed one. And uh sometimes that word is also translated happy, but as I've mentioned before, it's it's not a declaration about how you feel. It's a declaration about what you are. It's not just that I feel blessed, I feel happy, the circumstances around me are convenient to me. It's the person who just knows that I'm blessed because this is what God says about me. This is what God says about me. And what Jesus declares about the spiritually meek person is that he or she is blessed. Meekness shows up on Jesus' list as number three. Number three on Jesus' list, in the list of uh Beatitudes, and out of all the things that could have been mentioned, he picks meekness. Meekness makes the cut. If you uh if you were at a conference, And you had your your choice of uh you know different seminars to go to. Maybe it's like you know discover your leadership potential, growing a dynamic ministry, and uh the meekness seminar, right? Which which one do you think you'd go to? Meekness is the one that Christ picks. He says, this is the one that you need to go to. This is what you need to learn. And how often do we consider what it means to be meek? Or how often do we actually pray for a greater display of meekness in our lives? But it's number three on Christ list. It's more valuable than you think it is. Meekness is more valuable than you think it is. And not only do we know its value because of what Jesus calls those that are meek, he calls them blessed, but we also know of its value because of what's said about it elsewhere in Scripture. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 3. 1 Peter is a book that speaks about the Christians' response to unjust suffering. Christians' response to unjust suffering. There are uh times when unjust suffering comes from outside of the home. And uh there are also times when unjust suffering can even be found within your family. Uh 1 Peter chapter 3, look at uh starting at verse 1. So it's in the same way you wise, you can't get any closer to the family than this, right? In the same way, you wise, be submissive to your own husbands. So that even if any of them are disobedient to the word, they may be one without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. Your adornment must not be merely external, braiding the hair, wearing gold, jewelry, or putting on dresses, but let it be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit Gentle and quiet spirit, same word for meek there, which is precious in the sight of God. Precious in the sight of God. That phrase that's a uh found their disobedient to the word. It's uh found further up in uh chapter 2 verse 8 to speak about uh unbelievers, uh those that are unbelievers. And uh we're warned here against uh we're we're warned elsewhere in scripture about being unequally yoked, you know, marrying unbelievers. Uh but there's times when, you know, uh a spouse would would already be married, come to know the Lord, and their their spouse went Right? So you have these these kind of unequal uh yokes, these unequal marriages uh because one spouse comes to know the Lord and the other doesn't. So what's a person like that to do? You find yourself in a situation where it's like, hey, I'm I'm yoked up with an unbeliever now. You know, what what am I supposed to do? Peter says that even if your husband won't let you speak the gospel to him, that you're to live the gospel before him. Live the gospel out before him and allow the gospel to demonstrate through your life. It's power. It's transforming power in your life. He talks about being chaste, being uh pure, innocent, loyal to your husband, uh being respectful, honoring your husband, not putting him down, and being beautiful. But he says it's not on the outside. You know, it's not the external beauty that I'm talking about. I'm talking about this internal beauty, a gentle and quiet spirit. And he says, this is precious in the sight of God. There is no other quality that has that kind of commendation in Scripture. To say this particular is singled out as being precious in the sight of God. Meekness. Meekness meaning gentle and and quiet. It's considered a valuable possession in the sight of God. And in the Greek translation of the uh the Old Testament, uh Prahus is uh also used to describe Another man who was considered the meekest man in the in the Bible, meekest man of uh you know of his time, Moses, right? Numbers chapter 12, verse 3 it says, Now the man Moses was very humble, more than any man who was on the face of the earth. Out of all the descriptions that could have been said about Moses, why pick meekness? You ever think about that? Yeah, that he's the meekest man on earth. The meekest man on the face of the earth, Moses. Why would mo would uh meekness be singled out as like this this great treasure? Because it's precious in the sight of God. God considered this valuable. And if you ever doubted that Moses earned that title, all you have to do is go through the history of Israel. All you have to do is go through the history rule. Moses heard nothing but complaints for 40 years. Forty years! Can you believe that? Exodus chapter 14, just after and I'll go through some of these and it's just I mean just reading through this is tiring enough. Exodus chapter 14, just after Israel witnessed the miraculous power of God, right? They began the complaints. They see Pharaoh approaching. Exodus 14, 11. They said to Moses, It is because there were no graves in Egypt that you've taken us away to die in the wilderness? Why have you dealt with us in this way, bringing us out of Egypt? They're rescued from Pharaoh. Red Sea closes up on the army. They're crossed the Red Sea. Three days later. Three days later, Exodus 15, 24. So the people grumbled at Moses again, saying, What shall we drink? And it doesn't stop for forty years. Exodus 16 2, the whole congregation of the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses. 17 3, the people thirsted there for water. They grumbled against Moses. Why you brought us out from Egypt to kill us? Numbers 14, verse 2. All the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The whole congregation said to them, Would that we had died in Egypt! Or that we would have died in this wilderness. Some of them are going to get their wish. Numbers 14, 36, as for the man Moses who was sent to spy out, uh as for the men Moses sent out to spy out the land, they returned, and made all the congregation grumble against him. By bringing a bad report concerning the land. Number sixteen, verse three, they assembled together against Moses. This is uh Korah. Korah's rebellion. He was a Levite. who assembled a group of people to rebel against Moses. Number 16, verse 3. They assembled together against Moses and Aaron and said to them, You have gone far enough. For all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is in their midst. So why do you exalt yourself above the assembly of the Lord? It's like we can we can hear from God just as much as you can. Moses And the Lord judged Kor by opening up the earth and swallowing him and his company in numbers 1632 after God judged Kor and his and his uh you know the followers. So ridiculous. Number 1632. The earth opened its mouth, swallowed them up, and their households and all the men who belonged to Korah with their possession. But look at the response of the Israelites. 1641. But on the very next day all the congregation of the sons of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron. Saying, you are the ones who caused the death of the Lord's people. It's like, you know, it's like, are you that sick that you don't get it? Numbers twenty verse three. The people thus contented with Moses and spoke, saying, If we had only perished with our brothers, when our brothers perished before the Lord, why then have you brought the Lord's assembly into this wilderness for us and our beast to die here? Why have you made us come up from Egypt to bring us into this wretched place? It is not a place of grain or figs or vines or pomegranates. There is no water to drink Numbers 21, 5, the people spoke against Moses and said, Why have you brought us out of Egypt to die? There's no food and no water, and we loathe this miserable food. This manna that's coming from heaven. Insult after insult after insult. Injury after injury, harshly treated for something that he didn't deserve. With the one exception of striking a rock, Moses put up with it. Put up with it. I think I might have been striking a lot more than rocks if I was out there God even gave Moses the opportunity to wipe the people out. Moses , let's just wipe them out. I'll start with you. Let's just take care of it now, right? I'm tired of the grumbling. How about you, right? Let's wipe them out. God gave him the option of wiping the people out on more than one occasion and what you have Moses doing is he steps in the gap and he intercedes for those same people. Intercedes for those same people. Same people who persecuted him. That's an example of meekness. Bearing up under unjust criticism, harshness. Persecution and you just bear up under it. You put up with it. You give it over to the Lord. That's what meekness is. When it calls Moses the meekest man on the face of the earth, it's not just because, hey, I'm just a humble guy and you know here's my staff. It's nothing to do with that Why does he call him meek? Because he put up with these people for forty years. What other man on the face of the earth could you find to do that job? Moses was the meekest man on the earth because of that. He put up with it. He bore up under that persecution. And then you have the ultimate example of meekness. The Lord Jesus Christ. First Peter chapter 2, 22 and 23 it says, Who committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. And while being reviled , He did not revile in return. While suffering, he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. The greatest injustice that the world has ever perpetrated is the cross of Jesus Christ. That's the greatest injustice that this world has ever perpetrated on anybody. Cross of Jesus Christ, the only one who committed no sin. The Lord of glory. Steps down into this earth. He's already humbled himself by becoming a man. Humbled himself further by walking among men. You know, even you find him talking to his disciples, how long am I going to put up with you guys, right? It's like even you, my disciples, don't believe me. And then he suffered death at the hands of his own creation? This is the kind of example that you have in Jesus Christ. He's constantly held up as an example throughout the book of 1 Peter because there's no greater example that could be given. He suffered insult, injury, harsh treatment when he didn't deserve a bit of it. I mean, even when we look at ourselves, I mean Moses, I mean he had some sins that he deserved, you know, beaten for, right? Jesus deserved none of it. None of it. And instead of his prayer being, Father, destroy him. What's his prayer? Father, forgive him. Father, forgive them. He could have thrown off the the whole world. I mean, calling down the legion of angels. Wipe them all out. But never made that call, right? That wasn't his prayer. His prayer was Father, forgive them. Father, forgive them This is the person who could have prescribed the harsh medicine, right? But he made it mild. It's like the horse that could have thrown off the rider and trampled him underfoot, but he allowed himself to be brought under subjection. Jesus says in uh talks about in uh Matthew 21 about Jesus when he presented himself in Matthew 21 verse 5 it says say to the daughter of Zion Behold your king is coming to you gentle and mounted on a donkey Even on a colt the full of a beast of burden. Jesus deserved better treatment than that. Deserved better treatment than that. He not only accepted less than what was due to him, he accepted the opposite of what was due to him. It wasn't just low honor. He received dishonor. Rejection. And you're no more like God than when you can overlook an offense, because this is what God does. This is what God does. In Psalm 74, verse 10 it says, How long, O Lord, will the adversary revile the enemy spurn your name forever? Why do you withdraw your hand, even your right hand, from within your bosom? Destroy them. This is the psalmist saying, Lord, what's going on? All these people just dishonoring your name. Destroy them! You have every right to destroy them. Thomas Watson said, How easily could God crush sinners and kick them into hell? How easy is that for God? But what does Matthew say God does with his enemies? Matthew chapter five, look at verse forty-four. Actually starting verse 43. You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Therefore you are to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. How when are when are you like God? When are you like your father? When are when are you called sons of your father? When I can put up with injustice, when I can put up with insult, when I can pi put up with people who treat me harshly when I I know I don't deserve it. That's when you are like God. That's what's considered valuable in God's sight. It's been said to uh to pay back good for good is human. It's like everybody can do that. Pay back good for good. To pay back evil for evil is devilish. To pay back good for evil is divine. Pay back good for evil, and this is what we're called to do. This is what what meekness is. Then lastly, uh gentleness says more about you than you might think. It means more than you think, it's more valuable than you might think. It also says more about you than you might think. Back in uh verse 5 again of chapter 5, blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Jesus ascended into the heaven heavens. He told his disciples in Matthew 28, 18, Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth, right? Jesus has authority over the earth. Jesus had both the right and the might, right? To possess the kingdoms of the world, and one day he will return to claim it Jesus Christ is coming back. Revelation eleven fifteen says, Then the seventh angel sounded. There were loud voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. Jesus Christ is coming back to reign. Amen. Maranatha, right? Come, Lord Jesus. And this is exactly what was predicted. Six hundred years before this, before Christ came, if you flip back to Daniel chapter two, if uh you remember uh in the book of Daniel, Nebuchadnezzar had a dream that troubled him greatly. It troubled him so greatly that uh That he believed that God was trying to get his attention. God's trying to talk to me here. Back in uh Daniel chapter two. And uh because he wanted to make sure that he wasn't going to be tricked. By somebody who said that they had an interpretation and really did it. He says, I'm not even going to tell you what the dream is. You're going to tell me what the dream is, and then you're going to give me the interpretation because I want to make sure you're right. And there was nobody who's able to do that. Nobody could do that. And Daniel acknowledges that nobody has that kind of power, but look at what he says in chapter 2, verse 27. Daniel answered before the king and said, As for the mystery about which the king has inquired Neither wise men, conjurers, magicians, nor diviners are able to declare it to the king. However, there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries, and he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will take place in the latter days. This was your dream and the visions in your mind while on your bed. And then he goes on to talk about this dream. Look at verse 31. It says, You, O king, were looking, and behold, there was a single great statue. That statue, which was large and of extraordinary splendor, was standing in front of you, and it its appearance was awesome. The head of that statue was made of fine gold, its breast and its arms of silver, its belly and its thighs of bronze. Its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron, and partly of clay. He continued looking at a stone and uh until a stone was cut out without hands, and it struck the statue on its feet Of iron and clay and crushed them. Then the iron, the clay, and the bronze, the silver, and the gold were crushed all at the same time, and became like chaff from the summer threshing floors, and the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of them was found. But the stone that struck the statue became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. Filled the whole earth. He says, What's what's the meaning of this dream, right? This is the dream that's the trouble that's that's troubling uh uh King Nebuchadnezzar. And basically what Daniel goes on to talk about is that this dream that you've been given talks about the different successions of people that will rule over the earth. Different successions of people that will rule over the earth. He says, You, O King, verse 37, are the king of kings To whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom the power, the strength, and the glory. Wherever the sons of men dwell on, or the beasts of the field, or the birds of the sky, has given them into your hands, and has caused you to rule over them. You are the head of gold. That gold head, that's you. Represents Babylon. After you there will arise another kingdom inferior to you, then another third kingdom of bronze which will rule over the earth. And then there will be a fourth kingdom as strong as iron, inasmuch as iron crushes and shatters all things. So like iron that breaks in pieces, it will crush and break all these in pieces. And then he goes on to describe that a little bit more. And then he says, uh, in those days, verse 44, in those days In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom, which will never be destroyed. And that kingdom will not be left for another people. It will crush and put an end to all these kingdoms, but it will itself endure forever. And as much as you saw that a stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and it crushed the iron and the bronze, the clay, the silver, the gold. The great God has made known to the king what will take place in the future. So the dream is true, and its interpretation is trustworthy. If you remember a little earlier on we talked about those different kingdoms, the way that they wanted to control the world, or they thought that the world was going to be controlled was through their might. This basically goes down through through through the list. You know, all those different kingdoms, Nebuchadnezzar, you know, starting off as this head of gold, his kingdom came and went. You had a another kingdom that came after him, Persia. You had Cyrus. It was a chest of arms and silver. His kingdom came and went. You had a another king that came up in Greece in 331 BC, Alexander the Great He was the belly and the thighs of bronze. His kingdom came and it went. And then it was brought under the control of Rome in 63 B. C. with Julius Caesar. Came and it went, and the next part of the vision revealed that God Himself would set up the kingdom, which would never be destroyed It's brought under the control of one who is called the stone. The stone. And this stone is going to fall with such a force that it grinds every kingdom to powder. Dust. There's nothing left. You know, you don't you don't go through dust to try to gather anything. It's like there's nothing there, right? And this is the kingdom that's going to come. Reminds us what uh what Christ said in Matthew twenty-one and verse forty-four. He says, And and he who falls on this stone will be broken, but on whomever it falls. It will scatter him like dust. When Christ's kingdom comes, it obliterates everything. Jesus was born as a king. Jesus reigns now in the hearts of those who believe according to Colossians chapter 1, and there's coming a day when the stone is going to fall. The stone from heaven is going to fall, and it's going to crush every kingdom of the world, and his kingdom will reign forever and ever and ever. And that's what we pray for, right? Thy kingdom what? Thy kingdom come. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Like I said, we're praying heaven down. You know that that rain that Christ has up in heaven, bring it down, Lord. Bring that kingdom down. And there's going to come a time when the invisible spiritual kingdom is going to be a visible and earthly kingdom. And when Christ comes with that kingdom, guess who the kingdom is going to be possessed by? The meek. The meek. Meekness says a lot more about you than you might think. If you cannot be described as a person who is meek, you are not described as a person who inherits the kingdom. I mean it it's it's just that simple. I mean that's what he's saying. The meek are the ones who inherit the earth. If you're not described as meek, if you can't be described as meek, you can't be described as the person who inherits heaven You can't be described as the person who inherits the kingdom. The kingdom of heaven and earth merge. You know, the kingdom in heaven comes down. That kingdom. He says, you don't inherit that if you're not meek. The meek inherit the earth. In Psalm 37 verse 11, it says, But the humble will inherit the earth and will delight themselves in abundant prosperity. The kingdom's going to be a prosperous kingdom. He says that the meek are the ones that get that. And what's so challenging and convicting about this is that these beatitudes, uh in these beatitudes, Christ isn't issuing a command. He's not saying, you know, hey, uh, if you're on your way to heaven, you know, I want to give you some things that you might want to think about. He's saying that if you're on your way to heaven, this is who you are. This describes the people who are on their way to heaven. The people who are already on the path, this is what they look like. They look meek. So if you're not meek, it's a good indication that you're not on the right path. Right? You're not on the right path Kingdom people are changed people. We don't operate like the world does. John Scott said that no comment could be more hurtful to the Christian than the words, but you're no different than anybody else. Nothing could be more hurtful to somebody who calls himself a Christian, because a Christian by definition is somebody who's different than anybody else. That's who we should be. We're different. Second Corinthians 5 17, therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's a. New creation, a new creature. You're different. You're not like the world around you. And nothing sets us apart more from the world than this beatitude of gentleness, meekness. The world does not operate like this. Every fiber of our fleshly being fights against it, right? Seems so unreasonable. Expect people to accept injury, insult, harsh treatment when I don't deserve it? It's unfair! Our pride hates it. And we keep waiting for some beatitude that says, you know, just feel good about yourself. Blessed are the rich and the full and the strong. That's not going to be found in this list. It's like Christ just continues to humble us and says, this is where you are, this is where you belong. There's nothing that says, hey, I'm great and I'm, you know, I'm full and satisfied. It says I'm poor and I'm mourning and I'm meek. Those are the kind of people that inherit the kingdom. Everything in our culture fights against it, right? The culture fights against it. You know, you need to fight for your rights. Assert yourself The meek are going to inherit the passenger seat. If you want to drive, you better get some backbone and take control. Life is going to pass you by. You're going to be taken advantage of, trampled over. Satan, our arch enemy, fights against this? Was his tactic against the Lord? If you really are the Son of God, why are you being treated like this? You're supposed to be the son of the kingdom? You're kingdom people, and you're gonna let people treat you like this? I'm the head and not the tail Assert yourself, exercise your own will. You need to be recognized. But Jesus lets us know that his kingdom people are different than that. Meekness says a lot more about you than you might want to think. Jeremiah Burroughs says this. Says, I beseech you, you who profess godliness, to consider there is more danger in an unsubmissive, passionate spirit than you are aware of. And though you may think because you make profession and come to hear the word and spend a great deal of time in prayer and fasting and longing after ordinances, you think now that certainly you have grace. But you may be mistaken. The obstinence of your hearts may be your bane eternally. Not being meek of heart could be what catapults you into hell. And if you realize that there's nothing of this grace in your life, if if you're here and you realize that there is nothing of this grace in your life, there's no meekness in your heart, It's a call for you to repent. Don't brush off that conviction. Don't say, well, hey, I'm not meek, but it's, you know, I think I I'm pretty good in this category over here. Don't don't don't do that. Don't do that. If you know that this does not describe you, you need to repent and turn to Christ. Because it's the meek that inherit the kingdom. Meek people inherit the kingdom. If there's nothing of this grace in your heart, you need to turn to Christ. And accept the one who is meek in your place. There is one who is meek and lowly of heart, and he did it perfectly. And he's the one that satisfies the the the requirements of of God on your behalf, and he died as a substitute for those who were not meek. Jesus died for those who were not meek. Christ died because people didn't fulfill this requirement. And if you're here as a believer and you know that this is not a trait that shows up on the surface of your life. I want to give you uh some of the ways that this beatitude can be applied. And believe me, these are just a few of them, okay? You might want to jot these down. First of all, one of the ways that you can make sure that meekness is more of a part of uh of your experience, you know, more on the surface of your Christianity. Number one, be quick to listen. Be quick to listen to others. Martin Lloyd Jones said, uh, how much more difficult it is to allow other people to say what I say about myself. We all of us prefer to condemn ourselves than to allow somebody else to condemn us. I say of myself that I am a sinner. But instinctively I do not like anybody else to say that I am a sinner. When uh David was run out of his own kingdom, you remember that? Run out of his own kingdom, he had uh there was a man named Shimei who ran after him, cursing, throwing stones at David. This is the king throwing stones at David. The servants are gathering around David. Says, David, just let me go over there. I'll take his head off. Just let me take the head off, David. And uh the king says, What do I have to do with you, O sons of Zariah? If he curses, and if the Lord has told him, curse David, then who shall I say? Who shall say, Why have you done so? Then David said to Abishai and to all the servants, Behold, my son who came out for me seeks my life, and how much more now this Benjamin? Let him alone and let him curse, for the Lord has told him. Says, you know what, I probably deserve it. Speaking against me, he says, you know what, I just need to listen to what he has to say. John Bunyan put it like this, he that's down doesn't have far to fall. If you're already low, if you're already humble, if somebody says that you're low, it's like, hey, it's just a it's just a step down. You know, it's not that far to fall. Number two, you need to be slow to speak. Quick to listen, be slow to speak. Slow to speak in your own defense. Psalm 38, verse 12, it says, those who seek my life lay snares for me. Those who seek to injure me have threatened destruction. They devise treachery all day long, but I, like a deaf man, do not hear, and I am like a mute man who does not open his mouth Yes, I am like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no arguments. For I hope in you, O Lord, you will answer. O Lord my God. Don't always be quick to defend yourself. Somebody says something critical about you. Don't always be , I've got to, you know, I've got to defend myself. I've got to open up and you know get the truth out there. Don't always be so quick. I remember uh John MacArthur uh telling the students at the seminary one time uh during a Q<unk>A, he says, don't be quick to defend yourself. Defend the truth. Defend the truth. Don't defend yourself. Don't get into defending yourself. He says, even if they're wrong, uh there's something probably more rotten in your life that uh they don't know. Right? So it's like if they say something wrong or critical about you, it's like, you know, hey, you you know you didn't get it right, but there's something else that you know I know I own. So just let it go. He says the what I try to defend is the truth. People attack the truth, they attack the church. You know, that's what I defend. I don't get into trying to defend myself. When Paul was maligned in Philippians 1, uh verse 18, he says, What then? What does it matter? What does it matter if people are talking about me? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in this I rejoice. Who cares what people say about me? Don't be quick to speak in your defense. Also be slow to anger. Be slow to anger. Thomas Watson said, A meek spirit like wet wood will not easily take fire. Burroughs again says this. He says, Remember how you acknowledge your vileness before God? You know, we just talked about being poor of spirit and being those that mourn. He says, remember how you acknowledge your vileness before God? And as soon as you're done, you can also be obstinate and angry as anybody else. What? Are you the man or woman who but a while ago, a few hours ago, a day ago, before were acknowledging before God how vile and sinful and wicked you were? And wondered at how you stayed out of hell all this time? You say you deserve hell, but if a child, a servant, a wife, a husband, or a friend crosses you, you cannot bear it? Be slow to be angry. Be slow to be angry. Where are those that deserve hell? And what right do we have to spill out our venom on other people, being angry with them because of what they've done? We're the ones that deserve the wrath of God. And this naturally leads to one more, be quick to forgive. Quick to forgive. Remember the unjust steward in Matthew 18? Owed a debt before this king that he couldn't pay back. Insurmountable debt. Took him multiple lifetimes to pay back what he squandered. And he he begs for forgiveness. Master, please. Please. Give me time. I'll pay back all. And what does the master do? I'm gonna let it go. Which which doesn't say that it's like, oh, the debt doesn't matter. You know who actually assumed the debt? The king did. The king did. He says I'll I'll I'll I'll bear it myself. I'll bear it. I'll take it. And then what does that same servant do? He goes out and finds somebody that owes him some pocket change, grabs him by the throat, pay me what you owe me. You're gonna pay up. I'm not gonna let this go And then the servants found out about it, reported back to the masses and says, You wicked slave. After all that I've forgiven you It was you ought to have forgiven somebody else. It's not you you are obligated to forgive other people as much as I've forgiven you you ought to forgive somebody else. It's obligated We're to be quick to forgive others. And just in closing, I'll mention one more passage that kind of summarizes what I mention is in uh in James, the book of James, chapter one. Starting at verse 19. It says, This you know, my beloved brethren. But everyone must be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger. Why? For the anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. Therefore, putting aside all filthiness and all that remains of wickedness and humility, receive the word implant it which is able to save your souls. But prove yourselves doers of the word and not merely hearers who delude themselves. For if anyone is like a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror. For once he has looked at himself and gone away, he has immediately forgotten what kind of person he was. But one who looks intently at the perfect law of the law of liberty and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed in what he does. We need to be those kind of people. Slow to take offense, quick to forgive Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we we come before you, Lord, and uh we thank you for uh what's uh revealed to us here and uh the Beatitudes and And Father, it's crushing to think about because we know that there are times in our lives where we're not meek, when we don't exhibit that quality of meekness, when we are quick to become angry. When we're slow to forgive, when we want people to pay us back what they owe us, and we forget the huge debt that you've freely waived, that you've assumed that on yourself. My father, I pray that we would be a people that would um would bear up under unjust treatment and that we would do it in a gracious way, because you, Lord, are our example. Now, Father, may we look often at Jesus Christ, who even though he was reviled, he didn't revile again, even though he was treated harshly, that he didn't say, Father, crush them. Father, destroy them, but he said, Father, forgive them. Father, I pray that we'd be a people like that. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. George Lawson Jr. and Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on Duplicat and all digital files