The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We 'll be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew, or back in Matthew chapter 5. Matthew is a book that presents Jesus to us as the promised king. His kingship is proclaimed, it's defended, and in this chapter it's demonstrated as the king speaks. And Jesus accommodates the crowds, but uh again, just to remind you that he's speaking And addressing specifically his disciples. His disciples were the ones who came to him and he taught them. The opening twelve verses of Jesus' sermon on the mount are known as the Beatitudes The Latin word uh beatus uh is a word that means blessing, which is where we get our word beatitude from. Uh and that's the the word that's uh in in Greek it's makarias. It's repeated uh throughout the 12 verses that are that are listed here And uh this afternoon we'll get to the last beatitude. And and I really thought that we were going to finish uh the Beatitudes today, but uh the more I I I thought about it, there's just too much in this uh last beatitude to uh uh to cover in a in a week. So so we'll be back in the Beatitudes one more time. Some some of you'll be happy for that. I think I think I know one guy is back there is happy for but uh we'll see. We'll see how happy you are after I'm done today, alright As Martin Lloyd Jones stated, the order in which the statements come in the sermon is really of supreme importance. The Beatitudes do not come at the end. They come at the beginning. And I do not hesitate to say that unless we are perfectly clear about them, we should go no further and we have no right to go further. And uh this is is really necessary preparation for the rest of what Jesus has to say here. And uh as such we need to to make sure that these opening words stay fresh in our minds as we continue throughout the sermon. So even as we leave and depart from the Beatitudes. We're going to constantly refer back to it as uh as we go on through the Sermon on the Mount. Let's start at verse 1 just to get the context in our minds again. So when Jesus saw the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and after he sat down, his disciples came to him. He opened his mouth and began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's say a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we come before you once again as we approach your holy word. Father, I pray that you would speak to us, that you would open our minds and open our hearts to the truth that we find here. Father, I pray that we would not just be hearers of your word, but that we would be doers as well. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks, Amen John Stopp made this comment. He said the Beatitudes paint a comprehensive portrait of a Christian disciple. We see him first alone on his knees before God, acknowledging his spiritual poverty, his bankruptcy. Mourning over his sin. This makes him meek or gentle in all his relationships, since honesty compels him to allow others to think of him what he before God he confesses himself to be. Yet he is far from acquiescing in his sinfulness, for he hungers and thirsts for righteousness, longing to grow in grace and goodness. We see him next with others out in the human community. His relationship with God does not cause him to withdraw. from society, nor is he insulated from the world's pain. On the contrary, he is in the thick of it, showing mercy to those battered by adversity and sin. He is transparently sincere in all of his dealings, and seeks to play a constructive role as a peacemaker. And you might think that with a description like that, that if you're humble, mourning, gentle, hungry, merciful, pure, peacemaking kind of people that we would be welcomed in this world or at least tolerated by it. You'd think so. But that's not the case. Those that bear the characteristics of the kingdom are not expected to have praise for their righteousness, but persecution for it. And that's what this final beatitude teaches us. This is what's the unexpected reward for the believer in this life. You have a world that's hostile to the king. And that's that's a hard pill to swallow for us, isn't it? Hard pill to swallow. Because which one of us doesn't naturally desire to be respected? and appreciated and protected, especially when we're doing the right thing. And if we're honest, that's why so many of us are tempted to compromise. Or even if we we don't compromise, we at least want to Do all we can to hide our Christianity before a watching world, hide our commitments because we don't want to attract the negative attention that it could draw from the world around us. We naturally despise it. We want to place as much distance between us and the scorn and abuse and the insults, false accusations of the world And Jesus will address that very temptation in verses 13 to 16 where he talks about those that want to hide their light, want to mix in with the world, and the salt loses its savor. But what our Lord lets us know here in this Beatitude is that we need to re-evaluate our response to Christian persecution. And believe me, this is a difficult message to preach. This is difficult. Like I said, that's why we're we're we've got to come back to it next week. What immediately comes to your mind when you hear about a Muslim mob in Nigeria, 1992, that went out on a rampage against Christians, killing and burning 300 lay people before killing an elderly pastor? The group gouged out his eyes and cut through his mouth and chin as punishment for using his mouth to preach the gospel. What comes to your mind when you hear a story like that? What immediately comes to your mind when you hear about the Chinese government in 1994 entering a room to arrest Christians for gathering together and then tying two sisters together, placing them on a stove and then placing a large millstone over 130 pounds on their backs? While they beat them with riots. What comes to your mind when you hear about a Christian pastor who sat in a filthy prison cell in Iran for three years, day after day, waiting for the final word to come down? from the authorities about the day he would hang. The pastor was condemned for converting to Christianity from Islam and it's called apostasy in Iran and sentenced to death. What comes to your mind when you hear something like that? The word blessed is not the word that naturally comes to mind, does it? Blessed. But this is the word that Jesus uses for the persecuted Blessed are the persecuted. The word for persecute, uh, dioko means to put to flight or to pursue. You could translate that to come after. There's a blessing for those that the world comes after, and we're desperately in need of our Lord's perspective on this. We might assume that the majority of persecution is behind us in history, but the facts tell us a different story. According to one source, recent estimates suggest that 70 million Christians 70 million Christians were martyred in the first two millennia, 2,000 years of church history. Of these 70 million, some 45 million, approximately two-thirds of that 70 million, were martyred between 1900 and 2000. I mean, we would assume that it's it's slowing down, it's ramping up. It's ramping up. It's placed last in the list of Beatitudes. Blessed are the persecuted, but it's given a special attention in this passage. There are several features which indicate that this is the concluding statement. The initial blessing is actually repeated from verse 3. And verse 3 it says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. When you drop down to verse 10, it says, Blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of Righteousness for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. It repeats that same blessing. Kingdom of heaven in verse 3, Kingdom of Heaven down in verse 10, uh kind of showing that this is uh kind of like two book ends. to the Beatitudes. Repetition of the blessing demonstrates that the Beatitudes are a single unit, and those who live under the rule of the king are characterized by all of the traits in between. The final Beatitude is also considerably longer than the rest of them, and uh it's expanded, much like the the finale at the end of uh a musical piece or the uh end of a fireworks display that You know, it's a fuller kind of uh description that's given here in uh verses 10 to 12 of the the last uh beatitude, and it's just Jesus' way of bringing the Beatitudes to a close. He also repeats the blessing for the persecuted in verses 10 and 11. Blessed are those who have been persecuted. And down in verse 11, blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you. So he repeats the blessing twice. Some people believe that that was an additional beatitude, but the word persecution is found in verse 10, verse 11, and verse 12. to show that this is all really talking about one beatitude, but it's just heightened, it's expanded for the last Beatitude as Jesus brings the Beatitudes to a close And uh what we're going to do today is to examine this section in three parts, uh three parts, this last beatitude of our Lord. Uh number one, re-re-evaluate the persecution of the past in verse 10. Reevaluate the persecution of the future in verse 11 and reevaluate your response to persecution in the present in verse 12. First point, reevaluate the persecution of the past. Look at verse 10 again. Says blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Uh the word persecuted here is in the the perfect tense, which uh indicates that this is a reference to past events uh with some kind of continuing uh effect and uh whether it's referring to people uh the disciples heard about or people in the past they knew or uh people that they knew presently uh who are persecuted in the past. There's uh there's there's really no way to to tell for sure who's he who he's talking about specifically. But Christ wanted those who suffered persecution to be thought of in a certain way. And the way he wanted them to be thought about was blessed. Again, that Greek word is the word makarios, a word that can be translated as blessed, fortunate, worthy of praise, worthy of commendation, or even happy. Happy. And this refers to the person who's doing well, fortunate, well off, prospering. It's a word that's used to describe God Himself, which is interesting. And those who are persecuted are to be considered blessed, but uh this is not a blanket statement that applies to uh to all people who are persecuted. Uh there have been many people who have suffered at the hands of of men for different causes, right? Racial discrimination, those who've been exploited, those who've been enslaved, you know, these people have been persecuted, but these are not the people that Jesus is referring to here. And that's the attitude. This beatitude limits those who Jesus addresses here or those who suffer for the sake of righteousness. Suffer for the sake of righteousness. And the righteousness that kingdom citizens hunger and thirst for is the very same righteousness that the world is disgusted by. We're those that are described as hungering and thirsting for righteousness. And here the world persecutes those that pursue righteousness. What we crave is what they despise. In Romans 8, verse 7, it tells us that the unbelieving mind is hostile to God. Romans 8. 7, because the mindset on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so. Apart from the transforming work of the Spirit of God, unregenerate men are enemies of God. Enemies. Romans 1. 30 says they're slanderers, haters of God Colossians 1. 21, it says, although you, and we're included in that group, right? And although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. And believers are just kind of caught in this the middle of mankind's war against God, right? We're in the middle. And since unbelievers can't come to God The one who made the laws to get after God, they come to those who obey his laws, who are the believers. That's who they they attack. They can't get to God, so they come to those who believe and trust in him. And isn't that what happened to Cain? Cain and Abel, remember that? What what wrong did Abel do to Cain? What wrong did he do? All he had was a sacrifice that God was pleased with. But here you have Cain is so upset with God he can't reach God, but he can reach his brother. And puts him to death. Murdered him. And the pursuit of righteousness is just another reminder that there's a standard that I don't meet. When people are trying to pursue that standard, it reminds me of that that's that's what I'm not meeting. That's what I should be pursuing after. But because people hate that, they hate the people that strive for it Abel was just a reminder of Cain's unacceptable offering, and instead of changing his heart, he'd rather get rid of the evidence. Joseph, Genesis 37, communicated to his brothers the dream that was given to him by God. Revealed to him by God. All he's doing is communicating something, right? Just saying this is the dream that the God gave me. Verse Genesis 37, verse 8. Then his brother said to him, Are you actually going to reign over us? Or are you really going to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Who gave him the dream? It was God that gave them the dream, but yet they hated him because he had the dream. They couldn't get the God who gave Joseph the dream, so they attacked the one that the dream came to, tossed him in a pit, sold him as a slave. And one of the most recent examples that these disciples would have had was mentioned in chapter 4 and verse 12. Look at chapter 4, verse 12. It says, and now when Jesus heard that John had been taken into custody, he withdrew into Galilee. That was the most recent example for the disciples, right? Herod Antipas, who was Herod the Great's son, had John put in prison and finally beheaded him. Why? Because all he did was tell him the truth. You shouldn't have your brother's life. I didn't make that up. This is what God says. You shouldn't commit adultery Couldn't get to God, but he could get to John the Baptist, put him in prison. John wasn't afraid to point his finger in the governor's face and boldly tell him it's not lawful for you. There's somebody who has a law and you're obligated to them. People don't want to hear that. It's impossible to reach God so who gave the righteous standard, but he can reach the person who communicated the righteous standard. And there's countless examples The disciples would have been able to quickly bring to mind when Jesus uttered this beatitude. And the question that Jesus addresses here is how are we to think of people like that when they are persecuted? How are we to think about them? Because our immediate response is pity, right? We feel sad for people in that condition. Sorrow. Maybe even anger. And I'm not saying that our hearts shouldn't be drawn out in mercy towards people who suffer, but but Jesus wants us to recognize what persecution says about our eternal destiny. What does persecution for righteousness say about where we're headed? And those who are willing to suffer for their faith are destined for heaven. And the glories of heaven will completely consume any kind of misery that they faced on this earth. Completely consume it. It's not even to be reckoned. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, starting at verse 17, it says, For momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory. Far beyond all comparison, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen, for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. In light of eternity, what we go through now is going to seem like a blip on the screen. You can't even register it, right? This is the eternal weight of glory that we're to have in our minds. And my question for you is, do you have such a view of the eternal weight of glory that that you would consider it a blessing for God to stamp your ticket to heaven with suffering? Would you consider that a blessing? The guy says, hey, you're heading in the right direction. Stamps your ticket with suffering. If my willingness to suffer for him is an evidence of my faith in him, would I consider that a blessing? Do I consider it a blessing to suffer for him? This is not the the kind of self-inflicted suffering that uh the suicide bombers you know give to themselves. Or is it's been more appropriately called homicide bombers. We're not like them. This is not the fanatic that's prepared to take a life, but rather we're the faithful who are willing to lay down our lives. We're those who are willing to be persecuted. The Philippian church experienced a measure of persecution when Paul says this in Philippians 1 27 to 29. He says, only conduct yourselves in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ. So that whether I come and see you or remain absent, I will hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel, and listen to this. And in no way alarmed by your opponents, which is a sign of destruction for them, but of salvation for you, and that too from God. This is what persecution is a sign of. It says, for to you it has been granted for Christ's sake. This is a gift. Not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake. He's given you a gift that says you're headed for heaven. And I want to ensure that to you. I want to give you more confidence that you're heading in the right direction. Because you're going to endure the persecution and the suffering from the hands of those that don't inherit the kingdom of heaven. It's a sign. And Paul let them know that the ability to suffer for the sake of Christ must be considered a gift because it's an evidence. And this is the perspective that Jesus wants his disciples to have. That the world may look at persecution as a punishment And you may see it as a pitiful state, but I'm telling you that those who endure it for righteousness are blessed. They're fortunate, they're worthy of commendation, they're well off, they're prospering. That's who the persecuted are. So the the first point, you need to reevaluate the persecution of the past. What do you think about the persecution in the past? Next point, you also need to reevaluate the persecution of the of the future. Look at verse 11. It says, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. As Jesus expands this beatitude, he makes it more direct and personally addresses his disciples. Throughout the Beatitudes, he's been speaking in more general terms. And it was obvious that he was referring to his disciples because he uh was addressing his disciples when he spoke them. uh spoke these beatitudes. Uh but he he refers to to those that inherit these blessings in in general terms in the the first uh seven Beatitudes, the poor, the mourners, the meek. You know, it just kind of leaves it in in the general. But now he speaks directly to them and he uses the second person plural pronoun. You. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you. He's preparing them for the inevitable. When he says when, uh , he's saying that it's it's it's it's an assurity, okay? It's it's coming up You're going to be persecuted. I'm trying to prepare you for the future persecution that's to come. Blessed are you when it happens. They need to think correctly about the future. And every one of the disciples, save Judas, was persecuted for their faith. According to church history, each one was martyred. Except one who was able to escape a violent death, who was uh John, the Apostle John, who was exiled on the Isle of Patmos, uh, but even he was reported to have been cast into a vessel filled with boiling oil before he was put into exile. Nobody escaped persecution, but uh John was the only one that escaped the martyr's death. Jesus uses that word when again he's it's pointing out that um Uh this is uh something that's that's not only possible but but will likely be repeated in your life. And and just when it happens, this is what I want you to think about it. It's not like there's uncertainty about the persecution, it's only a matter of when it happens. What kind of persecution it is and how often? That's really the only question. It's not about if there's persecution. It's when, how often, and what kind of persecution. And this is true for all who desire to live a godly life over in 2 Timothy 3, verse 12. It says, indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. It's including us. Believers are those who desire to live a godly life. And one more observation that we should make before looking at the various forms that persecution can take is the qualification at the end of the verse. Look at a Verse 11 again. It says, Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Interesting. Because of me. This is really a startling statement. Because if you remember back in verse 10, the blessing was pronounced on those who suffered for righteousness' sake, right? And who's the standard of righteousness? God is, right? God is the standard of righteousness. It was God who accepted Abel's sacrifice, God who gave Joseph is ruler over the people, God who uh who gave uh the the laws about adultery that John the Baptist was in prison for at the time that Jesus was speaking this. God is the standard of righteousness. But in the very next breath, Jesus says, You're blessed if you suffer for my sake. Who do you think Jesus is claiming to be here? He's claiming to be God. Suffer for righteousness' sake, suffer for my sake. Same thing. Same thing. Jesus is claiming to be God. How else could he make a claim like this? Who else is worthy of you being persecuted and martyred if it calls for that besides God? And Jesus said, if you do this for my sake, you're blessed. Jesus is claiming to be God. The only one worthy of that kind of devotion is Jesus. For the name and honor and glory of Christ, it's a blessing to suffer, and Jesus declares about himself that I am God. Starling statement. If you're persecuted for my sake, you're blessed. And there's three kinds of categories that hostility comes in, at least that Jesus describes here. The first one is insults. Insults. Blessed are you when people insult you. It's a word onadizo. It's a word that means to speak harshly against. Speak harshly against. It's a word that was used to for deserved rebuke or word of condemnation. It was used in Matthew 11 and verse 20. And Matthew 11, verse 20, if you want to flip over there real quick. It says over there in verse 20, then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his miracles were done because they did not repent. That word denounce is actually the word insult. The same word that's translated as is insult over in uh in in chapter five. Uh so it's it's to speak a harsh word, a harsh word against, a rebuke against, a word of condemnation. Uh but the idea in Matthew five is that this is an undeserved rebuke. I don't deserve this kind of insult. I haven't done anything wrong to deserve this. Matthew 27 actually gives us an example of that in the life of Christ if you flip over to Matthew 27. When you think about undeserved rebuke, you can't think of a a rebuke that's more undeserved than what Christ received. Look at verse 39 in Matthew chapter 27. It says, And those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads and saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. The same way the chief priests also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking him and saying, He saved others, he cannot save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he delights in him, for he said, I am the Son of God. The robbers who had been crucified with him were also insulting him with the same words. Harsh words. Meant to insult the Son of God. He didn't deserve one of them. Not one of them. And he says, there will be times when this will happen to you. You'll be spoken against. You'll be insulted. Harshly spoken against. But he says, take courage. I've been there, right? Blessed are you if you're insulted for my sake. You're blessed. Next word that he mentions here is the word persecute. Persecute back in chapter 5. Blessed are you when people insult you and Persecute you. That word uh persecute dioko, it's uh as I mentioned before, it's a word that means to come after, to pursue, to put to flight. If uh insult refers to harsh words, persecution is a reference to harsh actions. Harsh actions. It's uh the step beyond the insult. Now now it's the threat. You know, leave or else. It's the or else. It's a pursuit with the intent to force you out or to take you out. That's what it means to persecute. One way or the other, this ministry is over. We're done with this kind of ministry from you. Either we're going to force you out or we're going to take you out. That's the word persecute. In Matthew chapter 10, when uh Jesus sent out the twelve to the lost sheep of Israel, he says, But whenever they persecute you in one city Flee to the next. Whenever they drive you out, that's what persecute again means. Whenever they drive you out of one city, flee to the next. Whenever they persecute you in one city, flee to the next. It's the idea that they'd be run out of the city. It repeats it again in chapter 23, verse 34, where he says, Therefore, behold, I'm sending you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of them you will kill and crucify. Some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city. Again, it's that idea of being driven out, cast out from city to city. In order to silence the testimony, there's this desire from some either to force you out or to take you out. And uh illustration of that is in uh Luke chapter 4, if you want to flip over there, Luke chapter 4, verse uh 24. We have Jesus when he was in the synagogue at Nazareth, when he spoke of God's grace to the Gentiles. Verse 24 it says, and he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown. I say to you, in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah when the sky was shut up for three years, and six months when a great famine came over all the land. And yet Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. He mentions the land of Sidon. He says, This is the Gentile. That was rescued. Verse 27. And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha, the prophet, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman Assyrian. Again, Assyrian. This is the Gentile. And all the people in the synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things. They didn't want to hear of God's grace to the Gentiles. And they got up and drove him out of the city. Persecute, led him to the brow of the hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw him down the cliff, forced him out, and then they wanted to take him out. But passing through their midst he went away. Went his way. What happens in the lives of believers is that some will be persecuted. Some will be forced out or taken out for the sake of the name of Christ. And the final category of hostility that's mentioned here is false accusations. Back in Matthew 5 again. It says, uh, blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. And here's where you might struggle some. To see the connection between being persecuted for for Christ and and just a personal attack when people are lying about you I mean how many immediately think, you know, somebody's lying about me? I must be being persecuted for Christ. You know, you just take it personally. You know, don't say anything that's untrue about me False accusation. And there are times when a false accusation is nothing more than suffering for the sake of Christ. Suffering for the sake of Christ. One one writer observes this that uh during the first three centuries of church history Christians were accused of cannibalism, incest, atheism, and general hatred of humanity. Such accusations were gross distortions of actual Christian practices. The charge of cannibalism was probably related to the celebration of the Lord's Supper. Eating the body and blood of the Lord, right? Cannibals The charge of incest was probably related to the early Christian practice of believing couples referring to their spouses as brothers and sisters. Brothers and sisters in the Lord. Oh, they're they're they're they're an incest now, they're practicing incest. The charge of atheism was related to the Christians' rejection of the gods of the Roman pantheon. You don't recognize our gods? You don't believe in any gods? Atheists! The charge of general hatred of humanity related to Christians' refusal to follow society and its immoral practices You don't want to celebrate our feast days? You don't want to celebrate our celebrations? You hate people? Holier than now? That one's not said today anymore, is it? Some of these accusations were probably not more than just confused interpretations. It was more than that. They purposely wanted to slander the Christians. Purposely wanted to say things that weren't true. False accusations, nothing new to Christ. He dealt with them throughout his ministry. Jesus, listen to this list, Jesus was accused of blasphemy. This fellow blasphemes. Matthew chapter 9, verse 3. He was accused of acting unlawfully on the Sabbath. John chapter 5, verse 18. He was accused of being a sinner. John chapter 9 verse 24, we know that this man is a sinner. This is what the religious leaders said. We know this man is a sinner. He's accused of being demon-possessed. John 7. 20 and 848, don't we rightly say that you have a demon? He's accused of being born of fornication. We're not born of fornication. Reference to the virgin birth. He's accused of being a drunkard and a glutton, Matthew 11, verse 19. He was accused of operating under the power of Satan and the Lord of the demons. Matthew 9, 34. Every one of them, false accusations. False accusations. Crowds laughed at him, they mocked him, they ridiculed him. It's even hard to read a list like that, isn't it? About the perfect son of God. And then we expect to be treated better? Matthew 10 verses 24 to 26. Flip over there real quick. Matthew 10. Look at verse 24 A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a slave above his master. It is enough for the disciple that he become like his teacher, and the slave like his master. If they have called the head of the house be else about, how much more will they malign the members of his household? Who's that talking about? It's us. They call the master of the house the Lord of the demons, and then we expect to get away and have people like us? Think everything's okay with us? Appreciate us? Not slander us. Expect to get away with it. We're not going to get away from false accusation. We're not going to get away from slander. And Jesus wanted his disciples to be prepared for the future hostility that was to come. I'm warning you ahead of time. It's become insults, persecutions, false accusations. Some manuscripts just say uh accusations, but uh It's clear that it's false accusations because they're being persecuted for the sake of Christ and for righteousness' sake. How are we to understand all these attacks? Jesus says it says you need to consider them blessings. Badges of honor. We're suffering for the name's sake. And the scriptures teach that not only do we suffer for his sake, but we even suffer in his place, which is really a fascinating thought Suffering is place. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 24, Paul says this, he says, Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, talking about the Colossian Christians. And in my flesh I do share it on behalf of his body, which is the church, and filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions. What does that mean? Filling up what's lacking in Christ's Christ's afflictions. What does Christ's afflictions lack? What kind of suffering does Christ lack? And what Paul meant by this is not that there's anything lacking in the atonement of Christ. Jesus fully paid our sins on the cross. There's no condemnation for those that are in Christ. Jesus is fully paid. You know, on the cross, Jesus says, it is finished. It's complete, right? There's nothing absent in the atoning death of Christ. Jesus paid our debt in full. But what he means is that as the body of Christ, we continue to suffer in the place of Christ. They can't get to Christ just like they earlier I mentioned they can't get to God, so they get to the ones that communicate his message. Today they can't get to Christ, so who do they go after? Those who follow him. Can't get to the head, let's go after the body. That's the way it works. Because he's out of reach. They attack Christ by attacking his disciples. And that's what Paul is doing, remember? Remember when uh Jesus struck him blind Says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? You can't get to me, I'm up here in heaven, but but you can get to my body. That's you're persecuting me down there. Why are you persecuting me? The unbelieving world is an enemy of God the Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. And when Jesus spoke to his brothers in John, he said this in John 7, verse 7, he says, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify of it that its deeds are evil. World hates Jesus. John 3. 20 puts it this way, for everyone who does evil hates the light and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. And who was that light? Jesus was the light. The world doesn't come to the light. They hate the light. They're afraid their deeds are going to be exposed. And they will. Jesus lets us know in John 15, verse 18, if the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. And we are privileged to bear the reproaches of Jesus Christ. The disciples were to look to the future with that kind of expectation that I 'm going to bear the reproach, the shame, the suffering, the persecution. of Jesus Christ. And this is a lesson that Peter had to learn the hard way. Flip over to 1 Peter real quick. 1 Peter chapter 4. Look at verse twelve. It says, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you which comes upon you for your testing, as though some strange things were happening to you. But to the degree that ye share the sufferings of Christ, keep on rejoicing, so that also at the revelation of his glory ye may rejoice with exaltation. If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rest on you. Make sure that none of you suffers as a murderer or a thief or evildoer or a troublesome meddler. But if anyone suffers as a Christian, he is not to be ashamed, but it's to glorify God in this name. Peter. Anybody remember a time Peter was ashamed of the name? There was a time when he didn't want to confess that he even had any association with the Lord, denied that he knew him three times. Now he says, don't be ashamed of the Lord. Don't be ashamed of the Lord. If you suffer as a Christian for the name of Christ, rejoice, be glad about that. You're well off, you're privileged to bear the shame of Jesus Christ. And uh last point real quick back in Matthew chapter 5. We're to re-evaluate your our response to persecution in the present. So we're uh reevaluating our what we think about persecution in the past. reevaluating what we think about persecution that comes in the future, in the disciples' case anyway, to what they'd look forward to. And then we're to re-evaluate our response to persecution in the present. Look at verse 12 again. It says, rejoice and be glad, for your reward in heaven is great. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. The kind of response that Jesus calls for in the midst of persecution when you're going through it, the present response that he calls for us to have is rejoice and be glad. While you're going through it, rejoice and be glad. It's the present tense. Who does that? Who rejoices and is glad during persecution? The disciples were. Look over Acts chapter 5. We find Peter and the apostles proclaiming the gospel, healing diseases, much like Christ did in his ministry. And they f also find the religious leaders opposing them much like they did to Christ during his ministry Acts chapter 5, look at verse 17. But the high priest rose up along with all his associates, that is the sect of the Sadducees, and they were filled with jealousy. They laid hands on the apostles and put them in public jails because of their preaching. But during the night an angel of the Lord opened the gates of the prison and taking them out, he said, Go and stand and speak to the people in the temple. The whole message of this life, don't stop preaching. Upon hearing this, they entered the temple about daybreak and began to teach. Now the high priest and His associates came, they called his council together, even all the Senate of the sons of Israel, and sent orders to the prison house for them to be brought, but the officers who came did not find them in prison, and they returned and reported back saying, We found the prison house locked quite securely. The guards standing at the doors, but When we had opened up, we found no one inside. Now when the captain of the temple guard and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them as to what would become of this. But someone came and reported to them the men who you put out put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people. Back at it again. Love it. Got sent in prison, released, we're back at it. Back at it again. And later on they're brought before the council in verse 28. It says saying, we gave you strict orders not to continue teaching in this name. And yet you fill Jerusalem with your teaching and intend to bring this man's blood upon us. But Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men. The council was furious, wanted to kill him. But instead of uh killing them, they listened to uh to an old old uh uh rabbi there by the name of Gameliel the Pharisee, and they chose to release him. But before they released him, they they gave him a good beating. A good beating. The procedure for flogging is described in the Jewish Mishnah in vivid detail. So one writer states the torture was horrific, sometimes resulted in death, even the flogging itself. Uh they they only gave thirty-nine lashes because the Old Testament law uh commanded uh uh no more than 40. So they gave 39 just in case they miscounted, but the beating was still horrible. And as the apostles walked out of the Sanhedrin meeting with their backs still raw. Garments torn open painfully, bleeding flesh. I mean, this is fresh, right? What do they do? Look at verse 41. So they went on their way from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they had been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. And every day in the temple from house to house they kept right on teaching and preaching Jesus is the Christ. Probably could hardly raise their arms up, right? But they're still rejoicing, praising God. We've been counted worthy to suffer for them. That's the way that we're to view persecution. Being persecuted for Christ. Rejoice. Paul had a similar response. Over in Acts chapter 16. You can turn there if you want. Acts chapter 16, starting at verse 22. So as the crowd rose up together against them, and the chief magistrates tore their robes off them, proceeded to order them to be beaten with rods. And by the way, the uh the Romans had no such requirements about how many lashes they could give, right? Beat them with rods, verse 23, when they had struck them with many blows. They threw them into the prison, commanding the jailer to guard them securely, and he having received such a command threw them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the sacks. But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns of praise to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. What are they doing? Rejoicing. Praising God. This is a supernatural response to suffering, okay? Supernatural response to suffering. And Jesus makes a very deliberate choice of words back in Matthew chapter 5. This is absolutely fascinating to me. He uses two different words. Rejoice and be glad. Rejoice and be glad. The word rejoice, it's that the word Cairo in Greek. Uh the Bible speaks about joy something that we can maintain at all times. In uh Philippians uh four four it says rejoice in the Lord always and again I say rejoice Uh joy is something that the Christian can maintain at all times. It's kind of like a deep-seated, you know, uh abiding contentment in Christ. As Lord, trusting in Him. We can always rejoice in the Lord, and the hope is in the Lord, rejoicing in the Lord always. But that joy isn't always something that comes out, right? In 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 10, Paul says, As sorrowful yet always rejoicing. So he says, even when I'm sorrowful, you know my heart's still rejoicing in the Lord, even though it might not come out as an expression on the outside. My heart still having joy in the Lord. That's the word rejoice. It's like the kind of like the volcano, the vault volcano. It's like under the surface, you know, it's hot, but you know, it's like on the surface it might look cool, but but If you go beneath the surface, there's that joy there. Okay? That's how the apostle described joy. This is what the word joy describes. But what Jesus does, if he goes beyond the joy that we have on the inside. And he goes to this second word, which means to be glad and rejoice on the outside. Rejoice on the outside. To rejoice and be glad. It's a word that means to exalt. It's uh it's uh the word to to be glad, uh uh. It's uh similar in meaning to rejoice, but it's a more intense kind of word. This is like the explosion of the volcano, okay? You know, joy is like what's underneath Being glad, exulting is what's coming out. And he says, rejoice and be glad. Literally means to be overjoyed. Typically, such intense joy was outwardly expressed either through words, tears, skipping, jumping. The parallel account in Luke chapter 6, verse 23, it says, Be glad in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for in the same way their fathers used to treat the prophets. It says, Let your joy come out. If you're persecuted for the sake of Christ, let your joy come out. Again, Peter says in his letter to the scattered saints in 1 Peter 4:13, but to the degree that you share the sufferings of Christ, Keep on rejoicing to that same degree that you suffer is to the same degree that you can have joy, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice with exaltation. And this, beloved, is the first time in the whole Sermon on the Mount that Jesus actually gives a command. First time he gives a command, what is it? Rejoice, be glad. I've been telling you that uh throughout the Beatitudes that he uses that word makarias, the word for for blessed. Um I've told you that it's not talking about an emotional state, it's just talking about a declaration about who that person is. You're just you're just a blessed person. You know, it's not saying that it's on the outside. He's just saying you're a blessed person. This is the first time he says, let it out. Let it out. Rejoice. Be glad. The reward in heaven will more than compensate for whatever troubles you experience on this earth. More than compensate. Some commentators see this as a reward as heaven itself, but the Bible actually speaks of degrees of reward in heaven. In First Corinthians three, eight and nine, Paul says, Now he who plants and he who waters are one, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor, for we are God's fellow workers, ye are God's field, God's building It's apparent that the Jews uh actually recognized that prophets would receive a special reward for their service. Uh Jesus uh acknowledged this when he uh uh that this was true in the Matthew 10 verse 41. Where he says, He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward. There were different kinds of rewards that are going to be given out. He who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. It's been written about this text that human insult will be replaced by divine commendation. Human rejection and harassment will be replaced by divine acceptance and favor Earthly punishment will be replaced by eternal bliss. The eschatological reward will be so great that the earthly suffering will pale in comparison. Jesus will reward you for your suffering. Whatever you suffer in this life, you will be rewarded for in the next life. There are degrees of reward, and uh God has graciously given to some a greater capacity to suffer. God's given us some a greater capacity to suffer, but he measures out our trials and difficulties for exactly what we can handle. We can be thankful for that, right? You know, first Corinthians 1013, no temptation is overtaking you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but will with the temptation provide a way of escape so that you'll be able to endure it. Uh during this week I've been reading through uh Fox 's Book of Martyrs and a couple other books on uh Uh people that are persecuted for the faith and and uh often the the question that I ask myself when I'm reading those accounts is, you know, would I be able to suffer like that? You know, you read about guys that get their tongues ripped out of their mouths and burned at the stake and it's just like, wow Would I be able to do that? And uh The answer is is no, because I haven't been called to suffer like that right now. But if God were to put me in a position where I did have to suffer for the name, I believe that he would give me the ability to go through it. I don't have to be ready before it's time, okay? You don't have to be ready before it's time. But what you can be thankful for is that if God has put you in a position where you are persecuted, that He's also prepared you for that time of persecution. Prepared you for it. And if we did go through a persecution like that, even in our own nation, we could count ourselves as worthy because we suffered for the name. But whether we suffer martyrdom, experience persecution, falsely accused, insulted for our faith, which I'm sure everybody here has been. Jesus tells us that we stand in a long line of faithful men who've preceded us back in uh Matthew 5. And this is this is why I say I just can't finish this today. We've got to come back to this. All right. We've got to come back to this. Rejoice and be glad for your reward in heaven is great, for in the same way that persecuted the prophets who were before you, from Abel to Zechariah, there were prophets who are willing to take their stand for the faith. Hebrews 11 refers to some of those faithful servants in Hebrews chapter 11, verses 37 to 38. It says they were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were tempted, they were put to death. With the sword, they went about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated, men of whom the world was not worthy, wandering in deserts and mountains and caves and holes in the ground. You read lists like that, you just feel like the spiritual pygmy, right? It's like I'm a weakling. I'm nowhere near this. But I did want to read an illustration that might be a little closer to home. Listen to this. This is from a comment by R. C. Sprohl. Listen what he says. He says, as a student, I was once selected by the seminary to give a sermon in chapel on a special occasion. It was an annual event at which the entire presbytery convened There were ministers present from about two hundred churches along with the student body of the seminary and the faculty. It was a great honor to be selected to deliver the sermon. I chose to preach on the doctrine of sin, and in the sermon I explained what I had been taught at seminary about sin. That sin is an existential failure to achieve authentic existence. I've been taught that sin in the final analysis is simply a matter of finitude, a necessary component of creaturliness And a psychological malady. Then I told the audience that while I agree that we struggle in all these ways, not one of them comes close to the biblical understanding of the nature of sin. According to Scripture, sin is a violation of the holiness of God. Sin is a transgression of His law. And such transgression cannot be minimized by explaining it away in psychological categories or neurosis or in existential categories of inauthenticity or by reducing it to simple finitude. When the sermon was finished, I stepped down from the pulpit and a rush of students came toward me The students, most of them liberal thinkers, came to me moved and excited about the sermon. I was amazed. I thought they would want to tar and feather me. However, not everyone was happy. As I made my way to the back of the chapel, the dean of the seminary approached me, and he was irate. In fact, his face was contorted with rage He began to yell at me in front of the crowd, and he physically pushed me up against the back of the wall and said, You have distorted every truth to Protestantism in that sermon this morning. I was devastated. I walked out of the chapel and wondered if I really made such distortions. I went to see my mentor John Gersner and when I told him what had happened, he grinned and said, You should be exceedingly glad. You should be exceedingly glad How do you face persecution? How do you face insult, abuse, scorn? How do you face that? The way we should face it is we need to be exceedingly glad. Because we've been counted worthy to suffer shame for the name of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you uh once again, and uh we just confess that When we read a a passage like this, we we feel so small in light of uh what it says. And uh Father, there's uh often times when uh we do uh face persecution for our faith, insult, ridicule, and We don't have that experience of joy and gladness and allowing the joy that's inside to come out. But Father, I pray that we would believe what the scriptures say are true about us, that we're blessed. We are blessed. We can think about people in the past and say they're blessed. Think about people in the future, what we will endure in the future and say, well, we're blessed. And if we're presently experiencing anything now, we can say we're blessed, because this is what our Savior has declared to be true about us And how can we expect the Savior, the Son of God, the sinless and perfect one, to come to this earth and be treated in the way that he was and expect to escape? Father, I pray that you give us a healthy check on reality. Father, prepare us as Christians to face whatever comes because we trust in you. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson, Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services. . Please visit us online . at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.