The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. So let me just whisper up a prayer, and then we will open up our Bibles together. So join me as we pray. Father, we do just thank you for the privilege of coming together this morning. God, we do pray now for your grace and your mercy. We pray, Father, that you would gird up the loins of our minds and grant us the grace to think your thoughts after you. Father, we pray that You would give us ears to hear what the Spirit has to say to us. Father, we thank you for all of the marriages here in this room this morning. And we pray that your grace would be our portion as we open up the word of God and desire to hear from you, Lord. We pray, Father, that you would just speak powerfully and sanctifyingly to our hearts, Lord, where we are struggling. That you would give us answers and that the light of the glory of the word shine afresh upon our souls. God, our desire is that our marriages would reflect your glory and your character. And so, God, please help us. And we thank you in advance for what you're going to do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I just have a confession to make uh and just a request. So the confession is I don't know everything there is to know about marriage I do know this and we have been married actually 30 years and uh approaching 31 years, and I tell everyone all the time that the fact that Sherry is still with me is a testimony that there is a God. Because only God can make a woman that would put up with me for thirty years. And the other thing that I recognize is, and this is the prayer request, is that you all pray for me that God would give me a certain sensitivity as I spend the time with you guys this weekend. Uh I recognize in a room this size that there's probably the whole gamut of relational dynamics that exists. Everything from those who are honeymooners who are still living under the illusion that they're gonna spend the rest of their lives looking at each other's eyes and and hearing birds in the background and uh and on the other side probably Probably those of you that uh are 45, maybe 50 years plus, and you're in cruise control right now and you can see the finish line to Everything in between that as well too. So uh I recognize that uh probably all of those experiences are in this room and probably realistically there are maybe some of you that are here that are hanging on by a thread in all seriousness. That you've come this weekend by God's providence and God's grace, uh desiring deeply to hear uh from the Spirit of God, that you're uh at that at that at your your end and you want to hear from the Lord. And so I want to be sensitive to the whole range and gamut of uh of uh marriages that are represented in this room. So I'm praying and have been praying that God would uh use me to be an encouragement to all of your lives Now, if I were to ask you all individually just to write down on a sheet of paper, and I'm not asking you to do that, but if I were to ask you to do that and write out your own personal definition of what marriage is and what the purpose of marriage is, and each of you did that, the question that I would have for you is Would what you write down be the same thing as what your spouse writes down? In other words, do you and your spouse have the same perception perspective, the same understanding, the same um uh thought process of knowing what marriage is, and are you guys on the same page? And even more important than that, it isn't so much whether or not the two of you are on the same page. The real issue is, are the two of you on the same page with God's page? Do the both of you understand what marriage is all about? And in my own personal experience, as a husband of 30 years and as a pastor for 25 years I have come to realize that a lot of people, even professing believers, have a wrong understanding of marriage. And when we start off with the wrong understanding of marriage, or start off with the wrong foundation of marriage, then whatever we build in will always be shaky. You all know that, right? The most important part of a marriage, the most important part of any kind of structure, is always the foundation. Right? The the edifice itself can look really nice, it can be beautiful, it can be picturesque, but if it's built on a shaky foundation, there will always be problems And so what I want to do for our first session here is not necessarily bring to you all anything that you haven't heard already, but I want to take us to the beginning. I want to Take us to the foundation so that all of us can make sure that what we're building, uh what what what what we're doing in our marriages is rooted in the biblical foundation of God's word. And and my desire is to help. you see or refresh your memory that the purpose and design of marriage is very clear. God has not left us to wonder about why it is that He designed marriage. It's very clear in the Word of God so that we can have marriages that are built on the foundation of His Word. So I'm going to invite you all to open up in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1. And there's a number of places that we'll go to here, but uh we'll start here in the beginning. And let me read And our hearing in Genesis chapter 1 from verses 26 down to verse 31. And I just want to invite you all. So um and I don't know I've uh I've listened to George preached a number of times. I can't really hear the interaction. So I'm one of those kind of old-fashioned kind of guys. I love to hear feedback So if I can, George, with your permission and the other elders' permission, I give you all permission to say, if you hear something, say amen. Is that okay? All right, very good. Alright, now. And if you don't hear any amens, then I know I'm not doing my job. So I do have a very fragile ego that way. So Let me just read these verses to set the context of what we want to say for our time together this morning. Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 to 31. Then God said, Let us make man in our own image according to our likeness And let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every living thing that moves on the earth Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of the earth, and every tree which has fruit yielding seed, and it shall be food for you. In every beast of the earth, and every bird of the sky, and everything that moves on the earth, which has life, I have given every grain plant for food, and it was so And God saw that all that he made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. So, what I want to do here, if you guys are taking notes, I want to just give to you two crucial realities of biblical marriage, which are essential to a proper foundation of a flourishing marriage. So two crucial realities of biblical marriage, which are essential to a proper foundation of a flourishing marriage. And the first one of those realities is the framework of what I'm calling covenant union marriage. The framework for covenant union marriage. And we know this as we open up our Bibles in Genesis chapter 1, we find the presentation of how everything came into being. God simply created. God created for no other reason than he chose to create out of his own abundance of his desire to glorify himself And you read through these pages and we get this five days of the display of unparalleled power and uncomparable beauty as God creates the majestic universe. centered on planet Earth. We won't go through everything, but we know that God just simply creates by fiat. That is to say that God simply speaks And what he speaks comes into being. And everything that he speaks comes into being. And everything that he speaks that comes into being has a purpose and has a design. And as you're reading chapter 1, you've probably done this, you realize that God is moving to a climax from day one to day two to day three to day four to day five, that there's something else coming. Right? It's as if God is preparing everything that He's creating for something else. And that something else we come to in verse 26. And what we come to in verse 26 is God doing something that he had not done before. And I'll point your eyes to verse 26. Prior to verse 26 , God just simply spoke and everything came into being. But when he comes to verse 26, he takes counsel with himself. That's the first time we see him doing that, which should alert you as a Bible reader and interpreter that something that has not happened is about to happen now. That what he's about to create now is going to be fundamentally and essentially different. from what he created prior to that, because prior to that he did not take counsel with himself. And so what we have here then is the alerting uh by the biblical narrator that this creation now is going to be something very special and we know that because God's word tells us, and I'll read it again, God says to himself, let us make man in our own image and in our own likeness. Nothing that had been created prior to that was in God's own image and God's own likeness. So in other words, everything that God had done prior to this was setting the stage for these two image-bearers Everything that he's done, this beautiful, unparalleled, uh powerful creation, and we can only imagine what it looked like, it was all pointing to this point where God would make these two creatures Male and female, which we'll learn when we get to chapter 2, would be husband and wife. Everything has been set for them. That's a marvelous understanding that God is doing all this for this husband and this wife. And so God says, let us make man in our own image. These individuals will be very special. They will be very unique. because of their design and their purpose as a couple. And we'll see that uh in a minute or two. And we know this because the language, as I said, is not used anywhere else except here. And it's interesting And we won't get into too much of the details, but in the ancient Near Eastern times, when a ruler wanted to communicate to everyone else that this land was his territory under his authority He would put up a likeness of himself. We know that because we read the Bibles, we see Nebuchadnezzar doing that. We see other leaders do that. They would just put a huge statue and image of themselves to let everybody else know this is my territory. This is under my authority. And so when we read here God creating image bearers, we have something of the understanding of what he's saying. God has created a whole universe. He's created a whole earth. And now he creates image bearers It's as if God is saying that these two individuals communicate that this belongs to me. You guys with me this morning? That they will reflect my glory, they will reflect my character in a way that would communicate to everything else and everyone else, all of the principalities and all the powers, that this is mine. So Adam and Eve, as they come together, they have a role, they have a purpose. Their role and their purpose is to signify, to communicate to everything else that this belongs to God. And I want you to understand that, that your marriage is more than just simply about you. That your marriage is about God. It's about God's glory. It's about God's authority. That when you come together, we'll see this in a moment. When you come together you are representing as image bearers of God, communicating something of his glory and his authority and his power for the watching world to see. And so as we relate to one another in marriage, it's just not about my own happiness and my own contentment, my own satisfaction. It's about much more than that. There's a cosmic uh situation happening that the whole principalities and powers are looking at you and God's design for you, God's purpose for you is to represent him. That then takes all of my little issues to a whole different level, does it not? It 's so much more than just whether or not my wife is making me happy. I need to have the perspective, the right foundation that you know what, it's not about my happiness, it's about God's glory. And as followers of Jesus Christ, now we know that marriage is a is a creation ordinate, so it's not just Christian marriages, it's all marriages. But particularly for Christians who understand and embrace and hopefully submit to the authority of God's word, we then have to know what is at stake in our marriages. And so as we think about that, that we possess as image bearers the capacity to reflect the glory of God in a way that all other creation cannot I want to give you guys two points underneath this in the terms of the framework. First of all, and I've already mentioned, I want you just to see that this framework is about the glory of God. The glory of God. Again, the framework where God made these this man and this woman to work this out in marriage is here in the text. And so oftentimes we lose sight of because in chapter two we see the specifics of day six in creation where obviously God brings uh Eve to Adam. But you realize that the marriage happens in verses 26 to tw to 31. Right? That that that when he makes man, he makes man on the sixth day, and they are married And we get the details of that as we go into chapter 2. And so God sets his husband and his wife over creation as co-regents to rule over his creation. To reflect his glory and to bear his image. And we see that even in the language. If your Bibles are still open, look there at verse 28. This is so beautiful. In verse 27, it says, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And then he says, and God blessed them. We read past that blessing too quickly, brothers and sisters. It's the language of covenant relationship. If you trace this out through the scriptures, when God blesses individuals, it's this idea that they are in covenant with Him And they are in covenant with one another. So this blessing is nothing just to sneeze at. This blessing that God is giving is the favor of God over their lives. It's the blessing of God over them as a married couple. And it's the blessing of God for them as a married couple. Let me say that again. It's the blessing of God over them, and it's the blessing of God for them. And here's the thing that you need to know about this. This marriage that we'll see here is a prototype. This is not just about Adam and Eve. It's a prototype for all marriages that will come after that. So all marriages that come together, particularly for Christian marriages that come together in the name of the Lord, you have the blessing of God over you And you have the blessing of God with you. And we don't always feel like that, do we? Okay, so when I ask a question like that, it's not rhetorical We don't always feel like that, do we? Okay, so that's fine. Sherry and I don't always feel like that. And sometimes we're trying to search for the blessing of God in our marriage because it doesn't seem like it's a blessing at the time. Here's the other thing you guys need to know about me, you guys. Like when I particularly here at uh at marriage conferences, I just like to try to keep it real. What we say here stays here. It doesn't always feel that way. As a matter of fact, sometimes, and no it's not true, but sometimes it feels like we don't have not only not have the blessing of God But it seems like sometimes it's the curse of God. And we've gone the number of days, we've gone the number of weeks, and dare I even admit that maybe months. And it's been the hardest times of our lives because we couldn't stand one another. We're trying to figure out how do we get back to each other. It doesn't seem as though God's strength is available to us because we're struggling so much. Now that's not because God's strength is not available to us. That's because we're not thinking rightly, we're not thinking biblically. When we understand that God gives you his blessing when you say yes, when she says yes at the altar, his blessing is on your life. And part of the thing that I want you to understand out of this session is No matter where your marriage is right now, you don't have to wonder or guess whether or not the blessing of God is with you. Because it is. We just need to somehow figure out how to access it, I can put it that way. We need to figure out how we can anchor our problems in it. He is with you and he is for you because he brought you together for his own glory. And when God creates something for his own glory, he never, ever, ever forsakes it. He's faithful in that way, is he not? He will move heaven and earth to bring himself glory. And if he has brought you together and he has. For his own glory. He will move heaven and earth to give you the very power that you need to overcome whatever the obstacles are in your marriage because he has blessed you And it is for your marriage to glorify him. Small wonder then that at the tail end of this He finally says in verse 31, doesn't he, that God saw that everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. You all know that, right? Prior to that, he just said, after the first day it was evening and and night, and uh evening and morning, and it was Good, and it was good. And so five times it was good. Five times it was good. And then on the sixth day, it was very good Because now the blessing of the crown of his creation, which is Adam and Eve, to come together for his own glory, they are finally there. And God says Himself, now It is very good. Brothers and sisters, your marriage is very good. Whether you realize it or not, whether you're struggling or not, it is very good because God did it. And God did it for the purpose of his own glory. And this doesn't change, brothers and sisters. And sometimes the thought is, as you hear this, like, well, that was the blessing of God. before Genesis chapter 3. And we all know what happened in Genesis chapter 3, right? Because many of us live in Genesis chapter 3, right? But God's blessing didn't stop just because of the fall. As a matter of fact, I just want you to keep your finger here in Genesis chapter 2 and go to John chapter 2 for a quick moment. Because Jesus does something, and I don't think it's an accident that Jesus does what he does in John chapter 2. You all know this: that John just records for us these miracles, these displays of Jesus' glory and the first one we know this out of John's gospel in John chapter 2 at the wedding of Cana. I don't want to make too many comments here, but listen to it. On the third day there was a wedding in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there, and both Jesus and his disciples were invited to the wedding. So Jesus and his disciples, they go to a wedding. In verse 3, when the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, They have no wine. And Jesus said to her, Woman, what does that have to do with us? My hour has not yet come. And at that point you almost seem like, well, he's not going to do anything, but you guys get it. His mother appeals to him, and he turns the water into wine. It's the good wine. We know that. But what I want to draw your attention to is down in verse 11. Listen to what it says there. This beginning of his signs, Jesus did in Cana of Galilee and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him. And the point here is why is that important? It's important because Jesus started demonstrating his glory and did his first miracle, not in the temple. Not at a funeral, not at a religious service, but he did it where, brothers and sisters? He did it at a wedding. I don't think that's an accident I think what Jesus is saying is that my blessing, God's blessing, is still on marriages. He redeems, as it were, and he has come to redeem all things. And so he's redeeming marriage by by showing his glory and demonstrating his power for the first time at a wedding. So don't think because we live on this side of Genesis chapter 3 that somehow or another the blessing that we see on the other side of Genesis chapter 3 is not ours to claim. It is ours to claim. Jesus shows that by blessing and flexing God's glory there at a wedding. Jesus tells us that God's blessing is still with those who are married R. C. Spro says this. He says, marriage is not a temporary arrangement of convenience. It is a divinely instituted covenant designed to mirror God 's image. He's right. It's about God 's image and God's glory. Brothers and sisters, this reality ought to drive our focus in marriage. Yours and my marriage is designed to be a beacon of glory to the watching world as we live out the covenant blessing of God. We get to put God's glory on display in the theater of our marriages Let's go back to Genesis chapter 2. And the scriptures teach us in addition To the marriage being for the glory of God in creation. So, secondly, I want us to also know that uh our marriage, the framework of it, is about the glory of Christ in redemption. The glory of Christ in redemption. Friends Do you realize that the the Bible begins and ends with a wedding? How many of you guys knew that? Just knew that. A few of you guys. It does Alright, so you open up our Bibles and we read in Genesis chapter 2 and we go and we see a wedding. But if you fast forward to the end in Genesis in Revelation chapter 19, who knows what happens in Genesis 19? The marriage supper of the Lamb. I don't think that that's an accident. I think what what what what the way you can look at the Bible and the storyline is that it is a grand love story. It's no accident that God chooses marriage to be the illustration, to be the pitcher of his redeeming love. His redeeming love that is set forth in Jesus Christ's coming for a bride. And I want to turn your attention for a brief moment to Ephesians chapter 5 to underscore this. Ephesians chapter five, as Paul gives us the longest teaching Here in Ephesians 5 on marriage, verses 22 down to verse 33. And I just want to point up in verse 31 these words. He borrows, that is, Paul borrows from Genesis chapter 2. He says, for this reason, a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. That's a direct quote out of Genesis chapter 2. And then he says this, this mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church. And I know you all understand this teaching. I know you all embrace it. But Paul is just simply saying this. All that I've been saying up to this point, in terms of wives submitting to your husbands and husbands loving your wives and sacrificing for them and serving for them. All of that, yes, it is about your marriage, but more fundamentally, more ultimately, it's about picturing and illustrating the love that Jesus Christ has for his bride, the church. So not only is it about the glory of God the Father, but it's also about the glory of Jesus the Son. Isn't that not amazing? That every day I get to wake up and I and I I'm a walking witness to the world in terms of my relationship with my own bride. I am communicating something to the world of how Jesus Christ loves his bride, the church. Husbands, do you understand what that means for you? Do you understand what that means in terms of how you treat your bride? That you are witnessing, even in some senses, louder than what you say It's what you do. It's how you live with her. It's how you're patient with her. How you wash her with the word. How you serve her. How you lay down your life and sacrifice for her. You are communicating. You are we can put it as well. You are evangelizing the world. Dear sisters, do you understand you are saying something every day about about the church and its relationship and responding to the love of Christ on how you joyfully and willingly and happily submit to the leadership of your husband? How you bring all of your gifts and all of your talents underneath his authority for the glory of God as his partner. How amazing is that? And that's the question. What are the marriages? What are the couples here at Baltimore Bible Church communicating to the watching world about the relationship of Christ and his church? How are you glorifying him in your marriage? And again, the point is really to press home that my little sensitivities, my little perceived slights. Are they really worth me damaging the testimony that I get to communicate to the world about Christ and his church? Am I to really spend days brooding because Sherry said something to me that I didn't like? And now I'm communicating to the world that Christ is a brooding savior. Am I really going to withhold my affection from her because she's not giving me what I'm like and now I'm out in the world and everybody's watching me and looking at my marriage? My children are are are gleaning insight from my marriage and I'm communicating to them that, yeah, when Jesus doesn't get his way, he just broods. Do you understand? This framework can alter your lives. It can change your marriages if we really embrace it. If the chief in the man is to glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. That's the chief end. If my chief end, my chief aim in all that I do, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the Glory of God. If I'm being driven by the glory of God, it's going to set in context all of my little tiny issues in relationship to that. And I'm not trying to minimize anybody's struggle here this morning Because they're real and they impact us. But in comparison to the glory of God, quite frankly, brothers and sisters, they're nothing. And so we gotta make sure, brothers and sisters, that we're rooting everything into the glory of God. So God then in beginning the scriptures and ending the scriptures with a marriage is communicating something to us that that that his redeeming program is a cosmic love story. And we get to picture that and practice that in our own marriages. And God the Father is securing a bride for his own son, and at the end of the ages, he is going to bring her to him, and they will in fact be married. And communicate to the universe for the ages to come that that love is an everlasting love. And that's the love that we get to participate in in our marriages every single day for the rest of our lives. So that's the framework. Let's go back again to Genesis chapter 2. That's the framework. We in our marriages get to glorify God in creation and glorify the Son in redemption. But then the question comes in, okay, we get that part. So I want to move then now secondly, this is the second reality of our covenant union marriage, it's the purpose Does God give us even more specifically the purposes for marriage? And this isn't so much about our kind of horizontal or vertical relationship with God. This is more about the horizontal enjoyment of marriage. What are the purposes that we can anchor ourselves in and get our minds around when it comes to our marriages? And that takes us into chapter two And in chapter 2, as I said before, we know this that we get the details of the sixth day of creation as it unfolds in the specifics as recorded for us here. And I want to suggest to you that what we have here really is the marriage itself in chapter 2. And I want to give you out of this four purposes. For marriage, for covenant union marriage, that we can embrace and certainly be encouraged by. So four purposes, if you're taking notes. Number one, I want to suggest to you a purpose in marriage is companionship. The purpose of marriage is companionship. Let your eyes drift down to verse 18 of chapter 2. We read these words. The Lord God said It is not good for the man to be alone. You all know this. This is the first negative statement in the Bible. Right? We know that everything prior to that was good, good, good, good, five goods, and then one very good. And then we have right here God Himself making the declaration that it is not good. to be alone. He doesn't say it's sinful to be alone. He says it's not good to be alone. And you got to think about this, brothers and sisters. I I I'm curious this way when I read my Bibles , why in the world would God create And then Adam not have Eve to show us that it's not good to be alone. Because he wants to teach us the purpose of marriage. Right? Because his aloneness, God is now going to satisfy his alone by making a woman to be his companion. And I'm not sure fully, brothers and sisters, and this could be a confession on my own, that I've always appreciated the companionship dynamic of what marriage is supposed to be. Maybe I'm not the only one in the room. I think what this is saying, brothers and sisters, is that your spouse should be your best friend I said like that corner back there agreed with me and everybody else is still trying to figure it out. Like your sisters are like, no, I got a I got a girlfriend over here, that's my best friend and and you guys are like, No, my boys are my best friend. I I'm not saying you can't have other friends, but I think what's being said here is that God is going to create uniquely a person To satisfy the aloneness of Adam in a way that no one else can do. It doesn't mean that single individuals can't have friends and they can't enjoy and glorify God in the in their singleness. I'm not saying that at all. But in the purpose of why God designed marriage marriage, he designed marriage for companions to come together. Right? And so you see the way that he settles it. You look there again. He says, therefore I will make for him He has got that. I will make for him a helper suitable for him. And we'll get to that in a moment. He's going to do something that's going to satisfy the alonement Of Adam. Adam needs a companion. And it's friendship, it's deep friendship that grounds your marriage in the soil of endurance and perseverance. Keep your finger here and turn with me just for a brief moment to Malachi. Turn to Malachi chapter 2 This idea of companionship where uh the the prophets are really condemning Israel for a whole host of sins, one of which is that they were wracked by divorce and I'll pick it up in verse 13 of Malachi chapter 2. This is another thing you do. You cover the altar, the prophet says, of the Lord with tears, with weeping and groaning. Because he no longer regards the offering or accept this with favor from your hand. Yet you say, For what reason This is the answer. Because Yahweh, because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously, though she is, and what does your Bible say, though she is your what? Companion and your wife by covenant. Cherubith Ishabarith This idea that she is your, literally it says she is your companion wife by covenant That 's why I get the idea of covenant union marriage. In other words, she is your wife, but she's your companion, and it's rooted in a covenant, is what he's saying When you joined yourself together, when you came together as husband and wife, you made a covenant before God, you made a covenant with each other to be each other's companion. And companion just simply means friend. Yes, there's a place for romantic love. There's all kinds of loves that the Bible talks about, but this is the love of friendship. This is the love of being known. This is the love of acceptance. This is the love of trust. This is the love of a certain kind of intimacy that has nothing to do necessarily with sex. This is the kind of love of being naked and not ashamed. Have you ever thought about that? That would when in back in Genesis chapter 2, when he says that they were naked and not ashamed, I don't think it has anything at all to do with sex. We put it there because our minds just go there and some of us more than other people go there, right? I think the idea here is that there was nothing hidden from each other. There was no reason for them to be at shame at all. Now, obviously, they have something to do with the fact that sin hadn't entered in, so there were no sinful thoughts and things like that. But here's the thing, you guys, that that's God's design and desire for you as a married couple. And maybe I can take it out of the realm of sex and say, you ought to be able to be with your spouse emotionally naked and not ashamed. You guys with me this morning? That there's nothing hidden whatsoever. That the person that should know you best is your spouse. And which one of us does not want to be known? Hey, the whole world scrambles to be known. That's what people are searching for, right? That's why people spend hours upon hours upon hours upon hours on their cell phones. Right? With these false connections, just wanting to be known, portraying something out there, and all they just simply want is for somebody to know them and accept them. for who they are. The world searches for it. We search for it and we find it when we come into covenant union marriage with our spouses. The question is, are we pressing into that reality? And you can ask yourself that while you're sitting here, do you really feel known by your spouse? And if not, why not? Are you able just to share just all of your heart, all of your thoughts, all of your mind, even the things that you wouldn't want anybody else to know? The context in which that is supposed to happen is in the framework of your marriage. I found just in spending time with brothers at my church, and maybe the brothers here at this church are totally different. That brothers struggle with being friends with their wives. And I don't think it has anything to do with their wives They're afraid that if they say the wrong thing their wife is going to just go but but bonkers. And I and I I tell them all the time, why do you think God gave you your wife? Right? The Bible says it was not good for you to be alone. Right, you guys understand that? Do you guys all know this? I don't mean to be funny, right? So God didn't make Steve, He made Eve God didn't make a buddy another guy for Adam so they can go out and play basketball all the time and share all their deep secrets with each other. Right? He made a woman for him. So to the extent they're brothers That you 're not pouring out your heart and your mind, your your hopes, your dreams, your failures, your fault, your weaknesses. And we all have them. I'm looking out there, I'm one of them, so I know you have them like I have them I tell people all the time, like I I just I'm one step away from everybody finding out that I don't know what I'm doing in life Right? I've been fooling people for 58 years. But I can share that with Sherry. Right? I don't have to be the perfect pastor, the perfect counselor. Y'all with me. I don't have to be the perfect employee or employer. I can come home and with this woman, I can just be me. And she can just be her. And that space of our covenant union marriage is holy and sacred. And God wants it to be that for you. Or you can take down the mask. Where you can just simply be vulnerable and weak and not have to have all of the answers and know that my woman gets me. My man 's got my back. You don't have to be the perfect mother. You don't have to have all the answers their sisters ought to raise these kids that God blessed you with. To keep it all together at home and in ministry with all of the expectations that you can just be you That's God's design for us. And some of us have not even begun to tap into the reality of what that companionship is like And it's not too late. Because it's part of the blessing of God that He wants you to have it and He wants you to enjoy it with each other. In the grand design of God, your marriage is meant to be held together by covenant and fueled by companionship, a deep, intimate friendship that you'll experience with no one else. It's interesting. I have the privilege of having several widows and widowers in our church. And when I seek to minister them and I ask them how they're doing and Inevitably they'll get to the place, having lost their spouse, they'll say, you know what, Pastor Kid, out of all the things, I miss companionship. That's what they say. They don't talk about necessarily missing sex and missing some of the other things that we invest so much time in and we get all bent out of shape over it. They just simply say, I miss companionship. And they have all kinds of friends. They have kids and grandkids. But what they're saying is that there was something unique about their spouse that they now cannot have with anybody else. And that's what God designs and desires for us to have is that rich, deep companionship. Number two, not only companionship is the purpose of God, but also partnership. And you can see that these are all kind of intertwined and related to one another. Partnership Partnership. Adam, we're back in Genesis chapter 2. Adam, as you know, was placed in the garden. And he was given responsibility. You guys see this back in verse 15. Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and to keep it, to provide for it and to protect it, to nurture it. So God gave him a divine mission. We know that from chapter one, where obviously they are to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth, but this is the beginning of it being worked out. in real time. And the issue here, brothers and sisters, is that Adam could not do this alone. So like if I had said that in my church, all of the sisters would have said, Amen. And they would have nudged their husbands like that. You gotta think about it, right? Satan got God created Adam in relative perfection There's no flaws in Adam, right? Sin hasn't entered yet. He's a perfect reflection of God's glory. And yet, there's something that God called him to do that he cannot do by himself. Right? That's the reason you guys, as a matter of fact, as you read the rest of the text that it before he gets to creating the woman that is suitable for him, he brings all of the animals. You guys ever wonder why that is, why that's there? He brings all of the animals for Adam to name. Why is that? Because none of the at none of the animals, uh animals, as helpful as they are, right? The giraffe is cool, right? The monkey's great, the horse is wonderful, all is wonderful. But for what God has called me to do. None of them will do. You with me? None of them can be the right kind of partner that I need to fulfill the mission that God has given me to fulfill. They're great, they're wonderful, they're useful, but they cannot be my partner. God Himself has to design a partner for Adam in order for Adam to fulfill his God-given purposes. I was waiting for it. One of the daughters of Eve said, Amen. So, what God does is He creates a woman to complement the man in every way so that together they can accomplish the purposes of God. And the beauty and goodness of marriage is that God puts two people together who are equal in essence but different in makeup. Let me say that again. Right? God puts two people together who are equal in essence, but different in makeup. They are essentially the same, but functionally different. They are both image bearers of God. One is no more, one is no less. But they function differently. They function complementarily They have complementary gifts that are both necessary to fulfill the purposes of God. These differences are meant to complement, not compete. So often in marriages, the differences between husband and wife are seen as obstacles to intimacy and happiness rather than avenues to intimacy and happiness. And some of the biggest problems, relational problems that we have in marriage is because the other person is just different than we are. So I often find myself saying, if she were just more like Come on, y'all. Me. We would be fine. If she sought like me, if she shopped like me, we would save a whole lot more time Right? If she just did things the way that I do things, it would be great. If she just problem solved like our problem, it was just like why does she have to be so different? And it's as if God said, Well, you didn't marry yourself. What sense would that make? What sense would it make for God to make someone just like Adam? Clearly, Adam needs somebody different from him because he's got to fulfill the purposes for which God created him. And so he makes a woman suitable for him. And you guys know this. I'm sure you guys have been well taught here. The whole idea Of uh verse uh 18, then God, the Lord God said, It is not good for man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him, one that is like him but corresponds to him, is the idea. And so it's a good thing that your husband is different than you. Dear sister. Stop trying to change him and make him more like you. And let all the brothers say amen. I got your back, brothers. I got your back. God has designed each spouse to bring into marriage unique strengths. unique perspectives, unique talents, unique gifts, unique understanding for the marriage. Your spouse is not supposed to be like you Your spouse is different because your spouse is to be your partner. Look at your spouse right now and say, I love you partner. I give you guys about a seventy-five percent on that. But in all seriousness. If we really get this, or this gets us, it will settle a lot of conflict in marriages. Because a lot of our conflicts are simply about my spouse is different than I am. And rather than appreciating that and valuing that and quite frankly utilizing that, right? Utilizing that. One of the Saving graces to our marriage is over the years, and I'm still learning, brothers, is to realize that my wife's differences are for my good. Right? They're they're not a curse to me. And for for years, she will confess this, that I just I just uh took it upon myself to be my mission in life is to change her to be more like me. And it was sinful. And it was not a wonderful testimony to our children, to our church, or to the watching world. Of watching me squelch her unique giftedness that God blessed her with to be a blessing to me. In many respects, brothers, I was working against my own household. Trying to change her to be more like me. And I suspect that in a room this size, maybe some of you brothers struggle with the same thing And maybe some of you sisters struggle with the same thing. Not valuing that God made your husband the way that he is because he has a mission for your husband. And your role is not to change him. But your role is to joyfully and willingly bring all of your gifts underneath his leadership so that together you guys might fulfill the purposes for which he brought you together. And let your husband lead in the way with all of his idios secrecies. Lead in such a way that he's glorifying God. So partnership. So we have companionship, we have partnership. There are two more, and then we'll be done. Number three is enjoyment. And let men and women, husband and wife, say, Because this enjoyment God means for us to be happy, yes. Holy, yes, but also happy enjoyment. Enjoyment. We get this. It's going back to Genesis chapter 2. And you all know this that once God creates the woman, is it interesting how he does it, right? He puts the man asleep. Right? And and when God causes people to go to sleep and does things, it's really kind of covenant language. Guys remember that with Jacob or is that Abraham? I think it's Jacob. and uh puts them to sleep in the in the in the smoking ovens. And so when God puts people to sleep, it's interesting what happens. It's a covenant kind of framework there. He does that to the man. He takes a rib from the man and he builds a woman. And let all the brothers say, hallelujah. Yes. Right? We all adults here, right? Yes, my wife is built by God. Hallelujah. Amen. And so is yours. You guys gotta understand, right? This is the only place where God built something. He built a woman Praise the Lord. And he didn't build every woman the same way. Praise the Lord. He built your woman the way that he designed for her to be built for your enjoyment. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. I was waiting for that one, y'all. And we can even think about the implications for that, right? Men spend so much time trying to get their wife to be built like somebody else's Okay, that's all the melon I'm gonna do for now. Right? Your woman is built by God. Literally, that's what the text says. Your versions may say fashioned But literally it's built. Here's the thing. This is a good. He built the woman and he brought the woman. Now preach, brother. He built Eve and he brought Eve. The question is, what was Adam's response when he woke up? And you guys know this, right? I'm not telling you guys anything you know, right? So this so the words here in verse 23 are the first recorded human words in Holy Scripture. The first words that we ever hear a human say, and it's poetry. That's why it's set off in the like like this in your Bibles. Most of your Bibles should have to set off right there. Because literally in the Hebrew text it's poetry. And literally he says, wow Yes, Amen. Right He goes to sleep, you guys. He he doesn't he he spends the whole afternoon looking at animals. And God says it's time to take a nap. I don't know, guys, I'm not trying to be, but he takes a nap and he wakes up and there she is And he burst out in poetry. And you guys could do the rest of her homework tonight, right? He sees someone for the first time. He sees her for the first time. She's like him, but she's different than she than he is. And he says, wow. This is now. And I don't think now is a temporal thing. This is now, now, like, yes, finally Bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman Because she was taken out of man. So she shall be called Isha because she was taken out of Ish. She's a part of me, but she's different from me, and now God has brought her to me for enjoyment. Praise the Lord. We're meant to enjoy one another, and that's by God's design And all the fullness of our oneness, whether that be emotional oneness, relational oneness, spiritual oneness, physical oneness, sexual oneness, and all of the things that What it means in terms of covenant union, we are to enjoy. We are to pursue pleasure in one another. And that's a good gift from God Your wife is a prize as your partner, not a piece of property as your possession. And vice versa, to you wise for your husband. Listen to this quote from Matthew Henry. I think it's Matthew Henry, maybe someone else. He captures this reality beautifully. He says this. The woman is not made out of a man's head to rule over him, nor out of his feet to be trampled upon by him. but out of his side to be equal with him, from under his arm to be protected by him, and from near his heart to be loved and enjoyed by him Praise the Lord. And that's it. Companionship, partnership, and then lastly, and with this we'll be done. Enjoyment and then commitment. Commitment. It's all moving in this direction. You guys see it in verse 24. Which is a commentary from I think Moses as he's receiving a revelation from God. God the Father brings his daughter to the Son and they become married. And then we have this commentary in verse 24. For this reason A man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. One flesh. That something happens here that God does. He takes, it's interesting, right? Because they're one, and then he makes two out of the one, and then he brings them back together and makes them One, that's commitment. That we know that when we come together, we are making a lifelong commitment. I have the joys, one of the joys and George knows this one of the joys that we have as pastors is when we marry people. We have a vantage point like nobody else has, right? You guys are all looking from there and we're looking here. We see their goofy faces smiling and giggling and nervous and you tell the man is about to faint and the whole kind of thing. So just k keep standing, keep standing, right? We have the whole kind of thing. And and one of the things that I do is I tell the The witnesses, the audience, that what you're witnessing here is a very miracle of God. And I tell them, you can't see it with a natural eye, but a miracle is actually happening right now. That God literally is taking two people and making them one. Jesus said that, did he not? Right in Matthew chapter 19? He says that what God has Join together. Let no man put asunder. And he's not just talking about some legal contract that the world goes, okay, that's marriage. No, no, no. He's talking about Covenant union marriage. Covenant union marriage is a commitment where two people come together and God literally does and performs a miracle. He makes them one. God brought you guys together. Let's say it again. God brought you guys together. God brought you together. God brought you together. God did that. And whatever the circumstances may have been that led you guys together, God works through human means and all of that. But at the end of the day, when you stood before the judge or the wherever it was, when you said, I do God did that, and He made you one for His own glory And what God has joined together. Let no man put asunder. And we must say before God to our dying days, Lord, we will not separate what you have joined together. But by your grace, by your redeeming and sanctifying grace We will aim at and we will work at and we will nurture and we will repent and we will ask for forgiveness and we'll get all the help that we can get so that In this one flesh covenant union, you above all else will be glorified. That's what he asked of us. And all brothers and sisters, you may not see it now, but it will be all worth it, will it not? Think about it, we're getting older. I'm getting older, she's getting more beautiful. And I I I don't know, we got 30 years, you guys, and I don't know How many more years God will give to us? My parents, by God's grace, will celebrate if they stay alive, they're 85, they will celebrate 64 years in June It's funny, they starting to look like each other. It's funny. I can't tell them apart when I go through the house. Mom, Dad? But if God gives us grace, and maybe we're waiting for s sixty five years I just want to be able to look across the table and say, we made it. Babe. We made it It wasn't always easy. It was hard. I know I hurt you and you hurt me, but by the grace of God, babe. We made it. Dear brother, dear sister, whatever it is that you're going through right now I'm telling you, you can make it. If we root and ground our marriages by the grace of God. On what we see here in Genesis chapter 1 and Genesis chapter 2. We can make it. Amen? Let's pray together Father, we We come as hungry and thirsty children, thirsty for the waters of life Hungry for the finest of wheat that you grant to your people through the Word. We open our hearts and our minds to you this morning and throughout the remainder of this day. To just teach us what we don't know. To make us what we are not. And to cause us, Lord God, to recommit ourselves to having marriages that honor and glorify you. And we need your help for that. We need Christ for that. We need your spirit for that. So would you please bless us And help us. In Jesus' name. Let all God's people say together. Amen. Amen. God bless you. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media. CDs and digital files