The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's pray, Father. We need you, Lord. We know that your presence is with us, and so we're grateful and you've been speaking to our hearts and challenging us and stretching us. Encouraging us, we trust, Lord, by your grace, as we've opened up your word together. So we just pray for your help again for this session, Lord. Give us ears to hear what the Spirit has to say to us as the church, Lord. We desire, Lord God, to live lives that honor you and glorify you, Lord. And we need your grace for that. So help us Here's our prayer. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I'm going to invite everybody to take a Bible and open up to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. 1 Corinthians chapter 13 And as you're turning there, let me just read a statement. I could not find the author of this statement, but it's a wonderful quote, and I think this would resonate with us maybe more so with some of us than others. Someone has said, and I quote, the beginning of love is the will to let those who love those who we love be perfectly themselves The resolution not to twist them to fit our own image. If in loving them we do not love what they are, but only their potential likeness to ourselves then we do not love them. We only love the reflection of ourselves we find in them I find that to be a profoundly important statement and that I have already mentioned, but I want to mention it again that Most of the times, oftentimes in a marriage, what causes us struggles are the differences between us That is to say that one spouse or both spouses wishes and wants and even moves in the direction of making the other person more like himself or more like herself. And that's not the love that God intends for us to have for one another. That is not the kind of love that is going to nurture the kind of marriage that we have been talking about this weekend. God intends for us to have a greater uh love for one another, the kind of love that he himself has, the kind of love that we've all experienced from him in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. self-giving, self-sacrificing kind of love. The love that moves out from ourselves on the behalf of someone else. And so I thought it would be good for us to spend time here in this wonderful portion of God's Word as we think together of the kind of love that God has for us and the kind of love that is necessary if we're going to in fact nurture covenant union relationships. And so what I want to do, I'm going to read the passage in a second But I want to set it in our minds under three headings, and I think they're in your notes. If they're not, you can write them down. I want us to see the position of love. I want us to see the importance of love, and then the actions of love. Okay, the position, the importance, and the actions. And let me read God's word in our hearing so we can have it in front of us. First Corinthians chapter 13. Verse 1. Paul writes, If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, and if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind and is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant. Love does not act unbecomingly, it does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered, does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things Love never fails. This text, brothers and sisters, is essential. It's an essential chapter. Not only in the book of Corinthians, but in the essential chapter to the entirety of the Bible, because it puts feet and hands on what love is supposed to to look like. Now obviously in the context, Paul isn't officially addressing marriage per se. He's addressing the relationships of brothers and sisters in Christ, but what's said here can clearly be applicable to any human relationship, not the least of which is marriage. Because marriage is founded on and rooted in the very love of God and the kind of love that the Bible says in uh Romans chapter 5, that very love has been poured out in our own hearts And since it's been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit that was given to us, we then can in turn love one another this way. And you hear sometimes people say, well this what we're seeing here is a picture of Christ and it is certainly that. And you hear others say, well this kind of love that is being called for by the Apostle Paul is impossible. And that's right, it's impossible in the natural But supernaturally it's possible for all of us because again, the very love that is being described here has in fact been shed abroad in your hearts. If you are sitting here And you are born again believer. You have received the Spirit of God, which is to say you are a Christian, a biblical Christian You have the very love of God shed abroad in your heart. And God pours out that love in your heart, not just so that you can love him. That is true. We love him because he first loved us, but also so that we can love one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. We can even love our neighbors as ourselves. And specifically and especially, we can love our spouses. And let the church say Amen. This kind of love is possible for us, and it is essential for a holy, healthy, and happy marriage. And so we'll walk our way through these uh headings. And so first of all, let me just take up uh the topic of the position of love. And we get that from the context in which Paul sets this chapter in. You all know that. We'll take a step back and think through just the Corinthians, the problems with the Corinthians, right? The Corinthians were the most gifted congregation that the Apostle Paul ever founded. He says that as much. As a matter of fact, let me just remind you of that. Turn to chapter 1, where Paul begins the letter. And as he thanks God for them In verse 5, or go back to verse 4, he says, I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given you in Christ is 1 Corinthians 1 4, that in everything You were enriched in him in all speech, in all knowledge, even as the testimony concerning Christ was confirmed in you. Look at verse 7, so that you are not lacking in any gift. What a statement. He's just saying as a congregation, you guys are not lacking in any gift. They were the most gifted congregation that the Apostle Paul had ever founded. They were eagerly awaiting the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ, as Paul says there Who would also confirm you to the end blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. But it's not too far into chapter one. We won't look there that Paul says, But I have heard that there are difficulties in the congregations. In other words, individuals were not getting along together, which is to say that spiritual giftedness is not enough. It is good, it is a blessing of God, but we can't rest on spiritual giftedness as if that's all that God has for us, as if that is going to be what maintains and sustains relationships not the least of which a marriage relationship. They were divided because they were thinking worldly. They had compartmentalized themselves. You guys understand this right? They were saying, I am of Paul, I am of Cephas. I am of Apollos, right? They were thinking about human relationships from a worldly perspective rather than thinking about human relationships from a godly perspective. They were not exercising love. And so Paul addresses that, but he saves the love chapter until chapter 13 and is right in the middle of his conversation about spiritual gifts. The reason that he does that is because he wants to let them know that while giftedness is fine, the greater thing is love. And nothing could be more essential to understanding in a marriage than that. No matter what you bring to the table and every husband and every wife brings multiple things to the table. The greatest thing that you can bring to the table to sustain and nurture and build a healthy, happy, holy marriage is love. Now I know that we know that, right? You guys stood together. Where was the couple? I think we have an engaged couple. Where's the engaged couple? They're not even married yet. They had they had to leave. Okay. So let me go with the next best. Who was the best? That's a couple that just married, what, three months? Too much, right? And they're still smiling, you guys, and I'm sure when right they still walking on clouds and I'm sure when they stood there, they just talked about love, love, love and and with all due respect their love hasn't been tested yet. It's not battle tested. And she's saying, Oh yes, it has been, right? So nobody notionally pushes back Against the idea that love is essential, right, to marriage. We all embrace that, we all said it in our vows, but when it seems like the proverbial rug is pulled out from underneath our feet That's when our love is really challenged, right? That's when we really start thinking about whether or not I want to serve this guy, whether or not I want to sacrifice for this woman Whether or not I want to give up my rights and my hopes and my dreams, whatever they might be from a selfish standpoint, to die to self over and over and again and again and love this woman and love that man. So we all say it But living it out is a whole different thing. And what we find in this chapter is love, and you've probably heard this, it's called the love in action chapter. It takes love out of the realm of ethereal notions and it puts feet and arms and legs to it and it shows How it's supposed to be lived out in everyday life, not the least of which obviously is our marriage. So the position then that Paul places is here in the context that I want to give you three ways that he does it First of all, in positioning love here, Paul tells us that love is the more excellent way. Another way to think about it is this: that love is greater than all gifts. Love is greater than all gifts. Paul begins the conversation about the gifts in chapter 12. We won't rehearse that. And by the end Of chapter 12, as he enters into chapter 13, you'll see it there in verse 30, he says, All do not have the gifts of healing, do they? All do not speak with tongues, do they? All do not interpret, do they? And then he says this in verse 31, but earnestly desire the greater gifts, and I will show you a more excellent way. He's not taking away anything from gifts, but he's saying that there is a more excellent way than just simply being gifted. And the more excellent way is chapter 13, which is the way of love. In other words, marriages can't simply depend upon giftedness. Whether they be practical giftedness, emotional giftedness. spiritual giftedness and all has its place. One spouse can be an incredible provider, the other an incredible nurturer, the other one strong leadership, another one having common presence. But those gifts, in as much as they can enrich a marriage They cannot sustain a marriage. Because our gifts ebb and flow. They go up and they go down. They're strong at times and they're weak at times But love is to be the sustaining, never-changing substance that we root our marriage in. It is, in fact, the more excellent way. It's the way that Paul will describe that it will always be patient and always be kind and always be selfless. It's the lifeblood of a healthy, enduring marriage And we must, brothers and sisters, then choose love because again, it is the more excellent way. It's a kind of love that Paul will say we'll get there in a moment that covers all things, that believes all things. that perseveres through all things. It is more excellent than all of the gifts. But secondly, in the position of love, I want you to see That it is greater than all virtues. Now not only is it the more excellent way, but it is the greater of all virtues. Let your eyes drop down to verse 13 of chapter 13. And Paul says this, an extraordinary statement. Verse 13. But now faith Hope and love. Abide these three, but the greatest of these you say it is love. Now all of these which are called the triad of virtues. Right? The greatest virtues that they are. Faith, hope, and love. All are essential. All are essential to our Christian life. All are essential to every single relationship. Right? What would a relationship be without hope? Right? The people who are hopeless are hopeless. Right? You have to have faith, you have to believe and trust in God and in his word and in his promises. Right? But Paul says you can take love or you can take hope and you can take faith, and there is one that is greater than those, and it is in fact And I think he says that because both faith and love express themselves out of the context of love. The faith and hope have movement. They move out in terms of how we love one another. When you have hope, how do you express your hope? Well you love. If you have faith, Paul says that even in Galatians chapter 5, faith working through love. Love is the avenue. Love is the vehicle through which those virtues work. And here's the other thing that I'm sure you guys have thought about and know. That the day will come, brothers and sisters, when we won't need any faith and we won't need any hope. So you have to understand that. Like when when when we get to heaven, when Christ comes back, we won't need any more faith. Our faith will be Sight. We won't need any hope because there won't be anything future. All of that will be in the present. So faith and hope are for now, but love endures. Forever. We will always love one another. We will always love God. We will always love one another. It is the greater of the virtues. So if that's the case then, it certainly is the case now. And very oftentimes we work on our hope. We try to encourage our hope, and we are called to strengthen our faith And those are fine, they have their place. But love, love is so important. So love is the more excellent way. Love is the greater of all virtues. And then fourthly, love is the greater of all pursuits. Love is the greater of all pursuits. And we're still just setting this in this context. If you look at verse 1 of chapter 14. Look what Paul says here. He gives it teaching about love in chapter 13, and then as he transitions to continue to talk about gifts, specifically the gift of tongues. He says this, pursue love, yet desire earnestly spiritual gifts. So again, he doesn't want them to think that there's anything wrong with spiritual gifts, but he says as you're pursuing and earnestly desiring spiritual gifts, pursue love. Now, obviously, in the context, he isn't saying pursue something that you don't already have. That wouldn't make any sense. He's talking to believers. He knows that they already have love. But when he says pursue love, Keep pursuing love. Love is not something that is stagnant, do you understand? And what happens in marriages is that we begin to allow our love to become stagnant. Anybody know what happens with stagnant water? Right? It's not a good thing. All kind of stuff had bugs, mold, all kind of stuff, right That happens sometimes in our love, in our marriages, because we stop pursuing love. And I'm not saying we stop pursuing one another. We stop pursuing love. And as we pursue love, we then in turn pursue one another. There is no such thing, even though I said it in the first said session, of putting your marriage on cruise control. It's not who 's control. Here's the thing, brothers and sisters and friends. Your marriage is either moving forward. Are moving backwards. But it's not staying still. It's no neutral. Right? So if you shut it down in terms of pressing into love and what the word of God says in love, your marriage will start moving backwards So you gotta always pursue it. It is the greatest pursuit that you can actually have. Pursue career advancement. Pursue Parenting excellent, pursue financial security, pursue ministry, but above all of those things, pursue love in your marriage All kinds of love are important, romantic love and friendship love we talked about before, but this kind of love here that has teeth to it It's sacrificial, it's intentional, it's Christ-like in his servant, and in his service and meeting out is essential to a strong marriage. So that's the place of marriage. That's the position or of love. The position of love. Secondly, I want us to note The importance of love. Now we get into the text itself. So if your Bibles are still open, look with me in verses 1 through 3. The importance of love And I have three statements I want to make here. They're in your notes that Paul speaks of about not having love before he goes positively to what love looks like. The first one is just simply this, in the importance of love. Words without love are just noise. Words without love are just noise. Look at verse one Paul writes, if I speak with the tongues of men and of angels But do not have love. I have become a noisy gung or a clangy cymbal Paul is saying because they made so much with tongues, right? And they did have a theology that there were tongues of angels. This doesn't say that Paul is saying that there were tongues of angels. He could just be saying, if in fact there were tongues of angels And I spoke with them in various tongues of men, but yet still do not have love. Whatever it is that I say is nothing. It's a clanging cymbal. It's a noisy gong. And maybe those of us that are not very musically inclined that doesn't mean anything to us, but maybe you can think about this way. I know this used to drive me crazy. Back in the day, I'm that old when they used to have actual chalkboards. in school. They don't have those now. They have whiteboards. Right? And when your teacher got frustrated with the class, anybody knows what she used to do? Take her fingernails and she just said it like it just you those of us that are that old remember what that sound was right it graded on your soul right Paul is saying that you can have all of the flowery words in the world. You can be whispering sweet nothings to your husband all the time. But if you do not have love, that's what it comes across as. Have you ever thought about that? It isn't so much what you say, but it's the motive of the heart from which what you say comes from. You see Some of us are really crafty with our words. But the question is, are we filled with love? Now that's not to suggest that we shouldn't whisper sweet nothings in each other's ear. I'm still waiting for it. Amen But it's got to come from love. It can't be me whispering sweet nothings in my wife's ear because I want something from her See, because that's not biblical love. Biblical love is not self-oriented, it 's other-oriented. So words without love are just noise. We can say things and do different things. How many times can I really say that I'm sorry to my wife for hurting her, yet only to turn around the next day and do what? Hurt her again. If we don't have loves, our words won't serve our spouses in edification. They will only lead to exasperation in our spouses' hearts Number two, not only are words without love just noise, but gifts without love mean nothing. Gifts without love mean nothing. And I don't mean gifts that we give to people. I mean giftedness. Look at verse 2. Paul says, if I have the gift of prophecy. And know all mysteries and all knowledge. And if I have all faith so as to remove mountains Now that's a gifted individual, is it not? Knows all mysteries, knows all prophecies, have all faith to move mountains, Paul, and I think he's Speaking in exaggerated terms, but you guys get the drift of what he's saying. But do not have love. Literally, I am nothing. Are you guys getting the feel of what he's saying? Just how important love is How focused we ought to be on loving one another with the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. We can certainly show appreciation for one another and our gifts and our talents. We should certainly wish for that for one another. Gifts are fine, but it is the self-giving love that really matters. That's what makes you something. Is that you love with the love of the Lord Jesus Christ? Number three, sacrifices without love are needless. Sacrifices without love are needless. Look at verse three. And if I give all my possessions To feed the poor, and I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love. It profits me nothing. Are you feeling the weight of this? I am. We stake so much into the things that are said here in verses 1, 2, and 3. sacrifices for whatever reason other than the glory of God and the good of our spouses, gifts That can be useful, but useful for our own gain and words for self-interest, all of it, brothers and sisters, are for not if they don't come from a heart of love. And so Paul sets it in its proper context, in its proper position, in its proper place, and then he shows his proper importance. It means everything. And then he moves to showing us what it's like. So what I want to do here as we work our way through verses 4 down to verse 8, I want to show you what love does. You put it under the category of the do's of love, and then show you what it doesn't do. The do's of love and the don'ts of love. I want to try to be as practical and transparent as I can be here, brothers and sisters. You have to fill in where you're struggling in these areas, and hopefully you will try to do that. So let's work through the dues of love. First of all Paul says, love is patient. And if you guys don't get this or don't know this, love is action. It's movement, right? And so first of all, he said love is patience. Love suffers long. Love is patient in the face of injury or provocation and it perseveres with the guilty party. Love surrenders its right to retaliate. Love doesn't seek to get back at the person. Has anybody ever been trapped there? And your marriage just becomes this vicious cycle of she does this. And then I do this to get back at her for doing this, and then he does this to get back, and you just go and go and go. And at some point, somebody has to step off of that fairish wheel of torture. And exercise patience. And the way that I like to think about it, brothers and sisters, is this that I challenge myself to be as patient with my wife as God is with me. And let me tell you, I can never outdo God in his patience towards me. And if God, by his grace, is patient toward me, who am I not to be patient with my wife? And it's a challenge, let me tell you, not because she just is challenges my patient, but it's a challenge because I'm just so filled with pride. It's a challenge because I want things my way when I want them all the time. And love is the answer, the kind of love that God shows, the hesit loving kindness patient love that God perseveres and endures with with all of us. And God's calling on your life is to do the same thing with each other. How many of you have ever said, honey, if you do that one more time? The lady in the red glasses shakes her hand. She gets the prize because she was honest. We say it. If you do this one more time, I am right? Savale threat In other words, I'm out of patience. I am not going to take this anymore. And, brothers and sisters, I'm not talking about extreme things of abuse. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about the daily grind of being married. And Paul says Love surrenders its right to retaliate. It endures ill treatment. It doesn't say I'm not going to put up with you anymore. It suffers long. Secondly, love is kind. Do you see it there? Love is patient. Love is kind. Love is actively interested in and pursuing the well-being of the person loved. It moves out to do whatever it can to benefit the object that is loved. Love is kind, which means that it doesn't speak harshly Love is kind, which means it doesn't give out angry outbursts. Love is kind, which means it doesn't withhold intimacy. Love is kind, which means it isn't constantly criticizing Love is kind, which means there's no emotional manipulation, there's no dismissiveness. Love is kind. And kindness, brothers and sisters, is not something that anybody else deserves. We can, can't we have the tendency to be kind to our spouse when we think he or she deserves it When was the last time you were kind to your spouse when they were really mean to you? God is that way, is he not? Right? When did God send Christ into the world to die for our sins? Right? While we were yet sinners, while we were his enemies, right? Romans chapter 5. We were all of those things. And yet, Christ died for us. He didn't wait for us to be worthy of his kindness. While we didn't deserve it, he showered us with kindness. So it can't be a matter, dear brother or sister, of you waiting for your spouse to be worthy of your kindness, to give out your kindness because you have received the kindness of the Lord. Number three, love rejoices in the truth. Love rejoices in the truth. The sense here is that love aligns itself with the truth. Love doesn't create and or believe false narratives. This is something I want you guys to think about. Like we we can think ill of our spouse and we can create a whole narrative about him or her and begin to live according to that narrative when in fact that narrative is not true. I'll share with you how that happens. Part of my struggle was me thinking That my wife didn't love me because she didn't show affection for me in a certain way that I desired for her to show affection for me. And I raised that to her and she says, honey, nothing could be further from the truth. I love you Time goes past, I go back to the table and say the exact same thing. She reassures me before God and witnesses that I love you. And the reason it was so hard for me to hear is because I had made up a narrative that suited the way that I felt that justified and vindicated me for treating her a certain way because she wasn't treating me a certain way. Are you guys following me? We all can fall prey to that. We just create our own storyline And you hear it coming out when you talk to your girlfriends or when you talk to your buddies. My wife is this, this, this, this, this, and this. And as a pastor, I come and I sit at the table and I begin to listen to the wife and I look at the man like, she's nothing like you've been telling me We have to anchor our love in what is true. True about ourselves and true about our spouses That's what Paul is saying. We rejoice in what is true, and when we don't, it can just cause our marriages to be dysfunctional. Love is kind. Love is patient. Love rejoices in the truth. And we're dropping down obviously to verse 7. That was the end of verse 6, verse 7. Love bears all things. This is an amazing statement. The root word for here and bears all things means to cover up. It means to to cover over. It's the idea that when you love someone you're you're willing to put a cover over their faults, weaknesses, and idios secrecies. We even told in the scriptures that love covers a multitude of Sins. That means that you don't excuse sins. You have to deal with sins. But you're not always offended by sins. Some of us, quite frankly, brothers and sisters, if I can say this kindly, we are way too thin-skinned In my neighborhood we say skin did. Add that E D for emphasis sake. But what love does, it bears all things, right? How often do you receive forgiveness from Christ? How often do you find yourself on your knees begging Christ, Lord, forgive me? Here I am for the thousandth time And what does he do, dear saints? He doesn't say, you know what, I've been adding this up, and this is 999. That's it. No, he doesn't, does he? He just showers us with grace upon grace upon grace upon grace. He doesn't get irritated and agitated. George is coming to me again. You know, Gabriel, here he is again. No. He purchased the grace for all of your sins. And dare I say, he purchased the grace for you to cover all the sins of your spouse. It bears all things. Can I just tell you? Can I just be real with you? Some of your marital problems will go away tomorrow. If you would just let the grudge go. If you just beg God, God, give me the grace to just forget about it, to never bring it up again. I'll leave you to deal with her. I want to set her free and set myself free. Free from the offense. I'm gonna allow love to bear all things. And if you cry out to the Lord that way, He'll hear you. He will set you free. And, brothers and sisters, I know how difficult it can be. But this kind of love, which is shed abroad in your hearts, is available to you. And I'm just thinking, can I just, can I appeal to you By the tender mercies of Christ, friend, let it go. Just let it go Just your need to be vindicated. Let God do that That he will. You can cover your spouse's idioscrecies and weaknesses And faults and tendencies and bad habits that impact you negatively with the love of Jesus Christ. Just like he did with you. Love bears all things. Number five. Love believes all things. Love believes all things. The idea here is that love prevents us from becoming cynical. It guards our hearts, it guards our faith, and it guards our marriages. It isn't this idea that love is gullible. We know that love is not meant to be gullible. But love believes. Love takes a person at his or her word. Love thinks the best of a spouse. And when your spouse says what they say, it you believe him or you believe her. You give your spouse the benefit of the doubt. The moment that you stop trusting and believing each other is the moment that we give the devil a foothold in our marriage. Love believes all things. Number six in the dues is love hopes all things. Love anticipates the best. Are you anticipating the best in your marriage out of your spouse? Certainly obviously the best from God in your marriage. The covenant union marriage is a marriage where each spouse refuses to take failure as the final word. Love endures all things. This isn't so much as putting up with a difficult person as it is putting up with difficult circumstances If I were to survey the room and say how many of you guys are living through difficult circumstances, probably 50%, if not 75%, if not 80% of you say we are And we do, brothers and sisters, don't we? Have to adjust our expectations of what life is going to be like? Amen. This is not our best life now. Throw the book away. Our best life awaits us. Now there's a part of the life to come that is invaded. This is an already but not yet. We understand that, right? But we are not going to somehow get out of difficult circumstances this side of glory. So you might as well just buckle up and enjoy the ride together. And I don't mean to minimize anybody's difficult circumstances. Sicknesses, wayward children, financial difficulties, all of those kinds of things. But when we love each other, we endure it together. Praise the Lord. I am so thankful that I don't have to go through what I'm going through by myself. But I have a right partner to link arms with, and we go through it together. That's what love does. Love helps you hold on and on and on. Love never gives up. And then number eight. Love never fails. Love never fails. That's verse eight. You see it there. Love never fails. Love never stops. It never gives up. It never throws in the towel. It keeps going and going and going. And sometimes, quite frankly, you will be so mad you won't like Your spouse, but it's your commitment to love of God that you will love him and you will love her and keep going And you just ask God for grace. Lord, give me grace to make it one more day. How many of you guys have actually been there You're not even thinking about the 50th anniversary. You're thinking, Lord, help me to love her tomorrow Or maybe switch that around. Help me to love him tomorrow. Maybe let me love him through dinner. And then you wake up the next day and you pray the prayer all over again, and then all over again, and then all over again, and then all over again, and before you know it is 49 years Praise the Lord. Because love never fails. That's God's promise. What would our marriage be like if we did these dues of love, having the sweet aroma of patience and kindness rooted in truth, always thinking the best of each other, being committed to the long haul and filled with hope and tolerance Now quickly, I want us to see the don'ts of love. The don'ts of love. So we go back up to verse 4: the don'ts of love. First of all, love isn't jealous. Love isn't jealous. Love doesn't envy the well-being or the success of another. Love, your spouse, loving your spouse prevents you from feeling bad or sad or angry when your spouse has a spotlight and you don't. Like it's in my household. Maybe your kids like your spouse more than they like you. And it's true. My kids adore their mother. They tolerate me. And every now and again, I'm like, how come they don't call me no more? Right? They all out of the house. They call it like five times a week. I might get a Father's Day card. But love isn't Jealous. They love me, you guys. I'm just currently joking, but not as much as this woman. And I'm happy about that I want them to praise their mother in the gates. Because she is a Proverbs 31 woman. And these kinds of things, quite frankly, can enter in, can they not? Right? Your husband is being elevated at church. And you haven't even made it in the main sanctuary because you're changing diapers in the bathroom. Right? You haven't even been able to go into ministry, and your husband is up there singing and leading the whole kind of thing. And if you're not careful Jealousy can sneak in. Your husband's out there knocking it out the park in the world, getting all the accolades, and you're stuck at home with these kids Right? I'm pregnant with another kid, right? How come he keeps getting me pregnant with another kid? Right? And he's gotten fifteen promotions in the last five years and you're just like, hey, I got a degree just like he has. You guys understand what I'm saying. Right? Love can enter into that unbeknownst to ourselves and wonder why the tension is there. But true, true, genuine love. Doesn't act jealously. Number two, love doesn't boast. Love isn't always bringing attention to self. Right? Love isn't always pointing and bringing everything back to yourself. Not always talking about self It just doesn't boast, it doesn't brag, it's humble. The men talked about that in our session. It's humble, it's always seeking to exalt the other individuals around them, namely your wife or namely your husband. The spotlight is pointing to the other person and away from you. That's what love is. It does not brag, it does not boast. Love isn't proud, number three. It's closely connected to the other one. Maybe it's the root of the other one. God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. Now how many marriages are destroyed by pride? Love doesn't dishonor others. When a husband yells at his wife that's not loving When a wife manipulates her husband that's not loving. Behavior toward one another that is not consistent with the word is dishonoring and destructive to a marriage. Love does not dishonor. Love isn't self-seeking. Right? This is self-explanatory Everything from self-absorption to self-promotion to self-protection to self-praise to self-pity to self-serving, none of it is loving. Number six, love isn't irritable. Love isn't easily provoked or easily annoyed. Love doesn't have a short fuse. As husbands and wives, we can take ourselves so seriously. You can respond to every single little slight or offense in such a profound way and act like it's the end of the world That your wife walked into the house and didn't say hello to you before she kissed them kids. Number seven. Love doesn't keep a scorecard. This is huge, isn't it? I mentioned this earlier about keeping a scorecard, letting things go. Some of us have a file cabinet. With the fences longer than a mile. And we're just waiting to open up that file cabinet and pick out that card and say, see You did it again. Love doesn't do that Yeah, because it's the love of God. And the Bible tells us that how far has God cast our sins away from him? As far as the East is from the West. We use language like God forgets. You understand that God doesn't forget anything. It's impossible for God to fit forget. What God does is he chooses. He chooses not to bring our offense up against us. So there will be things that your spouse has done to you, grievous things that you won't ever forget. But what it's saying is that what love does, love makes a choice. Not to bring that up against your spouse again. So if you're waiting to forget about it before you forgive and move on, you'll just keep on waiting. Our brains don't work that way. I wish they did. I wish there was the delete key in my brain. But there's not But I can choose, willingly, willfully, make a choice at that moment not to bring it up again. That's what God does for us. And that's what we are to do to one another as spouses as we love. Number eight, love does not delight in evil. Right? That's verse six. Love does not rejoice in unrighteousness. True love, biblical love, godly love, covenant love, shuns evil and unrighteousness. Spouses should never tempt each other or lead each other towards sin. I don't have to give you guys a list for that. Pornography, drunkenness, lying, cheating, anything that we would even dare to tempt our spouses to indulge in or be a part of is not in fact loving. Love actually hates evil, shuns it, takes no delight in it at all. Our brothers and sisters, how are we doing? Encouraged? It's a tall task, isn't it? Anybody standing in the mirror of this finds himself or herself coming up short That's why we need and will always need the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Amen. I never stand before God accepted on my good works, even as a believer. I'm always dependent upon the righteousness of Jesus Christ because I still fall woefully short. of the standard of God. But that doesn't mean that I keep pressing on. We're called to work out our salvation in fear and trembling, knowing that it is God in us. working both to will and to do according to his good pleasure. Yes, this text really is a portrait of the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. But as I said before out of Romans chapter 5, that that love has been poured abroad in our own hearts and you are capable. You have the capacity to love one another this way. And the question will be Will you strive to do it? Will you strive to do it? With the help of the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, will you strive to do it to know its position in our lives, to know its importance in our lives, and to see it in action. And once again As we live this out imperfectly as it may be, as couples, we put the glory of God and the glory of Jesus Christ on display. As our kids and our neighbors and people around us see us loving this way, it points them, doesn't it, to the greater love which is demonstrated on Calvary's cross. We are a walking testimony, brothers and sisters. If there's anything that I want you guys to get from my time with you, was simply that. Was that your marriage is about more than just you? And that fact alone is enough. To stay in it. Now, for people in the world that have no love for God, we understand, do we not Why they break their bows? Why they end their covenants? They have no love for God. They're not interested in glorifying God, but as believers It is the highest order of the day. That's what life is all about, is it not? Bringing honor and glory to God. And the framework of your marriage is where, quite frankly, you get to do that the most. Question is, will we do it? With the help of Jesus, we can do it. Amen. I want us to bow for a word of prayer. Our time is done. Love is the more excellent way, and I I want us to do something here, and I can't twist your arms to do it. I didn't actually ask Pastor George, please forgive me, brother. If I'm going in the wrong direction here, I took a book off of its shelf. It's the minister service manual. And what I want us to do is I want us to take our vows over again. So I'm going to ask you to turn right now towards your spouse George, you can look around and see who isn't doing it, so no I'm just kidding. And it's good just to remind ourselves of the covenant vows that we took long ago, some of us. And I'm going to start with the men. And let me show you how this is go. I'm going to say the words and you're going to repeat it. So I'm going to say I, and then you say your name as you look into your wife's eyes. And then I'm going to say take you, and then you say your wife's name. Everybody got that? And then repeat after me. You guys ready? All right. I I didn't hear you guys say your names. So if you j if you George, George is gonna say I George. You guys got it? Let me back up. Alright. Some of you guys forgot how this went, okay. I take you to be my wife. And I do promise and covenant Before God and these witnesses, to be your loving and faithful husband, in plenty and in want In joy and in sorrow, in sickness and in health, as long as we both shall live. Amen. Now, ladies, your turn. Look deep into his eyes. I Take you to be my husband. I do promise and covenant Before God and these witnesses, to be your loving and faithful wife, in plenty and in want In joy and in sorrow, in sickness and in health, as long as we both shall live. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we hope that the words that we have just shared are fresh. would become a deeper reality in our marriages. That our lives would reflect the glory of your name That the love that we just spoke about, that you wrote about in your word, would be our reality. God, we pray and ask for forgiveness for the areas in which we fall short For where we've been proud and self-centered , where we have sought our own interests above the interests of our spouses, where we've thought about ourselves more than we've thought about you and your glory. Forgive us, Lord. Cause us by your sovereign grace to love one another from the heart, to mirror an image and reflect your glory for the world to see. So where spouses may be stuck, and I pray for your liberating grace. Where there are deep issues, I pray, God, that you would provide help and support. And Father, we pray that you would turn our eyes off of our own situations and place them back on the Lord Jesus Christ, our risen King and Savior and Lord, who is able and willing to bless us in our marriages. We love you, Lord. We thank you. For what our eyes have seen, what our ears have heard in our times together today. We love you and commend and commit our marriages to you afresh Please bless us. We pray. In Jesus' name that all God's people say it together. Amen. Amen. God bless you. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media C Ds and Digital Files