The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to Matthew chapter seven? Matthew chapter seven. We're in the the home stretch in the Sermon on the Mount. And uh as I mentioned to you last week, there's a definite transition from Chapters 5 and 6, as we head into chapter 7, chapters 5 and 6 deal with the individual disciples' personal response to the authority of the king, and chapter 7 deals with the disciples' response to how Others respond to the authority of the king. And instead of answering the question, you know, what about me? It answers the question, what about them? And uh verses uh one through five and um Matthew chapter 7, it uh deals with those who sin against the truth, and it uh tells us what to do about that. You know, hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, then you'll see clearly to take the speck out of your brothers. In uh verse six, it uh talks about dealing with those who reject the truth, and that's what we'll be talking about today. In uh verse uh verses seven to twelve Talks about dealing with those that accept the truth. In uh verse 12 it says, and everything therefore treat people the same way you want them to treat you. And then in uh verses 13 to 27 It addresses those who are undecided and still considering the truth and the kind of uh urgency uh that should be uh spoken to them. Enter through the narrow gate for the gate is wide and the way is broad. that leads to destruction. So we'll learn about all these things as we continue to go through the rest of the Sermon on the Mount about those who sin against the truth, those who reject the truth. Those who accept the truth, those who are still considering the truth. And these are the four categories of people that we constantly come in contact with, that we're constantly faced with. And that's what chapter 7 is all about. Jesus teaches us how to respond to others. This is uh practical instruction, and I pray that uh we'll all benefit from it together. So let's read uh Matthew chapter 7, verse 6, and then uh uh we'll open up in a word of prayer Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not throw your pearls before swine, or they will trample them under their feet, and turn and tear you to pieces. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you once again as we take a look at your word, your inerrant word, your inspired word, your sufficient word. Father, we pray that you would uh speak to us, Lord, as uh you're so faithful to do, that when we hear uh the the words of scripture, that we're hearing your voice, And Father, I pray that you'd use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people. Father, may we not just be those that see the word and read it, but those that apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. Last week we uh spent some time in uh verses one through five of Matthew chapter seven and considered what uh John Calvin calls A disease that appears to be natural to all of us, and it's the disease of judgmentalism. And uh many of us suffer with a a tendency to to be harsh and critical of others while also at the same time seeking to be generous and understanding of ourselves. And uh we have to be careful uh when we uh criticize others because As the text that uh uh that we pointed out last week uh lets us know that it's a fearful thing uh to harshly criticize others. And the the reason why is because you're going to be judged one day. And uh the kind of judgment that you receive uh is dependent upon the kind of judgment that you're dishing out now. What you're dishing out now is what you'll you'll actually receive. There's a stricter judgment uh for those that judge others with with strictness. Just like uh there's a stricter judgment for those that are teachers, there's a stricter judgment for those uh that would uh uh seek to criticize harshly uh other believers. It's also a foolish thing to judge others harshly and critically because it reveals that you're blind and ignorant of the sin that you're engaged in at the same time. And uh the sin that you're engaged in is a self-righteousness. And that's the the kind of battering ram, as we talked about last week, that's hanging off the side of your face. while you're busily trying to get out a a piece of straw in somebody's eye. You know, you're you're hitting them with the battering ram of your own self-righteousness. And it's the the sin that you can't even see right in front of your face. Can't even see it while you're out trying to help somebody else And we also learn that the judgment is flipped around, that uh when we judge others harshly and critically, that it's flipped around because the person who actually needs to be judged harshly during that time is us. You know, we're the person that deserves that kind of harsh And I won't review all of what we did last week. I'd encourage you to listen to that online or get a copy of the message because that's important to understand. as a contrast to what we're going to talk about today in verse 6. Because here what Jesus does is he guards us against the opposite extreme, would be, which would be not to judge anything. You know, in verses 1 through 5, it's to judge too harshly and critically. In verse 6, he guards us against the other extreme, which would be to say, I don't have to judge anybody. I don't have to look at anybody, identify anybody. There's no judgment at all. And that's also wrong. It would be wrong to be like that. That would also be fearful, foolish, and flipped around. In the Proverbs 14, verse 15, it says this, the naive believes everything. The naive believes everything, but the sensible man considers his steps. There should be a a certain discernment that we have. The word naive in the Old Testament was a word that was used for an open door. You know, that's what the word naive meant, somebody who just had an open door. It's a person who doesn't know when to shut the door, doesn't know when to keep the door closed. You know, it just opens up for everything and anything. You know, no screening, no ID check, no discernment, no judgment, no common sense. Just opens it up, swings it open wide. For everybody to just step on through. No distinction between what's safe and what's a threat. And as a result, they hurt themselves and they hurt those around them. And uh actually dishonor the Lord in that. In uh Proverbs 27 and verse 12 it says, A prudent man sees evil and hides himself, but the naive go on and pay the penalty for it. You know, there there there's a certain type of judgment that uh children of God are supposed to to have. And uh, you know, even in the the the physical realm and in the the the way that we live our lives, I mean, there's a reason that we don't want our little children opening up the door, right, for strangers. There's a there's a reason, because they they don't have the discernment yet. You know, there's a reason why you put you know those uh childproof tops on prescription bottles, you know, because you don't want somebody mistaking it for candy and getting their hands into it and uh actually destroying themselves. Um I actually remember uh uh my mom told me a story about when I was uh growing up I was uh you know maybe two or three years old and uh you know I had a cold and Uh she was trying to give me some cough syrup, you know, and I wouldn't open my mouth. I just kept you know turning my head from side to side and she's like open your mouth, open your mouth. And you know, finally I opened my mouth. But right before she put the spoon in my mouth, she looked at the color. of uh what was on the spoon and she said, that doesn't look right. And she looked at the bottle that she got it out of. It was a bottle of iodine. You know and uh she you know threw the spoon down and it was in tears and everything but uh But there's a reason you need to read the label, right? There's a reason you need to read the label. And as a church, as those that believe and trust in Christ, there's a reason we need to read the label We need to pay attention to what's going on. And if we did away with all judgment in the church, we could never deal with false teaching. And uh 2 Timothy 2. 7 says that false teaching spreads like gangrene. It's a cancer that needs to be cut out. If we never judged anything, we uh would never deal with serious and persistent disobedience in the church. Uh we couldn't have any church discipline. And 1 Timothy 5. 20 says that the reason why we deal with others decisively is so that the rest may also be fearful of sinning. It's a protection to the rest of the body. when we deal with with sin. And as we'll find out today, uh biblical discernment helps us guard what's sacred and valuable. Helps us to guard what's sacred and valuable. And the passage before us is all about that kind of discernment. It's all about that kind of discernment. And there's two reasons in this passage that Jesus gives us to uh uh uh exercise or to apply discernment, uh but before we get there, we first have to understand the two analogies that he gives us to appreciate discernment. So there's two analogies to appreciate discernment and two reasons to apply discernment. That's our outline for the day. So first of all let's talk about the two analogies to appreciate discernment discernment. Look what he says in verse 7, uh verse 6. Sorry. Do not give what is holy to dogs. And uh dogs in in scripture were not your you know domesticated fluffy household. Pets known as man's best friend. Um you don't didn't feed dogs with treats from your hand and teach them how to do tricks, you know, uh back back during this time. Uh the the Hicks just got a dog recently and you know she's this cute little thing and You know, I don't know what Annette's doing. I don't know if she's like cooking meals for the dog or whatever else, but um Dan Danny might not get fed, but the dog's definitely Dog's definitely getting fed. That that was a different kind of dog in the Bible. Actually a a totally different word. It's the word uh kunarion. It was uh A word that was used uh only four times in Scripture. Uh we find it in Matthew chapter fifteen if you remember the story of the Canaanite woman who's crying out, a gentile Canaanite woman, she's crying out to Jesus for a miracle. She's asking for help for her daughter who's severely demon-possessed. And uh Jesus answers her in uh Matthew 15 verse 26 uh and he says It's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs. And what the term that he uses here is kunaria. It's the the small household pet dog. He says it's not good to take the children's bread and throw it to the pets. And uh, like I said, the dogs that he's talking about are the smaller dogs, uh household dogs, tame dogs, and uh she actually accepts the position of being a household pet. She says, but even the pets are loved, right? Even even the pets feed off with the crumbs that fall from the master's table. I'll accept that. But I know that that even even I get some some of the blessing And uh as a Gentile, she understood something that a lot of people don't understand, which is that the blessings that were given to the Jewish people were also to spill over to the Gentiles. You know, it's something that the Jewish people didn't get during that time. So that was a different word. It was a different word, Kunarion. It's not the same word that Jesus uses here in Matthew 7. Or that's used anywhere else in the New Testament. The word dogs that Jesus uses here is the word Kuone. And these are the kind of animals that you wouldn't have in your house, under your table, or anywhere near your kids These for the most part were uh vicious dogs, larger animals. They traveled the streets at night like uh packs of wolves. It was dangerous to be surrounded by dogs like this. In Psalm 22, in verse 16, it says, For dogs have surrounded me. It gives that as a picture of just the danger uh that people were in and the the vast majority were were wild, dangerous, even known to feast on human bodies. Um it was actually seen as a judgment by God to have your your body devoured by by dogs. I was uh reading in the um in Second Kings with uh Jehu when he took control of the kingdom of of Israel, uh he went to a uh city known as Jezreel and and had Jezebel who was the queen at the time cast off of the the top of of the wall, the city walls, cast her over the side and had her body just kind of smashed, you know, at the bottom. And uh After Jezebel's furnoff he just kinda goes inside and says, Hey, let's grab something to eat, you know. So he and his army kind of inside eating and they say, Hey, you know, what about that that Jezebel? I mean, she is the queen after all. We should give her a a burial. But by the time they they got out, this is what the scripture says that That her uh it says they found nothing more of her than the skull and feet and the palms of her hands. Therefore they returned and told him, and they and he said, This is the word of the Lord, which he spoke by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the property of Jezreel, the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel. And the corpse of Jezebel will be as dung on the face of the field and the property of Jezreel, so they cannot say that this is Jezebel. That's the kind of dogs that we're talking about in Matthew chapter 7, verse 6. They're filthy. They they licked their own vomit. Proverbs 26, verse 11 talks about that. They ate rotting meat, you know, that was uh defiled, kind of unfit for human consumption, you know, just rotting meat that's out there in the field. The dogs will go out and devour that. You know, Exodus 22 talks about that. Um in Luke 16 when uh talks about the story of the rich man in Lazarus, his open source are actually licked by the dogs. I mean this these are the kind of animals that that we're talking about. The last thing that you would do is invite an animal like this into your house You know, see them at the kitchen table and allow them to consume a meal with you. That's the last thing that you'd picture you're doing. And it would be to profane and despise what was actually sacred. Like you wouldn't invite a dog like this to a religious celebration, you know, to celebrate with you, you know, the goodness of of God. And that's the picture that Jesus intended for us to have. when he spoke about giving what is holy to dogs. Why don't you flip back to Leviticus chapter 22, just so I can show you this. Leviticus 22, when Jesus uses the word holy , Haggas in in Greek, um in verse six of uh Matthew chapter uh uh seven, the immediate correlation for the disciples would have been the holy meals that Israel participated in. According to Leviticus chapter 22, the priests were to be extremely careful about how they treated the holy food. It was consecrated for the worship of God, and when God speaks of this holy food in Leviticus 22, He just uses the word holy. You'll find it listed as holy things or holy gifts, but uh in the original it's just the word holy. And they understood that it was refer to to the food that was to be offered to God. And this is immediately where the disciples uh uh would have thought of of giving what's holy uh to the dogs Leviticus chapter 22, look at this. It says, Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Tell Aaron and his sons to be careful with the holy gifts. And if you see the word gifts in your Bible there, it's probably in italics. The holy gifts of the sons of Israel, which they dedicate to me, so as not to profane my holy name, I am the Lord. Say to them, If I if if any man among you, uh among all your descendants throughout your generations approaches the holy gifts which the sons of Israel dedicate to the Lord while he has an uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from before me. I am the Lord. There were very specific instructions about how you were to handle holy food. Very specific instructions about who was to eat it, how they were to eat it, who they could share it with. Very specific in instructions about that. If you look further further down in uh chapter 22, verses uh 32 and 33. You shall not profane my holy name, but I will be sanctified among the sons of Israel. I am the Lord who sanctifies you, who brought you out from the land of Egypt to be your God. I am the Lord So when the when a sacrifice was brought to the tabernacle or to the temple, it was to be treated with respect. Some of the sacrifice was uh burned, offered to the Lord. Uh some of it was consumed by the priest and uh part of it at times could be uh taken by the worshiper so he could share it with his with his family. But there were specific instructions on what he was to do with this food. This is holy food now. I've dedicated this to the Lord. If you remember when David and his men were on the run from Saul, you remember that in 1 Samuel 21? They stopped by a priest and asked, you know, is there anything to eat here? They're famished. And uh the priest says there's nothing here but the consecrated bread, you know, but but as long as you've kept yourself from defilement, I can share it with you. You know, so there's specific instructions about How they were to share that meal. And now just imagine if uh one of David's men takes this meal from the priest with all these requirements, all these restrictions, then he goes out and finds a pack of wild dogs and just, you know, tosses it out to them What kind of an outrage would that be? You know, how how disrespectful can you be to something that's that's holy? Can't even imagine it There's actually a Jewish sect known as the um it was the Qumram community. They taught that the dogs should be banned from Jerusalem completely. You know, just get them out of here. And uh they said this concerning dogs. They said, one may not bring dogs into the holy camp, because they may eat some of the bones from the sanctuary and the meat which is still on them. For Jerusalem is the holy camp. It is the place that he chose from all the tribes of Israel for Jerusalem as the foremost of the camps of Israel. They didn't even want a dog to gnaw on a bone that was used for a sacrifice, much less give him a meal. Didn't even want a dog to gnaw on a bone. You didn't give what was holy to dogs. And in a similar way you wouldn't dream of tossing your pearls before swine. You can flip back to Matthew chapter uh seven again. You want to think about Tossing pearls before swine. Do not throw your pearls before swine. And first of all, when the disciples heard this, you know, don't toss your pearls before swine, they would have been shocked just by the illustration. Because common people couldn't afford pearls. Especially back here. Common people didn't have a pearl So to talk about something that's extremely rare, difficult to obtain, and tossing it out before a pig when it's like, I'm I'm privileged to have this in the first place. You know, to toss it out before pigs would have been unthinkable. You know, today we have like oyster farms that, you know, produce pearls. You know, they they they they grow them, they hatch them, and You know, they uh they you know, operate on 'em to to make sure that they can form the pearl in the right way and then they switch the pearl out of one mouth into another mouth so they can make it bigger. I mean, you have all this kind of uh you know, sciences behind it uh today, but in the first century it wasn't like that. Um diving for pearls was extremely hazardous. Many divers lost their lives trying to find the pearl, ruined their health, you know, as they're inhaling water and everything else trying to, you know, s uh swim to a to the bottom of the sea trying to find uh an oyster with a pearl in it. So uh pearl was a highly prized item. In uh Matthew 13, 46, it speaks of a merchant who was willing to sell everything that he owned, everything that he had. In order to obtain one pearl, you know, a pearl of of great price, if you owned a pearl that would say something about how wealthy you were uh immediately would have drawn attention to yourself if you wore pearls, and that's why in uh 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 9 Paul says, you know, you ladies who who do own pearls and you know they had this practice where they kind of string them in their hair. It's like don't come to church like that. Why? Because immediately everybody's gonna look at you. It's all about, you know, oh my goodness, they have a pearl and they're wearing it in their arrows. Like all the attention is over there instead of on Christ You know, somebody's trying to open up the word and everybody's looking at the back of somebody's head. Like, do you see that, Pearl of her? You know, it's like, don't bring it into the church. The focus and attention is supposed to be on Christ. When the the Bible describes uh uh even when the Bible describes the beauty of of heaven, it's kind of interesting uh that the Bible uses the picture of a of a pearl in a Revelation 21-21, it talks about the twelve gates. uh where twelve pearls, each gate is a single pearl. You know, talks about the beauty of of heaven. I mean this is going to be stunning, you know, when we uh arrive in in heaven. But you don't throw your pearls around in the first place. And you definitely don't throw 'em before slime. Definitely not. You know, slime, the the pigs were ceremonially unclean. You couldn't eat them. You couldn't sacrifice them Under Old Testament law, certain animals were identified as clean and others as as unclean, and uh and the pig was like the prominent animal that you couldn't eat. And and that's what made the The parable of the prodigal son in Luke 15 uh so shocking to people because what is a Jewish boy doing feeding pigs? When you can't even touch their carcasses, you know, y you're not even supposed to touch these animals, and here he's feeding them You know, so so this would have been you know a total shock to people. Um all that changed after the cross. You know, we can have our ham sandwiches today, but when Jesus spoke those words, this law was still in effect. They they couldn't eat pig And uh the Gentiles knew that, and that's why when uh Jerusalem was attacked by a Greek king by the name of uh Antiochus Epiphanes, he chose the way to humiliate the Jewish people was to take a pig and offer it as a sacrifice in the Jewish temple. And then take that meat and try to stuff it down the the throats of the priests, you know, force 'em to eat it, because it would have been a total desecration, humiliation. So so Gentile people under understood that about this. And um besides that, pigs are physically unclean animals besides being ceremonially unclean uh because uh you know that's why it doesn't make sense to wash a pig. You know the first mud hole they find they're they're just jumping right in Jumping right in and you know spinning around and grunting, but uh uh Peter describes that in 2 Peter 222, a sow after washing returns to the wallowing in the mire. You know, it's just it's just gonna go right back to the to the mud. I mean that's its nature. That's what it does. Can't stay clean. And how can you imagine taking a gift as rare and costly as a beautiful pearl and throwing it in a pigstie? Couldn't be a greater contrast between beauty and filth. And here's the question that we need to consider. How would it honor the giver of the gift? No, the person who would have given you this pearl. How would it honor the giver of the gift if you cast it before swine? Just like how would it honor God if you take what's holy, what's dedicated to Him, and throw it to the dogs? How would that honor the one that's given you this beautiful and costly gift And in both pictures, the you know, the picture of the dogs and the picture of the the hogs, um, it's to to offer what's sacred and valuable to somebody who can possibly appreciate what they had. And it would also demonstrate that you have a lack of discernment yourself in giving it to them. You know, the the the dogs and the swine are both unworthy recipients of uh sacred and precious gifts. Uh both refuse the sacrificial animals, they're both to be kept out of the holy place, they're both rejected. And here is where it gets difficult because Jesus isn't talking about swines and dogs, is he? That's not what he's talking about. Who is he talking about? He's talking about people. It's talking about people. And this is a hard lesson because what Jesus is teaching here, and just to be honest, it's a struggle for me as well. Because uh I don't like to think about people in this way. But there's no doubt that we uh interact with dogs and swine every day. And I don't say that in pride, smugly. Paul in Philippians chapter 3 verse 18 says, that I tell you even weeping, that they're the enemies of the cross of Christ. I tell you, even weeping. The terms that are used here were terms that were used for people that were rejected by God. Why don't you flip over to Revelation chapter 22? Revelation chapter 22. Let's us know that because of the the filthy and vicious nature of the of the dogs, uh like I said before, you you kept them on the outside of the city. These were were animals that that you didn't want within the the city walls And Revelation 22 uses this term because it became a favorite term for people that were outside of the community of God. And it's really fascinating to think about here. Revelation 22, look at verses uh 14 and 15. Revelation 22. He says, Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter by the gates into the city. So here are the people that are in the city. They're the blessed people, right? Inside the community of God, the fellowship of God. Outside are the dogs and the sorcerers and the immoral persons and the murderers and the idolaters. And everyone who loves and practices lying. And uh just just think about this. Every other uh thing that's listed in that in those two verses, it actually talks about the sin. Actually talks about the sin, you know, the sorcery, the immorality, the murder, idolatry, lying. But if you want it like a one-stop shop, like a word picture to describe all these things, let's just call them dogs. That's like the one word that describes immoral murderers, liars, idolaters. It's the one word that describes all of them. It's the word for an evildoer in Psalm 22, 16. It's used for those that are an abomination to God in Deuteronomy 23 and verse 18. They're dogs and and swine. You know, they're not just people that, you know, uh uh they just have a different opinion. They just got a different view. You know, the Bible calls them what they are. Bible calls them what they are. And when Jesus speaks of the things that are holy and sacred, you know, he's not talking about holy food and pearls. What is he talking about? He's not talking about material items. It's actually talking about spiritual truth. For example, in Job twenty-eight, verse eighteen, it compares wisdom to pearls Job 28, 18 says, Coral and crystal are not to be mentioned, and the acquisition of wisdom is above that of pearls. And in Matthew chapter 13 and verse 46 , compares the the truth of the kingdom of God to the pearl of great price upon finding the one pearl of great price, you know, speaking about the kingdom of God. And the message of the gospel in 2 Corinthians is called the treasure. The treasure. Why don't you flip over to 2 Corinthians chapter 4 so I can show you this? 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Yeah, in the book of 2 Corinthians, Paul's defending his ministry. You know, externally, he's afflicted, he's perplexed, he's persecuted, he's struck down, he's dying, he's being delivered over to death. But but all that's okay because uh it's not about him. It's about the message. You know, what happens to him wasn't the big deal in Paul's mind. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, he talks about this. Look at verse 3. It says, And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In whose case the God of this world is blind to the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus is Lord and ourselves as your bondservants for Jesus' sake. For God who said, Light shall shine out of darkness, is the one who has shown in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ But we have this treasure. What's he talking about? He's talking about the message. The message that we preach. We preach Christ. We have this treasure. In earthen vessels so that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of God and not of ourselves. And as Jesus gave this message of the kingdom and the Sermon on the Mount, uh he wanted his disciples to know that what I'm giving you is a precious pearl. What I'm giving to you is holy food, and you need to be careful with what you do with it. They were to treat that gift with respect They weren't to cast their pearls before swine. And there's been all kinds of confusion over, you know, what does this mean? Some people say that, you know, casting your pearl before swine is just a reference to all sinners. Just any sinner in general. You know, don't cast your pearl before swine. And uh there's some who've taught that uh this means we're only to give the gospel to the church. Or only to give the gospel to the elect. You know, only the people that you know are going to receive it. You know, only give the gospel to the elect. It's a position that was uh known as hyper Calvinism. Uh there was a church I was pastoring and and uh There's a family that left because I started an evangelistic uh uh ministry in the church. And you know, I wanted to reach some of the people in uh in the local community and they said, oh, you know, they're Preaching the gospel to unbelievers. So the family left. I'm not lying. Family left because I wanted to preach the gospel to unbelievers. You should only preach the elect. And uh Spurgeon uh was was criticized for this. Uh one day Spurgeon commented this way. He says, if God painted a yellow stripe on the backs of the elect, I'd go around London lifting up their coats and preaching to them. But as God has not, I'll simply preach the gospel to all and let the God bring his own in. That's like that's what we do. We're not trying to figure out who's going to be saved and who's not. You just give out the gospel. Of course the gospel is to be preached to all men. Mark 16, 15, go into all the world, preach the gospel to all creation I think that includes everybody. I think that includes everybody. All creation. Even Calvin, the main proponent of election, said that it's our duty to present the doctrine of salvation indiscriminately to all. So you you can't even uh use Calvin in your defense for that. It's it's uh uh doesn't line up with uh what the Bible teaches. Others have taught that this means you're only supposed to refuse the gospel to the Gentiles, that the gospel 's only to go to the Jewish uh people. Um and there were some who say uh who point out that Jesus limited uh the ministry that he had while he was on the earth to the Jewish people, you know, to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Uh he talks about that in Matthew 15, but as we already pointed out earlier, that even this this Gentile Canaanite woman understood that the blessings that were given to Israel also pass on to us. That I I partake in these blessings as well. And uh Jesus recognized her for her faith. And uh if we look at the ministry of Jesus, uh not only with the Canaanite woman, also the the Gentile centurion, you know, the the the leader of an army. Jesus extended the gospel to him. Jesus specifically says in Matthew 12, 21, in his name, the Gentiles will hope. Uh so it's it's not just talking about you know the the ministry is only to be to the to the Jewish people and not the Gentiles. Some people have said that, you know, well, you're not supposed to give the gospel to especially vile sinners. If they're really wicked sinners, you know, those are the people that we hold the gospel back from. But when you look at the people that Jesus ministered to, Those are the people that he was going after. Those are the people that he that he hung out with, right? Matthew chapter uh nine says it happened that as Jesus was reclining at the table in the house, behold many tax collectors and sinners came and were dining with Jesus and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, why is your teacher eating with the tax collectors and the sinners? Like I don't understand this. Why is he with those kind of people? Those are the vile sinners. I mean, hang out with the regular sinners, right? Like us. Don't hang out with the vile sinners. Matthew 21, verse 31, Jesus told the religious leaders. I truly, truly, I say to you, that the tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of heaven before you Why? Because they understood their need, right? He went after the vile sinners. So Jesus didn't even turn away, even the most vile sinner from himself. He got the thief on the cross, right? Today you'll be with me in paradise. So it's not all sinners. It's not Gentile sinners. It's not the vile sinners. There's a better way to think about this and allow the context to guide our thinking. Because who we're talking about here are hardened sinners. hardened sinners. And uh this is where the two reasons that that Jesus gives us really helps us make sense out of this. Because what gee what reason does Jesus give us for uh not throwing pearls to swine or holy food to to dogs? It's because uh number one, they trample on the gift. Trample on the the gift, and number two, that they turn on the giver. Trample on the gift. Uh pigs have absolutely no appreciation for pearls, right? Um because they can't eat them. You know, some some some pearls might have looked close to peas or the little nuts or whatever that the pigs would eat, but a pig would know have enough sense to spit out a pearl if he started chewing on one. It's of no use to the pig. Can't eat it, it's no get to me. He would smash in the mud, and that's exactly what some people do and how they respond to the message of truth It's rejected, it's refused, it's smashed in the ground. This is talking about uh, you know, those that outwardly scorn and ridicule the message of the gospel. It doesn't make sense to to put an eyeglass on a pig to show them the value of the pearl. You know, hey come here a pig and look at the look at the look at how beautiful this is. A pig does not care. A pig does not care. Doesn't make sense. Wants nothing to do with it. I remember uh there was a guy that I worked with, and he told me that uh This is what he said. He says, you know what your Bible is good for? It's good for me to use this toilet paper. He said, that's what your Bible is good for. At that point, there's no need to continue the conversation. No need to continue the conversation. To continue to try to present truth to him so that he can ridicule it, make fun of it, is not to honor my God. You understand that? That would not be to honor my God, to honor his truth, to continue to try to present this to him while he's continually making fun of the message. There's no need to continue the conversation No need to continue. I don't want to subject the message to further attack. If that's the way that you're going to treat the message, there's no need to continue to talk about the message. It's too valuable for that kind of treatment. That's what this is talking about. Dogs and swine trample the gift. They also trample on the giver. They turn against the giver to tear him to shreds. Wild dogs don't have any boundaries. A vicious pack of uh wild dogs would be just as likely to attack you as they would be to uh to try to devour a gift that you'd give them. They have no appreciation for a well-prepared meal. They'll be just as happy to gnaw on you. You know, I'll gnaw on the gift and then I'll gnaw on you some. You know, they have no appreciation for the giver. I remember uh visiting uh Sequoia uh National Park and uh one of the the rangers showed us a hill that was called Bear Hill And uh they called it Bear Hill because what they used to do in the 1920s and 30s was uh they used to take their trash and pile it all on top of the hill. And then they'd you know go to a a hill in the distance and watch all the bears, you know, come out of the woods and you know devour the trash. It was like, you know, entertainment. You know, let's just watch the bears eat the trash. So they they they call it Bear Hill because that's where all the bears would would gather. In the nineteen forties they had to close it. Because the the bears didn't respect the givers of the gifts. They're wild animals. They're not tame. So you're out here trying to feed them for your enjoyment and entertainment and the bears are attacking you. They say, Oh, this is where we get it from. So they started breaking into people's houses, ripping open people's cars, attacking people who are on a hike. They didn't care. No boundaries. They started attacking the giver. Wild animals will turn on the giver. And this is the perfect illustration for the hardened sinner. And this is what Jesus warns his disciples about. Flip over to Matthew chapter 10. Jesus knew that the mission that he was sending them on was a dangerous one. He said that they would be like sheep in the midst of wolves, so to beware of men in Matthew chapter 10, verses uh 11 down to uh 15 here, Matthew chapter 10 He says, in whatever city or village you enter, inquire who is worthy in it. Stay at his house until you leave that city. And you know, don't look for a better deal somewhere, right? As you enter the house, give it your greeting. If the house is worthy, give it your blessing of peace. But if it is not worthy, take back your blessing of peace. Whoever does not receive you nor heed your words as you go out of that house or that city, shake the dust off your feet. Truly I say to you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city. And then a parallel passage in Luke chapter 10, it says, even the dust of your city which clings to our feet we will wipe off and protest against you. Yet be sure of this that the kingdom of God has come near. And we actually have an illustration of where this took place in Acts chapter 13, if you want to flip over there. Acts Acts chapter 13. You have uh Paul and Barnabas Who came to a city known as uh Poseidon Antioch. And uh while they they were in that city on a Sabbath day, they were preaching the good news of the gospel in the synagogue, and and people were begging them to hear more. We want to hear more of this message. Acts chapter 13 and verse 44 it says, The next Sabbath, nearly the whole city assembled to hear the word of the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and began contradicting the things spoken by Paul, and were blaspheming. Speaking evil, speaking evil of God, speaking evil of the message. Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, it was necessary that the word of God be spoken. to you first since you repudiate it, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life. Behold, we are turning to the Gentiles. For so the Lord has commanded us, I have placed you as a light for the Gentiles, that ye may bring salvation to the ends. of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing, glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life, believed. And the word of the Lord was being spread through the whole region, but the Jews incited the devout women of prominence and the leading men of the city and instigated a persecution against Paul and Barnabas and drove them out of their district. But look at what they did in verse 51. But they shook off the dust of their feet. in protest against them and went to Iconium. They proved themselves unworthy of of the message. And we shouldn't subject the precious truth of the gospel to just being attacked. To just people who are going to attack the the message. Same thing happened in Corinth. You know, Paul says uh says this and Acts chapter 18, verse 5 and 6. This is when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia. Paul began devoting himself completely to the word, solemnly testifying to the Jews. that Jesus was the Christ. But when they resisted and blasphemed, he shook out his garments and said to them, Your blood beyond your own heads, I am clean. Like there 's nothing else to say. And if you think about it, Jesus made similar decisions in his own ministry. His hometown was the town of Nazareth. If you remember, he was in a synagogue and he's preaching the word of the Lord. And what do they do to him? Anybody remember? Took them to the edge of a cliff to throw them off. After that point, Jesus transfers the headquarters of his ministry from Nazareth to Capernaum. They were unworthy of the message. In uh Matthew chapter 13, uh Jesus starts speaking to the people in parables. Why does he do that? You know, some people think that uh you know Jesus Jesus told stories to make the message more clear. No, he didn't. He told stories to make the message more obscure. Why? Because the people judged themselves as unworthy of the message. Jesus in Matthew chapter 13 Jesus says it's been granted to you, talking to his disciples, to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but to them it has not been granted. Why? They judge themselves as unworthy of it. And I think it's uh fascinating to think about uh the differences between the way Jesus uh spoke to to different groups of of people. Um it seems like you know during his trial he might have been given Pilate an opportunity, but with the high priest and Herod he had nothing to say to him. He was done with the high priest of Israel in Matthew 26, 62. The high priest stood said, Don't you answer? What is it that these men are testifying against you? But Jesus kept silent All they were interested in was turning on the on the giver, right? Jesus had no words for Herod, Herod of Galilee, Luke chapter 23, verses 8 and 9, when Harry was very glad when he saw Jesus, for he wanted to see him for a long time because he had been hearing about him. He was hoping to see some signs performed by him. He wanted a little magic show. Come on, Jesus, and do your tricks. Here's a piece of bread. You know, can you multiply that? You know what I mean? Herod just wanted to see some tricks from Jesus, to ridicule him, question him at some length, but Jesus answered him nothing. All he was interested in doing was trampling on the on the message. These were the dogs in the swine that had no appreciation for the truth, and to preach a sermon at that point would have been to cast a beautiful and costly pearl before swine to trample on. would be to offer what's sacred and valuable to those who couldn't possibly appreciate it. It's been said that uh that words are silver, but sometimes silence is golden. Sometimes silence is golden. And I want to just uh give you a little bit of practical advice about uh what to do when you realize that you might be dealing with the swine because in some cases you can't avoid them. Um some of you work with swine. Some of you are related to them. Some of you might even be married to one. So if if you're not supposed to preach the gospel to them every day, you know what are you supposed to do What are you supposed to do? Number one, you need to love them and pray for them. Love them and pray for them. Matthew chapter 5, verses 44 and 45 says, But I say to you, love your enemies, pray for those who persecute you. So that ye may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. What are you to do? Love him and pray for him I'm not going to withhold good from you. I'm not going to withhold a greeting from you. I'm going to love you. I'm going to pray for you. That's what we do. Maintain your obedience before God and respect before men. So you're to love him and pray for him. That's number one. Number two, maintain your obedience before God and your respect before men. And uh 1 Peter chapter 3 gives us some Instructions about wives and dealing with husbands that are disobedient to the word. These are people that are obstinate. 1 Peter chapter 3, it says, in the same way, you wives, be submissive to your own husbands. So that even if any of them are disobedient to the word, they may be one without a word by the behavior of their wives, as they observe your chaste and respectful behavior. You know, the the best means of trying to win your husband over isn't to put you know messages in his lunchbox, you know, turn or burn. You know, hope hope you enjoy hope you enjoy this this this bread, honey. It's burnt. Turn or burn That's not how you're going to win anybody over. As uh Philippians 1 27 says, let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. You know, so so you maintain your obedience before God. Show respect to people, respect before men. Number three, honor the Lord by refusing to enter into arguments. Honor the Lord by refusing to enter into arguments. You need to realize that you're not going to argue anybody into the kingdom. If you can argue them in, somebody can argue them out, right? You don't need to get involved in arguments. But if you're patient, the Lord may grant you another future opportunity to speak the words of life. In 2 Timothy 2, 23 to 26, it says but refuse foolish and ignorant speculations, knowing that they produce quarrels? The Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to all, able to teach patient when wronged, with gentleness, correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance, leading to the knowledge of the truth. We're to respond to people in gentleness, and then perhaps the Lord may give us an opportunity to speak the words of truth to them. Number four, not only are we to uh uh love and pray, maintain our obedience and respect before you know before men, obedience to God, respect before men, you know, honor the Lord by not entering into arguments. We're also supposed to trust God to reach people in ways that your words can't. Trust God to reach people in ways that your words can't. And here's an encouragement for all of us. Swine don't always remain swine. It's an encouragement. And uh Acts chapter seven fifty eight talks about uh a man that we all know. Acts chapter seven fifty eight it says when they had driven him out of the city speaking about Stephen, they began stoning him, and the witnesses laid aside their robes at the young at the feet of a young man named Saul. Acts 8. 1. Saul was in hearty agreement with putting him to death, and on that day a great persecution began against the church in Jerusalem. They were all scattered throughout the region of Judea, Samaria, except the apostles. Started persecution. Acts 8. 3. Saul began ravaging the church, entering house after house, dragging off men and women, he would put them in prison. And then you have these words over in Acts chapter 9, verses 1 to 6. Now Saul still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. Went to the high priest and asked for letters for him to the synagogues of Damascus that he he f he found if he found any belonging to the way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. As he was traveling, it happened. Then he was approaching Damascus and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground, heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? He said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I'm Jesus whom you are persecuting. But get up, enter the city, and it will be told you what you must do. You know what happened? There was a swine that stopped squealing on that day. That's what happened. God was able to reach Saul in ways that words couldn't. And that's what you need to trust in the Lord for. The thing for you to do isn't saying, well, I just got to get one more shot. You know, if I can give him this my best argument, you know, he's going to crumble. That's not what you do You trust the Lord that God, I'm going to trust you to reach him in ways that my words can't. I'm going to trust you that you're still in the business of rescuing swine. And uh that swine don't always remain swine. Some of you were definitely swine before you came to know the Lord, right? We got a room full of swine right here. At least uh X swine. We got some X swine right. Hallelujah. And uh it wasn't just because you were a sinner, because we all were. It's not just because you're a gentile, most of you are. It's not just because you were a vile sinner, and some of you were that, but some of you were actually hostile against the gospel as well. Attacked the gospel, persecuted Christians, made fun of them, ridiculed them. But what did the Lord do in your case? Amazing grace, right? Open your eyes. Hallelujah. What a savior. That he would save people that that ridiculed, attacked the precious truth, and attacked him. So uh if you're dealing with uh with people that are uh attacking the the truth um You don't need to stop praying for them. Keep praying for them. Keep loving them. Don't stop doing good for them. You know, be obedient to God. Respect them. Need to be patient. You know, wait for opportunities to speak with gentleness, without argument. And don't stop trusting the Lord that He can reach those people, the people that you love, in ways that your words can't. And uh if you're uh if you're an unbeliever here. . If you're an unbeliever here, the Bible says that today if you hear his voice, don't harden your hearts. Don't be a hardened sinner. Don't be a hardened sinner. Don't harden your hearts as when they provoked me. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 26 and 27, it says, if we go on sinning willfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. You have no other option. You reject this message, there is no other message that can save. Nothing to expect but a terrifying expectation of judgment, the fury of a fire, which will consume the adversaries. It's been said that the greatest miracle in the world is God's patience and bounty to an ungrateful world. If a prince had an enemy, he doesn't send him provision, but he tries to starve them. But the great God, who could wink all of his enemies into destruction, bears with them, is a daily cost to maintain them. But think not, sinners, that ye shall escape God's mill goes slow, but it grinds small. It might take a long time for that judgment to work its way around, but when it finally hits, it's going to grind small. The more admirable his patience and bounty is now, the more dreadful and unbearable will be that fury which arises out of his abused goodness, abusing the goodness of God, and one day you have to answer for it. There's nothing so sweet as the patience and goodness of God, and nothing so terrible as when his wrath takes fire. So if you're here today and you haven't trusted in Christ, You've ridiculed the message of Christianity. You've made fun of Christians, mocked Christians. The message that I want to give to you is that the God is good. The God is patient. The God is long-suffering. But if you continue to reject the offer of salvation, there will be a time when you will have to answer to God for that. And the only hope that you've been given is to recognize God for who He is. He's the God that made you, He created you, He owns you. You're a sinner and unable to do anything that would avert his wrath. Jesus Christ died as a substitute for you. He lived a perfect life in your place. He died as a substitution for your sins on the cross. And if you would trust in him, if you would repent, turn from your sins, believe in him, give your life to him. The Bible says that he'll give you eternal life And uh 2 Corinthians 5. 21, God made him who knew no sin, the only perfect one, to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. God will forgive even hardened sinners. If they they turn to him in repentance and faith. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for this opportunity that we've had to look at your word and to consider. What it means to respect the message that we've been given. We've been given such a treasure, God, such a treasure. The gospel is a treasure. And uh Father, this treasure needs to be guarded, protected. We need to be uh discerning as we even give the message out. Father, we don't want to uh present the gospel, leave the gospel out there just to be ridiculed and mocked and made fun of. Father, that we should uh even demonstrate to others the respect that we have for you by not allowing them to continue to mock and uh to continue to pray, to love, uh, to be patient, to wait for other opportunities, Lord. Father, I pray that you would help us not to be fearful of sinners. Father, there's no way that we can tell that slime are slime until we talk to them. So Father, I pray that uh we wouldn't hold back on sharing the gospel, that we would be indiscriminate in the way that we share the gospel, at least initially And uh only after it's made clear, Lord, that uh a person is uh refusing and wants nothing to do with us or Christianity, Lord, that only after every other resource is exhausted. That we would finally uh shake the dust of our off our feet and and uh Father leave them into your hands because we know that uh there's nothing that we can do in ourselves to save people. It's only your work. So Father, we do pray. That you would do that work in every heart, and uh that you'd use us to be instruments in your hand. In Jesus' name we praise and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files