The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. So let's now open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. If you are here for the Sunday school class, this is your uh one minute one-minute warning. So uh good to see you all this morning, good to be with you all. As you know, Pastor George is in, or you may not know, he's in San Jose, California this morning. In his absence George asked if a friend of his and a a fellow partner in the gospel, Jonathan Lehman, who a number of you might be familiar with. um would come and and speak to us and he agreed to not only do the main service but also come and do the Sunday school as well so we appreciate him. Also his two lovely daughters, two of his four daughters joined us, so uh good to have them with us as well. Um But Jonathan Lehman is the editorial director for Nine Marks And uh after doing undergraduate and graduate degrees in political science, Jonathan began his career in journalism, where he worked as an editor for an international economics magazine in Washington, D. C. Since his call to ministry, Jonathan has earned a Master of Divinity and a PhD in theology and worked as an interim pastor. Today he edits the Nine Mark series of books, which I'm sure a number of you are familiar with. We've definitely benefited From many of those books. I know I have personally, and we have as a church collectively. He's written a number of publications and is the author and editor of a number of books. And as I've mentioned, uh you're probably familiar with church membership, that book. If you've been through the membership class, that's one of his books. Uh church discipline. Hopefully you're not too familiar with that one. Just kidding. Uh the word centered church uh is another book and um and and there's more. Jonathan lives with his wife and four daughters in a suburb of DC. And he serves as an elder there at Chevrolet Baptist Church. He teaches for a number of seminaries, including Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Southeastern Baptist, and Reformed Theological Seminary. You can find a selection of his articles on the Nine Marks website and also he does a weekly podcast with Mark Dever and a number of guests called Pastors Talk, which I highly recommend. It's informative and engaging and also entertaining to listen to the banter uh usually instigated by Mark Dever between him and Jonathan Lehman. Um so it's a very interesting podcast. And one of his most recent books uh is called How the Nations Rage. I don't know if you could see that or not, but it's got some uh boxing gloves in there with the uh Republican and Democrat symbol symbols on there and the church in the middle. The subtitle Rethinking Faith and Politics in a Divided Age. And so um Pastor George in in his kindness to me invited him to speak on a very you know not a controversial issue at all and then you know decided to leave to the other side of the country to let Let the associate pastor pick up the pieces, you know, but that's that's that's what we do as associate pastors, so I'm used to that. But uh all jokes aside, please warmly welcome Jonathan Lehman. So you expect me picking up pieces after I talk, is that What you're saying? Thanks for the vote of confidence. Good morning, friends. Thank you for being here. Um Yeah, faith in politics. Fun topic, right? Easy topic. Um Thank you for welcoming me. Uh it it is a tough topic. Uh Chevroly, just so you know, is So like here's the district, right? The diamond of the district. Trevely 's the first suburb out on the Maryland side if you're if you're heading towards Annapolis. And I did live there till a few months ago. My my sitters my my daughters are sitting there thinking we don't live in Chevrolet because we just moved to Bowie. Have you guys heard of Bowie? And they're still a little up they're still working through that. So understandably. We lived there for about eleven, twelve years, and it was Yeah, anyway, but I I still consider myself a DC person. I've been in DC either in it or just around it since ninety -six. Uh I love DC. I love the town. I love the people. Uh I love the mix of of the people. I have to confess to you, I love politics. I've always enjoyed politics as As Matt said, I did an undergraduate degree in political science and a graduate degree in in political science. I worked for my congressman briefly in college. I also went overseas in college and worked for a Member of Parliament in the British House of Commons and I worked for the European Parliament and just have always been interested in the topic of politics. Uh confession in high school and college, I actually wanted to be and thought I could be president. Raise your hand if you've ever thought about being president. I see a couple of boys, alright. So we at least have a couple of honest people in the room. I thought it was a Christian church, but But we know that today people aren't happy about politics, are we? And we know that it is a divisive topic. I I trust some of you, a couple of months back when the Brett Kavanaugh Brent Kavanaugh hearings were going on, I remember this little clip. of Hillary Clinton saying that civility could return to politics only when her party came into power. She said, after all, how how could you be civil with a party that sought to undermine everything you believe in? And I I don't mean just to pick on her or her side. I I just grab that as as an example of what I think characterizes from both sides This present moment, that pit that picture, you you have those two boxing gloves, right? And the church there in the middle. We we ex we we all experience that. And and and let's be honest, we're we're participants. in that. Right? But let's stop for a moment and think, okay, what about those of us who call ourselves Christians? I mean, aren't Christians supposed to be peacemakers? Aren't Christians supposed to be bridge builders? Well here's here's the challenge I want to give to you this morning, and I want you to think about what if I told you that in fact Your Christian faith is supposed to be a political threat. Your Christian faith is to be a political threat. What would you think? Because that's that's my thesis. Now we we we quickly say, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Christianity is about faith and salvation and worship. It's not about the things of this world, right? It's not about politics. It's about worship and Salvation. I think that's a common instinct among many Christians. Other Christians will say, no, no, no, no. It is yes, it is a political threat. Of course it is. We're we're to retake America. Make it great again. At least that's what Christians on the right would say. And Christians on the left will sometimes say, well, it's all about social justice. So yes, it is political. Right? What do you guys think? Is your Christian faith, it's a tough topic, it's a complicated topic, is your Christian faith a political threat? Well again, as I said, my thesis for you this morning, what I what I want to convince you of is that yes, it is a political threat. Indeed, it's more of a political threat than anything Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump or anybody else from my neck of the woods down in DC means to say. And more than they would present. But it may not be a political threat in the way most people think. It is the threat of an ambassador An ambassador coming from another country, landing in this country, and saying, hey, my king has a message for you, nation. It's not the threat of a culture warrior. It's not the threat of somebody in Congress or somebody on the Supreme Court or somebody elected or not elected to the White House. It is the threat of an ambassador. Turn to Acts chapter 19. There is a couple of texts I want you to see in Acts. We're not going to spend our whole time there, but a couple of texts just to get us started. Okay? What you see in Acts chapter 19, verses 23 and following is the story of Demetrius, who's a silversmith. who has made silver shrines for the goddess Artemis. And Demetrius is convinced that Christians are a political threat. Verse 23 About that time there arose no little disturbance concerning the way. For a man named Demetrius, the silversmith Who made silver shrines of Artemis brought no little business to the craftsman. And these he, these craftsmen, he gathered together. with the workmen in similar trades and said, Ben, you know that from this business we have our wealth. And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but almost all of Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great many people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods. And there is no danger, not only do this train of ours may come into disrespute, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing. And that she may even be disposed from her magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship. When they heard this, they were enraged and were crying out , great is the Artemis of the Ephesians! And we see that there a riot ensues at that point. Now, Demetrius's uh concerns are in some sense Religious, right? What we call religion. He's he's afraid that Artemis is going to be deposed. Her and her great magnificence, she's going to be deposed and people are going to stop. Worshipping her. So he has these religious concerns. But is that his real concern in the text? What's his real concern? What kind of concern is it Money. It's money. It's financial. It's economic. This trade of ours is going to come into disrepute. People are going to stop buying our stuff. Right? That's kind of the deeper concern. In other words, and then of course this riot ensues. Right, a riot ensues from all of this. So Demetrius had a point. The life and activity of faithful Christians will disrupt false worship. It'll interrupt false worship. And that interruption, that disruption is going to play out. economically. It's going to have financial effects. As we interrupt false worship, there's economic consequences. Right? Pretty clear? From our text? Yet that's not the whole story. I want you to f fast forward now. Look at chapter 24. Chapter 24 in the book of Acts. And where we're going to find that Christians don't have a necessarily have an interest in overthrowing the state or overthrowing the marketplace. That's not our goal. Chapter 24, verse 5, you see the Jewish high priest there, and like Demetrius, look at verse 5, he's accusing Paul of stirring up riots. Right. This guy's a political problem saying, says the Jewish high priest. Yet turn one more chapter to 25, verse 5. 25, I'm sorry. 25, 25. Chapter 25, verse 25. And there we find the Roman governor, Festus, he's considering these charges of of of throwing up riot of instigating riots, of of fomenting political strife. He considers these charges. He surveys the evidence. He listens to the testimonies. And he concludes, look there, 25-25. I found that he, Paul. Has done nothing deserving death. In other words, this this Roman proconsul, this this Roman office holder look looks at all this and is like, no, he He's not an invader. He's not an insurrectionist. He's not a political threat. I mean, so he he dismisses the case. And okay, so we have these two passages, and I want you to look at both of these passages that were in your mind's eye at the same Time. We have to hold both of them together to understand what Christianity means politically. Yes, on the one hand. Christians are a political threat to the stability of the Roman or American way of life. Yes, we we are a threat. But no, we're not out to provoke civil strife. Okay? Yes, the presence of Christians will prove to be bad for businesses based on wickedness and idolatry. But no, mobs of Christians aren't going to set out to tear down temples and shops and networks. Yes, Christians and churches will challenge the idols and false dogs that prop up every government. and prop up every marketplace, whether the gods of the Roman Empire or the gods of the secular West. But no, we're not trying to overthrow the state. In other words, friends, Christians who and churches who preach the gospel will always pose a threat Yet it's not the threat of an invader or the threat of an insurrectionist. Instead, we pose the threat of a virus or termites. something that quietly chews away at the foundation of a marketplace or the foundation of a state. And the idols that hold up the marketplace, and the idols that hold up the state, until as we live and we chew away those idols, the state or the marketplaces that rest on top of those idols. Like Artemis, collapses. You see? In so far as your Christian faith Threatens the gods on which the state or the marketplace relies, you should expect opposition and even persecution. Persecution is rational. From the standpoint of those who are trying to protect those idols. Right? As with Demetrius. It makes sense from their standpoint. So Christians in China just living there quietly going about their business? People are being saved. People are saying, no, we will no longer worship the Communist Party and the things that the Communist Party wants. Well, what do you expect the Communist Party in China to do? Well, they're going to oppose those Christians. It makes sense. They have gods that they trust in, and the presence of Christians is bad for that. And they're going to oppose that. And so it is in the United States of America. There are things that people on both the right and the left are going to want to protect. And if we're just living here, proclaiming our gospel, saying, no, no, no, no, no, we can't worship that, friends on the right. No, no, no, no, no, we we can't worship that, friends the left We're going to find ourselves homeless politically. We're going to find ourselves crunched by both sides If you fit entirely on this side or you fit entirely on that side, who are you listening to? Really? A Christian should find him or herself Never quite fitting anywhere. Some things you agree with here, some things you agree with there. But never fully fitting, hand in glove, quite anywhere in this world. We're in it. Not quite of it, are we? That makes our relationship complicated. Right? And if it's not Might want to think about who you truly follow. Okay, I at the same time, friends, we also know the success of our political agenda doesn't depend on the outcome of any revolution. It doesn't depend on the outcome of any election. any Supreme Court nomination, any legislative agenda. I want you to stop and think, was God on the Tuesday evening? of 2016 was God up in heaven biting his nail thinking, okay, I really hope they vote the right way. During any given Supreme Court nomination, again, was God like, oh, they better get this right? Or God is like, no, I'm king. I know what I'm doing. Vote for him, vote for her, I'm I'm not threatened. Pass this nomination, don't. I'm okay Now I'm not saying that all things don't matter down here. I am not saying that. I do think some decisions are better than other decisions, wiser, less wiser than other decisions All I'm saying is we as saints, we as Christians know that the success of King Jesus doesn't finally depend on those. And if you don't understand that, then you're trusting in the gods of this world. You're trusting in horses and chariots. As Isaiah warned against. So we've got to start with knowing who the King of Kings is. Amen, brother. Okay, let me give you four reasons your Christianity is a political threat. Four reasons. And I'm gonna I'm putting it like that, that your faith is a political threat. I'm putting like that Because I want to prepare you, brothers and sisters, for opposition when it comes. I want to prepare you for opposition when it comes, that you won't be surprised by that opposition, that you won't sell out or give up when that opposition comes. I I I want to I'm putting it like that, so I want you to be encouraged that when you're standing With the Lord of history, you're standing on the right side of history. I'm putting it like that, so you can walk into darker days with a cheerful confidence Okay. Not panicked. Oh no. Jesus said that those who follow him are gonna no trouble in this world. What are you surprised at? This is what we signed up for when we got baptized. You know this, right? Okay, four reasons your faith is a political threat. Number one, what time am I supposed to end, Matt? Give me a time. Give me a number. Nine fifty? Nine fifty-five. Service starts at ten? Yeah. Okay, we need a little more than that. Four fit four reasons your faith is a political threat. Number one, your faith is a political threat because you believe Jesus is King. And every nation conspires against Jesus. Every nation conspires against Jesus. Your face is a political threat because Jesus is king and every nation conspires against Jesus. Psalm two. Why do the nations rage And the peoples plot in vain. The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart. cast away their cords from us. Okay, people talk about culture wars. I would say what they are actually are wars of religion. Either you are for Jesus or you are against Jesus. That is the greatest political divide. It's not right versus left. It's not Republican against Democrat. It's for Jesus or against Jesus. For Christ, for Antichrist. That is the divide which divides all of history. And divides our nation today. Are you for Jesus or are you against Jesus? Think of the political significance of Jesus saying, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. All authority to me. Either you love that or you don't. You hate it. It's one or the other. There's no neutral ground there. And that means when he says all authority on heaven and on earth has been given to me, that means his claim on our lives is total. It's comprehensive. It's not like he's got this area of our lives that he has a claim on, but but these areas kind of belong to us. That's yours, Jesus, but this area here is my no. His claim on our lives is total. What we do with our days, what we do with our wallets What we do in the bedroom, what we do with our family and our spouses and our children, what we do with our work, all of that is under the authority of Jesus. No wonder people say, even if they don't articulate these words in their heads, we know that in their hearts at some level they say, no. That's mine. That's the fallen condition of all of our hearts. There's no neutral ground. You're taking sides. Your neighbors are taking sides. Your colleagues are taking sides. For Jesus or against Jesus. That's the war. Okay? When he stands up and says, All authority is mine on heaven and earth. I've come, we are my my daughters and I driving up, we were listening to the book of Luke, and we are in chapter 13, 14, just on the In the car, and Jesus said, I've come not to bring peace but division. What does he mean? One of my daughters said, Jesus, uh Dad, why why does Jesus say I'm coming to bring division? Well, honey, because when Jesus says I'm king over everything, people are going to be for that or against that. That's it. Those are the two sides. Okay? So so you can get on your news channel, whether you're a Fox News watcher or an M S N B C watcher. And you know how they're going to divide describe the divine divide, but I want you to know that first and foremost this is a divide that determines our lives. That's got to be super clear in your minds. as a believer. And the disdain that you feel as a Christian, whether it's in the media or the academy or the courtroom or on the news, are depictions of the rage of the nations. The nations rage, and you feel it in the workplace, you feel it in the neighborhood, you feel it on the news. Because people hate in the flesh, people hate King Jesus. But here's an awkward question, perhaps for some of you. Some of you probably know and feel this better than others, some of you don't. Have you ever asked yourself Is America exempt from the indictment of Psalm two? America doesn't rage Or does it? Is it just one more nation? Now I'll be honest with you. I grew up as a Cubs fan. I grew up loving Thanksgiving. I grew up loving, you know, these or a that aspect of America, and I and I think we can be grateful for many things about America. America has been used to do good things, and we can be grateful for those good things. But is it possible that Psalm 2 also indicts America. And that there are many things that we could look to By which we can identify, yep, there is a rage against the Lord and against his anointed. Those aspects of American life. And America, just like Russia, China, Algeria, Morocco, you name it, Israel, ancient Israel, are under the indictment. Do we really want to put our trust there? I think that's an uncomfortable question for many Christians in America. But I think it's one that Psalm 2 just puts on our face and says, you're arguing it's not with the preacher, you're arguing it's with Psalm 2. Let's think about it. The Caesars and governors of ancient Rome opposed Christians and sometimes threw them to the lines because the they believed that the Christian refusal to worship Rome's gods Threaten the Roman way of life. It's not that they just hated Christians, it's that the Christians wouldn't worship their gods. And the success of Rome depended on the favor of the Roman gods. You guys won't worship our gods, you're gonna threaten our way of life, therefore we will oppose you. Again, it was rational from their perspective Right? It made sense. As the favor of the Roman gods that sustained Rome We like Rome. Don't worship our gods? That's a problem. You're interrupting the way I live and our success and the mightiness of Rome. Americans also have many gods. The God of material comfort, the God of progress, the God of my rights. The God of self-definition , the God of new technology, the God of sex, the God of safety, the God of my skin color. And we like our way of life. Oppose them, and I'll oppose you. Oppose the American gods, you can expect rage. You can expect wrath. Whether it's the gods of the right or the gods of the left. But, friends, if you would most love America, you will oppose its god false gods. Because we know that false gods do not give life. They deceive. They bring death. If you would most love America, Christian, you will oppose its false gods. And you will do this best when your hope doesn't rest in America. When you don't make it a false God. So if I say, friends, Christian friends, America may come or go. Christ's kingdom is certain. I wonder if that sounds slightly disloyal to you. I hope not. Don't mistake the gift for the giver. So number one, your Christianity is a political threat because you say Jesus is King. Number two, your faith is a political threat. Because your gospel confronts every form of self-justification and people love to justify themselves and their rule Number two, your faith is a political threat because your gospel confronts every form of self-justification and people love to justify themselves. and their own rule. Think about how Paul responds to the Jews in Romans 2, who quote, rely on the law. The Jews had regarded themselves as virtuous, and yet Paul in Romans 2 indicts them with stealing uh and and and and worse he says you who preach against stealing do you steal you you remember that passage but Paul's solution interestingly isn't just to say stop stealing You expect him to say, you who preach against stealing, do you steal? Well, you do, so stop stealing. That's not what he says. He says, the righteousness of God that you guys want That righteousness is through faith in Christ Jesus for all who believe If you're reading that for the first time, you're like, wait, wait, wait, what? Why don't you just say stop stealing? Why do you say the righteousness of God is through faith in Christ Jesus for all who believe? That makes sense, Paul. The Jews sought to justify themselves rather than to seek the justification that is by faith. And here is what's crucial for us to recognize. Self-justification always leads to self-rule. If I want to rule myself, what do I have to do? I have to justify it. I have to say I deserve to rule. I I I deserve to make the decisions of my even s even Lex Luthor has to come up with an argument. A justification for why he has the right to kill Superman and rule the planet. Right? In other words, self-rule always sits on the throne of self-justification. It sits on an argument. I have to make an argument, a justification for why I get to rule. Make sense? I'm wiser than you. I'm wealthier than you. I'm whiter than you. Therefore, I deserve to rule Therefore, I deserve to make all the decisions. Did you see my argument? I'm wiser, I'm wealthier, I'm wider. I should be able to rule Rule based on an argument, a justification. If I need to exploit you, if I need to oppress you, then I should have that right because of these arguments You see? Okay. So the gospel of justification by faith alone comes along and attacks not first the rule, but it attacks all the arguments. Wait a second. You think you're justified because you're wiser? You you really? Think you're wise? Because you're wealthier? Because you look like this or that and have that skin color? Really? That's what you find your justification is? You think you're worth anything? Because of those arguments, says Paul. You're kidding me. You're a sinner You're under condemnation. Look how wise or foolish, wealthy, not wealthy, this skin color, that skin color you think you are. You're under God's condemnation. You're all sinners. You all deserve his wrath. He blows up the arguments, right? In the first chapter, in the first verses of Romans chapter 3. All are under God's wrath. All are guilty, says Paul. None of you have arguments for why you get to put yourself over others. You can't put yourself over others and rule over them. You have nothing to your name to claim, says Paul. Blows up the blows up this house, blows up that house. Right? He's an equal opportunity offender. Says Paul You have no standing before God, any of you, because you went to Sunday school. You have no standing before God because your daddy's a pastor. You have no standing before God because you memorized all these Bible verses as a kid. You have no standing before God because you belong to this class rather than that class. This group instead of that group. Because you work really hard. Because you've done nice things. You have no standing before God. You deserve nothing from God because of those things, says Paul. Right? You guys are Christians. This is the beginning, right? You you understand this. This is an indictment. We're all under sin. We're all sinful. We're all under wrath. Arguments over. No, you don't get to sit in the throne. Close your mouth. says Paul. And the end of self-justi of self-justification, these arguments, means the end of self-rule The end of the arguments, the end of self-justification means the end of the rule. So he blows up the arguments and he blows up the throne that we all put ourselves on to rule over other people. To demand our way in our day. To demand our way in our nation. Instead, Paul says, you need an outside justification. You need an outside righteousness, an alien from the outside, from another planet, as it were, an alien justification. You need an imputation of righteousness. You need someone else's righteousness. You need the righteousness of of God Himself. And so God came, put on flesh, lived the perfect life, never sinned. Never did the stuff we did, never put himself over others. Went to the cross, paid the penalty for a sin that we deserve. rose again and said, now I will give my righteousness to all those who repent and believe. That's the righteousness we need. That's the throne, the justification that we need to sit on. And then it was that perfectly righteous one that says, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Do you see? Then, when you're holding on to him and his righteousness, God says to you, now rule, rule on my behalf. Rule in my image Meaning obey and walk as I walk and live as I live and bring dominion over the earth as I bring dominion over the earth. says God, as we're relying on the righteousness of Christ. Do you want to make people mad? Do you want to make people rage? Here's how. Tell them they can't improve themselves. What do you mean? Teacher said I can improve myself. Teacher said resources are inside of me for proving myself. No, no, they're not. You're kind of pathetic That'll make people mad. But friends, that's exactly what the gospel of justification by faith alone says. It says the resources are not inside of you. It says, no, you can't rule on your own terms. It says you need an outside justification, an outside righteousness, and then you rule on God's terms. You live on God's terms. And that is a profound political threat. A polite profound political threat to can do Americans' attitudes. A Christian's political posture begins right here. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Wait a second. I'm the bad one. That's where Christian politics begins. I'm the unjust one. I'm the unrighteous one. Never mind the speck in my neighbor's eye. Oh, I got a plank in my own eye. That's where we begin our politics, brothers and sisters in Christ. I have no arguments. I have no justifications for preserving my way of life and my way of rule. I'm under indictment. I deserve wrath. Hey, you Christians, you're unjust. Yeah, that's right. Too often we we are unjust. Hey, hey Christians, you're racists. Yeah. Too often w we have given into, I have given into my my heart of racism. Hey Christians, you don't care for the poor. Again , not going to deny it. I'm selfish. I hoard. I don't want to give freely. So the difference between the church and the world is not that the church never sins and the world does sin, that the church is always just and the world is unjust. The difference between the church and the world Is that we admit our sin. And we admit our injustice. And we we agree with God when God brings the indictment against our sin and against our injustice. We take God's side against our sin rather than sin's side against God. That's the difference. The world takes sin's side against God Christians take God's side against the sin in our own hearts and the sin in the world. That's the beginning of a Christian politics It's not their bad. It's we're w we're we we're all bad, including me. At one point in his ministry, George Whitfield received a vicious letter accusing him of wrongdoing. He replied in his letter, I thank you heartily for your letter. As for what you and my other enemies are saying against me, I know worse things about myself than you will ever say about me. With love in Christ, George Whitfield. Friends, if you don't catch my point, I'm just talking about the gospel here. I'm just talking about the gospel. I'm under wrath. I'm sinful. Good news, Jesus came to pay the penalty for that sin and give me new life, and now I rule, I live in Christ. And that's where, again, a Christian politics has to begin, in owning the indictment, and receiving the indictment. And so long as you keep standing there and saying, I'm righteous and they're unrighteous. What different are you than the world? That's precisely what both the parties say. That's precisely what's going on in our culture right now. Everybody is self-righteous We're bad. We're good, they're bad. And a Christian says, no, no, we're all bad, including me. Number three, your face is a political threat because it binds you to a new people, creating relational priorities they don't understand. It binds you to a new people. creating relational priorities they don't s understand. Peter tells us we're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. And how dramatically that impacts our political obligations to one another. Think of Paul, he's writing Philemon, right? You know the story of Philemon, his slave or his bondservant. Onisimus runs away. Onesimus becomes a Christian. Paul meets Onesimus, and then Paul says to Oni, look , you have unfulfilled obligations to to Philemon. But then he writes Philemon and says, hey, listen, Philemon, Onesimus is a Christian. You need to receive him as a brother, not as a slave. The fact that you are brothers in Christ puts new obligations on you and Onesimus. Do you see what happens? There's a new relationship with new obligations which changes the structures. Of this world. Do you see how Paul's eating away like a virus, like termites at the foundations of the very Roman order? In that? Better receive them as a brother in Christ. Philemon. Think of how Philemon could have responded. He could have said, Oh, hold on, Paul. Let's be reasonable. Our entire economy depends on indentured servitude, Paul. And imagine if Ph Philemon then went and talked to his wife or talked to his parents who gave him the land and gave him all that he has. And they just said, Listen, Philemon, I understand you enjoy your new Christianity thing with Oh, that's great. That's fine. But let's be a reason. I think Paul's a little overboard here. He's a little zealous. I find for you to worship. But don't go treating Onesimus as your equal. That's gonna mess up everything. In fact, in fact, in fact, Philemon, if you do that, well son, son, I'm I'm I'm I'm not sure I'm gonna give you my inheritance. It's going to incur family rage. Family anger. And friends, it's it's it's it's this new politics begins in the relationships in this room. Okay? If if if you, brothers and sisters, can't love people who are different from you from different walks of life and different higher, lower echelons of this measurement or that measurement, if the gospel doesn't impact the relationships in this room. For you who call yourself Baltimore Bible Church, forget it out there. Well, you think they're going to do better than you doing here? You have the gospel. So it starts here. And then learn it here, and then it should spell out there. That's your politics. It starts here. Don't don't talk to me out there if you're not doing in here. Number four. Your faith is a political threat because it yields a new kind of life, one that simultaneously repels and attracts. Your faith is a political threat because it yields a new kind of life, one that simultaneously repels and attracts. The Christian life will do both. And if it's not doing both, it's not the Christian faith. If you think your Christian faith can just attract You don't get it. It'll also repel. If it only repels, you're obnoxious. It should also attract. Jesus, Sermon on the Mount, people will revile you and persecute you, and there are all kinds of evil against you, falsely in my account. But then verse 16 he says Let light your light should shine before others so they may see your good works and give glory to the Father in heaven. It's gonna do both. The Christian faith, the life of Christianity, is both the ointment and the fly in the ointment. It's both Okay. Um bottom line, I could tell you a story about that, but I think you understand that point. Bottom line, friends, our our faith is a political threat. First of all, to us. It's a threat to your own identity and what you've been building your identity on. It's a threat to your own way of life and the way of life you've been building. all of these years because you're you're born into a new life with Christianity. There's a new birth and and and all the categories of your original birth no longer define you in the same way. They they I'm still a man I'm still white. I still have my parents. Yes, they define me. But the new birth takes all the categories of my original birth and says, let's, let's, let's Let's consider what those really mean. I'm still a male with certain advantages and disadvantages in this world because of that. That doesn't go away. I'm still white with certain advantages and disadvantages that come with that in this world. But now Jesus takes those things and says, okay, Jonathan, I want you to do your maleness and I want you to do your whiteness or whatever you are for my purposes. And he gets to redefine the categories of original creation. Do you see? Because it all comes under his lordship. So first and foremost, Christianity is a threat to me, to Jonathan. I've been crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ lives in me. Right? And then yes, that will threaten others. As the new Jonathan comes in, new Jonathan's going to say things that old Jonathan and old Jonathan's friends isn't going to like. As he says some things which offend them and some things which offend them. But friends, that's the church. Let me close us in prayer. Father God, thank you for your mercy. Help us to recognize the indictment of God of the gospel against each of us, and then help us to live as new creations, a new people, a new humanity, a new race. As Peter says, and help us to live together in this congregation and in my congregation like that. So that the world both sees the good And as attractive to that, even as they see the demands of the gospel and the demands of the Lord Jesus over them, and they don't like that. Help us to have courage and wisdom both and love. In Christ's name, amen. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events or where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org Baltimore Bible Church reserve all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating CDs and all digital files.