The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's open up our Bibles to the book of Matthew. We're back in the the book of Matthew. Matthew chapter 5. And it's appropriate that uh that we'd sing about Psalm 19 because we're going to talk about the scriptures today. We're talking about the scriptures, Christ in the scriptures. And this week we arrive at a passage that uh serves as a transition uh from the introduction of the Sermon on the Mount to the body of the Sermon on the Mount In the opening uh twelve verses, the Beatitudes uh introduced uh us to the character of the citizens of the kingdom, uh those who inherit eternal life. Uh the citizens of the kingdom are marked by uh both a deep sense of their own poverty as well as a deep sense of the richness found in Jesus Christ. In themselves they're they're poor, they mourn, uh they're hungry, but in Christ they will inherit the kingdom. of heaven and earth and they will be satisfied. And then in uh verses thirteen to sixteen in uh Matthew chapter five, uh Jesus powerfully presented to us the the influence of the citizens of the kingdom. Whether we think we're influential or not, we are the salt and we are the light of the world. We might not have uh much of a say politically or culturally. Economically, but uh spiritually, uh there are no alternatives for the Christian. There are no alternatives for the Christian. Christ reminds us that the only hope for a dark and decaying world is the collective testimony of kingdom citizens. That is the only hope that this world has. And uh we're not commanded to be salt and light. Uh we're just commanded to uh uh not compromise our taste and uh not to cover the light up. We are salt and light and what a powerful and convicting uh word that was uh uh to us. Uh and that was all part of Jesus' introduction. You know, we're still just getting started with the the Sermon on the Mount here. And uh now before Jesus gets into the body of the sermon, he moves into verses 17 to 20, which invite us to consider the authority of the kingdom. The authority of the kingdom. Let's read Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 to 20. Jesus says this, do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away Not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees You will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh do thank you for your word. We thank you that your word is uh sharp, it's powerful. It uh cuts into the core of who we are, it uh separates uh soul from spirit and joints from marrow My Father, we pray that your word would deeply penetrate us even this afternoon, Lord, as we look at it. My Father, may you use this message to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. The authority of the Word of God is what Jesus points us to in these verses. The authority of the Word of God, the phrase the law or the prophets that he mentions. In uh verse uh seventeen, do you not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets? I did not come to abolish but to fulfill uh that word, uh that phrase law or the prophets was uh a phrase that was used to speak of the Old Testament scriptures. The Old Testament scriptures. The Old Testament was uh either uh divided into two or to three parts. Uh the first five books were known as the the law or the Torah in Hebrew and the rest of the books were either known as the prophets Or uh Neveim in uh in Hebrew it was called and uh the the prophets uh and psalms were also part of uh the Jewish writings known as the the Ketuvim or the or the writings. If you've ever heard of the the word uh Tanakh the the Hebrew Tanakh. It's actually uh um just uh refers it's an acronym that refers to the first letters of the Torah, the Neveim, and the Keteveen. It's just an acronym used to uh to talk about those three divisions of the of the the the word of God, the uh Old Testament scriptures. And it's interesting that Jesus either referred to the Old Testament either in uh three parts or two parts as well. In uh Luke chapter twenty-four. In verse 44 he referred to the Old Testament in three parts in Luke twenty four forty four it says Now he said to them, These are my words which I spoke to you while I was still with you. That all things which are written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. So he talks about the word of God in three parts, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. But more often he would refer to the scriptures in in two parts. For example, in Matthew chapter 22, in verse 40, he says, On these two commandments uh referring to loving God and loving your neighbor, depend the whole law and the prophets. Referring to the the whole of the Old Testament scripture is the the law and the prophets And uh this is the way that uh uh others refer to the scriptures as well, the law and the prophets, over in uh John chapter one and verse forty-five, the apostle uh Philip spoke of it in the same way. Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus of Nazareth the son of Joseph. So when Jesus uses this phrase, law or the prophets, he's speaking of the scriptures as they would have understood them in the first century. And in this sermon, Jesus will speak with great authority, as we know, in Matthew chapters 5 to 7. In chapter 7, verse 29, it says, For he was teaching them as one having authority. and not as their scribes. And I've pointed this out to you before that over and over again throughout the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus constantly says these words, I say to you, I say to you, I say to you, referring to his own authority. And uh the temple officers once remarked that uh that never has a man spoken in the way that this man speaks. Nobody speaks like Jesus. He speaks with authority that nobody else has. And Jesus, as he begins this transition into the body of a sermon, he wants to remind the disciples that while he'll say things that will strike them out of their senses, And while nobody else has ever spoken like he's spoken before, that everything that he says is absolutely consistent with the scriptures This is the point that Jesus wants to drive to these disciples, that he's saying things that are consistent with the Bibles that they're already familiar with, the law and the prophets. What I'm saying is consistent with the law and the prophets. He doesn't say, he doesn't say he says right here, don't think that I've come to abolish the law and the prophets. That that word abolish is a strong term uh that's uh used to to uh mean to do away with, to annul, to make invalid, to even destroy. And uh basically Jesus is saying is that the last thing that I want you to walk away with is to think that my purpose is to overthrow the Old Testament scriptures. The kind of construction that he actually uses here is understood uh grammatically uh to mean don't even start to think that I came for that purpose. Don't even entertain that thought. Nothing could be further from the truth. And this is really one of the great interpretive challenges of those that study Scripture. One of the great theological questions that we have, what is the relationship between the Old and the New Testament? That's one of the questions that the theologians struggle with. What is the relationship between the old and the new testament. And Jesus right here, he starts to answer that question for us. What is that relationship between the old and the new? One commentator says this. Such an expression implies that he knew there was danger of their thinking so, and possibly that some had actually said this of him. The Pharisees would be sure to say it. He disregarded the their oral tradition, which they held to be equal in authority with the Scripture. He interpreted the written law according to the spirit of the law, and not as they did according to the rigid letter He didn't keep up with their weekly fast or observe their elaborate uh distinctions between the clean and the unclean. Uh he consorted with outcasts and sinners as you think about Christ and what he did. He neglected the traditional modes of teaching and preached in preached in a way all of his own. Above all he spoke as if he himself were an authority, independent of the law. Even some of his own followers may have been perplexed and have thought that he proposed to supersede the law. But he says, don't think for a minute that I came to do away with it. I have not come to do away with the Old Testament. And there's three reasons why this prohibition to think that way is given. First of all, Christ's purpose will be fulfilled through the scriptures in verse 17. Second, God's plan will be accomplished in the scriptures. And then number three, God's people will be judged by the scriptures. This is why they weren't to think that Jesus has come to do away with the Old Testament scriptures. Christ's purpose will be fulfilled through them, God's plan will be accomplished through them, and God's people will be judged by them. So we shouldn't think that Christ would abolish the Old Testament because first of all, Christ's purpose will be fulfilled through the Scriptures. Look at verse 17 again. Do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. But to fulfill. And what does that mean? What does it mean that Christ came to fulfill the scriptures? Does he mean that he fulfilled it in the sense that he obeyed the scriptures? That's one way that you can understand that. Jesus certainly obeyed the scriptures. In John chapter 6, verse 38, he says, For I've come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. In John chapter 8, verse 29, it says, And he sent, and he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him. So you could say that Jesus Christ always fulfilled the Scriptures in the sense that he always obeyed the Scriptures. Jesus Christ fully obeyed God. And even though there were religious leaders that desperately wanted to find some kind of charge against Jesus in violation of the law, they couldn't find anything that would stick. Even at the at uh at the trial of Jesus Christ, as he's about to be crucified, they couldn't even find two witnesses that would agree with one another about what he did to violate the law. Jesus Christ absolutely Led a life without sin whatsoever. In John chapter 8, verse 46, this is what he says to those that accused him, to his enemies. This is what he says. Which one of you convicts me of sin? It's like, you know, come on, bring it on. Which one of you can convict me of sin? There's not one of you that can convict me of something that I've done wrong. And then he says, if I speak the truth, why don't you believe me? They couldn't point to anything that Jesus did in his life that violated Scripture whatsoever. The only place that they could find a violation is, you know, you violated my law. You violated not not God's law but my law. You violated my traditions. Why don't you why don't you respect the traditions of the Pharisees and the elders? But they couldn't point to one scripture that he ever violated. Jesus Christ lived the life that was in perfect conformity to the law of of God. They couldn't find, like I said, two people that could agree about what he did wrong. So Jesus could have meant that I've come to obey the scriptures. Or maybe Jesus meant this, that I fulfill the scriptures in the sense that I properly explain the scriptures. I fill out the meaning of scriptures. That's the one of the ways that the word fulfill can be used. And he certainly did that as well. Jesus Christ was a teacher like no other. Jesus' ability to rightly divide the scripture was unsurpassed. He uh placed scripture within its original context and confounded not only his relig religious opponents, but he he also confounded the devil. I mean the devil couldn't get away with anything, right? And you find in Matthew chapter four where uh Jesus Christ is able to put scriptures within their context. so that uh uh that Satan doesn't get the upper hand on him. And in the context of uh this sermon, Jesus is about to give the clearest exposition of the law that you've ever seen. And going through the Sermon on the Mount where he talks about their interpretations versus the true interpretation of the scripture, Jesus Christ understands his Bible. And we're looking forward to getting into that. Jesus Christ actually going through and explaining what the law of God is. But As you look at Matthew and the way that he uses the word fulfill, the most consistent use with Matthew is the idea of fulfilling Old Testament predictions. about who Jesus Christ is. When Jesus Christ says that I haven't come to abolish but to fulfill the scriptures, what he's referring to, and it's just consistent with the rest of the book of Matthew is that I've come to be the the one who fulfills the prophecies, to fulfill the predictions about who the Messiah is supposed to be. More than any other gospel writer, uh Matthew is the book of fulfillment. He is the writer of fulfillment at least fifteen times. Matthew uses this specific uh phrase to demonstrate that uh uh the events in Jesus' life took place in a way, exactly the way that they did, in order to fulfill what the scriptures predicted would happen in the life of Jesus Christ. Over and over again in Matthew chapter 1, 22, 215, 217, 223, 315, 414, if we could just keep going on and on. Matthew just constantly says that he came to fulfill this. He came to fulfill this. As the Old Testament scriptures predicted, he came to fulfill this. And this in addition to many quotes and allusions to the Old Testament found in the book of Matthew, point to Jesus Christ as the fulfillment of Old Testament Scripture. And this is just, like I said, the way to understand Matthew consistently. And uh Jesus recognized about himself that he was the grand theme of Scripture. He himself was the grand theme of Scripture, which when you think about it, would have been blasphemous if Jesus wasn't God, right? Who else can say I am the theme of scripture? The scriptures are about me. Who else can say that but God alone? Jesus Christ is the only one who walked this earth who could say that. He spoke to the Jews in John chapter 5 and verse 39. And he says, you search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me. The scriptures that you're reading, they're really about me. Only God can say that. And then on the road to Emmaus after his resurrection, he caught up with two of his disciples and he gave them a little Bible study, it says, in uh Luke chapter 24. Verse 27, it says, then beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. If uh you remember the phrase uh Moses and the prophets, as I said before, that that uh phrase was used to speak about the whole uh Old Testament scriptures. So he says he began with Moses and with all the prophets. What's he talking about? The entirety of the Old Testament. He began with Moses and the prophets and explained to them the things concerning himself. in the entire Old Testament. It says that I am the theme of the scriptures. Jesus says, I'm the one the scriptures point to. Why would I set aside the scriptures, abolish the scriptures when the scriptures are what I came to fulfill. I came to fulfill what Scripture says about myself. So there was no need to set aside the Scriptures as if they contradicted anything about who he was He came for this very purpose. And that phrase, I have come, also another phrase that points to his deity. He doesn't say I've been born for this purpose. He says, I've come for this purpose What is what does that indicate? That I've pre-existed even my birth. I've I've come for this purpose. There was no need to set them aside because he came for this very purpose. Jesus is the eternal Son of God who entered this world with the purpose of fulfilling The scriptures for his glory and for our benefit. He wanted to abolish the scriptures because his purpose is fulfilled through them. So that's one of the reasons why Christ wanted to abolish the Old Testament passages Second thing, Christ wanted to abolish the Old Testament Scripture because God's plan will be accomplished through the Scriptures. Look at verse 18 in Matthew chapter 5 again. It says, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest stroke Not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Not the smallest stroke. Smallest letter or stroke. I keep forgetting that backwards. Not the smallest letter or stroke. Shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. One of the doctrines of Scripture that should bring you great comfort is the doctrine of the infallibility of the Scriptures Infallibility. It's related to the inerrancy of the scriptures, but it's also distinct from it. When we say that the scriptures are inerrant, we mean to say that the scriptures are free from error, that everything that the scripture says is absolute truth. But when we say that the scriptures are infallible, we mean that the scriptures are not only free from error, but they're incapable of error. Incapable of producing error. So just like the character of Jesus Christ remains the same yesterday, today, forever, we can say about the character of the scriptures that they remain the same yesterday, today, forever. They're infallible. They can't change. Can't change. And the confidence we have is that every purpose of God will be accomplished. And uh 2 Corinthians Chapter 1 verse 20 it says, For as many as are the promises of God in him, they are yes. Therefore also through him is our amen to the glory of God through us. Everything that God promises yes and amen. You can bank on it. Whatever God says is absolute truth. And there's several ways that Jesus stresses to his disciples. the reliability of the the scriptures. First thing that he does here is he says, uh truly, look at verse 18 again. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest sh Letter or stroke shall pass from the law. Why does he begin with the word truly? In the Greek it's the word uh Amen. In English we say Amen. We're we're used to hearing that word at the end of a prayer or at the end of a of a statement, you know, to affirm something that, you know, yeah, I believe that's true. Uh Jesus, and this is just the interesting thing about what Jesus did. Um He didn't wait until the end of something to say amen to say I affirm this is true. He he stuck it right there at the beginning. This is unlike anything that that anybody had ever done. Jewish people would have expected the word to be used at the end just like we would have expected the word amen to come at the end. Jesus puts it right up front. He says, I don't need anybody to to you know affirm that this is true. I'll affirm that it's true up front. I'll affirm that it's true. Amen. Matthew records it 31 times the Gospel of Matthew. John records the double usage of the word Amen. Amen. Amen. You know, before he would say anything. Verily, verily, truly, truly I say to you, because everything that he said was absolute truth. He was certain of it. That's the first way Jesus stresses the reliability of uh of the scriptures, for truly, truly I say unto you. The second thing that Jesus does to stress the reliability of the scriptures is He illustrates it with two unchangeable features of creation. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass. uh heaven and earth passing away. Some com commentators want to get technical with that. And uh they point out that one day the heaven and earth will pass away Uh Peter speaks of a time in the future known as the day of the Lord in second Peter three, verse ten says, But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intense heat. And the earth and its works will be burnt up. But that's not the point that Jesus is trying to make here. That's not the point. The point is that there is nothing that we can do to change the heaven and earth, right? There's nothing that we can do about that. They represent, from our vantage point, permanence. What are you going to do to get rid of the earth? What are you going to do to get rid of the heavens? There's nothing that you can do Heaven and earth are often used in Scripture as a synonym for permanence. That's uh something that's been established by God. Let me uh flip you over here real quick. Uh flip over to uh Proverbs chapter 3 Look at verse 19, Proverbs 3. 19. Talks about this idea of permanence here. It says the Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding he established the heaven. Flip over to Psalm 93. Psalm 93, look at verse 1. It says the the Lord reigns. He is clothed with majesty. The Lord is clothed and girded himself with strength. Indeed, the world is firmly established. It will not be moved. Your throne is established from of old. You are from everlasting. Flip over to Psalm 104, a couple pages to the right there. Look at Psalm 104, verse 5. It says, he established the earth upon its foundations so that it will not totter forever and ever. And then the last one I'll mention is in Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes chapter 1 and verse 4, I'll just go ahead and quote it for you here. It says, A generation goes and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. Uh so so the idea that that they would have thought about when it says, you know, uh heavens and earth passing away, they would have thought about something that can't be done There's nothing that we can do to change the heaven and the earth. And the idea is that uh the passing of generations and what people do here on this planet has no effect on the earth. Has no effect on the on the heavens. And just in case you believe that somehow uh the destruction of the the elements will affect God's word from being accomplished, uh Jesus says this in Matthew uh twenty-four, verse thirty-five Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Even when the heaven and earth does pass away, my words will remain. Psalm 119, verse 89, Forever, O Lord, your word is settled in heaven. And in 1 Peter 125, but the word of the Lord endures forever, and this is the word which was preached to you. So right here, Jesus is letting us know again, just by these two unchangeable features of creation, that my word will remain. My word will be established. And even if the heaven and earth were to pass away, my word is still going to be there. You can count on it. Count on my word being there. And the third thing that Jesus does here to stress the Reliability of the scriptures is he moves from the immensity of heaven and earth to the smallest letters and strokes of a of a pen. Look back at uh Matthew chapter five again. Again, truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke. No, I can finally say that right, not the smallest letter or stroke. shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. In the the King James it says uh one jot or or tittle if you you guys uh grew up on the King James there. The actual uh Greek words are are Yoda and Korea. Uh Yoda would have been uh Or Ioda would have been uh would have referred to the Hebrew letter um Yod, but it's the smallest letter of the of the Hebrew scriptures. He's referring to the Old Testament scriptures. Uh so that would have been the letter that you've been referring to, the the Yod. Basically it looks like an apostrophe. And uh a lot of times in uh when they write Hebrew, they won't even insert the letter Yod. It's just that you know that little little letter there. Looks like an apostrophe. Smallest letter in the Hebrew alphabet. The Korea means a projection, horn, or hook. It's like a small stroke that would distinguish certain uh Hebrew letters from from one another. It would kind of be like the the difference between our capital O and a capital Q. You know, what's the difference between an O and a Q? It's just that that little little line on the bottom, right? Just to distinguish the O from the Q. In Hebrew there's several letters that are only separated by a small stroke. And uh in in seminary they they cause me much pain and agony Uh because not only are you looking at these little lines and things, you're looking at dots and dashes and trying to figure out what's going on and and the type is usually pretty small in the in the Hebrew text. But the the the point isn't here that um Every physical copy of the Hebrew Bible remained in perfect condition. That's not the not the case. And uh it's not like a letter never wore out or got rubbed out. Uh over time we actually know that that happened. Uh actually scribes had an had had an interesting practice uh that after a scroll got worn, started to get old, started to fade, show uh signs of wear, uh they'd actually take that copy of the scriptures and either burn it, or bury it because they they didn't want anybody to to get confused with uh what might be be missing there. So they they write a fresh copy And then burn or bury the old copy, just so you know nobody would get confused. Have you guys ever heard about the Dead Sea Scrolls placed in that cave there? That was actually uh most people believe the burial site for scrolls. You know, it's like the scrolls that you know they're get starting to get old, we're gonna find the cave and bury it. You know, bury these these scrolls away. And the amazing thing is about these scrolls, even though they're they're worn and aged and everything else, They were dated back to the year 200 B. C. or between 200 BC and 100 A. D. And uh when the scrolls were were found and actually compared to the Hebrew scrolls that we have today. I mean it's like word for word accuracy in most places. I mean there's just like st little difference whatsoever and uh it lets us know that we haven't lost any content in two thousand years. Two thousand years of of history, we haven't lost a lost a thing from the scriptures. So Jesus' point wasn't that you know a a physical physical scroll would never be rubbed out or, you know, get worn or whatever else. He's saying that the content of it, the truth of it, is going to remain. There's nothing that you can do to take away the infallibility of every word of Scripture. Whether it's the smallest dot or dash or whatever you want to put on there, every word of scripture will be accomplished and God makes sure of it. God makes sure of that. God will do everything he said he will do. Just how he said he would do it and when he said he would do it, right? That's the kind of God that we believe in. There's not one stroke or letter that will go unaccomplished in the scriptures. And the third reason why Jesus wouldn't have abolished the law is because God's people will be held accountable by the scriptures. This is fascinating. Look at uh verses uh 19 and 20. It says, whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. And like I said, this is one of the most challenging issues in theology. How does the Old and the New Testament relate to one another? What is the Christian responsible for? And we'll take some time to develop this idea and not all this week. We're actually going to come back to this next week. Because the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ change something, right? Thank God, right? The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ means something's different. But there are Christians who are willing To ignore what Jesus says here and say that, you know, hey, the Old Testament isn't for me at all because I'm a New Testament believer. And just kind of toss away, you know, all these books, confusing names and everything else back in the Old Testament. Hey, forget about that. We're New Testament believers. If they pay attention to what Jesus is saying here, you better be warned. You don't just toss away the the the scriptures and say that, you know, hey, this has nothing to do with me. I'm just gonna, you know, uh uh ignore it. Actually an interesting story. R. C. Sprohl, he tells this uh story of the conference that he was in invited to in in New York, and I don't know why my beloved home state is always known for some aberrant theology. I don't know why. I mean Mormonism I I heard began in New York, but uh but anyway. He says he was invited to this uh conference in New York on the and he's supposed to speak on the holiness of God. And that following the first service, the conference committee asked him to join them in prayer. You know, so far so good, right? He says, I went to the home of one of the committee members with almost twenty others, and we gathered together for prayer. Someone turned off the lights. And then they all got down on their knees and began to pray to their dead relatives, calling upon them to appear. I'm just trying to imagine what his face looked like at this point. He says, when I questioned what was occurring, they explained that they were in the Spirit. So I said, do you realize that what you were doing would have gotten you the death penalty in the Old Testament? That God said that sort of thing is so offensive to him that he would punish the whole nation if it were permitted? They replied, We know that, but that's the Old Testament. We're free from that now. And I know it's an extreme example, but there's plenty of uh New Testament scriptures that you know you could use to argue against you know fraying a dead relatives But my question is, have we become guilty of writing off entire books of Scripture because we believe, oh, that's just part of another dispensation? That's nothing to do with me. Do you realize that the first Bible of the New Testament church was the Old Testament? That's the first Bible of the New Testament church. Flip over to 2 Timothy real quick. 2 Timothy Look at uh chapter 3. You guys know this well. 2 Timothy chapter 3 Final letter from the Apostle Paul, New Testament apostle to the Gentiles. Let's see what his uh view of the scriptures were, the Old Testament scriptures. Look at uh chapter 3 verses 14 and 15. Says, you however, speaking of Timothy, continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of. knowing from whom you have learned them, and that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Says, you know what the Old Testament scriptures are uh able to do? They're able to lead you to salvation in Christ. Because they they explain who Christ was. You find that um that that the uh the the first apologist of the of the church They would go into the Old Testament scriptures to prove that Jesus was the Christ, that he fulfilled everything that the scriptures said about him. Another thing, how about Timothy's ministry? Look at uh verses sixteen and seventeen. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for approval, for correction, for training and righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. You know what Scripture is referring to? Old Testament scriptures. That's the Bible that Timothy would have had is the Old Testament scriptures. Says it was it was sufficient to make him adequate, equipped for every every good work. Not only that, not only was it profitable for Timothy, it was also profitable for the whole church. Look at uh 1 Timothy chapter 4. Look at verse 13 Until I come, verse 13, give attention to the public reading of Scripture to exhortation and teaching. He goes on to say, Do not neglect the spiritual gift within you which was uh bestowed on you through prophetic utterance. But uh Timothy was to read scripture out loud to the congregation. Give attention to the public. Reading. Give attention to the reading. That's one of the reasons why we do that here every uh every uh Lord's Day. That we just we just read through scripture. Just read a chapter of scripture. Why? Because it's profitable for you. You know, you may I may have to struggle through the names and everything else, the places, but it is profitable for you. Okay? It's what the the the Lord says. The Lord says that the scripture is profitable Scriptures were written for our instruction. Romans fifteen verse four, for whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, so that through perseverance and the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. In 1 Corinthians 10 verse 11, now these things happen to them as an example, and they were written for our instruction upon whom the end of the ages have come. And uh what Jesus indicates in Matthew is that in some sense we are accountable for all of it. We're accountable for it Our present response to the Scripture will determine our future reward from the Scripture. Present response to it will determine our future reward from it. When Jesus says that you shall be called least , Or that uh ye shall be called great back over in uh in Matthew chapter five. Um that needs to be understood in light of what's already been said in the context of the sermon. on the Mount. We've already been introduced to the idea of future rewards and the Beatitudes, even the idea of this divine commendation. In verse 9 in uh chapter 5, it says, uh, you shall be called sons of God. And now it's saying that ye shall be called least if you ignore the scriptures, or ye shall be called great because of your attention that you give to the scriptures. This is the divine declaration on the future kingdom, and this is uh There's this evidence here that there's some kind of future reward based on our obedience now, based on our uh diligence that to pay attention to the scriptures now. Like I said, there's there's more that we have to develop from this, but um but I just want to say this that Christians are not antinomian. We're not lawless We're not without law. We can't be saved by obedience to the to the law, but uh we're not without the law of God and any disrespect, disdain for, disregard, or outright disobedience to the law of God is judged by God. Okay? Any outright disobedience, disrespect, disregard for the law of God is judged by God. And the question is, does that concern you? I I know it does me. Uh what Jesus is going to do here is is he's about to properly interpret the Old Testament law for the New Testament believer. Okay? That's what Jesus is about to do here in the Sermon on the Mount. And uh really he forms this kind of bracket around the Sermon on the Mount. If you look at uh chapter 5, verse 17, it says, Do you not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets? And then you look clear over at the end of the Sermon on the Mount in uh chapter 7 and verse 12, look what he says here. In everything, therefore, treat people the same way you want them to treat you, for this is the law and the prophets So you have law and the prophets at the beginning, law and the prophets at the end. And everything in between is just this exposition that Jesus gives of the law and the prophets. And uh what's being emphasized here is not the uh, as one writer said, the minutiae of the law that tended to captivate the Pharisees, but simply a full faithfulness to the law as it's expounded by Jesus. And thus the final and full meaning of the law is taken up and interpreted by Jesus. And uh what we're gonna find here, and we'll wait till the the next time, like I said, to develop this, but uh but here's something to chew on until the to the next time we we get together. Knowing that Jesus Christ, okay, God in human flesh, Jesus Christ, God in human flesh, had such a high regard for the Scripture, what kind of attitude should we have towards it? I mean Jesus Christ, he could have just spoken something and it would have just been scripture because he said it. But here Jesus is saying, I haven't come to abolish anything that was already written I have such a high regard for the scripture that that not one little letter is going to be missing. Not one stroke of the pen is going to be missing from what this word has to say. If this is the kind of attitude that God in the flesh had towards the Bible, what kind of attitude should we have towards the Bible? What kind of reverence should we have toward the scriptures? And realize this that your attitude toward the scripture now will determine your judgment by the scriptures in the future. Your attitude toward the scripture now will determine your judgment by the scripture in the in the future. Just a couple things that I just want to point out, just some ways that we can revere the scripture. First of all, we need to receive it We need to receive it. When we hear the word of God, we need to receive what it has to say to us. And 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. In verse 13, it says, for this reason we also constantly thank God that when you received the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it, not as the word of men. But for what it really is, the word of God, which also performs its work in you who believe. When you hear the word of God, you need to receive The word of God. Receive it not as a word from men, but this is what God has to say. And not one word of this word will fail. Other thing that we need to another thing that we need to do regarding the scriptures, that we need to honor it. We need to honor the word of God in Psalm 56. And why don't you flip over here because you might not believe me if I just read it, right? Look rid of uh uh Psalm 56. This is uh I just find this fascinating. Verse 8, I'll start at verse 8. It says, You have taken account of my wanderings Put my tears in your bottle, are they not in your book? Then my enemies will turn back in the day when I call. This I know that God is for me In God, whose word I praise. In the Lord, whose word I praise. Is that the kind of affection that you have for the Scriptures? That that the scriptures are an extension of God's own character, that that what we're reading on these pages is this this is the character of my God, and that I can I can have this kind of adoration and praise for the Word of God because it reflects who my God is So what the psalmist says in God whose word I praise. Not that you praise the physical pages on the, you know, the physical pages in the book, but I praise the God whose word this is. I honor this word. Another thing that we need to do to make sure that we're given proper respect towards the Word of God is that we need to obey it. We need to obey it. James chapter 1. James chapter 1 verse 22. But prove yourselves doers of the word, and not merely hearers who delude themselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks at his natural face in a mirror. For once he has looked at himself and gone away, he has immediately forgotten what kind of person he was. But one who looks intently at the perfect law, the law of liberty, and abides by it, not having become a forgetful hearer, but an effectual doer, this man will be blessed. in what he does. You want to be a person who's blessed. Um recently we just looked at uh Psalm 1 at uh uh Isaac and uh Sarah's wedding Psalm one the person who's blessed is the person who meditates on the word of God day and night, right? Meditates on the Word of God day and night and doesn't forget what he reads, but wants to practice what he reads. Another way that we honor the scriptures is we defend it. We defend the scriptures. Jude Jude verse 3. This one he says, Beloved, while I was making every effort to write to you about our common salvation, I felt the necessity to write to you, appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith, which was once For all handed down to the saints. And where do we get that once for all handed down faith? It's through the scriptures, right? That's where we get it. It's through the scriptures. We defend the word of God. And then the last thing that uh that we do to honor the Word of God is we proclaim it. We proclaim it. Uh 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse 9. It says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, which is uh fascinating when you when you think about this being written to Gentile people using the same terminology that was used for Old Testament Israel. You're the real priesthood, holy nation, people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. For you once were not a people But now you are the people of God. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. How do I honor that? How do I honor that? I proclaim it, right? I proclaim it. And what we proclaim is the word of God. And as he says a little bit early in chapter 1, verse 24, for all flesh is like grass. All its glory like the flower of grass, the grass withers, the flower falls off, but the word of the Lord endures forever. And this is the word that was preached to you. And this is the same word that we get to proclaim, right? We get to produce the same word, the same infallible word, with absolute confidence because every word of God is completely without error and will never have any error. We can have confidence in this book because of who this book comes from. Amen. Let's uh let's bow our heads in prayer. Heavenly Father, we uh thank you, God, so much for uh this book. We thank you for your truth. Uh God, we pray that uh you would use it uh in our lives. Not only for our own sanctification and growth, but also to proclaim to those that are around us. Father, I pray that We would never dishonor your word by uh just uh uh allowing it to fall on deaf ears without any action. Father, I pray that we would actually be motivated uh to obedience because of what we read. Father, and I pray that as we uh continue to look into the Sermon on the Mount and uh start to answer some of these difficult questions about the relationship between the Old and the New Testament and how We should live as New Testament believers. Father, I just pray that you would make these things plain to us, make these things clear to us, because God, it is our endeavor. It is our desire. It is our hope and our joy and our ambition to please and honor you. So Father, I pray that you would uh continue to make your word plain to us, Lord, so that we may be able to obey. In Jesus' name we pray and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.