The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's uh open our Bibles to the Book of Matthew. Uh Book of Matthew chapter five. Uh we're returning for a third time uh to uh Matthew chapter five verses fifteen to uh uh verses seventeen to twenty Christ and the scriptures uh part three We're only going to cover one verse today, but I promise you after this we'll speed up. I was looking at uh like the one page with Matthew chapter five on it. I've already got like a little tear in it, and it's like discolored because I've been here for so long But uh but we're gonna we're gonna get moving. So uh this week we return uh to our study of the Sermon on the Mount and just to remind you of uh where we are, Jesus is making a transition from the introduction of the sermon to the main body of it. In the opening twelve verses the Beatitudes introduced us to the character of the citizens of the kingdom, or those who inherit eternal life. The citizens of the kingdom are marked by a deep sense of their own spiritual poverty, as well as uh pointed to the rich hope that they have in the Messiah. In verses uh thirteen to sixteen, Jesus powerfully presented to us the influences of the citizens of the kingdom or the influence of the citizens of the kingdom, Christ reminds us that we are the only hope for a dark and decaying world. We are the salt and light, the collective testimony of the church is salt and light. And uh now before Jesus gets into the body of the sermon, he invites us to consider the authority of the kingdom, and that's what we're uh looking at in verses 17 down to 20. Uh let's uh go ahead and read 17 down to 20. It says, Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest stroke Not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say to you that unless your righteousness Surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you once again, Lord, as we always do, acknowledging you as the uh uh the great interpreter of Scripture. And uh Father, we pray that uh you would use uh this morning's message to be a blessing to your people. Uh may you uh do your work through your word. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. As Jesus begins his ministry here, the last thing, as I said before, that he wants the people to walk away with is that he's come To be some kind of radical and overthrow and do away with the worship of the God of the Old Testament or anything to do with the Old Testament law. And there's at least three reasons that are mentioned here why we shouldn't think that Christ came to abolish the scriptures in uh verse seventeen, where he says, Do you not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets? I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill Jesus lets us know that he came to be the fulfillment of all Old Testament scripture. The word fulfill is used more than a dozen times in Matthew. And it's always used to point to Jesus as the fulfillment of the Old Testament's prediction of who he would be. And everything happened exactly as the scriptures indicated. The second reason why we know that Christ did not come to abolish the scriptures, but to fulfill them, is in verse 18 where it says, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. And what that lets us know is that God will accomplish all of his purpose through the scriptures. There's not going to be the smilest, uh smallest or most minor detail That's going to be overlooked by God. Everything will be accomplished. And uh the third reason we shouldn't think that Christ came to abolish the scriptures is in Verses uh nineteen to twenty, where we left off uh last time. In verse nineteen, we considered uh the reality that our position in the kingdom is determined by our attitude toward the scripture. So a reason why he doesn't abolish uh the law and the prophets is because it's by the law and the prophets that we will be judged It says that uh whoever keeps and teaches them he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Uh but whoever uh uh uh annuls, whoever uh teaches others to do the same, annuls one of the least of these commandments. Teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. So it's by the the word of God that we're judged. There is no contradiction again between Christ in the Old Testament scriptures. Uh there's no contradiction between Christ and the New Testament scriptures. Everything is in total agreement. Jesus answered the Jews in John chapter 5 with these words in John 5. 46. For if you believed Moses You would believe me, for he wrote about me. If you believe Moses, you're going to believe in me because we're saying the same thing. I'm the fulfillment of everything that he wrote about You know, if you believe in Moses, you're going to believe in me. Paul said the same thing in Acts chapter 26, verse 22. He says, so having obtained help from God, I stand to this day Testifying both to small and great, stating nothing but what the prophets and Moses said was going to take place. He says, everything that I'm talking to you about today is the same thing Moses and the prophets predicted would happen. I'm not saying anything different, not saying anything new. It's the fulfillment of it. It's the completion of it. It's not derailed. It's right in line with what Moses and the prophets already indicated. So it was through Moses and the prophets that Paul persuaded men to believe in Jesus as their Messiah and testified about the kingdom of God in Acts chapter uh twenty-eight verse twenty-three. It was not by abandoning the scriptures that the church was built, but by upholding the scriptures that the church was built. And Paul says in Romans chapter 3, verse 31, do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. We established the law. And as Kingdom Citizens, we established the law because, again, we actually believe that it's to be perfectly fulfilled. Everything that the law required was perfectly fulfilled in Christ. In James chapter 2, verse 10, it says, Whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles into one point, he's become guilty of all. So what does that mean? All of us are guilty of all of it, right? There had to come one who perfectly fulfilled it, and that is Jesus Christ, and that's what the Christian hopes in The only way to be innocent of breaking the law is to have a perfect substitute who kept the law, and that was Jesus Christ. Nobody was ever saved by law-keeping. And also as kingdom citizens, we establish the law by fulfilling its its intent. As we talked about last time, the scripture lets us know that we're no longer under the law as a guardian in uh Galatians 3. 23. We're no longer bound to the law as our head. In Romans chapter 7, verse 2, we're no longer alive to the law as our master. In Galatians 2. 19. But that does not mean that we are free from the character of the law because the law is holy and righteous and good and reflects the perfect character of God who gave it. In uh Psalm chapter 19, verse 7, it says, the law of the Lord is perfect. Perfect. There's nothing that needs to be changed. Uh but it so it doesn't mean that we're to be set free uh from uh from the law as far as the spirit and the intent of the law. And uh the very same books that highlight our freedom from the letter of the law are the same books that encourage us to fulfill the the Spirit And uh what we discover is that while we've been freed from our service to God through the letter of the law, we're not freed from the service to God in the spirit of the law. In Romans chapter 7. Verse 6 it says, But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. And it's kind of an interesting wordplay that Paul indicates here. We're released in order to serve. We're released from the letter of law in order to serve in the newness and the spirit of the law. So we're not freed to be lawless or antinomian. We're freed for service. And our position in the kingdom depends on our obedience to the Old Testament scripture, to this law of God. And secondly, our presence in the kingdom is determined by our attitude towards the scripture. Look at verse 20. It says, for I say to you. That unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Not only is your eternal position determined, but your eternal con eternal condition determined, but your eternal position within the kingdom of heaven, your condition in the kingdom of heaven. It's important to note that Jesus hasn't really left this previous discussion here. In verse 20, it starts out by the word for. It's a conjunction. Which is used to express the cause or the reason for something. Jesus is here continuing to give an explanation of why no one should think that he came to do away with the scriptures. And basically he's saying, don't think that I came to do away with the scriptures because the kind of righteousness that surpasses the scribes and Pharisees is based on the scriptures. The kind of righteousness that surpasses the scribes and Pharisees is based on those scriptures. And the word that he gives here is a word of uh superiority. He's the superior interpreter. And this is a point that we'll come back to uh next time we uh we we arrive in uh Matthew chapter five so we won't spend a long time with it here Uh but it's worth pointing out that Jesus views himself as the superior interpreter of the law. Not only does he assert that he understands the true meaning of the law, uh, but the the law um that he talks about here, uh he says that he he not only understands that the meaning of it, but he also knows who's getting into the kingdom and who's not Jesus says that I'm the superior one. I'm the one who can give you the right interpretation. I'm also the one who knows who's getting in or not, who's getting into the kingdom of heaven or not. And uh we'll come back to this uh this later, but uh as you go throughout the Sermon on the Mount, he continues to say this phrase, for I say, or but I say. Verse 22, but I say Verse 28, but I say. Verse 32, but I say. And he keeps on repeating those same words. Why? To let you know that I am the superior interpreter. It's not the scribes, it's not the Pharisees. I'm the one that can correctly interpret the law. I'm the one who sits above the law. And we'll come back to that later, but uh it would have been impossible for the people who surrounded Jesus to miss this unusual authority that he spoke with. Jesus spoke with authority. There was no scribe or Pharisee who spoke like this. Jesus stands alone among teachers. And uh Not only for that time, but for all time, Jesus stands alone. So he speaks with this uh as a superior interpreter, but he also points towards a superior righteousness. Points towards a superior uh righteousness. Jeff sent this uh to me, Kevin DeYoung in a in a blog post. Uh he actually makes this uh contrast between what Jesus did say and what he doesn't say. It's kind of kind of interesting. He starts out by saying, Do not think that I've come to abolish the law of the prophets. And he's kind of speaking tongue in cheek. You'll kind of see what he's doing here. Do not think that I've come to abolish the law of the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. But on the other hand, do not think that I've come to completely affirm everything in the law or the prophets either. There are stories in the Old Testament that did not happen as they were recorded. Sometimes God's people thought that they heard the voice of God, but they were mistaken. Other times ancient people used God to justify their violence and exclusion. We can still read those parts of the Hebrew Bible and learn how unenlightened people used to think, but those sections are best corrected or just set aside. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an yoda or a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Obviously, this is a bit of an overstatement. Jewish hyperbole, poetic license, that sort of thing. By Johnson Tittles, I don't mean every bit of the chronology, because cosmology or history. I'm just trying to say that the Old Testament is still really important. And that it points to me, but whether, say, the Exodus happened like it says in Exodus, or if Isaiah made any predictive prophecies, or whether the whole storyline of the Old Testament is out of whack, that kind of thing is not terribly important. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Again, let me clarify, I'm not actually against relaxing. You know, some more of those outdated commandments. After all, who doesn't like relaxing? I don't want my disciples getting hung up on my niche. As long as you're concerned about love, whether you understand whatever you understand that to be, I wouldn't worry about the particulars. People need relationships, not rules, you know. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. You know what? In hindsight, this is probably not the best way to express myself. I'm sorry for anyone who was hurt by the whole never enter into the kingdom of heaven bit. That's just the figure of speech for the best way to live. And I apologize if the righteousness peace felt legalistic. When I talk about hungering after righteousness or pursuing righteousness, I'm thinking more on a cosmic level, not so much about personal holiness. The only righteousness I expect to see from you is being right enough to know you're wrong. Look, the last thing I want is for people to get uptight with the Bible and start freaking out about doing everything by the book. And when Jesus finished these things, the crowds were super cool with his teaching. For he was teaching them as one who had a realistic understanding of the Bible and helped the disciples feel better about themselves. And he's saying that in in jest and humor, but but the reality is that this is the way some people look at their Bibles. And they read these statements of our Lord that have this bite and sting to them and say, well, you know, it doesn't really matter. He didn't really mean that when he said that. He must have meant something else. And we pass by sections like this way too quickly. But when Jesus said these words, the crowds would have been left gasping for error. R. C. Sproul, I remember R. C. Sproul saying this. He says that this is one of the most terrifying verses in all of Scripture. Most terrifying verse in all of Scripture. For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of What did he mean by that? What does it mean for our righteousness to exceed or surpass that of the scribes and the Pharisees? First of all, let me tell you about who a scribe was. A scribe was a highly trained expert in the interpretation and application of the law of God. The Greek word that's used for scribe here is uh grammatus, from where we get our English word grammar. It means a writer. Scribes were those who dealt with the uh the letter of the law, the written law. Originally, scribes were those who copied the law of God, but they emerged as a distinct group around the time of Ezra, and their role was critical Role is critical. If you remember the history of Israel in seven twenty-two, uh the ten northern tribes of Israel were conquered by Assyria And then they were deported and scattered. And uh then in 605 uh BC the Babylonians attacked the southern kingdom of Israel, Judah, and began the first of several deportations until Jerusalem was finally decimated in 586. B. C. in 586 the temple was also destroyed. Worship as Israel had known it had stopped, completely ceased. Everything was taken away, including their ability to speak in their native tongue. They didn't even know how to speak Hebrew anymore. And by the time Israel was allowed to return home from their exile, you know, some 70 or 100 years later, uh they're foreigners in their own land. Seven years of the captivity, and then it was a little later on they actually uh you know started returning. But they're foreigners in their own land. And if they were to obey the law of the Lord, they needed somebody who could read it and explain it. They needed somebody, they needed a scribe. And Ezra was uh one of those scribes. If you flip back to the uh book of Ezra , We'll look at uh both Ezra and uh Nehemiah as well. But if you look back to the book of Ezra chapter uh seven , it gives you a little job description of who Ezra was. Ezra chapter 7, verse 6 Says, This Ezra went up from Babylon, and he was a scribe, skilled in the law of Moses, which the Lord God of Israel had given, and the king granted him all he requested because the hand of the Lord his God was upon him. Uh Ezra was a scribe, that was his occupation. He's a you know kind of like a nerd, a bookworm. You know, he's studying, you know, these scrolls and different things. That's his occupation. Verse 10 in Ezra chapter 7 there says, For Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord, to practice it, to teach his statutes and ordinances in Israel. So like I said, his occupation was to study even in Babylon in addition to uh other responsibilities and duties that he would have been given, uh he became an expert in the law of Moses. If you flip over to uh Nehemiah, just uh A book later, Nehemiah chapter 8, we learn that uh Ezra wasn't the only one who was skilled in the law. And uh Nehemiah chapter 8, it mentions a number of others that were also skilled. And uh reading and translating the law of God. If you look at uh chapter 8 starting at verse 5 , begins with Ezra again. Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was standing above all the people. And when he opened it, all the people stood up, and that's where we get our practice of uh standing for the reading of Scripture, uh, even here today. Then Ezra blessed the Lord. The great God and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, while lifting up their hands, then they bowed low and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. And also Jeshua Bani Shir Sheribah, Jammon, Akub, Shabbatiah, Padiah, Messiah, Khalidah, Azariah, Jazabad, Hanan, Peliah, the Levites Explained the law to the people while the people remained in their place. They read from the book, from the law of God, translating to give the sense so that they understood the reading. So here you have these scribes. They rose up as this distinct group of people among all the people of Israel to give understanding of the law of God. And they had to translate the law in order to give the sense of it. And one of the reasons why many believe is because the majority of people who are in exile for all this time had completely lost the language. So here they have to translate it to give the sense and explain it to the people. This time most of the people spoke Aramaic and not the native tongue of Hebrew And it required the a professional to study it and to exposite it. This is more than just an occupation for the scribe. It actually became their life identity. This identified who they were. According to one source, scribes normally began their training as early as six years old. Six years old, began their training as children, continued their studies until formal ordination at 40. So here you have these guys for for over 30 years. Studying, training, preparing to teach the law of God to Israel. It was highly a respected position One commentator describes it in this way. It says that they walked around in distinctive robes. Others would stand in their honor, greet them with titles like rabbi, father, or master. Hosts typically offered the scribes the seat of honor at the head table. At banquets and as students of the law, they are recognized as the authority on all questions of faith and practice. One rabbinic writing referred to them as the well that's plastered. uh with uh the well-plastered pit filled with water of knowledge out of which not a drop can escape. That's how they were looked at. Not a drop escapes from these guys. These guys know everything. And many believe that they memorize the entire law The entire law. Can you imagine the reaction that Jesus would have received when he says your righteousness has to exceed that? Your righteousness has to exceed that. Most of us have problems memorizing the one verse a week. Much less the 5,852 verses from Genesis to Deuteronomy. Had it in the memory banks. Well-plastered pit filled with the water of knowledge out of which not a drop can escape. These guys knew it. Down cold. How could anybody compete with that How can anybody compete with that kind of knowledge? Somebody who's been a professional student of the Bible since he was six years old. Professional student. This would have been crushing to hear this. Your righteousness has to exceed that? And then on top of the scribes, Jesus adds the Pharisees. If the scribes weren't enough, he adds the uh uh the Pharisees to the list. Uh the scribes were the professional teachers of the law. And the Pharisees were the professional practitioners of the law. The professional teachers and the professional practitioners. The word Pharisee literally means separatists, separated one. They were a popular and prominent group. of uh layman who sought to apply the Torah to every area of life. Uh some believe that the the Pharisees also find their origin in the time of Ezra, but it's uh more likely that they emerged uh during a later time, a short period of uh Jewish independence from 167 to 63 BC during the period of uh Jewish independence. Uh there was a group of men known as the Hasidim. Uh they called the Jewish people back to faithful obedience to the law. When the Jewish people gained independence, many were concerned with the political life of uh Jerusalem, of of Israel, uh but the Hasidim were primarily concerned with the religious life. You know, forget about the politics and extending our kingdom. Where are the righteous people? That's what the House of Dean were concerned with. And when the ruling class started to compromise with the Gentile nations, they started to separate themselves. They're saying we're not gonna intermingle with what you're doing. We're not going to be in support of what you're doing. We want to be separated. We want to be holy for the Lord. According to Josephus, an ancient historian, this is where the Pharisees began, from this group known as the Hasidim. And uh they were regarded as the most accurate interpreters of the law, and were known for living in strict obedience to the law. Examples are all over the New Testament in uh Matthew chapter twenty-three it says that the Pharisees tithe Mint, dill, and cumin. Mint was a a garden plant, dill is a herb, and uh cumin is the the little seeds that you use to spice up food. It says they they tied all of that, you know, counting out ten little seeds, you know. One belongs to God. That kind of meticulous, right? Pharisees would be so meticulous they count up all their little spices so they don't violate the law of God Then they took the commands to an extreme. If there was a command to wear a tassel, they're going to wear a long one. If uh there was a scripture about binding the law on your forehead, even if it was figurative, we're going to wear a real one. We're going to broaden it, make it big. We're the law of God right on our forehead. Everybody should know. Under the law there was uh one day that was prescribed for fasting, the day of atonement in Numbers chapter uh twenty-nine, verse seven. It says then on the tenth day of the seventh month You shall have a holy convocation and you shall humble yourselves. You shall not do any work. That uh term humble yourselves was a term that was used for fasting. It's actually referred to as fasting in Acts chapter 27 verse 9, referring to this day of atonement as it was just referred to as the fast. That's how Paul referred to it. But the diligent Pharisee would often would fast often, not just once a year. He'd fast often. And in Luke chapter eighteen, verse twelve, where Christ uh told the parable about a Pharisee Which is likely true, but they did in Luke chapter 18, verse 12. He says, I fast twice a week. You know, forget Israel being commanded to fast once a year. I do it twice a week. We're taking it to the extreme Religious conservatives who sought to bring every area of life under subjection to the law of God and whatever else you might rightly say about the Pharisees, it has to be recognized. that righteousness was a driving concern for these guys. They wanted to be righteous. The question is, can you say the same thing about yourself? Can you say the same thing about yourself? As one author said, these were not wicked lawbreakers who set a low standard for conduct. These Pharisees would have been the model for righteousness. They calculated that the law contains 248 commands, 365 prohibitions for every day of the year. It was their goal to keep them all. It was a saying that if only two people were to go to heaven, one would be a scribe and the other would be a Pharisee. These are the most righteous people that Israel produced. And Jesus lumps them both together and says, I'm telling you that if you don't have something that's better than that, you're not even entering into the kingdom of heaven. Do you understand the kind of shock that would have been to their system to hear something like that? The most righteous people aren't getting in? The most righteous people? Jesus is saying that there's a superior kind of righteousness that characterizes the citizens of the kingdom. And the Roman Catholic Position would uh be one that says that uh Jesus is here saying that we actually produce righteousness, that in some way that we have righteousness that inherits the kingdom of of heaven ourselves, that we can produce this. According to the Council of Trent, the Catholic idea maintains that the formal cause of justification being declared right before God, or being made righteous before God, does not consist in an exterior imputation of the justice of Christ. but in a real interior sanctification affected by grace, which abounds in the soul and makes one permanently holy before God. So uh in the Roman Catholic view, you need to be permanently made holy before God before he can Game give you entrance into the kingdom of heaven. You need to be made holy. You need to be made holy. One Catholic uh commentator says this that uh here we see salvation Justice, justification, do not come by faith only, or by imputation of Christ's justice. The Council of Trent goes on to say this: that the sinner is formally justified and made holy by his own personal justice and holiness. That there's some kind of holiness that you need to drum up and present before the Lord. That's the view of the Roman Catholic Church, and it hasn't changed to this day. Don't be fooled by evangelicals and Catholics trying to get together. There's nothing that's changed about the Catholic Church. And if their view is correct, then the scriptures are wrong, right? In Ephesians chapter 2 verse 8 it says, For by grace you have been saved through faith and that, not of yourselves. It's the gift of God The Romans eleven verse six says this, but if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. If you're inheriting the kingdom of heaven based on your works, then it's not a gift. It's not grace, and it's not coming from God. Right? For our salvation depends on human effort. In any way it's not a gift. And beyond that, the righteousness that we need to be found in is not our own righteousness. It's the righteousness of Jesus Christ. That's why Paul says in Philippians 3. 9, that I may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own. Derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith, and it's not the godly That are justified, but it's the ungodly. The ungodly. Romans chapter four, verse five. But to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is credited as righteousness. So Many evangelicals understand the righteousness that Matthew 520 points to, speaking about the righteousness of imputation. And uh just a explain what imputation is. It's just a fancy word that says something that's credited to your account, charged to your account. And there's a a real transaction that occurs in your salvation. Uh the righteousness of Christ is credited to your account, and your filthy, sinful account is charged to the cross, charged to Christ's account, and that's a glorious transaction in 2 Corinthians 521. It says, He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. There's righteousness that ex is exchanged for unrighteousness. And there are many faithful expositors that would say that this is how we should understand. this passage. However, however, there's a few problems with that. A few problems with that. First of all, the the word for at the beginning of uh verse 20, it connects Jesus' thoughts with what he's just said in verse 19. In verse 19, he's talking about keeping and teaching the commandments. In addition to that, starting in verse 21, Jesus goes on to explain what he means by keeping the spirit of those commandments. And it would have been expected that if he was talking about imputed righteousness, that he would talk about his fulfillment and not ours. In the following verses. It's also been observed that when the word righteousness is used in the book of Matthew, it's used for those who practice righteousness and conform to his character, as it's used in Matthew chapter 6, verse 1. Where it says, uh beware of practicing your righteousness before men to be noticed by them, otherwise you have no reward with your Father who's in heaven. And also, while it's possible that uh Jesus is speaking about imputation here, and it could be understood here, it's not mentioned. It's not mentioned. Imputation isn't mentioned. So while I agree with uh many evangelical and so I actually agree with many evangelical interpreters who would say that this is not the infused righteousness that the Roman Catholics talk about. And it's not necessarily the imputed righteousness that we all believe in. We're actually talking about a righteousness that does not earn the kingdom of heaven, but a righteousness that evidences that you are heading for heaven. A righteousness that is evidence that you're heading for heaven. James Boyce uh writes this. He says, When I handled this verse for the first time, I taught that the righteousness referred to in verse twenty is the divine righteousness that comes to us by imputing it to us on the basis of Jesus' death. This is not the way righteousness is used in Matthew's gospel It is true that God justifies the ungodly on the basis of Christ's work, but that is not all God does. God also regenerates the one who is justified. Thus, there is no justification without regeneration. No justification without regeneration. He doesn't declare you holy without also making a change in your life. He makes a change in your life. And what Jesus is saying here is basically the same thing, I believe, that he's already been saying in the Beatitudes. If you are a citizen of the kingdom of heaven, your life will look different because your life will be transformed. If you are heading for the kingdom of heaven, you will be poor in spirit. You will mourn over your sin. You will be gentle You will hunger and thirst for righteousness. You will be merciful. You will be pure in heart. You'll be a peacemaker, and you'll suffer persecution if need be. That's what the Beatitudes taught us, right? These are the kind of people who inherit the kingdom of heaven. Jesus wasn't saying you earn the kingdom of heaven by being these things or doing these things, but rather those who are going to heaven are known because this is how they're identified. These are the people who are heading towards heaven. And this is the evidence that you're not going to heaven. It's not the means of getting to heaven, but it's the evidence that you're going to heaven. The gospel is repent. And believe in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. Amen? We believe in the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ that's credited to our account. That's salvation, okay? But the evidence that you've believed in Jesus Christ, that you've truly repented of your sins, is that there's a change in your life There is a change in your life. And if you're having trouble with that, maybe the opposite will help you out. Okay? Let's do a little Bible flipping. Flip over to 1 Corinthians Chapter 6. And it's just amazing how all the scriptures fit in together. Let's look a little bit about uh inheriting the kingdom of heaven from the flip side, okay? First Corinthians chapter 6 Look at verse 9. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 9. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? It's like, hold on. I thought salvation wasn't by works, it's just by faith. Do you not know? The unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor feminine, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous Nor drunkards nor revilers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Is there a contradiction there? No If you have trusted in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, free gift from God, your life will be different That's what the Bible says. Galatians. Galatians chapter 5. Let's talk a little bit more about inheriting the kingdom of heaven, okay? Same thing that Jesus talks about. Galatians chapter five. Look at verse 19. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions. Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these. No time to give the whole list, right? Of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you that those who practice such things Will not inherit the kingdom of God. Does it say that a Christian can never sin? No. But it's saying that if a Christian lives in an unbroken pattern of sinfulness, that he is not inheriting the kingdom of God because he's not a Christian. He may be called a Christian. He may call himself a Christian. But if there's no change in your life, you are not inheriting the kingdom of God. Flip over to Ephesians. One more, just so you know I'm not making it up, okay? Ephesians chapter 5. Look at verse 3 to 3 down to 5 Three down to six. This one it says here, but immorality or any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among saints And there must be no filthiness and silly talk or coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. For this you know. Don't be deceived. Right? This ye know with certainty that no immoral or impure person or covetous man who is an idolater has an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Listen, church, family, there are a lot of people out there trying to deceive people. And saying, hey, you can come to Christ and nothing changes. Nothing changes. No change. We just believe. All we do is just believe. We say we believe that Jesus died, he rose again, and that's it. What does the scripture say? It says, Don't be deceived. There are people who say, I'm a Christian, I belong to the kingdom. He says, don't be deceived. They are not inheriting the kingdom of Christ and God. It's the same thing that Jesus is talking about. This is the very same thing that Jesus is talking about. The Bible's not saying, and hear me out. The Bible is not saying here, you know, boy, if you can just keep yourself free from these sins, if if you don't find yourself on this list, you're okay. You know, because because you're not committing any of these sins. That's not what the Bible is saying. You're not you're not saved by your obedience. You're not saved by your lack of disobedience, okay? That's not how we're saved. We're saved by trust in Jesus Christ alone. This is not the means of inheriting eternal life. This is the evidence that you have inherited eternal life. Okay? That's the difference. What the Bible is saying is that if you're headed to heaven, these things will on the the the bad side not characterize you. And on the flip side, back over to Matthew. Chapter five, but there's something that will characterize you, and it's a superior kind of of righteousness. What Matthew 520 is teaching us is that the only way that you will inherit the kingdom of God is if you've been changed from the inside out. It's called regeneration. It's called regeneration. It's described in the law being written on our hearts in uh Jeremiah chapter 31 verse 33. Uh Jeremiah says this, but this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my spirit, my my law within them, and on their heart I will write it, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And uh those of us today have been grafted into this covenant, right? New covenant. Described in Ezekiel 36, 27, as the giving of the Spirit, I'll put my spirit within you, cause you to walk in my statutes, you will be careful to observe my ordinances. Given of the Spirit, described in John chapter 3 as being born again. Being born again. John 3, verse 3. Jesus answered and said to them, Truly, truly, or to him, Nicodemus, truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Same language. He's speaking about the kingdom of God, inheriting the kingdom of God. You must be born again if you're going to inherit the kingdom of God. What does that mean? There is an internal change that takes place. An internal change takes place John Scott says this. We must not imagine, as some do today, that when we have the Spirit, we can dispense with the law, for what the Spirit does in our hearts is precisely to write God's law on it. He writes God's law there. It's been said we sing free from the law, O blessed condition. I can sin all I want and still have remission. It's not what the scripture says. It's not what the scripture says. There's a surpassing righteousness that's a necessary evidence of our identity as a true disciple. We're changed from the inside out. When you trust in the gospel, you are a new creation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, therefore if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature. You pass into a new life. Ephesians 2. 5, even when you were dead in your transgressions, he made you alive together with Christ. You have a new self. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 24, he put on the new self. Which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth, you have a new nature. 2 Peter 1 verse 4, it says, For by these He has granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature. You've been given a new nature. The righteousness that surpasses the scribes and the Pharisees is the evidence of the new birth that takes place. in your life. So what kind of righteousness should characterize the believer? I think MacArthur summed it up well. A righteousness that is not merely external. Not merely external. In Matthew chapter 23, verse 25, he says, Would you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites? For you clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but the inside they are full of robbery and self-indulgence. A true believer is not just known by external, external appearance. There's something that's changed on the inside, right? It's not just putting on a show. We're not just hypocrites. There's something that's changed on the inside. So righteousness is not hypocritical. In Matthew chapter 23, 2-3 it says this. The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the chair of Moses. Therefore, all that they tell you, do and observe, but do not do according to their deeds, for they say things and don't do them. A true kingdom citizen is not just going to say with his mouth what he's not trying to practice with his life. He says, but he doesn't do. That doesn't characterize the citizen of the kingdom. It's also not a righteousness that's partial. Matthew chapter 23 and verse 23 says, Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law. Justice and mercy and faithfulness, but these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. We're not saying, well, we'll obey over here, but we'll just kind of forget it over here. That doesn't characterize a kingdom citizen. And also their righteousness is not traditional. In Matthew chapter 7, verses 7 and 8, it says, But in vain do they worship me, teaching his doctrines, the precepts of men. Neglecting the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men. A kingdom citizen does not hold on to traditions to escape the law, to escape what the Word of God has to say. This is why R. C. Sproul said, this is one of the scariest verses in all of Scripture. R. C. Sprohl looked at this. He says, based on the context, it's not talking about the imputed righteousness of Christ. It's talking about a righteousness, an imparted righteousness, where God actually changes the believer, that we are regenerated, and we should see an evidence of the work of God in our lives. And I just I just plead with you. I plead with you. I mean you know yourself and God knows you, right? And what the scripture lets us know in 2 Corinthians 13, 5, examine yourselves. Examine yourselves to see whether or not you're in the truth. Is this the kind of life that characterizes you? It's a fearful thing to think about that one day, in Matthew chapter seven, and we'll we'll get there soon, but in uh Matthew chapter seven, verse twenty-one, that there will be people Who stand before God on the last day, standing before Christ, and they say, Lord, Lord! Lord, Lord! Verse 21, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles. And then I will declare to them, I never knew you Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. Is Jesus saying that you're saved by works? No. He's not saying that you're saved by works. But what he's saying is that if you are saved, you will practice righteousness. And many will stand before me on the last day and say, Lord, Lord. Look at all the stuff that we've done. All the externals. All the externals. We're faithful in church. Look at all the mighty works that we're doing. He says, You don't have a relationship with me. You don't really know me. You've never been justified. You've never received the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ. Because if you did, it would have shown up in your life. This is what Jesus is saying. This is why it's one of the most fearful verses in all of Scripture. And I plead with you to examine yourself to see whether or not you're in the faith. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh come before you, God. Uh we thank you so much for your word, and uh Father, we pray that uh today would maybe for some even here, Lord, uh would be the day of salvation. Would be a day where they examine themselves afresh for the first time and realize that I haven't truly been regenerated, that there hasn't been a change made in my life. That I don't possess the life of God, that my nature hasn't changed, that I'm a hypocrite, that on the outside I look good, but on the inside I'm something different. Father, I pray that today may even be the day for some to come to know you. Father, I pray that you would use your word to bring conviction to hearts. And lead people to yourself. And Father, we know that those that come to you, that they will find rest for their souls. Father, we thank you for the rest that's provided for us in Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.