The following message is brought to you by Baltimore Bible Church. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. What I'm going to invite you to do, if you don't mind, just stand one more time. If you Don't mind and join me in Galatians chapter 6. Galatians chapter 6. And I want to read and are hearing this afternoon. I have to practice this afternoon because by this time at home I'd be like decompressing on the couch. A basketball game watching me, not me watching the basketball game. So I'm just good morning, and you know what I mean if I say it again. Galatians chapter 6, and uh the focus of our message will be verse 14, but I do want to back up to verse 11, read down to verse 16 to set the context for us and our time together. This is God's word. To us this afternoon. Let us hear him. Paul writes, See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand. Those who desire to make a good showing in the flesh try to compel you to be circumcised, simply so they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ For those who are circumcised do not even keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised so that they may boast in your flesh. But may it never be that I would boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation And those who will walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them and upon all Israel of God. Let's pray together and then we'll take our seats. Father We desire that your word would come to us with great force and clarity. God, so gird up the loins of our minds and grant us the grace to think your thoughts after you. And Father, we desire to be fed so that our souls might be satisfied with the finest of wheat from your word. So come, Lord Jesus, through your spirit and your word and speak to us. Your servants are listening. We ask this in Jesus' name. You may be seated. We live in a world, a culture that is highly invested in boasting. Boasting in self, boasting in self-promotion , social media platforms, resume building. Personal branding, encourage us to showcase our achievements and cultivate a certain image that we trot out in front of people because we want people to view us in a certain way. Our society teaches us that our worth is derived by external successes and external accolades. And we see it in our young people, but not just in our young people, but in our our older folks as well too. Everything is at this superficial level. And we trot out in front of people or certainly image of ourselves. And we root that into our identity and the identity that we trot out to people and who we really are, very oftentimes there's a huge gap in that. And that's not just with people in the world. I say this to my own shame. I think it has made its way into the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Rather than having our anchor rooted down deep in our identity in Christ, very oftentimes our anchor is in something else Very oftentimes we have what I call hyphenated Christianity. Maybe you guys understand what I mean by that. In terms of putting something in front of our Christian, just being Christian, we put something else in front of it. I am a black Christian or I am a white Christian or I am a conservative Christian. And you could just go along the line. When in the world did it become not enough just to say I am a Christian? And I don't think deep down inside we mean anything negative by that. But what we're communicating is, sometimes to those who are listening to us, those who are thinking along with us, is that it's not just simply about Christ. In Christ alone. Maybe we have been influenced more by the cultural emphasis on identity, on self-promotion than we're willing to recognize. And Paul's declaration as we open up our Bibles here in Galatians 6. 14 offers a radical contrast to the cultural norm of boasting in oneself. boasting in something other than the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul chose to boast only in the cross of Christ. For Paul knew that it was Christ and his cross alone that gave him meaning to his life Paul realized that the cross and what Jesus accomplished on that cross wasn't simply just suffering and humiliation, but it was the ultimate expression of the love and mercy and grace of God. Through the cross, Paul understood that we share in Jesus' sacrifice and our old selves have been crucified. And we have been crucified to the world. So the world's measurements, the world's way of assessing identity and value mean nothing to us anymore because in Christ we have everything that we need. And that reality ought to, brothers and sisters, show up in how we live and how we talk about our faith and how we relate to one another and how we boast. There is a place for boasting. in the Christian life. But it is only one place and one place only. And it is in Jesus Christ alone. And as soon as the church grasped that, all of the divisions that we seem to still be struggling over all of these years will simply go away because the one thing that matters to us all, the one thing that draws us together, the one thing above all things is our faith in Christ and in Christ alone. All of the barriers, all of the markers, if we grasp this and this grasps us, we'll be torn apart. And we don't have to worry about what makes us different, because all of those differences are nothing. Compare to what we have in common, namely our faith in the risen Christ, because of what he did for us And so what I want to do is just draw our attention to this reality, this reality and this perspective that the Apostle Paul has for us. here at the end of this letter that just will set us free from the pressure to conform to worldly standards and it will empower us to live lives of humility with the assurance that we have already been accepted by God completely. And we cannot take away from that and we cannot add that. And if I've been accepted by God and you've been accepted by God, that makes us one family. Let the church say, Amen. And if there was ever a person who used to have an impressive resume for which he could boast in In which he can root his identity. It was the Apostle Paul. I just want to remind us that for a brief moment. So keep your finger here in Galatians chapter 6 and turn over to Philippians chapter 3. Paul knows of what he's speaking of as he's writing to the Philippians and he's rehearsing where he was before he met Christ. I want you just to focus in on the words that he says beginning in verse 2 of Philippians chapter 3. Paul says there beware of the dogs. Beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcisions. For he says there in verse 3, for we are the true circumcision, who worship in the Spirit of God. And note this and what he says, and glory, that's our word boast. That's the word that he uses back in Galatians 6. 14, where he boasts only, he glories only. He exalts only. We glory in Christ Jesus and we put no confidence in the flesh. Although he writes, I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. And what was this confidence? What was this boasting prior to meeting Christ? If anyone else had a mind to put confidence in the flesh, he says, I far more circumcise the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews. As to the law, a Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to the righteousness which is in the law, found blameless. That was his resume All of that on this balance sheet was on the asset side. That's what he trotted out to God and said, hey God, look at me. Aren't I impressive? I've done all of this. I'm of the right stock. I do all the right works. I'm the right kind of individual. God, aren't you glad that I'm on your team? And all of that changed. All of that changed when Saul met Jesus on the road to Damascus. And when he met Jesus on the road to Damascus, Jesus opened up his eyes to see the beauty and the glory and the sufficiency of who Christ is for him. And everything that was on the asset side of his ledger moved over to the other side, and he counted it all as lost. For the surpassing knowledge of knowing Jesus Christ. All of those barriers, all of those markers that he thought made him special and acceptable by God, he counted them all having met Christ as simply. Dung, scuba-on, that which is used for nothing but fertilizers on your lawn And so Paul then is the right man to tell us that we ought to only boast in Jesus Christ alone. Throw away your resume. Whatever it is that you think that you are by nature of birth or what you have done in terms of the right thing to impress God. Paul is telling us Throw it away. Because as long as we keep those things up before God, we insult the sufficiency of the work of Jesus Christ and whether we know it or not. We set ourselves over against other people who haven't done as much as we've done, who don't have the same birth as we have. As long as we are measuring ourselves By ourselves, we are competing with ourselves. And the only thing that levels the ground for all of us is the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. So let's go back to Galatians chapter 6. I call this Paul's theological core. It's what shifted Paul from being Solus Paulus to solus Christus. Paul alone moved to Christ alone. And so I want to help us see that it's not only his center and his passion what fueled and controlled his identity and his life, but it can do the same thing for us. So I want to give you, if you're taking notes, you could write this down. I want to show you what I'm calling just a three-part plan to ensure that Christ will remain our only boast. in life, a three-part plan to ensure that Christ will remain our only boast in life Now we're dropping into obviously the end of this marvelous book here in chapter 6. You all are well taught, so I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time, but I do want to just set it in this context. You all know that the Apostle Paul moved into northern and southern Galatia and he preached the gospel and by God's sovereign grace folks got saved. He planted churches there, and they had believed upon Jesus and Jesus alone. As a matter of fact, in chapter 3 it says there that Paul painted, he placarded Jesus before their eyes. They saw Jesus because of the powerful preaching of Jesus Christ alone. And they put their faith and trust in him and were saved. But no sooner than he left, the Judaizers came right behind him. The Judaizers, particularly if you don't know this, were individuals who are obviously of a Jewish background who embraced the Messiah. Very oftentimes we think that Judaizers didn't embrace the Messiah. They did to a certain extent. They thought that Jesus was the Messiah. They just didn't think that Jesus' work on the cross was enough. And so they believe then that it's Jesus Christ plus something else. Jesus Christ plus the Mosaic Covenant. Jesus Christ plus circumcision, which was a symbol of the Mosaic covenant. So they came behind the Apostle Paul and began to tell the Christians, it's fine to have Jesus But Jesus is not enough. You also must be circumcised and you must also place yourself underneath the Mosaic covenant. And if you do that, then you will be saved. In essence, what they were saying is in order for you to be saved, you have to become a Jew. They were adding works. to the gospel of grace. And Paul writes this entire letter to say, brothers and sisters, I came to you preaching Christ alone. Who has bewitched you and preached to you another gospel that you have adopted? In fact, you can turn to chapter 3 where he says this, you foolish, harsh language. Pastor George, don't ever call your congregation foolish. Paul can do it, we can't You foolish Galatians, who bewitched you before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified? This is the only thing I want to find out from you Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith? Do you see You believed, and the Spirit of God came and invaded your soul. You were born again, and now you're adding works to it. Are you so foolish? You are acting as though you are under a spell. And the rest of the letter is him articulating that it has always been, even from the time of Abraham, faith alone. Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as Righteousness. It has always been one way to come to full acceptance under a thrice holy God, and it is by faith and faith alone. And so as we get to chapter 6, then Paul just simply is summarizing what he has said and making it very personal. Let me read it to you, then we'll look at the three-part plan. He just simply says, but may it never be That I would boast as the Judaizers were boasting in something else, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. So number one, if we're going to ensure that Christ will remain our only boast in life, I want you to write this down. We must first of all recognize the threat to our boast. Recognize the threat to our boast. And what I think Paul is doing here is he's telling us that there are two primary threats to boasting in Christ alone, two threats To us anchoring our identity in Christ alone, and they are pedigree and performance. Pedigree and performance Look back at the text with me in verse 12. Paul says, those who desire He's speaking of the Judaizers to make a good showing in the flesh. Try to compel you to be circumcised simply so they will not be persecuted. for the cross of Christ. What Paul is saying is this, that the Judaizers knew that the Apostle Paul was being persecuted for the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ Because Paul was preaching Jesus Christ alone apart from any works of the law. And Paul's persecution, loved ones, came mostly and primarily not from unbelievers, but from individuals who claimed to know God. From city to city to city to city, they said he is not preaching God's word because he is saying that you no longer need to keep the law. And as a result of that, preaching Christ alone, he was being persecuted, but these Judaizers were afraid of that. So they preach that you need to become a Jew. In other words, God saves through the Messiah, but he only saves Jews. me. So in order for you to be a full participant in the new covenant of God, you have to become a Jew. How do you become a Jew? You get Circumcised. And as you get circumcised, you're now brought under the Mosaic covenant. And Paul is saying that's what they did, and that's a sorry gospel. It is no gospel at all. Paul preached the gospel that denied any privileged position of being a Jew, and the pedigree pride of the Jews hated it. It was one of the things that caused them to miss their Messiah to begin with. The fact that they couldn't understand how it is that for all these years It was all about them and their circumcision and their feast days and keeping the Sabbath and and doing all of the things that the law says to do. And then all of a sudden Jesus comes and the apostles come and say, no. It's simply about not what you can do, but what God is going to do for you through Jesus Christ alone. You guys might remember the conversation between John the Baptist and Matthew chapter 3 verse 9 as he's calling the Jewish nation to repentance. And the Jews said, that's fine for those dirty sinners. That's fine for those Gentiles, but we don't need to repent because we are children of, you say it, Abraham. And John says, and do you not suppose you can say to yourselves, we have Abraham for our father, I say to you, that from these stones God is able to raise up children of Abraham. In other words, it is no longer about your ethnic lineage that you can tie back to Abraham. That does not give you privilege position before God at all. What you need is faith in Christ alone. In their minds, their salvation was rooted in their identity as Jews, as taught by circumcision. And we might think that, like, well, did it really have an influence? It did. Turn in your Bibles to chapter 2. This was so strong that it even infested and infested the apostle Peter In chapter 2, verse 11, Paul is recounting an episode with he and Cephas And Paul records it for us. He says there verse 11, chapter 2, but when Cephas came to Antioch, Paul says, I opposed him to his face because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles. And you guys got to get the picture in your sanctified imagination. You guys get it? And before the men came down from Jerusalem, James and the other men, that Peter was fine with having bacon and ham and hogmog. Y'all ain't with me this morning. He had he was fine with barbecue ribs He was fine with eating pork with Gentiles, which wasn't allowed by the law. But as soon as the Judaizers with James came down from Jerusalem, he changed He separated himself from them. And we might think like that's not a big deal. Paul says, it's a huge deal. The very gospel itself was at stake with you, Peter. He says you stood condemned by what you did. By withdrawing from those That was enjoying the liberty of the grace of God, you were setting the gospel aside and lifting up your identity as a Jew as though that was more important than the work of Christ on the cross. And Paul stood up to him to his face. But when they came he, verse twelve in the middle, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision, and the rest of the Jews join him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas himself, the son of comfort, was carried away by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you being a Jew, live like Gentiles and not like Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ alone. And even we had to believe. Do you guys see? In other words, our pedigree doesn't matter anymore. Our ethnic identities have been abolished in Jesus. Now Paul would go on to say in chapter 3, verse 28, there is therefore now neither Jew nor Greek. Neither slave nor free man, neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. Do you see how important this is even today? Because we all can be boasting in our pedigrees. Ethnic pedigree, cultural pedigree political pedigree, social pedigree, all of the things that sometimes we identify ourselves all and then hold ourselves Over aloof against someone else who doesn't have that same kind of pedigree. And if the truth is told, brothers and sisters and friends, and I look at this congregation and I say, hallelujah, praise the Lord. What y'all have here is very special. But sadly, what y'all have here is very unique. Because still today in 2025, in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ in America, we are still putting stock and getting our identity in our pedigree. And what the world needs to see is that those markers that they place so much faith in have been abolished in the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hallelujah, he makes us one. You all are my brothers and sisters You are more of my brother and sister than if I had a brother who was my blood brother and who was not following Christ. He's made us one. The cross does that. So my boasting isn't in my blackness. My boasting is in Christ and in Christ alone. Because he has set me free. And no, the diversity of the body of Christ is glorious. Hallelujah for the rainbow. Yes. But God has made us one. In Him. And these Judaizers were trying to tear it down, and as they were trying to tear it down, they were trying to tear down the gospel. It's self. We are accepted in Christ by faith alone Not faith in Christ plus ethnicity, not faith in Christ plus cultural preferences, not faith in Christ plus our political affiliations. We must guard against trying to compel other believers to be like us. The only way that I want you to be like me is insofar as I am like Christ. Imitate me as I imitate Christ. Other than that, you be you. And we can do this very subtly, can we not? When people come to our churches and different than we are. And subtly we can say, well, we're trying to get you to adopt our church culture and when sometimes our church culture is nothing more than our ethnic preferences. God does that work, making us one. And all of the diversity of our personalities and ethnicities and where we came from and who our great-great-great-grandparents were God makes us one. And what God has torn down in the gospel, God forbid that we would raise back up. So we must guard against pedigree. But secondly, the other threat to us boasting in Christ alone is not just pedigree, but it's also performance. It's also performance. Look again at verse 12, where Paul says this, and I just read it again. He says, they speak it again of The Judaizers, those who desire. Notice the desire. This is their motivation to make a good showing. They want to make a good showing. They want to make a good appearance. They want it to be shown to others. They want to make a good showing in the flesh, try to compel you to be circumcised simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. Verse 13. For those who are circumcised do not even keep the law themselves. But here it is again. They desire to have you circumcised, so that here it is they might boast in your flesh. In other words What they do has nothing to do with Christ at all. It is all about their desire to get another religious notch on their belt. So they can boast in their flesh. It's what simply they did. They wanted to make a another another transfer over into Judaism as they understood it, including Christ as a part of that, so that they can boast. That's their whole lives was about that. Their whole entire lives, their religious life was all about what they can do for God. And as they were doing that, they were saying in essence, what God has done for us in Christ alone is not enough. They worked so hard with externals to bolster their appearance and solidify what they believe would be their acceptance with God. Rather than being known for faith in Christ alone, they sought to be known for their works of the law. How many converts can we make to Judaism? And brothers and sisters, Paul in chapter 1, and we don't have time to rehearse that, calls that another gospel. Adding to the work of Christ. And how often, brothers and sisters as Christians, do we boast about our accomplishments? Do we boast about our spiritual achievements, bragging as if our good works are trophies to be placed on the fleshly mantles for God to see and be impressed by? Good works, we know this certainly have a place in our lives. Amen. Galatians 2, 8 through 10, right? He created the good works that we would walk in them. They're sovereignly ordained for us simply to walk in. But the moment That we put faith in our good works as though somehow that increases God's favor upon our lives, we fall into this very trap, do we not? Salvation from start to finish, brothers and sisters, is all by grace through faith in Christ alone. God is not impressed by our good works. And if we're not careful , we we can be like the Pharisee, quite frankly, brothers. And I know I'm not I'm preaching to the choir here So I'm going to take this tape and give it to our congregation because I'm preaching to them and I'm not preaching to you guys right now. So But you all know the story in Luke 18. The Pharisee and the publican. Jesus says and as he tells this parable To some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. May I just say this? It is inevitable. It is a necessary outcome. If that you think you are righteous before God, you will inevitably hold others who you don't think are as righteous as you are in contempt. Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself: God I thank you that I am not like other people, swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I I I fast, right? He's boasting now in his works. I I fast twice a week. I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector standing some distance away was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but was beating his breast saying, God. Be merciful, be propitious to me, the sinner. Jesus says, I tell you, this man went to his house. You said Justified. I accept this man into my grace. I accept this man into my into my favor, not because of what he did or what he didn't do, but what he acknowledged, namely that I am a sinner deserving of nothing but your wrath And that's the posture that we have to always have. Even as believers, brothers and sisters, we never outgrow the posture of the publican, because even at our best, we are Unworthy servants. And an unworthy servant doesn't take his service and bring it to his master and say, look at what I've done. Aren't I a good servant? And we do that at times. We do. And when we do that, it is a cause then that we won't boast in Christ alone. We have created, we were talking about this a little earlier, we had created this whole beast, right? We have celebrity pastors. Right? Y'all kind of got a celebrity pastor, but he's still, you know, he 's different than all of the rest. Celebrity musicians, celebrity everything. We've done that. Right? And we both and look at him or look at her and isn't she great? Isn't she marvelous? And it's okay. Like God has gifted individuals, but none of the gifts that God gives to the church, he's ever meant for them to eclipse the glory of Christ. That we would be more excited to go hear a person than to go hear the person speak about Christ. And I say that to my own heart because I have preaching heroes. And the question is, are they my heroes because I like the way they preach? Or are they my heroes because they preach Christ in Christ alone? Our performances, brothers and sisters, are not trophies meant to impress God. Be aware where your identity is. Let your identity not flow out of what you do. Let what you do flow out of your identity. That is the only way Christ will accept your good works. So we must Recognize the threat to our boast. Secondly, the second part of our plan here is that we must remember the ground of our boast. We must remember the ground of our boasts. And simply put, we've already said it a number of different ways. The ground of our boasts is simply the person and work of Jesus Christ. We sang about it, did we not? And as we sang about Christ and Christ alone, it's just as if the Spirit of God moved on our minds and moved on our hearts, because nothing should move believers. more than singing about the glories of Jesus Christ. Paul says it in verse 14, doesn't he? But may it never be that I would boast. Here it is, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And when Paul says the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, he means the totality of the person and work of Christ. Everything that Christ came to do, all that he is and the fullness of the Father dwelling in him in in in bodily form and all of his passive and active obedience moving as he obeyed the law of God in thought, word, and in deed. And and going to the cross. Drinking all of the dregs of the cup of the wrath of God, going into the grave and conquering sin and the grave and Satan being raised from the dead on the third day and his ascension and his his his reign on the throne of David right now that will soon come and take up root in Jerusalem. All of the work of Jesus Christ is what Paul means here. That's the ground of our boasting. And I want to just take a quick moment just to survey Galatians and remind you of what Jesus Christ has done for us. So turn back to Galatians chapter 1. Why is Paul so anchored in the sufficiency of the cross because of all of what Jesus has done for us? In chapter one. Look at verse four. I'm back up to verse three. Grace to you and peace, he writes, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who that is Jesus, who gave himself for our sins. That's an essential component to the gospel. Amen? Pastor George was up here preaching eloquently about the fact that that's the gospel that Jesus gave himself for our sins. So that he might rescue us from this present evil age. Jesus is the only one that we can boast in because he rescues us from this evil age by dying for our sins. Let your eyes drift down to chapter 2, verse 16 that I began to read earlier, where Paul says, Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ. Jesus. Even we have believed in Christ Jesus so that we might be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. Brothers and sisters, I know you know this, but I hope this never rests on you lightly. You sit here as a justified sinner by the grace of God and the work of Christ alone. That you have all that you need to be eternally accepted in God's good grace and having his favor upon your life because you are clothed in his righteousness. We know this. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He that is God the Father made him the Son who knew no sin to be sin. for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Praise the Lord. And let me just say this. Yes, practically we grow in righteousness. But positionally, our righteousness never increases. You cannot add to it. You cannot subtract from it. So just rest in it. And I have it no more than any other repentant sinner has it. So who am I ever to look down upon another repentant sinner, no matter where he or she comes from? No matter what our skin color is, no matter what on how much money he may or may not make, the cross of Jesus Christ is the leveling ground of all humanity. We all come into the kingdom of God the same way, on bended knee before the cross. How would I ever turn my nose up then to another repentant sinner who is a beggar for God's grace, just like I am? And it's all because of Christ and what he has done for us. Chapter 3, verse 13. Paul just says there, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. Having to become a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. Christ alone sets us free from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. Verse 26, still in chapter 3, Paul writes there, for you are all sons, and that would include you ladies as daughters. of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you were baptized into Christ and have clothed yourselves with Christ. Therefore There is neither Jew nor Greek, neither slave nor free man there. It's neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. And if you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed. Heirs of the promise. Through Christ, brothers and sisters, we are heirs of the promise of eternal life. Chapter 4 Drop down to verse 4. When the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born of the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law. That we might receive, you said, the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts crying, Abba Father. You see it? The vibe even of the triune God here? That God sent the Son into the world so that you might become sons and daughters and then receive the fullness of the Spirit of God, that we in turn might cry out. to the Father, just like Jesus cried out to the Father in his agony, Abba Father. Hallelujah. Y'all we all have the same daddy. We do. Chapter 5, verse 1. It was, Paul writes, for freedom that Christ has set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not subject yourself again to the yoke of slavery. He has set us free not only from slavery to the law which we could never keep in and of ourselves, but from everything that held us in bondage. namely those ethnic and social and financial and national and economic boundary markers that we set up and root our identity is. They didn't give us freedom. They held us in bondage. And Christ has set us free. So with all of this and so much more that we can say, why would we ever boast in anything else other than Jesus? That's Paul's whole point. It's stunning what Christ has done for us. We did all the sinning, and Christ does all the saving. R. C. Pro put it like this: the only thing we contribute to our salvation is our sin. Salvation is of the Lord from beginning to end. And let the church say , Amen. We boast in Christ. Christ in Christ alone is the only ground that is strong enough to uphold the weight of our sins before a thrice holy God. Let us boast at him. Paul put it like this at 1 Corinthians 1, 30 to 31. But by his doing, you are in Christ Jesus. who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that just as it stands written, Jeremiah 9. 23, let him who boasts Boast in the Lord. Recognize the threat to our boasting in Christ alone. Remember the ground of our boasting in Christ alone. And then thirdly and finally. If we're going to boast in Christ alone, realize the outcome of our boast. The outcome of our boast. Not that our boast causes this, but this is the reality of what Christ has done, so let us boast in him. Look back at verse 16. But I say that I would never boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. For neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. Paul is just simply saying this. Coming to Christ, the outcome of that is that I've been crucified to the world, and the world has been crucified to me. In other words, I no longer have to live according to the world's measurements of what's important. And when Paul writes there, and this is a An exegetical kind of issue here. I'll just stir up the pot and let Pastor George come correct it in the next couple of weeks When Paul says, for neither is circumcision anything nor uncircumcision, the text literally says, but a new creation. You have to make the decision whether that's subjective or objective. If it's subjective, he's saying that we ourselves are a new creation If it's objective, what he's saying is new creation. I lean in the direction of objective. He's saying this, I think, because he's saying that that because you're in Christ Christ has brought in a new creation. And when you meet Christ, you become a part of a new creation. Let me say it again. The new creation that we're waiting to has broken into the here and now. God is building a new humanity. And the way that we judge each other, the way that we relate to each other, is different from the old ways. So when Paul says That is neither circumcision nor uncircumcised. That's the old ways of the old creation. That's how individuals live there. But in the new creation, we don't put stock in any of those things anymore. We're part of something new. We relate to each other differently than we used to. All of the pressures to divide ourselves with people who are like us no longer have anything to do with us. That's what he means when he says, I have been crucified to the world and the world has been crucified to me. It's dead to me. You can take my black card if you want to. I don't have to act a certain way because of the color of my skin. Y'all with me? If I want to listen to some classical music, hallelujah. Y'all can't judge me. I'm way off the deep end now and I know it you guys I think you guys understand what he's saying. Jesus has come to establish a new way of living. A new humanity has A new world. It will consummate in his second coming. But we experience its powers now. Right now, this is a glimpse of the new creation, and you all are a part of it. And let us guard against bringing in the ways of the old creation into how we relate to one another. Let our boasting be what it will always be throughout eternity. In Christ. And in Christ alone. That's the flag that we plant down for our lives. That's the anchor that keeps us together on the shores of glory. Christ and Christ alone. John Piper says that the cross of Christ is the blazing center of the glory of God. And if we boast, let us boast only in that. Some of you know the Heidelberg Catechism says, What is my only comfort in life and in death? The answer is that I, with body and soul, both in life and death, are not my own, but belong. to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. I want to change it a little bit. You can call this the kid catechism. What is my only boast in life and death? And the answer is still the same. That I, with body and soul, both in life and death, are not my own But I belong to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. And in that I will boast. And in that I will boast only. Let the church say, let's pray together. Father, our hope and our prayer is that our boasting would only and always be in Christ and what He has done for us on the cross. Forgive us, our Lord, for the times that we have allowed the ways of the world to intrude upon your marvelous grace in our lives, particularly as congregations. We're so grateful for the work that you're doing here. God, we pray that it would continue to progress. We pray, Lord God, that the flag that will always be planted on Baltimore Bible Church Will be boasting in Christ and in Christ alone. We pray, our Father, if there is anyone here under the sound of my voice that does not know Christ, and he or she cannot boast in him. That today would be the day of salvation. That you would grant in sovereign grace and mercy the gift of repentance and faith, that someone might turn to Christ and cry out, What must I do to be saved? And Christ would hear and come. And wash and cleanse and restore and renew to his praise and to his glory. So we love you, Lord. Again, we thank you for our time together. In Jesus' name, let all God's people stay together. Amen. Amen. And God bless you. You have been listening to Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.