The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church. We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Why don't you open up your Bibles to the Book of Matthew, the book of Matthew? We're in uh Matthew chapter five. Uh and this week we're continuing our study through the Sermon on the Mount. And as I mentioned before, Jesus is making a transition from the introduction to the sermon to the main body. of the sermon in the opening uh verses, uh twelve verses, the Beatitudes introduced us to the character of the citizens of the kingdom, or those who inherit eternal life. The citizens of the kingdom are marked by a a deep sense of their own spiritual poverty, but are also pointed to the rich hope that they have in the Messiah. Then in verses 13 down to 16 in Matthew chapter 5, Jesus powerfully presented To us the influence of the citizens of the the kingdom. Uh Christ reminds us that the only hope uh for a dark and decaying world is the collective Testimony of kingdom citizens, and uh we are the salt and light of the world. And uh now before Jesus gets into the body of uh His sermon here, he invites us to consider the authority of the kingdom, the authority of the kingdom. And I'm trusting that you'll be able to kind of put your thinking caps on with me for a while as we think about what Jesus says here because it's heavy. And it deserves our attention. Okay? Matthew chapter 5, let's read verses 17 down to 20. Lord says this: Do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments, and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we Come before you once again in always dependent on you, dependent on your Holy Spirit, Lord, to uh illumine our minds and to give us understanding. And uh Father, I pray that as we uh approach uh this text, Lord, that uh you Lord would uh uh guide and direct and uh that you'd allow my words to be a blessing to your people. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. In the middle of the second century, there was a man by the name of Marcion. Marcion, M-A-R-C-I-O-N Who became an influential leader in the church at Rome, Marcion believed that the church was in desperate need of reform and promoted what he considered to be the true and original teaching of Jesus Christ. Which wasn't, in his view, a total separation from Christianity and any hint of Judaism, any remnant of Judaism. He understood Jesus to be a radical who really came to overthrow and do away with any trust in or worship of the God of the Old Testament. Uh Marcion believed that anything that smelled of Judaism was to be eliminated from the church because there was no way that the Christian God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ Could be the same God as the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob presented to us in the Old Testament. He believed that the God of the Old Testament was some kind of inferior, tribal, localized deity. bloodthirsty pretender to the throne, who was more demonic than divine, who did not deserve to be worshipped. He was some kind of lower God. And uh he was in opposition to the highest God, the God of grace and mercy, the God of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who loves the world and who brings the gospel. And in order to further his agenda, he came up with his own version of the Bible, which contained a mutilated version of the Gospel of Luke. And only ten of Paul's epistles as the source of truth. All the other books were believed to be plagued by Jewish views, and even Paul was cleaned up so that it was free from all Jewish elements. He believed that the twelve apostles were in opposition to Paul, that they taught a different gospel than Paul did. It was Paul who's believed to be the great enemy of the law. And uh uh uh champion of grace and the one who restored the true gospel to the church and in his view uh Paul was the only one who got it right Paul was the only one who really understood Jesus' message, and uh any reference in Paul to the Old Testament uh was believed to be a corruption. You know, that was just added in. You know, but Paul would have nothing to do with the law. Uh church fathers like Tertullian Irenaeus severely attacked this position, and our early Christians considered him to be an arch heretic an enemy of Orthodox Christianity. And the the church responded by excommunicating this guy, Marcion, in A. D. 144. and affirmed the inspiration and authority of all of the scriptures. You know, Old Testament, New Testament, all the apostolic writings. And this actually became a catalyst for the early church. uh to start to define what they believed was the inerrant word of God. They had to recognize this is what we believe the word of God truly is. And while there aren't many today that would follow a guy like Marcion and his teaching, there are those who follow his reasoning There there are people, unbelievers, who understand things like uh who don't understand things like how uh the God of the Old Testament could command uh judgment on the nations. And how the the New Testament uh God could command the saving of the nations. They say that just doesn't seem like it agrees. You know, you have this this God of the Old Testament who's commanding all these nations to be killed, and in the New Testament he's saying, hey, go and preach the gospel to all the nations. How does this agree Or why would God command sacrifices in the Old Testament but not in the New? And they just assume that the Bible is full of contradictions and they just reject it all outright altogether. Then there's believers today who simply set aside the Old Testament or the Gospels because, you know, that's that's just under the law. And uh we really don't don't need that. Uh there's nothing really authoritative or beneficial there for me anyway, and they place the scriptures in opposition to themselves, and they fail to see all of Scripture as it says in 2 Timothy 3. 16 that all scripture It's inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness, which was really a reference to the Old Testament. They failed to see that the God has given to us all of Scripture to profit us, to teach us, to reprove us, to correct us, to train us. And as Jesus was beginning his ministry, the last thing that he wanted people to walk away with was the idea that he was some radical who came to overthrow and do away with any trust or worship of the Old Testament God. That's the last thing that he wanted people to walk away with. And as I've mentioned before, Matthew is a book that proclaims and defends Jesus as the Jewish Messiah. It's meant to uphold what we find in the Old Testament, right? The royal genealogy in chapter 1, 1 through 17 proved to us that Jesus Christ had the right to rule, he had the right genealogy Came from Abraham, came from David. He has the right to rule. His miraculous birth in 118 to 25 demonstrated his power to save, and that was even predicted by the Old Testament scriptures in Isaiah. In chapter 2, he was recognized from his infancy as the rightful heir to the Davidic throne promised in the Scriptures. And he was a had a herald in chapter 3, John the Baptist, who was also predicted by the Scriptures. I mean all of this just comes into place. And then in chapter 4 where he's battling against Satan, what does he use? He uses the scriptures. He uses the Old Testament. Why in the world would Jesus now turn around and say, well, what I'm here to do is really do away with the scriptures? I mean the scriptures predict it. Jesus Christ, he's operating in that kind of ministry. This is what he uses to defeat Satan. Why would he now say, well, I'm here really to do away with it? I'm here to introduce something something new. He says, I don't want you to think that for a minute that I came to do away with the scriptures. That phrase, law or the prophets, uh was a A word that he used in uh in verse 17, in uh chapter 5, verse uh 17, do not think I came to abolish the law or the prophets. Uh that phrase was used for the Jewish Old Testament scriptures. And there are at least three reasons why Jesus tells us we shouldn't think that he came to abolish the scriptures. Three reasons why he didn't come to abolish the scriptures. And this is just by way of review. Number one, Christ's purpose will be fulfilled through the scriptures. Christ's purpose will be fulfilled through the scriptures. Do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to what? To fulfill. I came to fulfill the scriptures. More than any other gospel, Matthew is the book of fulfillment. And at least 15 times Matthew uses that specific phrase to fulfill, to demonstrate that The events in Jesus' life took place in the way that they did in order that he would be the fulfillment of the scriptures. And that's just the consistent way to understand that that phrase to fulfill. Second, we shouldn't think that Christ came to abolish the scriptures because God's plan will be accomplished through the scriptures. Verse 18. It says, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest stroke or smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Everything that God says he will do, he will do. And we remember we talked about last time that the scriptures are infallible. Not only do they contain no error, but they never will contain any error, because everything that it says it will do will actually happen. It will actually come to pass. God will fulfill all of his plan. The scriptures are permanent, they're fixed, and everything is going to be accomplished. Nothing's going to pass away until all is accomplished. And uh the third reason we shouldn't think that Christ came to abolish the scriptures is because God's people will be held accountable by the scriptures. Look at verses uh 19 and 20 again. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. Our position in the kingdom is determined by our attitude toward the scriptures. Our position in the kingdom is determined by our attitude towards the scriptures, whether released or great. And then in verse 20 it goes on to say this for I say to you that unless your righteousness Surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Verse 20 lets us know that even our presence in the kingdom of heaven is determined by our attitude towards the scriptures. Both your eternal position and your eternal condition are based upon your response to the word of God. It's that important. The first thing that we want to consider here is uh how our position in the kingdom is determined by our attitude. uh towards the scripture, our position in the kingdom. First of all, just a couple things to notice about verse 19. There's no person who is exempt or given a special privilege. Look at verse 19 again. Whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments. Sometimes we speak about people who believe that they're above the law. You know, sometimes you see a cop and he says, Oh, he just thinks he's above the law, or some kind of politician. Oh, they just think they're above the law. There is nobody who is above this standard. Nobody. Whoever annuls what we find here. It's not like anybody has special privileges. No one has uh has an escape for this kind of judgment here. Second, notice that there's no scripture that you are exempt from. No scripture that you're exempt from. So here again it says whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments. One of the least of these. It's not like you have to obey the disobey the greatest commandment to be in violation of this. There's no exception based on the kind of commandment that's broken. Violating the least command is enough for you to be guilty of this Third, there's no acceptable quantity of scriptures that can be broken. You don't have to annul a ton. You're not allowed to annul some. It says you're not allowed to annul one. Not even one of them. And fourth, there's no acceptable period of time for breaking the scriptures. The the tense of the verb that's that's used here, whoever annuls, it's actually a uh a verb that speaks of uh not an ongoing breaking of the scripture, but but just a decisive departure from it. You know, there's there's no allowance for it. There's no wiggle room in this verse, and the consequences here are are pretty severe. Your unalterable position in the coming kingdom in the future will be determined by your attitude towards the Word of God in the present It's that significant. Jesus spoke about gaining and losing rewards throughout the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter 10, verse 41 and 42. He promised that those who ministered to his disciples would receive a reward. In Matthew 20, 21, when you have uh the mother of uh James and John, they come to Jesus, uh, and uh uh the mother, uh James and John's mother comes to Jesus and asks, you know, can my son sit on your right and your left hand? Remember that And can my son sit on your right and your left when you come into your your kingdom? Jesus doesn't turn around and says, What are you talking about, woman? There are no positions Everybody's the same level. That's not what Jesus says. He says it's for those who it's been prepared for by my Father. There are positions in heaven. There is going to be a right and a left hand and you know successive uh you know places in the kingdom of heaven. He just says that's that's not for for me to tell you. You know, that's for who it's been prepared for by my father Paul talks about rewards in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. John, the Apostle John talked about rewards in 2 John 1 verse 8 and the possibility of losing a reward. So the Bible indicates that even in our final state, there will be differing positions and degrees of reward, and what pushes a person down to the bottom of the pile is a disregard for Scripture. Disregard for what the word of God says. Jesus says your quickest ticket to the lowest position available is to disregard this book. You disregard the scripture. That's your quickest ticket to the bottom. That's what Jesus says. To annul the scriptures or to teach others to annul it. And it's important that we understand what this means because there's all kinds of questions that this raises for many of us. What does it mean to annul the Word of God? How do I know that I've annulled the word of God? What does the word annul even mean? It's the Greek word luo. It's a common word that literally means to loose, to untie, to set free. uh but it's used figuratively to mean to destroy, to bring an end, to abolish, to to do away with. That's what it's meant by annul. That's what it's meant by annull. Then I'm gonna set it aside. I'm gonna declare it as officially something that's no longer valid for my life. And thereby I'm I'm loose from it, I'm set free from it. I don't have to pay attention to it. And this if this is what your attitude is like towards even the least portion of the law and the prophets, he says that you stand in violation. You're under violation. And how many times have you brought the Word of God to a person's attention and uh the way they respond is, well, I know the Word of God says that, but right? How many times have you heard that? Well, yeah, yeah, the Bible says that, but I mean, but what? If if it's a legitimate question about the interpretation, you know, I understand that. But if there's no question about the interpretation, what's the but there for? Right? If it's the word of God, it's the word of God. If it's the word of God, it's authoritative. And Christ doesn't give us the freedom here to decide for ourselves what part of the Bible we'll listen to and what part of the Bible we can just choose to set aside. Christ doesn't give us that option. The Bible properly understood is authoritative for your life. That's what Christ is teaching And it's to be taught as authoritative and binding upon us. That's what he's teaching. And that's what he what he means by this. But here's where people like uh Marcion got hung up in the second century and where people get confused today still. And like I said, this is where you've got to put on the thinking caps, right? Something seems to be dramatically different between what Jesus expects From his kingdom citizens here, and what the rest of the New Testament seems to expect from Kingdom citizens. Seems to be different. How do we explain it? That's the question. Jesus says in Matthew 5. 17, do not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. Paul turns around in Romans chapter 10 verse 4 and says, For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. Jesus says, Matthew 5, 18, For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. Paul turns around in Galatians 3. 23 and says, But before faith came we were kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Later on, the book of Hebrews 8. 13 says, But when he said a new covenant, he has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete is growing old and is ready to disappear. Jesus says, Matthew 5:19, whoever annuls one of the least of these commands and teaches others to do the same shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. Paul turns around in Romans chapter 7, verse 6 and says, But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. And then in Galatians chapter 2, verse 19, he says, For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. And we could keep on going, okay? We could keep going. Why does there seem to be this big chasm between Jesus and Paul? Does Paul have some kind of death wish, you know, to contradict the very words of the Lord? And there's all kinds of explanations for uh for what we find in the sermon. on the mount and uh I won't go through all of them and I won't answer all your questions, but I'll at least go through a couple of these here, okay? Like I said, this is this is time to kind of think with me, okay As we already saw in the case of uh of Marcion, right, there are people who will deny one portion or another of Scripture to try to escape detention And say that, well, you know, that's really not the the word of God. To to make their view fit. In Marcion's case, he just like negated the whole Old Testament, any reference to the Old Testament, any reference to the law. That's not really the scripture. Don't worry about it. And in some liberal circles they go the other way. You know, they say that uh Paul and the epistles are what we should reject. Reject Paul, he was a heretic, the church should have let him go a long time ago. You know, you need to follow the gospels and and what Jesus had to say. You know, let's get rid of Paul. I actually remember uh uh when I was in California for the shepherds conference, I had the opportunity to sit down next to a lady. uh who called herself a pastor and uh you know she said she's you know going through the book of Galatians and says so what what did you gain from you know your study in the book of Galatians? Just as well that that Paul is an enemy of the church. You know, and then he contradicts Jesus and the the rest of the authority of scripture. Well, we've got a whole lot to talk about right here, right? Whole lot to talk about And you know, in the book of Galatians, you know, Paul says that uh if if I or an angel from heaven contradict what I'm about to tell to you, let him be accursed. And she flips it around and says, Let Paul be accursed. You know, anybody who contradicts me and it's just crazy the way that that was flipped. But anyway, there's liberal circles that would say Paul is the one that's out to lunch. You know, we should forget about Paul and just pay attention to the gospels in the Old Testament. There's others who would say that this teaching isn't for the church age and has no primary application for believers today. So when you read the Sermon on the Mount, yeah, Jesus talks about obeying the law and not knowing the law, but but that was for another group of people. You know, that's just for the the Jews during his time or, you know, some kind of future time, but it's not for us. You know, it was for another time. It's not for the church age. There's a classical dispensationalists like Schofield, who said the Sermon on the Mount and its primary application gives neither the privilege nor the duty of the church. You know, nothing to do with the church. You know, Sermon on the Mount, yeah, it's good, it's there, but it's it's not for us. That's what what what he would say. There's others who say that this message is only for the Jews. You know, that obedience to the law was for the Jewish people, so this is only given to Jewish people. And that's the only three people that have to be concerned about what we're reading here Louis Berry Schaefer said uh as a rule of life, it is addressed to the Jewish people before the cross and to the Jewish people in the coming kingdom, and is therefore not now in effect. So don't worry about it. Don't worry about any of the the laws. It was only for for the the people that uh those Jews that were living in his time or a future time But if it was just for the the people living in like some kind of future kingdom or something like that, why would he say later in chapter 6 that pray for the kingdom to come? If they, you know, these people are already in the kingdom. Why is he saying pray for the kingdom? He's not talking about people that are in the kingdom, living in the millennium. That's not who he's talking to. And then he also broadens the audience by the term whoever. Whoever annuls one of these things shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. That's a pretty broad term. He's including everybody in this And then there's those that that I would agree with who say that since Jesus fulfilled the law, we no longer have the obligation to fulfill it. And we know that that's true. Jesus uh mentioned in uh verse seventeen that he came to fulfill the law and the prophets, but That still doesn't completely answer the question. We know that Jesus fulfilled the law. That's not the question. The question is, what is my responsibility to what he says here? Because he says if I know one of the least of these, then I'm going to be the least in the kingdom of heaven. I mean, I may want to be a lot of things, I don't want to be least, right? I don't want to disobey what the Lord has to say. If the Lord is saying something to me, I want to know what he means I want to follow him. So what does this mean? There's really something more going on here. And this is this is where it gets exciting for me because it it ties so much of the Bible together and makes so much sense out of those continuity, discontinuity kind of discussions that we have. Because the people who attempt to place Christ against Paul or Paul against the other apostles fail to understand Paul's argument himself failed to understand Paul and his own the connections that he makes because Paul was not an advocate of lawlessness. Romans chapter three verse thirty one even notwithstanding all that he said before about the law Romans chapter 3, verse 31, he says this. Do we then nullify the law? He had a pretty high understanding of the law, high respect for the law. Do we then nullify the law through faith? May it never be On the contrary, we establish the law. Paul had the same high view of Scripture that Jesus did We don't nullify the law. We're not doing what Jesus is talking about here. We don't nullify it. We establish the law. And what does he mean by that? Flip over to the book of Romans, okay? Flip over Romans chapter 3. The book of uh Romans is concerned with the righteousness of of God. And uh in fact that the righteousness is is really the the grand great theme of the the book of Romans. Uh different forms of the word for righteous are found at least 69 times in the the book of Romans. And Paul's burden in chapter 3 is to answer the question. How can God be considered righteous if he lets lawbreakers go free? How can God be considered righteous if he lets guilty people go free? This is a very well-constructed argument, and sometime we'll have to cover all of this in the future. But look at what he says in verse 21 of the book of Romans. He says, but now apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. So here he's arguing that even the law and the prophets indicate that righteousness does not come through obedience to the law He's using the law and the prophets to say that we're that God is not looking to us to fulfill righteousness in order to enter into heaven. It says even the law and the prophets lets you know this. The same law and the prophets that gave you the law lets you know that you can't fulfill the law, right? The same law in the prophets, he says, even the law in the prophets indicates this The Bible has never God has never declared a person innocent or righteous because he was obedient to the law And one of the reasons that it goes on to say that that's true in uh in Romans chapter three is because uh look at verse twenty-one. Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Why is nobody going to be declared innocent based on the law? Because we're all sinners. That's what that I mean that's what the argument is. That's why verse 23 is there. There's no distinction because we're all sinners. None of us is going to be declared righteous based on this law. And people have always been declared righteous apart from the law. And this is what he goes on to say in verse 31. Do we nullify the law through faith? May it never be. On the contrary, we establish the law. And then what he goes on to do is he goes on to give examples from the Old Testament of how people were declared innocent apart from obedience to the law. Look at uh chapter uh four, verse three. He says, for what does the scripture say? You know, you want to worry about the scriptures. What does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Was Abraham Saved, justified, declared innocent based on his obedience? The answer is no. He was declared innocent based on belief, based on faith, and that was credited to him as righteous. Then he pulls up David And uh Romans chapter uh four, verse seven and eight, you know, referring back to Psalm 32, says, just as David also speaks in verse 6, of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works Blessed are those whose lawless deeds have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will not take into account. David understood that I have a right standing with God, not based on anything that I've done, but because of a free pardon that I've received from God David understands that. And the reason why I go back and say that we establish the law and like you know even that phrase uh law and the prophets that's that's used, uh, he goes back to the Old Testament uh scriptures here. And proves from the law and the prophets, you know, Abraham representing the law, David representing the prophets, that this is just the consistency of Scripture. This is how it's been done all the way through through Scripture. Righteous before God based on his free grace. The law demonstrates that uh people can be declared righteous apart from obedience. And that's really like I said with the argument of uh Romans chapter Three is. And Jesus Christ is our substitute. Is the one. I mean, the reason why we can be declared innocent is because of the propitiation found in Jesus Christ, verse 25. talks about Christ whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in his blood through faith. This was to demonstrate his righteousness. How can God declare unrighteous people righteous Because of Jesus Christ, because of his righteous life and his substitutionary death on the cross, we can be declared righteous. And in this way, Christians actually establish the law. What do I mean by that? Christians actually have a higher view of the law than people who are trying to fulfill it do. Why? Because we actually believe that it has to be fulfilled. Anybody who's trying to fulfill the law on their own doesn't really take the law seriously. Because nobody can actually fulfill it. Christians actually are those that actually take the law seriously. The law has to be fulfilled. Where is it going to be fulfilled? It's not going to be in me. Somebody has to come and complete perfect righteousness in my place. So we don't nullify the law. We establish it. We establish it. Jesus Christ came to give us perfect righteousness. So this is one way that we establish the law. The second way that we establish the law is by fulfilling what the law itself intends, by fulfilling the fulfilling the intent. of the law. And this is, like I said, where where it gets fascinating. Because while Paul recognizes, on the one hand, that Christ completely fulfilled the law, that's what he says in Romans chapter ten, verse four, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. He'll turn right around in the same book in Romans chapter 8 and verse 4, where he says that Christ was uh condemned in the in the flesh, and uh verse 4 he says, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Paul is still concerned that we fulfill the law. Look at what he says over in chapter 13, Romans chapter 13. Look at this. Look at verse 8, Romans chapter 13. He says, Owe nothing to anyone except to love one another. For he who loves his neighbor has what? Fulfilled the law. Is Paul still concerned that we fulfilled the law? Seems to be what he says here, right? He who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law. For this ye shall not commit adultery, ye shall not murder, ye shall not steal, you shall not covet. And if there is any other commandment, it is summed up in this saying, ye shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor, therefore love is the Fulfillment of the law. Is Paul concerned that we fulfill the law? The answer is yes. And he's basing it upon the Old Testament. Because the law says, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder. He's going back to the Old Testament law. Paul is concerned that we fulfill the law. And really the argument that Paul makes is that we have been set free from fulfilling the letter of the law, but we have not been set free from fulfilling the spirit of the law. We are obligated to fulfill the intent of the law. This is what Paul goes on to argue here in Romans chapter 7, verse 6. Listen to what he says in Romans 7 verse 6. It says, but now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that We serve in newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. What is Paul concerned that we fulfill? The spirit and the intent of the law. Not necessarily the letter of the law. Christ died and completed all that, right? But what we are to do is to continue to serve in the intent of the law. The intent of the law. This is the same idea that he talks about over in Galatians, Galatians chapter 3. Verses uh 23 and 24 if you want to flip over there real quick. Galatians chapter 3. Like I said, this could just take us like the next like month or so, but this is this is great stuff here Galatians chapter 3, 23 and uh 24. It says, but before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law. Being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. What does that mean? It doesn't mean that now you're free to live lawlessly. You're no longer under the law, you just do whatever you want to do You know, just run amok. That's not what he says. He says you're no longer under the tutor, but now you're under Christ. You're in the spirit, right? Doesn't mean that you live lawlessly. We're not under the law of the tutor, but that doesn't mean that we don't follow the law And its principles, you're supposed to remember what the tutor taught you, right? After you've learned how to play an instrument, you may not have to practice your scales anymore, but you don't forget the fundamentals. After you've learned how to ride your bike, you may kick off the training wheels, but you don't forget the balance that those training wheels taught you, right? So he's not saying, hey, don't, you know, just don't worry about it. Don't worry about any law But what he says is you're supposed to fulfill the intent of it. Galatians chapter 5, verse 13, it says, For you were called to freedom, brethren. You're called to freedom. You're free. You're free from the letter of the law, right? But what does he also go on to say? Only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. Verse 18 in uh chapter 5. If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. If you're not under the law, you're following the Spirit, right? Chapter 6, verse 2. Bear one another's burdens and thereby fulfill the law of Christ. We are still to fulfill the law, not the letter of it, but the intent of it. And this is where you can start to see the continuity between Jesus, Paul, and really the entire Bible. I mean, really, it just kind of breaks down all kinds of barriers here. Because the body of the Sermon on the Mount can really be understood as Jesus' exposition of the law and the prophets. The law and the prophets form the bracket around the uh the Sermon on the Mount in uh chapter 5, verse 17, Jesus mentions the law and the prophets. Towards the end of the Sermon on the Mount, chapter 7, verse 12, he mentions the law and the prophets, that this fulfills the law and the prophets. So he's saying this right here is like an exposition of the law and the prophets. This is uh I'm giving you the summation of the law. But when Jesus speaks about the law throughout the Sermon on the Mount, listen to this. He speaks of it in a way that goes much deeper than just the letter of it. You understand? Jesus speaks in categories that are far deeper than they were used to hearing. Because he drops down to the intent of the law. And this is where it gets exciting because in 521, if you're back in uh in Matthew, Back in Matthew 5. 21, he says, You have heard that the ancients were told, You shall not commit murder. Whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court, right? And really what he says is, do you really think that that's all God's concerned about? You really think that the only thing God doesn't want you to do is to murder somebody? I'm telling you that if you're even angry with somebody, the intent of the law, the spirit of the law, that you're in violation of this. 5 verse uh 27. says you have heard that it was said you shall not commit adultery. Then he goes on to say, do you really think that that's all God's concerned about? Just don't commit the physical act. That's all I'm worried about No. No. He goes deeper than that. Even if you look at a woman with lust, you've broken the law. What is Jesus going for? The intent and the spirit behind the law. The intent behind the law was being lost through all their rituals, their observances, their ceremonies. And what Jesus explains is that the common misunderstanding of the law ripped the heart right out of it. You've ripped the heart out of the law. And God has always been after the heart. The same was true in the Old Testament. There's many examples of the children of Israel disobeying or obeying the form of the command and totally missing the function of it. For example, the offerings that were given to the Lord in the Old Testament weren't just about the offering. I hope you understand that it's not just about the offering. In Malachi chapter 1, verse 6 through 8, goes on to say this: He says, A son honors his father and a servant is master. Then if I'm a father, where is my honor? If I'm a master, where's my respect? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priest who despise my name. But you say, How have we despised your name? We're obeying the law, aren't we? We gave you the animal sacrifice, didn't we do what you told us to do? How have we defiled you? Verse 8. But when you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Why not offer it to your governor? Will he be pleased with you? Would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? What was the purpose for the sacrifice? Honor me Honor me. They say, oh well he wants the sacrifice. Let's just bring some scraggly animals from back there. Bring bring blonde Betsy over here. Get rid of that. We've been waiting to get rid of her a long time. Give that to the Lord. He wants the sacrifice That's not what God was after. He was after the heart. Honor me. This command that I'm giving to you is for you to honor me. But they took the heart out of it. Offers were to be a vehicle to bring honor to the Lord. It's not like God was desperate for animals. He owns them all anyway. Whether you gave them to him or not, he already owned them. So it's not about give me an animal. He's saying that there's a purpose, there's an intent, there's a spirit behind this law. I want you to come and bring me honor. And they missed the intent behind the command. Did the externals, forgot all about the internal. And here's where it's also true and bridges the gap between Jesus and Paul and all the Old and New Testament commands. So it was possible to obey the external without having the internal. But here's something that's also true: that it's possible to obey the internal function of the command without the external form of it. And this is why Christ can release us from the letter of the law, but still have uh have binding on us the internal intent of the law. That the external form in this case wasn't the big deal. Christ freed us from that. And notice how he uh uses it here. Let me give you an example of that. 1 Corinthians chapter 9, okay? 1 Corinthians chapter 9. One example of how you can obey the intent, the spirit behind the law without the external um form of it. First Corinthians chapter 9, look at verse 6. And here Paul has a discussion about compensation for ministers, and he says in verse 6, or do only Barnabas and I not have a right to refrain from working? Who at any time serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Who tends a flock and does not use the milk of the flock? I am not speaking these things according to human judgment, am I? Or does not the law also say these things Oh, there he goes back to the law. For it is written in the law of Moses, you shall not muzzle the ox while he is threshing. God is not concerned about the oxen, is he? Or is he sticking altogether for our sakes? Yes, for our sake it was written, because the plowmen ought to plough in hope, and the thrush or the thrush in hope of sharing the crops. What is he saying? You can obey the intent of this passage without the external form of it The intent of the passage is what remains and what carries carries over. And this is what he points out in this passage. And notice the use of the law and the intent behind the scripture, and he applies that. with authority. Applies that with authority. In the same way, we could look at a an Old Testament law like Deuteronomy 22, verse 8, which says, When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, so that you will not bring blood guilt on your house if anyone falls from it. It's like, well, how in the world am I supposed to fly something like that? You know, does you know, do I need to have like a parapet was like basically a wall, you know, on the top of your your roof uh in ancient uh Israel they uh the roofs would be flat. They'd kinda use the the roof as like a a second story you know to their house. Uh they'd use that to kind of get some cool breeze, uh to relax, to actually uh invite guests and do some hosting, you know, up on the on on the roof. And uh as you had these guests that that came in, uh one of the things that you'd want to do is build a a wall around your your house, uh around your roof, so that you know somebody's up there having a good time, they don't take two steps back and you know, that's it, right? I've had invitations to some of your homes and I don't think I've ever been invited on your roof, and I'm really upset about that. I want to enjoy the cool breezes, right? But it here he says, you know, you need to build a wall around your roof. What's the intent of that? The intent of that law, and I fully fully agree with Paul here , the intent of uh behind this law is uh that you need to show care and concern for your brothers. Love people. Be concerned about them. If they're over your house, you're responsible for them, right? Have care and concern for those that would come over. So the intent behind the law is what uh what we're we're really after. And this is where uh, like I said, it's it's just in full agreement with what the Apostle Paul talked about. Paul says it this way in Galatians chapter 5 and verse 3. It says, Again I testify to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep The whole law. And we we understand that we're not under the letter of the law again. In addition to if we were to say, you know, hey, we're under the Old Testament letter, right? I mean, we'd have to go through all 613 commands and try to pick up every one of them. He says if you're if you're going to try to obey one, you might as well just go for it all, right? If you're going to try to obey the strict letter of it. In addition, placing yourself under the law also placed yourself under the curse of the law as well. Galatians 3 10, for as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse, for it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book So I agree that we're free from the letter of it, the external expression of it, but the continuity is that we're not free from the intent of it. Form may change. The intent and the principle behind it is what's good and right. And I could preach Deuteronomy 30 22 verse 8. I could preach that with authority. Preach it with authority. Why? Because we're preaching the intent behind it. The intent behind it. The intent of care and concern. So uh I don't see Jesus and and Paul in opposition to one another. Uh the only difference is that After the cross, the external form of it is done away with, but we are still bound by the internal intent So under the old old covenant, if uh when you think about under the old covenant, if a if a gentile wanted to become a Jew, what did he have to do? Or wanted to follow the God of Israel, he had to become a Jew. I just gave you the answer, right? But if a Gentile wanted to follow the God of the scriptures, what do you have to do? He had to become a Jew. Had to be circumcised. This is what uh uh the proselyte uh was. And that's why we find uh uh Peter in uh Acts chapter 10 He opens up his mouth in verse 34 and he opens his mouth and he says this. He says, I most certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality. God is receiving the Gentiles. You know, he says there's there's a difference here. First uh in Acts chapter uh uh 15 and you can turn over there real quick just to show you some of these uh differences that have taken place. We're definitely coming back to this because there's there's a lot more I want to say on this one, all right? Acts chapter uh uh 15 Verse 1, it says, some men came down from Judea, began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. So here's where the debate comes Right? You know, you have the Old Testament, you know, you have New Testament believers. They say, hey, you know, we we know what the law says. You got to be circumcised. How can they follow God without circumcision? So here comes men from Judea teaching the brethren, unless you're circumcised, according to the custom of Moses, you can't be saved. And they're really struggling with these things here. It says uh talks about uh Paul and Barnabas actually going down to Jerusalem, verse 4. Uh they were received by the church, the apostles, the elders, they reported all that God had done with them. Some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up saying it is necessary to circumcise them and to direct them to observe the law of Moses The apostles and the elders came together to look into this matter, and after there had been much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he also did to us. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why do you put God to the test by placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus in the same way as they also are. Paul had the, I mean Peter and Paul had the same gospel, right? They're saved by grace, just like we are. Saved through faith, just like we are. Then you have uh James just a little bit uh later on in uh verse nineteen he says uh for this is therefore it is my judgment that we do not trouble those who are turning to God from the Gentiles. Don't don't trouble them that and try to lay on them the letter of the law. Not to be be troubled with uh with those things. There's a there's a difference that the letter of the law has passed away, the intent of the law is what remains. is what remains. And what James actually does is he appeals to the uh to the Old Testament uh scriptures uh for that. So we don't nullify the the law of God. All right? And I'm gonna wrap it up here because uh Like I said, there's there's a lot more we could talk about. But uh what we understand is that while God operates differently and at different times, the God 's nature doesn't change. God's character doesn't change. And that's why Paul can say that the law is good. The law is holy. The law is right. Why? Because the law is an expression of the character of God. So the law's not going to change. That's why Jesus Christ can say it abides. Don't nullify it. You don't nullify the law because the character of God is there You don't know if I does operate at different ways in different ways at different times. So God's word to Adam and Eve was pretty simple, right? Only had to obey one command. Don't eat of the tree. After the fall in the garden, God related to to mankind differently, right? And that's obvious. After the flood, uh God didn't change, uh God changed the way that he interacted with man, gave man additional instructions after the flood. When God chose Abraham, it was clear that he was also starting something new. After God rescued the people from Egypt, God related to mankind through the law of Moses. No one would doubt that the coming of Christ instituted another change in the way that God related to us. And when Christ returns again and praise God, he will one day return. He's also going to relate to us differently than he does now. You know, there's changes And the criticism that I hear is uh, you know, well doesn't the Bible say that God doesn't change? You know, Malachi 3. 6, for I the Lord do not change. Doesn't the Bible say in Hebrews thirteen eight that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever? You know, why isn't all just the same? Why isn't all scripture just the same? And it's it's true, God doesn't change and Jesus Christ doesn't change. They don't change in their person, they don't change in their character, they change in the way they relate to people, okay? Changing the way they relate to people. And the character of God's law doesn't change. Like I said, Romans 7. 12 says the law is holy, the commandment is holy, it's righteous, it's good. None of that changes. And that's why Christ can say, uh Don't abolish the law. I haven't come to abolish the law. Don't nullify the law. Don't set it aside. Why? Because I've come to fulfill the law. I've come to fulfill the scriptures. God's plan is going to be accomplished in the scriptures. And uh God's people are going to be held accountable by the scriptures. We're we're not exempt uh from the the law of God, but the way we fulfill that law does change in in time. The life, death, resurrection of Jesus Christ set us free from the letter of it. not the spirit and the heart of it. Listen to what James says in James chapter 2, verse 12, and we'll close here. Says now speak, so speak, and so act as those who are to be judged by the law of liberty. Says you've been set free, but there's still a law. So speak and so act as those who will be judged by the law of liberty. We're going to have to stand before Christ one day and give an account for how we've fulfilled his commands. And it's something that we need to be concerned about. And for those of you who are here who haven't trusted in Jesus Christ as your Savior, The judgment for you is even more severe. Because you don't even have anybody that's taking care of the letter of the law for you, that stood in your place and given perfect righteousness for you. To uphold the law means that that all of its requirements are binding, and there's only one person who came and lived that kind of life. Only one person who came and did that, that was Jesus Christ, completely fulfilled the law, so that he could set us free, so that we could obey the intent of it And we're judged by the law of liberty. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we uh uh thank you so much for uh this opportunity that we've had and uh Father, I pray that you'd use what uh we've shared to be a blessing uh to the to your people. Uh Father, there's uh uh so much uh truth and and grace and uh uh love that we find in in in your law. Uh people look at the law as uh as harsh and and unloving and uh uh judgmental. Uh but Father we find that uh in your law is uh the way that you uh chosen to relate to men. You've given your law so that we might be driven to Jesus Christ. You didn't only give your law, but you sent the one who would be the fulfillment of your law. So Father, we thank you for the law. The law is holy. It's good. It teaches us about your character. It uh teaches us about examples that we should follow, examples that we shouldn't follow. It teaches us about who you are. Father, I pray that we would uphold the Scriptures in all of its wonder and all of its beauty. And Father, that you would help us to be those that would fulfill the intent of everything. That you've commanded. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law. Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media CDs and digital files