The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Well, why don't you take your Bibles with me and open up to the book of Romans? Romans chapter 1. We're turning back to the book of Romans. I know it's been a a little while since we've been there, so it might take a little bit to get back into the flow of the book. But just to remind you about where we've been, the book of Romans is a book that declares and defends the idea that God is a righteous God and that his righteous demands can only be satisfied in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Uh the words righteousness and justified both come from the same root word uh show up some sixty-nine times in the book of Romans And the word for righteousness applies to God's words, God's character, God's judgment, God's reign, God's law, God's kingdom, just to name a few of the ways that righteousness is applied in this book. And when we use righteousness to speak about God, to describe God, what we're saying is that God is infinitely righteous in Himself. And that he maintains his perfection of righteousness over and against every violation of his holiness, which means that God can't be anything other than righteous. All that God does is righteous. All that God declares is righteous. All that God demands is righteous. All of who God is is righteous. Now the scripture lets us know that God loves righteousness. Psalm 11, verse 7 says, For the Lord is righteous, he loves righteousness. All that God does is righteous. Psalm 145 and verse 17. It says the Lord is righteous in all of his ways God's righteousness is the highest degree of righteousness. In Psalm 71 and verse 19 it says, For your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens. It's to the highest degree. The highest degree of righteousness belongs to you, God. And his righteousness is a never-ending, never-changing, never-failing righteousness. In Psalm 111 and verse 3, it says, His righteousness endures forever. And Psalm 119 and verse 142 says, your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Which means That when Romans chapter one says, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, God is not acting out of character. God's wrath is a righteous wrath. He's doing what is right and only what is right, but that doesn't mean that there aren't objections. The objections that are raised are objections like, you know, is it right for God to reveal his righteous wrath against those who don't believe? What about those who are unconvinced about God? How can God hold them responsible? Some people haven't heard. How is it right for God to inflict wrath upon those who haven't heard? And as we've pointed out in previous studies, that's a question that the book of Romans clearly answers for us. Romans three five puts it this way, the God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is he? And the answer is given, May it never be So why is it right for the wrath of God to fall upon mankind? Number one, and this is review, God has made himself evident. In verses 19 and Twenty of uh Romans chapter one it says, Because that which is known about God is evident within them. For God made it evident to them For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse God's revelation and creation is so clear that unbelief is inexcusable. So why is it right for God to inflict his wrath? Because God has made himself evident It's obvious that God exists. There are no atheists in the technical definition of that word. There's many who might deny God, but they close their eyes to what they know to be true. And when men appear before the Lord at the end of time, God won't have to introduce himself to anybody. He's not going to wear a name tag, you know, hello, I'm I'm God. You know, people know who they stand before when they stand before his righteous judgment. But there's another reason that it's right for God to inflict his wrath upon the unbeliever. And it's found in verses 21 and 23. Not only has God made himself evident, but men have made themselves obstinate. Men have made themselves obstinate, which is where we left off last time, verses 21 to 23. It says, For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and crawling creatures. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer as we continue to work our way through this wonderful passage? Heavenly Father, we do come before you, Lord, today as we Always do, Lord, asking for your help as we work through your word. This is your word. Father, this is your communication to us. This is your revelation to us. Help us to understand these things. Help us to apply these things into our lives. Help us to submit ourselves to your word. And Father, I pray that today that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I mentioned last time, there's three pairs of ideas that are found in this text. There's the idea that they did not honor God or give him thanks in verse 21. They became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened, also in verse 21. And they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God in verses 22 to 23. And those uh uh three ideas, pairs of ideas could be categorized under three headings. They refuse the worship of God for idolatry. They reject the light of God for darkness, and they replace the glory of God with corruption. And again, just getting a running start here, they refuse the worship of God for idolatry in verse 21. That even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give him thanks. And when the scripture says they did not honor him as God or give him thanks, that's not saying that they just don't believe in God. It's to say that they direct their glory elsewhere. They might even say that, I believe that there's a God out there somewhere, you know, a higher power, you know, the universe, or whatever else they want to say, but they're not directing the glory to the one who's worthy of it. And even the unbeliever experiences the greatness and the goodness of God. But instead of giving glory to the one who is worthy of the glory, they make a substitute They call it the universe, chance, luck, science, mother nature, multiple gods Give another God the credit. Glory has to go somewhere. I mean it's it's it's out there. And it has to be directed somewhere. And we've been created to glorify. That's how we've been designed. And we we push it out somewhere, even if we might do it like a boomerang and it comes back to us that somehow I'm worthy of the glory. And God says, a son honors his father, a servant his master, then if I am a father, where is my honor? If I am a master, where is my respect? But we would rather give glory to the creature than to the Creator who is forever blessed Why is it right for God to inflict wrath? Because men refuse the worship of God for idolatry. Number two, why is it right for God to inflict his wrath? Because men reject the light of God for darkness. Look at verse 21 again. It says they became futile in their speculations and their foolish heart was darkened. When men reject what's obvious, they fill their minds with futile speculations. The word futility in verse 21 means worthless, vain, useless ideas. You know, men don't have Answers for the biggest questions of life, you know, who am I? Where did I come from? What's my purpose? Where am I going? And they don't like the answers that God gives them, so they make up their own. And they call it philosophy. And then they give themselves degrees for their futile speculations. But all of the combined wisdom of man can't preserve your life after death. You ever Think about that? They have no answers for that. Because their wisdom cannot save you. It can't save you. Jeremiah asked the question in Jeremiah 2. 28, but where are your gods? Which you have made for yourself. Let them arise if they can save you in your time of trouble. You're all going to come to a time of trouble, whether you know that or not. Death is going to come knocking at your door and you can't excuse yourself and you know say I'm not here. You know, pretend like he's the Jehovah's Witness or something like that. Tell him I'm not here. Where are your gods that you've made for yourself? Let them save you during your time of trouble. Judges 10 and verse 14 says, Go and cry out to the gods which you have chosen. Let them deliver you in the time of your distress. Deuteronomy 32, 37 says, and he will say, Where are their gods, the rock in which they sought refuge? So empty, worthless. I spoke with one man during our outreach this year, and he says, I'm not sure what I believe, and I think that's the point. The the point of what? I think I think that's the point. It's like like the lights have gone out, right? The point is that you don't know the point of life, but how do you know that the point of life is that you don't know the point of life? How are you sure of that? That's why Romans goes on to say that their foolish heart is darkened. The lights are out. And in the context here, it means to have a heart that's blinded to the truth, given over to sin, under the dominion of Satan, it leads to eternal death and judgment. And more light won't help a darkened heart. My pastor Tom Leake was said one time, if you're blind, a brighter light won't help. The problem is on the inside The heart is used in scripture as a metaphor of the inner life. The heart becomes dark. And Paul's not referring to the organ that pumps blood when he refers to the heart He's talking about the inner life, the control center of your life. With your heart you believe, Romans 10. 9. With the heart you desire, Romans 10. 1. You speak from the heart, Romans 10. 6. You obey from the heart, Romans 6. 17. You disobey from the heart, Romans 2. 5. Your convictions are located in the heart, Romans 2. 15. No wonder the scripture says to guard your heart. Guard your heart, protect that heart. The heart is not simply where the feelings come from. It's where we think, where we make decisions Luke 9. 47, Jesus says, knowing that they were thinking in their hearts. They were thinking in their hearts. It's the control center of your life. And if the heart has become darkened, every thought, every desire, every decision is going to be impacted by the control center. Matthew 6. 23 says, if then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is that darkness? If what's supposed to bring light is dark. How great is the darkness? Because what you're looking to for direction doesn't work. You're in the dark and you're looking for a way out, looking for direction, and you don't have it. And men abandon the light to embrace the darkness. And it impacts everything around them. And that's why you get into some of these conversations and you wonder, and are are you even listening to what you're saying right now? Like it's not making sense. But that's what men gravitate to when they reject the light of God. And finally, they replace the glory of God with corruption. Look at verse 22. says, professing to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image. in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and crawling creatures. You know, the creepy crawlies, they'd rather go after that than go after the true God. And I would understand verse 23 is actually an explanation of verse 22. So professing to be wise, they became fools. And how do they become fools? By exchanging the glory of the incorruptible God for an image. How do men become fools? It's by exchanging what's glorious for what's corrupted. They exchange God for an image. That's the foolishness. My daughter did a study abroad this summer and had the opportunity to go to the Louvre in Paris, France. where she was able to see the best known, the most visited, the most written about, and from what I read, the most expensive work of art in the entire world. It's uh valued at over $660 million for a piece of canvas with paint on it. $660 million, and there's only one place to see the original. The Louvre in Paris, France, where over 10 million people a year visit the Mona Lisa. And if I were to take a picture of the Mona Lisa, and then make a print for my picture of the Mona Lisa, and then I convinced the manager of the museum to exchange my print for the original of the Mona Lisa. What would you call them A fool! You're a fool! To take a copy of an image of a copy and exchange it for the original. But that's the foolishness of mankind. They exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of an image. That's the foolishness that we see in this passage. Mankind himself is a corrupted image. That's what we are. We're corruptible images. We're image-bearers of of God, but we're corrupted. Genesis 1. 26 lets us know that God made man in his image and his likeness to rule over. The fish of the sea, the birds of the sky, the cattle over the earth, the creeping things that creep on the earth. But that image was marred because of the fall, corrupted because of the fall. He still retains the image of God, and that's why mankind has value even after the fall. We're still in the image of God. But we are corrupted images. And the word for corruptible image that's used in Romans chapter 1 is just another way to say that we perish, that we're on our way out. We're image bearers, but we're dying. You know, every day, you know, you're getting closer and closer to the inevitable. That's how we are. We're corrupted image bearers. But men will worship an image of a corrupted image bearer and call that wisdom Daniel chapter 3, Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold to represent himself and had the leaders of his empire bow down and worship. And if you think that's all just ancient superstition, oh, we don't do that anymore. I was on a mission strip in Quito, and our missionary told me about a picture in Quito, Ecuador of Mary. That was reported to to move. The picture itself was reported to move. The eyes, you know, they said moved. And the Catholic Church has actually considered this a genuine miracle. According to one source, the picture is called the Mother of Sorrows, and the story is told of a child who is finishing his supper at a Catholic academy when he had the urge to stir the picture plastered to a wall only a couple feet away. He was looking at the image, and the Blessed Virgin Mary began to open and close her eyes. He reported what he saw to a priest who did not believe him, and commanded the child to go and pray the rosary. However, this account would not be the only time someone witnessed the picture come to life. And there's all sorts of reports about statues weeping and pictures weeping and moving their eyes. And our missionary was actually told as he was growing up that he needed to behave so that Mary would not cry. It's not obey because of the glory of God. It's obey so that the picture or the statue of Mary won't cry. What is that? That's exchanging the glory of God for an image. But that's where you direct your devotion to. That's where you direct your obedience. That is to motivate you. Look at the picture. And make sure you don't make the picture weep. That's to motivate your obedience rather than the glory of the incorruptible God. The glory of God is still being exchanged for idols today. Still being exchanged for idols. Psalm 115. Verse 4 speaks about these idols. If you want to flip back there, Psalm 115. I'll start at verse 4, Psalm 115. I won't go all the way back to verse 1, but I will remind you, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name, give glory. But look at verse four. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of man's hands. They have mouths, but they cannot speak. They have eyes, but they cannot see, and I would add to that, they cannot cry either. They have ears but they cannot hear, they have noses, but they cannot smell, they have hands, but they cannot feel, they have feet but they cannot walk, they cannot make a sound with their throat. Those who make them will become like them, everyone who trusts in them. And in Romans, the picture of idolatry only descends down further from there. Because it goes from making an image of a man to making an image of a creature. It goes from man to birds to four-footed animals to the creatures that crawl upon the earth. It only goes from bad to worse. And it all robs God of his glory. In Egypt, there were many deities that were worshipped. There was a tomb who was represented as a snake, Geb, who was a black goose, Haket, who was a woman with the head of a frog. I mean, that's spectacular to look at Kephri, who was a beetle Osiris, who's depicted as a centipede or a donkey-headed man. And it's no wonder that God used insects, frogs, and even a snake to judge Egypt. It it it wasn't uh you know just random. God is saying, I'm the one that's in charge of these things, and I'll use the very things that you're going to worship to come back and bite you. Let those be your plagues, those that you trusted in. They'll take you out. An ancient Near East, Baal, represented by a bull. Dagon was a man with the head of a fish. Chamash of Moab was represented by a fish. And then Israel followed suit, unfortunately, worshiped the golden calf. Exchange the glory for an image of an ox that eats the grass. Psalm 106 verse 20 says. Worship the idol of a goat, 2 Chronicles 11, 15. Worship the bronze serpent. the symbol of their punishment, but they turned around and worshipped it, 2 Kings 18, 4? And how how evil is the human heart that it would prefer to give glory to a bird or a four-footed animal or a crawling creature, rather than to give the glory to God. Men would rather revere a cow or a rat. Before giving glory to God. And you don't think that we deserve God's wrath? Flip over to Ezekiel, Ezekiel chapter 8. Because Ezekiel gives us a picture of this, and I think this is helpful. Ezekiel is one of the contemporaries of Daniel who prophesied to the Jewish exiles in Babylon during the final days before the collapse of Judah. If you remember Daniel was taken into captivity 605 BC, but the first uh in the first deportation, but uh Ezekiel didn't arrive until the second deportation, 597 And then the fall happened years later in 586. And during those years between the second deportation and the destruction of the temple, Ezekiel received this prophecy in chapter 8. So what was going on in the temple before it was destroyed? Ezekiel's given a vision of it. Look at Ezekiel chapter 8, starting at verse 1. It says it came about in the sixth year, on the fifth day of the sixth month, as I was sitting in my house with the elders of Judah sitting before me, that the hand of the Lord God fell on me there. Then I looked, and behold, the likeness as the appearance of a man From his loins and downward there was the appearance of fire. From his loins and upward the appearance of brightness, like the appearance of glowing metal. And the the description that Ezekiel gives is actually very similar to an earlier description that he gave in chapter 1 about the glory of God. So what he's describing is the a likeness of the glory of God. And actually from uh I would argue that what he's seeing is actually the a pre-incarnate Christ, a pre-incarnate vision of Christ It goes on to say in verse 3, he stretched out the form of a hand and caught me by a lock of my head, and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven. Brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the north gate of the inner court, where the seat of the idol of jealousy, which provokes the jealousy, was located That that uh idol of jealousy was actually uh uh a word that was used for the the the the idol that was fashioned by Manasseh uh over in 2 Chronicles 33. But it says, and behold the glory of God of Israel was there. Like the appearance which I saw on the plane, he's saying, this is the same glory that I've seen before. This is God showing up. Then he said to me, Son of man, raise your eyes now toward the north. So I raised my eyes toward the north, and behold, to the north of the altar gate was this idol of jealousy at the entrance, stationed right there at the entrance where they would come to worship God He said to me, Son of man, do you see what they're doing? The great abominations which the house of Israel are committing here, so that I would be far from my sanctuary, but yet you will see still greater abominations. Then he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold a hole in the wall. You know, apparently there was some kind of structure there outside of the temple And he said to me, Son of man, now dig through the wall. So I dug through the wall and behold an entrance. And he said to me, Go in and see the wicked abominations that they are committing here. So I entered and looked, and behold, every form of creeping things and beasts. Detestable things with all the idols of the house of Israel were carved on the wall all around. Standing in front of them were seventy elders of the house of Israel. These are the men who are supposed to lead Israel, spiritual leaders With Josemiah, the son of Shaphan, standing among them, each man with his censor in his hand, and the fragrance of the cloud of incense rising. Apparently, this is the leader that Ezekiel knew. Then he said to me, Son of man, do ye see what the elders of the house of Israel are committing in the dark? Each man in the room of his carved images? For they say, The Lord does not see us The Lord has forsaken the land. And he said to me, Yet you will see greater abominations which they are committing. Then he brought me to the entrance of the gate of the Lord's house. This is the temple itself. which was toward the north, and behold, women were sitting there weeping for Tammuz. It's a Babylonian god of fertility who was believed to have the powers of life. And he said to me, Do you see this, son of man? Yet you will see greater abominations than these. Then he brought me into the inner court of the Lord's house. Behold, at the entrance to the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar were about twenty-five men with their backs to the temple of the Lord, their faces toward the east, and they were prostrating themselves eastward toward the sun. Son worship. And he said to me, Do you see this, son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations which they've committed here? That they filled the land with violence and provoked me repeatedly For behold, they are putting the twig to their nose. And possibly that could be read. They're putting the twig to my nose. In other words, they're provoking me. They're daring me to do something. Therefore, I will indeed deal in wrath. My eye will have no pity, nor will I spare, and though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet I will not listen to them. Sadly, there would come a time when they would cry out to the Lord, but it would be a cry too late. Cry in his ears with a loud voice. But he would deal with them in wrath. And that's exactly what happened in 586 B. C. when Jerusalem was destroyed and burnt to the ground. But did you notice that the glory of God was there? It says in verse 4, behold the glory of the Lord was, the God of Israel was there. But they exchanged the glory of God for their idols. Description of the pre-incarnate Christ in verse 2. The appearance of fire and his loins and upward the appearance of brightness. But they gave it all up for the creepy critters. I'd rather have that instead of the glory of God. And we do the same thing today. Men do the same thing today. They turn to their own religion, their made-up religions, rather than coming to the truth of God and his word. Because they don't want to submit to what God has to say to them. So they make up their own religion. They turn from impiety. to idolatry, to immorality. That's the way it works. Until God says, enough's enough. And then he lifts up the gate and allows Babylon to enter in. And his judgment was that he would not listen to their cries when they finally turned around. What's the calamity that comes upon those that Paul describes back in Romans chapter 1? You can turn back to Romans chapter 1. Again, when you look at this passage for the activity of God, where do we see the activity of God? What is the wrath of God in this passage? What does it say that God does with sinful men? Look at verse 24. Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity Verse 26, for this reason God gave them over to degrading passions. Their women exchanged the natural function for what is unnatural, and in the same way also the men abandoned the natural function of the women. Verse 28, and just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind. And again, when you see somebody that's giving themselves over to sexual sins, depraved thinking, homosexuality, and you wonder, does God see, does God care? Are they going to receive any consequence for this? You're missing the point. That is the consequence. The God has given them over to that. And they think it's freedom. They think they're living it up. They think I don't have any restrictions on me. Look at how how free this is. But Babylon is coming in and bringing the bondage with them And when God pulls up the gates and allows you to give yourself over to your desires, it's actually the judgment of God. It is the judgment of God to give people what they want. It's consigning people to their own captivity and judgment. Sometimes people think it's a blessing that the blessings of God are on my life. That's the curse of God. When God gave Israel what they wanted, they were crying out for meat. God says, I'll give you meat until it comes out your nostrils. Israel said, I want a king just like all the other kings. And God says, You want a king like the other kings? I'll give you one. And then you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you've chosen for yourselves. But I will not answer Judges 10, Israel forsook the Lord. And he says, you have forsaken me and served other gods. Judges chapter 10, verse 13. Therefore I will no longer deliver you. Hosea 4. 17, it says, Ephraim has joined the idols, let him alone. Let him go. If you want a life without God, be careful that God might answer your requests. Proverbs chapter 1 verse 24 says, Because I called and you refused, stretched out my hand and no one paid attention, you neglected all my counsel and did not want my reproof. I will also laugh at your calamity. It is not a good thing when God laughs. It's a laugh of mockery. I will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your dread comes. When your dread comes like a storm, your calamity comes like a whirlwind. When distress and anguish come upon you, then they will call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but I will They will not find me. If heaven is silent, there might be a reason for that. C. S. Lewis in his book The Problem of Pain wrote that lost enjoy forever the horrible freedom that they've demanded and are therefore self-enslaved. It's the judgment of God. And it moves from sexual impurity to homosexuality to depravity of thinking. And we only have time for the first one, okay? We're only gonna go through one. Don't worry, I won't keep you here forever. But the wrath of God is appropriate. It's appropriate. Okay? Look at verses 24 and 25. Actually, I'll just start with verse 24. This is the first manifestation of God giving people over to themselves. Sexual impurity. Look at verse 24. Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity. There's this defilement of the heart that's God's judgment. If there is no longer some kind of restriction on the sinful desires of your heart, that might be in itself the judgment of God. And we refer to it by all kinds of innocent names like fantasizing and daydreaming, but Scripture calls it what it is. It's impure and dirty thoughts. The word for impure is a word that speaks of that which is defiling, giving them over to the lust of their hearts in impurity. The word for impure is a word that means to be unclean, to be dirty. In secular writings it was used for a a house that was unkept. It's like the hoarding of the mind. You ever watch the show hoarders? You know, just people have stuff piled up everywhere. It's like that's what people are doing in their minds. They're hoarding up. Trash in their minds. Scripture was used for those that were ceremonially unclean, unfit to appear before the Lord. People who traveled among tombs were considered the impure, the unclean. Those who handled the dead bodies considered unclean. Bodily discharges and numbers and Leviticus unclean. It was used in The New Testament for moral uncleanliness of life, living that's full of pollution, filthiness, and it often shows up in the list of sexual sins. It's a word that covers all kinds of inappropriate behavior. Giving them over in the lust of their minds to impurity. Even the impure thoughts, even before the actions. So don't don't fool yourself that you know I haven't consummated the act so I must be pure. You know, just because I haven't slept with anyone, I might be pure. Scripture speaks about it as more than that. Because it starts in the mind, the desires of the heart, the thoughts of the mind. And my question for you today is what are you filling your mind with? What are you filling your mind with? Are you filling your mind with dirt? Are you arousing yourself by what you're imagining? And have the bricks been taken off in your imagination? Are there no restrictions left? And this goes so much further than what your actions are. Like I said, it's deeper than that, because there are things that you would never do in reality, but you feel the freedom to give your imagination over to it And God is watching. God knows where you are. God knows what you're desiring. The Bible says, and Matthew 5, 28, but I say to you that everyone who looks on a woman to lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. So the question is, what are you longing for? What are you wishing for? What are you hoping for? And it's a matter of the heart. And some of some of us aid the imagination with images on a computer screen, on a phone, taking a long look Reading fantasy novels, movies, creating files that can never be erased, need to commit that anything that's obscene and modest will be off limits for us Psalm 101 verse 3 says, I will set no worthless thing before my eyes. I hate the work of those who fall away. Job 31, one says, I have made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? And honestly, if you're dwelling on it, it's only a matter of time before you're engaging in it, right? And we wonder why we have a culture where we can't put the lid on sexual crimes. You know, people are wondering why are all these sexual crimes on the rise? You know, we've got to take care of uh trafficking and everything else, but you're feeding the monster that you're trying to kill. And then you wonder, why can't we get rid of this? Because I've been feeding it the whole time This is the kind of culture that we live in. James chapter 1 and verse 14 says, But each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own lust. Then when lust has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren? Because people tend to be deceived. They think they can play around on the edges and that they'll never cross over. But this is where people are. And this is wisdom. If if this is hitting anybody, this is wisdom calling out to you right now. Like wisdom that cries out in the streets. It says that it's freedom. It's labeled freedom, but it's bondage. It is bondage. And if you've been given over to your impurity, I'm not saying I'm struggling with it, I'm coming back, I'm repenting. If you're just giving yourself over to it. That I just dwell on this. I'm just giving myself over to these fantasies. It could be a sign that God has let you go to express the lust of your heart. That you're just giving over to it. As believers, we fight. That's what we do as believers. Believers are called to fight. You know, any dead fish can swim downstream, right? Believers are called to fight. Fight the lust of your heart. But if you give yourself completely over to that, it could be an indication that the Lord says, if that's what you want, that's what you get. That's what you want. I'm going to lift the gate up. You've been knocking on this door for so long. I'm just going to let you have it. That 's the last place you want to be How else is this judgment of God manifested? Not only is it in the these desires, it's also in the defilement of the heart, but it's also in the dishonor of the body. Look again in chapter 1. Look again in verse 24. It says, Therefore God gave them over in the lust of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them. We mentioned it earlier that men have been created in the image of God, and we didn't lose that image. That's why there's value to the human body. You know, we we still have honor because we've been created in his image, and that idea is actually reinforced by the resurrection. In eternity future, you won't be some bodiless soul just kind of floating around the clouds. You know, you're going to be reconnected to a body because the body has purpose. You'll be in a glorified body. You know, 2 Corinthians 5, 1 and 2 says, For we know that if the earthly tent, which is our house, is torn down, We have a building from God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens, for indeed in this house we groan longing to be clothed with our dwelling from heaven. It's going to be a glorified body. You will be reconnected to your body and that body will be glorified because the body matters. Over in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, if you want to flip over there real quick. 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Talks about uh a group of of people that uh started getting this idea that the body doesn't matter. You know, the body's temporary anyway, so what does it what does it matter what I do with with my body? Look at First Corinthians chapter 6, look at verse 13. It says food is for the stomach and the stomach is for food. But God will do away with both of them. And basically that's the idea. You know, the body doesn't matter. You know, it's gonna go away anyway, so what do I really care about the body for? Yet the body is not for immorality, Paul says But for the Lord. And the Lord is for the body. Now God has not only raised the Lord, but will also raise us up through his power. Your body's coming back Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take away the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? May it never be Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute is one body with her? For he says the two shall become one flesh. So even your spirit your physical body has spiritual significance. It's meant for the Lord And to take that precious gift that's been given to you and to dishonor it with someone who is not your spouse is not some private decision. It's not your body, your choice. It's not. It's the Lord's body and it's his choice. Your body is for the Lord. Remember when the Pharisees sent their disciples to Jesus with the Herodians who were loyal to Herod and they asked him, is it lawful to pay poll tax to Caesar or not? Remember that? He said to them, whose likeness and inscription is this? You know, give me a coin. Whose likeness and inscription is on this? He said to them, Caesar's. And he says, give to Caesar what's Caesar's. Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. His likeness and inscription is on this, give it to him. But whose likeness and inscription is on you? You've been made in the image of God. You need to give yourself to Him. We've been made in the image of God. Even your body belongs to God. And you dishonor your body when you say, I'll just do with my body what I want Your your body is the Lord's. And it's at this point that that Paul just cycles back, back in Romans chapter 1, he just cycles back to summarize what brought this judgment about in the first place. He just cycles cycles back to it He speaks about the deceit of the mind and the depravity of the of the soul. Again, take a look at uh at verse 25. Actually, I'm in chapter 1, not chapter 6. But it says, for they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator. And here he just talks about, he kind of just goes back to talk about the sins that God is here. Well, why why is God doing this? Why is God giving them over? It's because they're exchanging the truth of God for a lie and worshiping and serving the creature rather than the creator. They exchanged the truth of God for a lie. It was the refusal to acknowledge that the God is the creator. That that that God is the the one who made us. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against ungodliness, unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth and unrighteousness. What is the truth? The truth is God who's made you and not you yourself. I'm the one who's in charge and not you. You need to recognize me as the one who's created all these things. They refuse that truth. They don't acknowledge him. Even though he's evident in the creation that's all around them. And then also it's the depravity of soul that calls them into judgment. They serve the creature rather than the creator. Again in Romans chapter 1, verse 21 Even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but became futile in their speculations, and their heart was darkened. And we'll come back to this next week, but I'll just mention it this week. The problems that we have in our culture today are not moral at their root. They're theological. The problems that we have in our culture are not moral at their root, they're theological. Sexual lust Deviations that we see are just a symptom of a world that has exchanged the truth of God for a lie. It's just a symptom of that. And they serve the creature rather than the creator. So the root of the problems that we have in our world, it's not just a lie, it's the lie. That is the lie. That I refuse to acknowledge God as the one who's made me. I refuse to acknowledge him. And I refuse to give him glory. And that's at the root of the problem. My pastor Tom Leake, he wrote these words. He says this entire passage describes man as a worshiping and religious being The idea of a purely secular man is impossible, since man by nature is made in the image of God and can only be understood in relationship to God. Any attempt to study man in a scientific or systematic manner without first understanding this truth is futile. Sociology, anthropology, and psychology err if they do not start with an accurate theology Man is only accurately understood as God is understood. To misunderstand God is to misunderstand man. Therefore, man's main sin and primary heart problem is the problem of worship. Wrong worship is idolatry. Man's main problem is not how he treats his fellow man. or individual acts of disobedience or debauchery, the heart of his problem is the problem of his heart. And sometimes people want to give us an argument or want us to give them an argument for morality that excludes God. You know, sometimes people want biblical ethics, but they just don't want the Bible. Have you ever had anybody talk to you like that? Oh, I agree with what you're saying there, but can you give us an argument for that without using the Bible? Can can you give give us an argument against abortion, but just keep the Bible out of it? Give us an argument against you know homosexuality and transgenderism, but just just leave the Bible alone. You know, we don't want the Bible to be included in that. But you don't understand that it's because we've rejected God that we got ourselves here in the first place. That's why we're here. It's because we've rejected the Bible, because we didn't want to hear from God. That's why we're here. It's because we don't want to acknowledge God in our thinking anymore. We've exchanged the truth of God for the lie. And we've worshiped the creature rather than the creator. So if you're trying to convince a child to save themselves until marriage, it's a theological issue. If you're trying to convince a family member to be faithful to their spouse, it's a theological issue. If you're trying to turn somebody from a homosexual lifestyle, theology is the issue. And you can pray for us as we try to tackle that topic next week of homosexuality. But what you do with your body is a matter of worship. Who you are faithful to is a matter of worship. Restraining your sexual desires is a matter of worship. That's where the real battle is. Will you recognize the one who made you? Will you serve the creature or the creator? Will you exchange the truth of God for a lie? Will you station an idol at the entrance to your heart? That's the question. And there's a connection between false religion and impurity, and it's all throughout the scripture. So what's the solution to this? What's the solution? Just look at the end of verse 25. I love this. Paul says, the creator who is blessed forever. Amen. There's no accident that he ends verse 25 the way that he does. He ends it with a doxology. You want to know where the solution is? It's right here It's what Paul is doing. What's he doing? He's praising God. He's praising God as his creator. What's the problem? The problem is that we don't want to acknowledge God as the creator and we don't want to worship him And what's Paul doing? I'm acknowledging God as the creator and I'm worshiping him. That's exactly where the solution is found. And this is the solution for the debauchery that we've just walked through. Do you acknowledge God as your creator? Psalm 100 verse 3, know that the Lord Himself is God, it is He who has made us, and not we ourselves. We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. And if God made me, He owns me And even my body belongs to God. There's a song that used to sing, you know, my body belongs to God. My body belongs to God. My soul and body, or my whole body. Belongs to God. Everything that I have belongs to Him. If I acknowledge Him as the Creator, then I know that I am His And I have no right to do with myself what I want. But it comes from acknowledging him first. And that he's worthy of glory, worthy. Are you, O Lord, our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and because of your will they existed and were created Do you regard him as the one who's blessed forever? And all the meaning that we can put into the blessing that belongs to God is due here. He's praised, he's exalted, he's well spoken of. For his invisible attributes, his eternal power, his divine nature. He's righteous, the highest degree of righteousness belongs to him. And when he places restrictions on us, it's not to punish us, it's to protect us. And instead of believing the lie that God is holding out on us, we believe that our Creator is the blessed one forever and ever. Amen. And sometimes I've counseled people who struggle with temptations, and my approach sometimes is let's just study the attributes of God. Let's get your mind off of your struggles and back on to who God is. And after Paul blesses the Lord, it's like he can't help himself. You know, he's just got to praise God. It's like if if no one else is going to bless the Creator, I'm going to bless him I need to make sure I'm blessing him. And and I'm not even going to wait for you to say an amen, because I'm going to say amen myself. Blessed be the Creator, the Creator who is blessed forever. Amen. Nobody wants to respond. I'll respond myself. Amen. He's the one who's blessed forever. And if you reject this creator, your judgment is just. To reject this creator. But I will just add this just as a word of hope. Because after listening some of these sins over in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, what does Paul say? And such were some of you. And such were some of you. But you were washed. But you were sanctified. But you were justified. Again, from the same root as the word for righteousness, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. Just because God gives somebody over to some of these sins that we're going to talk about, Doesn't mean that that's the last word on that person. Because God is still calling people to himself. And this righteous God is still making or declaring people righteous. The same God is still in the work of calling people to Himself, calling people out of their darkness, calling people out of their depravity, washing people from their sins, sanctifying them in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and bringing them all the way to glory. Amen? If nobody else wants to say it with me, amen. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you guys so much for our time together and your word. Oh Father, we thank you for this truth that we find in the Book of Romans and what a warning this is for us. Oh Father, that there would be no one among us who is found in that group of people who are just giving over to their sins. Where they fill their minds with pollution and are only one step away from acting all of their pollution out in their lives. Father, I pray that that would be none of us. And Father, I pray that there would be no one here who is rejecting the idea of that God is the creator over me, that He's the one who calls the shots in my life. My father, I've prayed that we would recognize the one who made us, who made us for himself , the one who has all wisdom and understands exactly how life is to function. Now, Father, I pray that we would not seek another way, that there would be nobody who's tempted here to go beyond the boundaries because somehow following Christ is too confining for their lives. Now Father, I pray that we would find in you all wisdom. And Father, we thank you that that such were some of us but we've been washed But we've been declared righteous in your sight, and that one day we will be glorified and will appear in that glorified body. and be able to finally uh worship you in the the way that we were meant to from the very beginning with those who bear your image. So Father, I pray that you would help us, Lord, as we uh continue to walk through this book, Lord, that you would challenge us. Father, that you would uh help us to submit ourselves and Father, that you would give us uh hope, that there is hope for the world, and the only hope comes through the gospel of Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services, Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.