The following message is brought to you by George Lawson Jr. pastor and Bible teacher with Baltimore Bible Church We will be reading from the New American Standard Bible. For more information about this ministry, please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. So now let's open our Bibles and follow along with Pastor George as we loose the scriptures and let them speak. Let's take our Bibles and turn back to the Book of Romans, the Book of Romans, chapter 6. As we're entering a new year, we're also entering a new section of the book of Romans, and this is an exciting section of of scripture. I can honestly say that I've been excited about every section of Romans that I've been in. But the section that we're about to cover in the next few weeks is not only doctrinally rich, but it's also intensely practical. And I would argue that all doctrine is practical, uh, but if you're one of those, you know, so what kind of people, or what does that have to do with me kind of people The personal implications in the next few chapters are going to be unavoidable because Paul knows where you live. He has your address. He's knocking at your front door, and if you're a believer, there's no way that you can walk away from these chapters saying that all sounds great, but that wasn't for me. All of this is for you. All of Romans has been for you, but particularly This section of Romans is for you. One commentator writes, It is generally agreed among those who teach the scripture that the next few chapters that we'll be covering here in Romans chapter six through eight is the normative passage for Christian living. The normative passage for Christian living. Because these are the chapters where Paul specifically addresses the issues surrounding sanctification. The Christians' daily battle with sin, progressive holiness. And if that's not practical, I don't know what is, because again, this is where we live. Romans 6 is the primary passage about freedom from the dominion of sin. As the hymn writer says, he breaks the power of canceled sin and sets the prisoner free And that's the freedom that you can live in and walk in today. That's the freedom that's been given to us through the gospel. Jerry Bridges in his book, The Discipline of Grace. He writes in this section of Scripture, we learn that the gospel is far more than fire insurance from eternal hell. Through Christ's death on the cross, we are given the ability to live lives that are pleasing to God and spiritually fulfilling. Sin 's tyranny has been broken for those who are in Christ. And these chapters in Romans are the primary chapters that explain what Christ has done to set prisoners free And there's a lot here, and I know I say it all the time, but it's true. We're only going to scratch the surface today. But let's jump into our text together and pray that the Spirit of God will open up These words for us in Romans chapter 6, verses 1 through 4 is where we'll be, but I'll go ahead and read verses 1 through 7. Follow with me as I read. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may increase? May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? Therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death. So that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, Certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this that our old self was crucified with him in order that our body of sin might be done away with. So that we would no longer be slaves to sin. For he who has died is freed from sin. Why don't you bow your heads with me for a word of prayer? Heavenly Father, we come before you, Lord, as we do every week, Lord, pleading with you to speak to us through your word. Father, this is your word. And Father, I pray that you would open up the understanding of this book to us. Father, that you would help us to appropriate the things that we read, that we wouldn't leave these things on the page, that we would carry them with us, that we would meditate on these truths. That we would apply these to our lives, that we would not behold our face and walk away and forget what we look like. And Father, I pray that we would be changed by your truth. And Father, I pray that you would use me as a weak instrument to be a blessing to your people, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Just to remind you of where we've been in the book of Romans, in Romans chapter 1, all the way through chapter 3 and verse 20. Paul has been demonstrating that the entire world is under the condemnation of God. We all rightly deserve the wrath of God because the Bible says there is none righteous, no not one. We all deserve the punishment of God for our sins. But in chapter 3 and verse 21, Paul offers us the hope and the only hope that's given for all of mankind. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. And how has that righteousness been manifested, been declared to us? It's through Jesus Christ. And from chapter three, verse twenty-one all the way to the end of chapter four, we're introduced to this doctrine of justification by faith alone, that we're declared innocent in the sight of God, not based upon what we do. But because of what Jesus Christ has done, we trust in him by faith, and his righteousness becomes ours. So we can be declared innocent on the day of judgment, not because of what we've done, but because of what Jesus has done for us. Then when he turns the corner in a chapter 5, Paul starts to work his way through all of the glorious benefits that belong to us in our salvation, including the fact That we have this marvelous, infinite, matchless grace, a grace that exceeds our sin and our guilt. We have this grace that overpowers any guilt that we might have had in our past. In fact, it's impossible to sin beyond the reach of God's grace. And that's what chapter 5 and verse 20 teaches us, where Paul says, where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. The word for abounds all the more. Hooper parasuo, it's uh it's from uh a word uh parasuo which by itself means to abound, but the hooper that's attached to it is like a hyperabounding, superabounding. Much more beyond all measure to be great in excess, over-the-top kind of grace that we're given, without limit. And that's the way that grace is described, it's this over-the-top, excessive Grace. The more sin increases, the more grace increases. Where sin abounds, grace superabounds. And what does that mean for us practically? It means That there's no sin that you could commit today that Grace would be unable to pay. There's no sin that you could commit today that Grace would be unable to pay. And if you're wondering about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit that Jesus spoke about in Matthew chapter 12, that's not a sin that you can commit today. Because Jesus is not physically on the earth performing miracles so that you can blaspheme the power of the Spirit that's at work in his life. That was a specific kind of sin when Jesus Christ was personally present doing miracles that people could blaspheme the spirit by which he did those miracles. It was a a sin that's particular. It's bound by time. So there's no sin that you could commit today That grace would be unable to pay. And if you really listen to that, it kind of sounds dangerous, doesn't it? Sounds dangerous. Because it seems like we're just throwing the door open for any sin to enter in. Hey, we're believers in here. We trust in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Bring your sin. Come one, come all. That's what it sounds like. No sin that Jesus isn't able to pay. You know, just spring your sin through the door. You know, there's this one statement, you know, free from the law, what a blessed condition. I can sin all I want and still have remission. And that's the way a lot of people come into Christianity, or at least they think that they're coming into Christianity. You know, I can sin all I want and I still have forgiveness. You know, I'll sin today and I'll repent tonight. What a deal. It's like being handed the the company card and being told that there's no limit on the card. I actually had a friend who worked for a company. He was told by the company that they would pay for his meals while he was away on a business trip. And they didn't give him the limit. So he racked it up. Stayed up all night ordering lobsters and crabs and pizzas from room service. I think he said his bill was over a thousand dollars by the time he was done Like one day ordering food and meal after meal, a thousand dollar bill. And the company made them pay it all back because that's not what they meant. That's not what I meant. When I said we pay for your meals, we were thinking something reasonable. You know, but you're gonna stay up all night ordering lobsters and crabs and pizzas on top of that. It's like pizza and lobster? Like, look, really? He ordered it all. He abused their grace. And Paul isn't here opening the door for grace to be abused. That's not what's going on here. And people think, you know, if you start telling people that there's enough grace to cover their sins, you know, they'll just continue in sin. Because grace is going to increase, grace is going to overflow, grace is abounding. You know, don't say that out loud That's dangerous if you let that get out there that God can pay for your your sins. That's a dangerous message. But the true gospel is a dangerous message. And if the gospel you preach doesn't make people wonder if grace is being given out too freely, if the gospel you preach doesn't make people think that grace is just You know, being flung out to the masses, it's not the true gospel message. Because the message that Paul preached made people question, like, is that right? Like anything? God is willing to forgive, I mean grace enough for your sins? That's the kind of message that you preach And it was exactly the kind of message that Paul preached. That's why people asked the question. That's why they had the objection. Like Paul, certainly you don't mean anything. As Lewis Johnson writes, one thing is immediately clear, Paul has been preaching a free salvation. Otherwise, the objection raised would have no force. The objection only makes sense because Paul has been preaching a gospel of grace. And it's not the first time that his opponents got this idea. If you flip back to Romans chapter 3, he addressed some of his critics here. Who accused him of teaching people that he was teaching people to do evil so that good can come out of it. I mean, if God works all things out together, all things together for the good You know, why don't we just do evil so that good can come out of that too? Look at Romans chapter 3, verse 8. He says, and why not say, as we are slanderously reported, and some claim that we say, Let us do evil that good may come. Their condemnation is just. So it wasn't the first time that Paul was being accused of being soft on sin. Paul, you're just flinging the door open for any kind of sin. You're encouraging people to do evil that good may come. Paul's teaching on grace opened him up to the charge that he was giving people a license to sin, as if we can sin without consequences and sin without reproach. But we know that we're preaching the gospel right if people accuse us of grace being too free. I remember sharing the gospel with a coworker who said, you know, basically you're telling me that a person can live like hell all of their lives And at the end of their life they can turn to Jesus and be forgiven for all their sins. Is that what you're telling me? And I said, I'm not saying that that's what you should do. But yes, if God gives you the grace to repent, and if you truly believe, you can be saved after living a life In sin, rebellion, turning from God, you can live your entire life living for Satan himself. And if at the end of your life you truly repent and believe all of your sins are forgiven, isn't that what you have in the thief on the cross? You know, what what was he hanging there for? For for parking tickets? No, no, this was uh this was a murderer This is somebody that they wanted to kill. They wanted to put him away. Barabbas, who actually should have been hanging on the middle cross, was actually known for murder and the insurrection. These were murderers they were putting to death, not people who were living clean lives, but at the very last moment, he went from reviling Christ to revering Christ. All in a moment, and in the last moments of his life, the vilest offender who truly believes that moment from Jesus a pardon receives. The gospel is that free. The gospel is that powerful. Exactly what happened to the thief on the cross: that God would allow a thief to enter into heaven. Today you'll be with me in paradise. And that's the thing, isn't it? People don't get into heaven because they earn it. You don't get into heaven because you earn it. You don't get into heaven because of the kind of life you've lived. Romans chapter 3, verses 10 to 12 says, as it is written, there's none righteous, not even one. There's none who understands. There's none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they've become useless. There is none who does good. There is not even one. It's not about your life. It's about God's grace. The only righteousness that is worthy of heaven is the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Romans 3:22 says, even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe, for there is no distinction. And if you remove the amazing from grace, it's not grace any longer. Grace always has the wow factor, right? It's like amazing grace, like I can't believe it. That God would give this kind of grace. I I can't believe that God would be this gracious. It's the grace of God. And if it is grace, it's no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. So Paul is accused of making grace too gracious. And he places this objection, which he knows is out there. He knows people are objecting to this. So he places it in writing. And many times he's probably heard this Type of object objection. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? I mean, Paul, is that what we're saying? You can just continue in your sin and grace will increase. And the argument that was being made was that Paul's gospel promotes sinfulness. A free gospel, a full gospel is a fearful gospel. And the objection is, are we to continue in sin? Are we to abide in sin? That's the word for continue to abide in it, to remain in it. Uses the Greek word epimeno, which was a word that was used for abiding, like In somebody's home as a guest? Are we making a home for sin? Is what they're saying. That's the criticism. If you believe in the gospel of grace, you're going to make a home for sin. Paul's not speaking here, as MacArthur says, of a believer's occasional falling into sin, as every Christian does at times, because of his weaknesses, his imperfections. He was speaking of an intentional, willful sinning as an established pattern of life. Is Paul arguing that you can live in your sin, remain in your sin, and still be saved? Is Paul promoting sin? What's Paul's answer? May it never be. He uses the Greek phrase megenita, megenoita , strongest form of negation in the Greek language. It's a form of the word to be. uh that's placed in the the mood of possibility, potentiality, and then it's negated. It's negating the potential Would ever be the case. It's like saying there's not even the potential or possibility that I'd be saying such a thing. In some of your translations, it's translated certainly not God forbid! Perish the thought. One translation says, what a ghastly thought. Like, why would you even think such a thing? It's recoiling in abhorrence, utter shock and disgust that you would ever think that I'm trying to tell people they can continue and live in their sin. Perish the thought. And the reason that Paul was so shocked is not because grace wasn't great enough to forgive all sins. It's not like Paul is backing down. From his statement that yes, grace covers all sins, but he says you misunderstand grace if that's what you're thinking. You're actually not thinking too much of grace, you're not thinking enough about grace. The question is, if I truly have grace, is this where grace would lead me? He's actually offended by the question because it doesn't think highly enough about the grace that saves and also transforms. You don't understand just how great this grace is. If you think you can still live in your sin, and the greatness of grace is demonstrated in the statement that comes next, how shall we who die to sin still live in it? How shall we who died still live in sin? And this is such an amazing statement. It's such an overlooked statement But if you embrace what Paul is saying here, it will completely change the way you see your relationship to sin and temptation. Like I said, just scratching the surface here, but there's so much that's contained here. When he says, how shall we who died to sin still live in it? You know what he's saying? Grace takes me to my own funeral. I'm attending my own funeral. I've seen the body and the person who used to live there, who used to live under the dominion of sin, that person doesn't live anymore. That person has been put to death. I'm not the person that I once was because of grace. So you're not thinking about grace highly enough Because grace gives me a new life. I'm not that old person anymore. I'm a new creation. Second Corinthians 5:17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he's a new creature, the old things have passed away, behold, new things have come. And this death to sin changes everything about the believer. First of all, when Paul says, how shall we who die to sin still live in it? He's including all of us who are believers. We're all included in that statement. The previous context speaks about those who are made righteous through the obedience of Christ. And now he says, what shall we say? Shall we who died? He's talking about all of us as believers. Everybody's included in the statement. He also says, we who died. He's not talking here about something that we do, but something that's already happened. We've already died. There's other passages where Paul talks about putting to death the deeds of the flesh, like Romans 8, 13. He'll talk about that later on. But here he's saying something different. He's saying this is something that's already happened. We've already died. Something has changed about us. And this is not something that we do at all. It's something that's happened to us, and it's a death to sin. There is a decisive break that has been made. Between you and sin, which means we're to think about sin differently than we did before. Verse 7 says, For he who has died is freed from sin Verse 11 says, even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin. Verse 14 says, sin shall not be master over you. Death to sin is death to its power. Death to its control. Death to its tyranny over our lives. We've made a break with sin. And because of this break that's been made with sin, we can't continue to live in it. How shall we? How can we continue to live in sin after experiencing this kind of grace of God? Living in sin is parallel to the idea of continuing in sin. If I've died to sin, how can I make a home for sin in my life now? 1 John 3, 9 and 10 says, no one who is born of God practices sin because his seed abides in him, and he cannot sin, and that's talking about the habitual practice of it, because he is born of God We've been born from above. By this the children of God and the children of the devil are obvious. One commentator says this, that the idea then is of a decisive separation from sin. And the context demonstrates that Paul is talking about the power that you've been broken from the power of sin. We no longer serve sin. Sin 's no longer our master. Separation from the rule and the realm of sin 's power. And how did this happen? Look at verse 3. It says, or do you not know? That all of us who've been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death. This is our first first point here. We've died with Christ. We've died with Christ. And after reading a number of uh positions during the week about this, I'm gonna see if I can just simplify it for you, okay? Without going into all the details and all the arguments, I'm just gonna try to simplify this for you. What does Paul mean? When he says, Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death? First of all, the baptism that Paul is referring to is a baptism that's happened to every believer. Okay? This is true for every believer, all of us who've been baptized. Same group as all of us who have died to sin, same group as all of those who have been made righteous. He's talking about all of us who are believers. We've all been baptized. Secondly, the baptism that Paul is talking about here is specifically said to be a baptism into Jesus Christ. It's into Christ Jesus that we've been baptized. So the baptism is qualified as a baptism that places the believer into Jesus himself. This is not something that places the believer into the church. This is not something that places the believer in obedience with the command. This is a baptism that places the believer into Jesus. Third, this baptism has a number of spiritual results. Spiritual results from this baptism. Look again at chapter 6 and verse 4. It says, therefore, we have been buried with him through baptism into death. So this baptism also baptizes us into the death of Christ So that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life. So this baptism results in a newness of life 5. Verse 5. For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. So this baptism results in the likeness of his resurrection. Number four. Furthermore, Paul has spent three, four, and five, those chapters in the book of Romans. Chapters 3, 4, and 5, arguing that spiritual blessings don't come through physical ceremonies. Take a look back at chapter 4. Chapter 4, take a look at verse 9. Regarding circumcision. Look at what he says here, verse 9. He says, is this blessing then on the circumcised or on the uncircumcised also? For we say faith was credited to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it credited? While he was circumcised or uncircumcised? not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised, that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised. That righteousness might be credited to them, and the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had while uncircumcised. Now here's the question. Is Paul now tearing down all of the arguments that he made in chapters 3, 4, and 5, trying to establish that Spiritual blessings don't come through physical ceremonies. Is he now saying, well, it doesn't come through circumcision, but it comes through baptism? Is that what he's doing? The answer is no. To borrow the language of Paul, may it never be. Perish the thought. What a ghastly thought. Like that's not what he's doing here. Instead, the baptism that Paul is talking about here is Catch it? A spiritual baptism. It's a spiritual baptism. And this wouldn't be the only time that we find this kind of idea. in scripture. Just take your Bibles with me and I'll flip you to a couple passages. Flip over to 1 Peter chapter 3. First Peter chapter 3. In this chapter, we are told about the construction of the ark in which eight persons were safely brought through the water. Just to clarify this, the people who were saved never got in the water. The people who were saved were out of the water. Just to let you know. It says, corresponding to that, baptism now saves you. But what kind of baptism? Not the removal of dirt from the flesh I'm not talking about a physical baptism. I'm not talking about a physical removal of dirt from the flesh, but an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Talks about a baptism that saves, but he says, I'm not talking about the one that removes the dirt from the flesh. I'm not talking about a physical baptism. Flip over to Colossians chapter 2. Colossians chapter 2 I'll start at verse 9. Colossians chapter 2. It says, For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Great, great text that talk about the deity of Christ. And in him you've been made complete, and he is the head over all rule and authority. And in him you were also circumcised, with the circumcision made without hands. So the kind of circumcision that we're talking about is not a physical circumcision, right? It's a spiritual circumcision. How do you circumcise without hands? Spiritually. That's what it's talking about. Made without hands in the removal of the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. Having been, and this is connected to the spiritual circumcision, having been buried with him in baptism in which you were also raised up with him, but how? Through faith. It's not through water. It's through faith in the working of God who raised him. from the dead. So here it's talking about a spiritual baptism as well. Flip over to First Corinthians chapter twelve. First Corinthians chapter twelve. And Eric Paul gets specific about what kind of baptism he's speaking about. It's a baptism that happens by faith And it's not a physical baptism, because this is a baptism that the Spirit of God does himself. It's the Spirit of God who performs this baptism. 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Start at verse 12. It says, For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. So here we're talking about the body of Christ. The invisible spiritual body of Christ, of all believers gathered everywhere. The body of Christ. For, verse 13 says, by one spirit. We were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves are free, and we were all made to drink of one spirit. How did that happen? Was that by you being dunked into water? No. The Spirit of God placed you into the body of Christ when you place your faith in Jesus Christ. You were placed into, united. with the body of Christ. This is what the Spirit of God does. There's no pool on earth that can accomplish this work. And on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit placed believers into the body of Christ. And Jesus speaks about this in John 14 and verse 20. Where he says, In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. Union. The Spirit of God has to spiritually connect you to the body of Christ. And that's how we receive this baptism. It's through his work that we're united to Jesus Christ. And that's the kind of baptism that's being referred to back in Romans chapter 6. The Greek word for baptism, it's just the word baptizo. It's where we get our English word baptism from, but the the word uh baptizo and bapto literally mean to dip To dunk. That's used in John 13, 26 for Jesus dipping a piece of bread into sauce. It was used of the rich man calling Lazarus to dip his finger in some water. to cool off his tongue. It was the word that was used by people when they wanted to to make a cloth. They would they would take a sheep's And Alfred Edersham, a Jewish commentator, described the Jewish proselyte baptism when uh the Jewish people wanted to uh invite Gentiles. Their religion, uh, part of the the practice was to baptize them. They would be immersed completely so that every part of their body was touched by the water, and as they stepped out of the water They were considered being born anew or like a little child who was just born. And in our salvation, do you know what happened? The Spirit of God immersed us. Dipped us, placed us into the body of Jesus Christ, and we were spiritually united to Him. A water baptism can picture that, but it can't produce that. Just like a wedding ring can picture the marriage, represent the marriage, but it doesn't produce the marriage No ceremony can do that. Human hands can't do that. Washing dirt off your body can't do that. And every commentator that I read that tried to fit water baptism into this verse still said that it was a substitute for the entire conversion experience. Because they still understood that it's not the water that does it. It 's through faith in Jesus Christ that I'm connected to this body of Christ, and we know that the water can't produce that, even though the water might represent that. Facts that are listed in Romans chapter 6 are beyond what water can do. Water can't do this. The old man does not die because you dunked him. You don't somehow spiritually transform because you jump in a pool. And we have examples in scripture of people who are not spiritually transformed at all, even though they were baptized. Over in Acts chapter 8, Simon the magician was baptized when he tried to buy the gift of God with money. He was baptized, but then he tried to buy the gift of God with money after his baptism. What does Peter say about him? Actually flip over there real quick. Acts chapter Acts chapter 8, just so you can see this. Acts chapter 8, starting at verse 20 It says, but Peter said to him, to the Simon the magician, Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you. Because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have no part or portion in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Therefore, repent of this wickedness of yours, and pray the Lord that if possible, the intention of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity. Happy baptism, right? It's just like, yeah, your baptism hasn't done anything for you. You're still in the gall of bitterness and the bondage of iniquity. And you need to pray that the Lord might forgive you. If all the baptized received the benefits of Christ, we'd have to include Simon the magician, because he was baptized. We'd have to include every false convert who's been dunked or dipped or whatever method of baptism is being used because they've been baptized So this is not what we're talking about here. It's not just everybody who's physically baptized and spiritually united to Jesus Christ. What Paul is talking about here is a spiritual union that connects the believer With Jesus and all of the spiritual blessings associated with him. And uh just real quick, this is a little bit of an aside, but it's it's in the text. I've just got to touch on this. This is the doctrine that's often overlooked. But it's related to every spiritual blessing that we have, and it's union with Jesus Christ. Union with Jesus Christ. John Murray in his book, Redemption Accomplished by the Accomplished and Applied, he says nothing is more central or basic than union and communion with Jesus Christ. Union with Christ is really the central truth of the whole doctrine of salvation, not only in its application, but also in its once-for-all accomplishment and the finished work of Christ. And we often overlook this in Scripture, but every blessing that you have in your salvation, think about this. Every blessing that you have in your salvation is connected to your union with Jesus Christ. How often in the scriptures do you read words like this? In him, by him, with him, through him, and just look over it and go to the next verse. All of these words are talking about our union with Him. You've been united to Jesus. Even here in Romans chapter 6, verse 3. We've been baptized into Jesus. Verse 4, we've been buried with him. Verse 5, we've become united with him. Verse 6, our old self was crucified with him. Verse 11, even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God. Where? In Christ Jesus. We're in him. We're connected to him. There's no part of your salvation that is connected from your union to Jesus Christ. God does not think about you, listen to this. God does not think about you in isolation from Jesus. It's not like God says, you know what, I'm going to save somebody down there without also thinking about how am I going to save that person down there? Because the way that I'm going to save is only through Jesus. It's in him. It's in connection to him. When he determines to save, he determines to save in Jesus. When God determines to regenerate people, he doesn't just think about people who need to be given life. He thinks about those people who are going to be given life in Jesus. When God determines to redeem people and bring them to heaven, he doesn't think that about death and isolation from Jesus. As one theology says it's one of the most precious truths in all of Scripture, but sadly it's one of the most neglected. Consider this. Our election. Think about your election. The God has chosen you before the foundation of the world. That that election was rooted in union with Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 and 4. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who's blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, where? in Christ, just as he chose us where in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be blameless, holy, and blameless before him. All of that is connected To our union with Jesus Christ. He is thinking about us, even those who haven't yet been created, he's thinking about them as being chosen in Jesus. That's the way that I'm going to choose them for myself. The work of redemption, Ephesians 1, 7-8. It says, in him we've we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. According to the riches of his grace which he lavished on us. It's in him that we have redemption and forgiveness of sins. It's Jesus who loved the church and gave himself up for it. The new life that we have as believers is tied to our union with Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 10. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. It's always in him. And when we come to die, when we come to die, who does the Bible say that we're connected to even in our death? Revelation 14, 13, it says, And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. In the Lord from now on. Think about those that have passed on even this year, that from the time of their salvation all the way until their death, that they even died in union with Jesus Christ. It was in him. And finally, even our glorified bodies. In 1 Corinthians 15, speaking about the resurrected bodies of believers, Paul says, For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ. All will be made alive. We are glorified in him. Romans 8:17. Our union with Christ is found all over the scripture. All over. He's the cornerstone. We're the living stones. He's the vine, we're the branches. He's the husband, we're the bride. He's the head, we're the body. That's all this connection. It's union with him We are one body. It's organic. He's our representative. It's legal. We share the same life. It's vital. It comes through the spirit. It's spiritual. It will never be broken. It's permanent. It's also been called the mystical union because it's hard to wrap your mind around it. It's like how do you how do you get your arms around this one? But I'm in him and he's in me and we're in God. It's like how how do you get your your arms around all of this But it's true, it's what the scripture says, and it's no less real. Just because we can't see it doesn't mean it's not real. And back in Romans 6, there's very real implications because of our union with Jesus Christ. That's why Paul says back in Romans chapter 6, how shall we who died to sin still live in it? Or do you not know that all of us who've been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death. If you've been united to Jesus Christ, it should make a difference about the way you live your life. It should make a difference about the way that you deal with sin, temptation. You've died to that old domain. And you now live in Jesus Christ. So sin no longer has power over your life. Because I'm connected to Jesus Christ I'm united to him. Romans chapter 5 reminds us that we were once in Adam. Romans 5. 18. So then it's through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men. Even through one act of righteousness, there resulted justify. One man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. Even through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. We inherited condemnation and corruption from Adam. But in Christ, we receive justification and righteousness. And the old authority does not have jurisdiction over our lives any longer. We're no longer in Adam. I'm now in Christ Like like I've I've I've now been placed under new management. Now that doesn't mean that sin doesn't come knocking at the door. But it does mean that I'm dead to that relationship. I'm no longer in bondage to that relationship. And even though we're new creations, sin still seeks to gain some kind of authority over us. But it doesn't have any right to us. Do you understand that? Sin has no right over you as a believer. No right. Recently we canceled our phone service. Other phone company, phone service. And we have no obligation to that old service anymore. That doesn't mean they still don't try to gain mastery over us. They still send their ads and they still send their emails, but I I have no obligation to even look at an email that comes from them because we we have no relationship. That that that relationship has been cut off And even though the ads may look good, we might be tempted to click on a deal, that exists in another realm. That has nothing to do with me now. I'm dead to that service. In a similar way, if somebody served in the military, was under a drill instructor, who barked out orders to you, you know, once you're discharged from the military, they can't come to your house and tell you when to get up. What time you're gonna eat. You you're under no continual obligation to them. That that's been cut off. Now I had I had a cousin who came out of the military. And for a couple months he marched around the city as if he still had some kind of obligations, like he couldn't break out of the habit of marching, but he had no obligation to. Like like you're done with that. You've been liberated, you've been set free. And here's the liberating truth that we gain from Romans chapter 6. We don't have to respond to sin anymore. You don't have to respond to it. You have the power and the right to say no. You can say no to sin. Grace gives you the power to say no. So Paul didn't think about grace giving believers the license to sin. He saw grace giving believers the license to stop sinning. It's given you the power and the ability to say no to sin. You don't have to succumb to your temptations and Chapter 2 verses eleven and twelve it says for the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all men, the grace of God now, instructing us to deny ungodliness and worldly desires. The grace of God does this. And instructs us to live sensibly, righteously, and godly in the present age. The spiritual contract under Adam has been canceled. We're no subscribers to sin anymore, but the grace of God that's been given to us gives us the power to say no to ungodliness and worldly temptations. We're not of this world anymore. We're not of this world. We're we're dead to it. There's one film I saw was about World War II and there was a lieutenant who spoke to one of his soldiers. And actually the the in the scene it's you know, this this soldier he's kinda hiding out in the foxhole while the the bullets are flying and his lieutenant is just standing straight as an arrow, just like firing back at the enemy, and he's looking down at the soldier like in the hole And then after the battle was done, he says, Do you know why you stayed in that hole? He says, It's because you still think that you're alive. He says, once you live like you're dead, then you'll be able to fight as a soldier. As believers, we need to live like we're dead. I'm dead to sin. Like this, I don't belong to this world anymore. Like this world is not my home anymore. I've been placed into a different realm. Like this this is not me anymore. My old self is dead And I've been free that now I can live a new life in Jesus Christ. And our true life is hidden with Christ in God. And we'll have to get to the rest of this next time, but just want to remind you of this, that there is no area of your life that should be untouched by this understanding of who you are in Christ. that I've I've died to sin and then we'll look next week alive in Christ. But this should affect everything about us. I I don't I don't have to have to live in sexual sins and temptations any longer. Colossians 3, verse 5 says, Therefore consider the members of your earthly body as dead to immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, greed, which amounts to idolatry. Like I've died to that. That doesn't have any any any I don't have any obligation to that anymore. It doesn't have any jurisdiction over my life. It has no power over me I don't have to live like that. I've been united to Jesus Christ. And it should make you think differently even about your own physical body. I love what it says in 1 Corinthians 6. 16 and 17, again, our union with Jesus Christ. It says, Or do you not know that the one who joins himself to a prostitute? Is one body with her? For he says the two shall become one flesh, but the one who joins himself to the Lord is one spirit with him. Am I now to take the members of Christ who I'm united with and join them to a prostitute? Like, no, I've been set free from that. I'm united to Christ. He's given me power over that. I can deny these fleshly impulses now. Not because of something that I have to do, but because of something that's already happened. I've already died. This is just truth that we need to appropriate into our lives. I am dead to the sins of the world. I can put aside anger. I can kill that. Colossians 3. 8. Now you also put them all aside. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, abuse of speech from your mouth. I don't just have to allow my my mouth to just run off without me. Right? I I don't have to give people a piece of my mind that I should have kept in there. Like why? Because because I'm dead to it Like like I I've died to this world. I I I don't have to act like everybody else around me. I'm different. Something's different about me. Don't lie to any lie to one another since you laid aside the old self with its practices. That's not me anymore That old self is dead. I'm no longer in Adam. I'm in Christ. I'm in union with Him. Those who've been chosen of God, holy beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, bearing with one another Forgiving each other. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, so also should you. We can be those who are different. The Word of Christ dwells in us. The name of Christ governs us. Every relationship can be governed by Christ. Wives and husbands, children and parents, slaves and masters. Our relationship to unbelievers should be changed because of who we are in Jesus Christ. Conducting ourselves with wisdom towards those who are outsiders, making the most of every opportunity. This is what we've been given in Jesus Christ. He breaks the power of canceled sin and sets the prisoner free. Amen? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, God, so much for your word. Father, your word is rich. Your word is powerful. Now, Father, your word gives us all that we need and informs us of all the rich resources that we have to fight the temptations that we face And uh Father, it's not just something that we need to do, not just the imperatives, it's also the indicatives. This is just who you are. We have done Our life is hidden with Christ and God. We have been united to Jesus Christ. And all of the rich spiritual blessings that we have, it's all in union with Him. So Father, I pray that we would remember these things. Father, that we would put these things into practice in our lives. And Father, that as people see us, that they would see something different about us. That it's no longer I who live, but it's Christ who lives in me. Father, I pray that that would be what's evident in every one of our lives. In Jesus' name we praise you and give you thanks. Amen. You have been listening to George Lawson Jr. of Baltimore Bible Church. To hear other messages or to find out about upcoming events and where we meet for weekly church services. Please visit us online at www. baltimore Biblechurch. org. Baltimore Bible Church reserves all copyright protection under applicable law Our copyright policy is available on our website and includes instructions for and limitations on duplicating all printed media, CDs, and digital files.